

Aikrow
Gfiooai lot
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Stdnbt.
“An ordinary onp contains more active properties of mall than a pint of the best Ale or Fortes. — Lax Oil.
OF
■■
m
5 *
mm
■ V- * t
■ '
IN
ITOK Hotel is situated in the most central portion of the■ ]gw S!I
L -walk of the General Post Office. Although only open about fifteen months under mana em £ i f the oof accommodating
spuhTLel in Sydney, so much so that it ’ma^dy upon tod the com orts to t in a flrrt-cfass modem hotel-tte
jjnctest atiei ° intending visitors will receive prompt attention.
T. o"a.xfclxx
ZEFxojpxletox-
The Bulletin


TO BA
CO
U
IXSOPSONS
'P
*
m
a
o
3f
o
☆i
o
Port*
Is IR ROGER
c
x>
o
\r
I&
7a
o
DIXSONS
£
XOELBIOE HOTEL. OHAETIBB
TOWERS.
Brlok Hotel Building erected In ft bore
dtaftted corner of 6111 end Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH. Proprietor.
PAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS. &c.
and taken internally cures DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
internal aches and pains.
PRICE, 2s. ... SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. E. MOULTON, Sole Peopeiktob,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
PAINT
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
Eau de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark—“ White Hose’' on i'Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
N
'A
mLL A N A. MARSHALL A C 0.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Bbabs and Bsu Founders,
ffmaoS) Plumbers, Gasitttebs, Ship & General Smiths, Ant ft Mediaeval Metal Wqrksrs
Boiler Skates (any mske) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use-
importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Ivon or Brass, Ships' Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
BOX ACCORD WIIU, t Maeqnarlc Place* Sydney, and Stanmere Bead, Peters* am.
M‘LEAN BEOS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
O
<o
N
.•
s
m
IRONMONGERS
512
o
o
REG?
<fc
<b
BPB0IAEI1M;
Davis l Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES s—LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS 1!
BT TAKING
OUSE'S FLUID UIBIESU.
(I Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretion#
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOB CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS
fVUU Midteal Testimonials, Analysis, 4tc,, ueeompanytno sa6k bottle),
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS,. Lt&
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
B 4 COLLINS STREET EAST.
OapiteT
fteoelTed
Made
Tmi tndinf
Oo*.. 188».
4180,416
61,680
93,681
118,148
900.106
Teu lading
Oot., 1880.
4860,000
120,000 .
181,500
947,840 .
461,086
Tim ending
001., 1887.
4481,126
208,686
891,866
807,828 .
797,990
Tear ending
Oct., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,049
025,820
. 2,048,951
•I-)-
tignillT reoefred it following Rote* s—l 3 months, 7pw oent.; 6 months, 6 per
tent.) i months, 6 per oent. Special Terms for longer periods.
; SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
mu Pnrtoni who dwlre to pat by small some of uncertain Amount, and
to secure INTERESTupon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and few
DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK.
_ , EaNCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors In this branch
¥«Osirs FTfR per cent, per annum upon their Patty Balance.
SIR! HIM tor Borrowers. TERMS LIEE& k I,
•111,
.
.■ ■-> A\
-■=====, f*i- 'y I 1 llii'O'Ot ]|
i tA l!.» l i- |
•-’V-l Ij' u a' J-i * !> at* J'j j I
. 1.
-- ;>-■
n iirv-.iu
I !
ii Jf!3i3hfv|'l Ej|"j:lj-
....[ybsiLbpyiii^
*M(ia -j.. _.<a 9-.T»'i-j ■■■■. «UU t' |j
.. .1 ■' •<■•■'• »T«1 • j »
I
Hfllii
I t ? if
/TV*
if a-'
,;rn‘
i
! -•
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST*
£25 Contributing Shares
£IAN BE OBTAINED AT ANT TIME upon Payment of la. f«
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payment! upon these Shares an le
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest^
amount to £26, when that sum Is paid oyer to their holders In Cask
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares reoelred In Ootebes ;
1885, £26 la. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed oa%y
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Horn. JOBS Kin 10, M.F., J.T., . - Chairman*
WILLIAM DOBCITT - AcMns-Beerelary.
m
•Ah
:
'Tx ' **r
3
J*
the
FED EH AT f'OEFEE PALACE
■"' v .:XA.«'> fA Of
ITiiAgr Co. eots, UZertoo-a.raa.e,
Containing 560 ROOMS convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON fc \ ! ously furnished, with Cuisine and Tabk
Appoint a ■ n the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DIK L " GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mmk, presided ove. '•d hj a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, K. RECEPTION ROOMS
HOT, COR - CATJlS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS UN ATTENDANCE. LITERS PROMPTLY REPLI1D TO.
Gaurge Cohan - - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—Ho 469,
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1889.
Price, Bd.
fd
David Syme (“The Age”).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-btreet, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ‘ 0 G G
Cheques, Draft*, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications . to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
U'hether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bclletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which gnu mag pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare The Bclletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. la that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, u'ith whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1889
The Apostles and the Propliets.
For the second time In the space of two
years the God of Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob is called upon in print to descend
from the throne of the Everlasting and vote
the Foreign-trade ticket In New South
Wales, and the Sydney importers who shore
up the communion o! the saints have issued
the wonted intimation that unless they are
returned to sit In the Legislative Assembly
of the colony the truth, as it was proclaimed
on Sinai and Gethsemace and Calvary, will
fall into the dust. Periodically, at every
general election, the wail goes forth In the
mother colony tha 1 ! the shoddy rirg by
which the Press Is ruled is the prop and stay
of the Christ'an faith, and that when they
cease to send up their howl atd oath in the
national councils, and to use the public
funds to make roads through their private
property, the Law and the Prophets will fall
with them, and the Gospels and the Apoca-
lypse will crumble away. “Me and the
Lord ” is the inscription on the banner of
the Foreign trade faction, and through
every electorate the cry gees forth that the
Piotestant faith will be endangered unless
Wise and M‘Millan aid Haynes and
Three Ball Abigail gain their seats, and
Hat, as the Protestant f*ith Is the only sure
road to Paradise, therefore Wise atd
M Millan and Haynes and Three-ball
Abigail are virtually holding open the gates
of Elysium to a v. odd which, without them,
would be lost In outer darknees. Whether
the Protestant religion gains anything in re-
spectability by being eeen in the company of
the men who are now waving the old torn
shirt of sectarianism and foolish bigotry on
its behalf is a point which is hardly worth
considering. A creed, unhappily. Is an im-
personal thing, without the power to turn
upon and kick the followers who use it as a
medium on which to advertise their petty
worldly Interests, their tenth-rate meannesses
and animosities, their dismal squabbles and
little schemes of self-aggrandisement; and
so Hay>e3 and Three Ball Abigail continue
to paste their electioneering advertisements
on the Throne of Eternity, and call upon
the electors to vote for imported slop pants
and the seraphim who sing beside the Jasper
Sea.
* * -
“ A victory for Mr Dibbs and his party
In the present struggle,” walls the Evening
News, “ will be less a victory for the poli-
tical doctrine of Protection than for the
Roman Catholic Church,” and attached to
this text we find the old, old war-whoop to
the tlf act that the real object of Protection
is to overset the educational system of New
South Wales, and turn the public schools
into agencies for spreading a faith in
bones and relics, and fragments of
the true cross, and specimens of the
dirt on which seme ancient saint sat
down suddenly fifteen or sixteen hundred
years ago. The work of Wickliffe and
Huss and Luther and all the long line of
heroes and maityrs who built up the Pro-
testant faith will be undone if a duty Is
imposed on shovels of foreign manufacture,
and the extra halfpenny on candles will be
hauled in by Antichrist In person, with
the mysterious beast of Revelations shoving
behind. The Church which was once
founded on a rock Is now founded on
M‘Millan ’s cheap calicos ; and the dry as-
dust statutes of Wise and the 111-used aspirate
of Parkes rise as a rampart of enduring
stone to protect the world from d If ting back
to that barbaric age when the Aiim was
given to the alligator, and the menagerie
tiger considered It a cold morning on v hlch he
did not receive hia dally Christian. And
meanwhile the earth goes on Its monotonous
way, utterly Ignorant of the fact that its
supports are crumbling beneath It, and
caring nothing to know that Haynes Is per-
spiring at the helm of the universe, or
that the Evenikg News is prepared to die
on the floor of Its half-burnt office in the
great cause of liberty and truth.
* » •
But however gratifying it may bs to know
that the hour of danger always fit da the
News on deck and Abigail at the bat, It
becomes almost a question whether any faith
at present on band is worth preserving, when
it has sunk so low that a slight alteration In
a tariff, which affects at the most one-thou-
sandth part of suffering humani'y, can mike
the dilapidated creed totter on its basis. If
the Roman Catholic Church, in the fading
twilight of Its second chUdheod, has pinned
Its hope of supremacy and Its dreams of
eternal empire on a tax to be levied upon
shovels and other hardware imported Into a
single dismally obscure corner of one little
earth, then the Church in question has
descended into a toothless old age of paralysis
and Imbecility from which there is no re-
covery. And if, on the other bard, the jival
creed, after boasting such heroes as Gustavus
Adolphus, and ITenry of Navarre, and
Coligny, the victim of St. Bartholomew,
and Zizka, the b ind patriot of Bohemia,
has sunk so low In the sere and yellow leaf
cf Its latter-day senility that it must fall into
final rain unless Burns Is restored to office
to complete his road-making operations at
Hornsby, and Parkes Is resurrected to
send more iron-pipe contracts to the English
markets, then the vaunted Protestant fiith
la merely the shadow of an old, low-priced
superstition, and Its boasted throne Is a mud-
pie on the edge of an advancing ocean. The
creed which Is to endure in the face of
Nineteenth Century agnosticism and In-
fidelity must be something lof(y enough and
strong enough to Ignore the conflict of iron-
pipe contracts, and the clash of tobacco duties,
and the struggles of warring imposts upon
Imported fire-ltons ; It must be great enough
to care nothing whether Haynes is dead or
alive, or, indeed, whether he ever lived at all,
and pure enough to take up the words of Its
Founder and bid Burns sell his Hornsby
estates, and M‘Millan his dry-goods ware-
house, and Abigail bis loan-office, and give
the proceeds to the poor ; and If it Is equal
to none of these things it is merely the
dried-up corpse of a dead creed which is no
longer worth preserving.
• • •
A good many years ago the legislators of
New South Wales resolved, and apparently
with good reason, that their faiths had gone
bad to such an extent that it was no longer
worth while to teach them in the schools,
and since then the religion, concerning the
safety cf which the News and the Tele-
graph are so deeply concerned, has been
judiciously smothered and kept out of sight.
A small and Insignificant handful of the
population occasionally gather up a few
facta concerning the theories of their fathers
through a casual attendance at church, but
every year the warring pastors who saw the
air over minute points of doctrine and
dogma address themselves to less and less
appreciative audiences. To ihe new genera-
tion the Protestant faith is little more than
a name to throw mud at elections and
other public functions, and to their carefully-
cultivated Ignorance the cause for which the
mud is thrown is almost as obscure as the
old dead faiths of Baal and Ashtaroth.
Even the leaders of the political party
which raises the sectarian war-whoop at each
dissolution of Parliament have a tendency to
lie low In the intervals between the succeed-
ing electoral campaigns, and leave their
creed to eke out ajprecarloua existence by
means of church-bazaars, and to trust mainly
ta the broken reed of the unreliable collec-
tion hat; and It is only when the struggle
for those seven great principles embodied lu
the five loaves and the two small fishes
becomes unusually Intense that they borrow
the neglected weapon of religion, and prod
their respective insolvent fanaticisms into
unwonted activity. Excepting at election
raws and Orange feeds the Protestant reli-
gion has been practically dropped out of
sight, as a cumbersome obstruction which
reflects discredit on land and railway
jots, free tights In the Parliamentary re-
freshment-room, refreshing riots in the
Assembly chamber, and the other essentials
of fraud, drunkenness, and blasphemy
which make up the legislative system of
New South Wales ; and the rival faith, as a
power in the educational system of the
colony, has died a natural death, because the
Irreverent spirit of the age howls with de-
rision at the bones of the ancient saints, and
snorts contemptuously at the memory of the
half-dressed dervishes who flew light In the
matter of baggage In the golden age when
the Mother Church was supreme. The days
of sectarian education are over, and sec-
tarianism Itself Is djing, because the re-
ligion which once formed Its basis was founded
on justice, mercy, charity, forbearance,
moral purity, poverty, and love for
all mankind, and these virtues have
long since given place to grovel, bigotry,
and worldly greed. For all practical pur-
poses it Is as reasonable to raise the cry that
ihe Protectionist party wish to overset
modern science, and to revert to the o’d
doctrine that the world is a plane supported
In the empty air by a serpent and a tortoise,
as to suggest that they can—even if they
would—galvanize into new life the creeds
which have become f ssidssd for want of a
living example of the truths which they were
intended to teach.
** ♦ •
The religious and moral aspect of the duty
on sulphuric acid, Sunday school cards and
telescopes was fully considered at the last
general election in New South Wales, and it
was then resolved that the prophets and the
apostles demanded that spikes and corn-
crashers should come in free, and that the
heavenly hosts were keeping their eye on
the impost on candles from their places
among the unfading flowers of Paradise.
But since then two years have passed, and
the country has begun to lose faith in
Abigail as the mouthpiece of the patriarchs
whom he never saw, and to ask whether the
Evening News Is really at the back of the
apostles and is privileged to goad on the
prophets in the interests of M’Millans
warehouse and Burns’ Hornsby estate. The
day of direct divine revelation has long
since passed away, and when the Telegraph
takes up the broken thread of celestial com-
munication which dropped from the hands of
Malachi and Paul the world has only the
guarantee of the Telegraph for the tiuthfnl-
ness of its message. As a means of conveyir g
to the bwer spheres the commands of the
great Power above the Sydney Foreign-!rade
press ranks no higher than the lamented
Joseph Smith, and unlike that ordinary
or garden prophet It shows no striking readi-
ness to die for its faith. When the News
and the Telegraph have shed their adver-
tisements, and their printing machinery, and
thtir stone-front premises in defence of their
revelation ; when Abigail has spilt the blood
of bis loan-office, and Haynes has vaadered
about in sheepskins and goatskins and been
persecuted In the waste places cf the earth,
tben their testimony will acquire an air of
reliability Yihioh at pr£sent is very much
wanting.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Freetrade Progresses Rack wards.
The results of last Saturday’s elections in New
South Wales show that, even in the strongholds
of Foreign-trade, the old faith is not what it used
to be. Sydney has always been the mainstay of
the party whose creed is to import cheap calico ;
it is there that the importer votes, and as he is
authorised to vote several times over by virtue of
the peculiar electoral system of New South Wales
it is there that he multiplies himself by nine, and,
along with bis clerks and miscellaneous satellites,
swamps the manhood suffrage of the masses. But
even the importer looms up in less imposing pro-
portions than he did two years ago. In East
Sydney the mighty landlord, Bubdekin, still
heads the poll, but with 300 votes less than at last
general election, while the defeated Protectionist
shows a total of nearly 700 votes more than in
1887. Three years more of progress backward at
the same ratio will leave the Foreign-trade party
in a contemptible minority in the most bigoted
Foreign-trade constituency in the colony. At
South Sydney, Mr. Traill, the hopelessly-
defeated Protectionist candidate of the last cam-
paign, heads the list, and out of four members
elected only one is a Foreign-trader. Mr. Ejngnosk
Wise, the long-drawn-out youth from an Eng-
lish University, who has wasted so much
supercilious pity and so many incomprehensible
diagrams on the ignorance of New South Wales,
occupies an ignominious petition near the bottom
of the poll—the one consolation remaining to
him is that Mr. Riley, the eminent drapery can-
didate, is below him for him to fall soft upon.
The heartless, chiPish sneer (at another colonial
industry ruined by the policy of his party) attri-
buted to Mr. Wise, and his alleged imbecile jest
at the misery of the men and women whose scanty
means of support vanished in the wreck of the
Atlas Iron Company, has borne good fruit, and
the result should teach him that light and airy
epigram is not in his line. At St. Leonards the
local residents gratefully remembered the men
who had made so many roads in that constituency,
but despite this advantage the Protectionist can-
didate polled 1047 votes, whereas, two years ago,
the National faith was so utterly non-existent in
the electorate that no Protectionist could be found
to contest the seat. At Balmain the Protec-
tionist minority has risen from 1585 to 2291, and
at Newtown it has sprung from 1284 to 1722.
Redfern has so far repented the evil of its ways
that in place of the four Foreign-traders who re-
presented it in 1887 it now returns two of each
faith, and of the Freetrade pair, one —the remains
of “Honest” John Sltheeland— has secured
his election by announcing himself as a Free-
trader who has always believed in Protec-
tion. His supporters, however, number GOO
less than on the last occasion when he appealed to
the free and independent public, which is a
tolerably sure sign that the party on which he has
hitherto relied is in the sere and yellow leaf at
Redfern. Mr. Paul, who now represents the
Foreign-trade and Yellow Pup interests at
Bathurst, has 47 less votes than the Foreign trade
Cortis of 1887, and Mr. Suitor, the defeated
Protectionist, is 155 votes nearer to victory than
he was two years ago. With hardly a single
exception, the Freetrade majority is either narrow-
ing down or has already reached the vanishing
point. The elections which have already taken
place have practically exhausted all the strong-
holds of the Foreign-trade party, and at the time
of writing the numbers are still evenly balanced.
The bulk of the country constituencies have yet to
return their verdict, and so far the country con-
stituencies have given a majority of four to one in
favour of the supporters of Australian interests
and Australian industries.
Mr, Sutherland’s Position.
The New South Wales general election found
“ Honest ’’ John Sutherland slumbering heavily
on the political rail according to his wont, lie
was still a Parkesian Freetrader after the old
pattern, but he was convinced, as usual, that Pro-
tection was the right thing to practise, and for
that reason he was prepared to go into the House
and vote against it with his accustomed regularity.
Consequently, clause 1 of his address stood up on
end and tore the hair of clause 8, and the rem-
nants of Sutherland s political convictions were
left in a mangled heap on the blood stained field
of incoherence, while their owner strained the
gilded fiction which he erroneously imagined to
be his mind in a vain effort to guess how the
trouble had come about. The following awful en-
tanglement forms the principal part of Mr.
Sutherland's “ views ” ;
1. I am a 1* reetrader, as I have ever been, believing it
is for the best interests of ths masses.
8 My opinions on all public questions have become so
well known during the course of my public life—now 51
years to day—the major portion of which has been spent
as your representative, I need not here expound them
further. Whilst lam desirous of seeing a policy of fiscal
freedom pursued, yet 1 have ever been, and now am, a
sincere believer in encouraging the manufactures of the
country, and wherever we have the raw material to work
upon we should go to any reasonable length to encourage
the manufacture of the articles from that material. The
rolling stock lor the railways should be all manufactured
here, and can be, if controlled by practical men, as
cheaply as in any country, if the producers are not loaded
by unreasonable taxation, as the real Protectionist desires.
My past successful efforts on this question will show what
I really meant.
Clause 9 then goes on to state that Mr. Suther-
l iND has been married nearly 50 years, but even
if he had added that he had been buried for a cen-
tury and a half we would still regard the state-
ment as altogether extraneous and irrelevant, »nd
therefore this part of the address may pass without
further comment For the rest, we would rise in
a hurry to ask Mr. Sutherland if he has any
fixed idea how he would look if he were to
announce himself as a firm atheist who was a
sincere believer in a God, or an atrocious drunkard
of strict temperance principles, or a thoroughly
healthy man with one lung who had fits eight
times a day and walked on two wooden legs, or a
deeply pious African with a white skin who had
committed six murders and hidden the bodies
away in a cellar; and when he has figured out
these things, and added them all together into one
great incoherent contradiction, and then invented
eleven other CDntradictions, each one eleven times
as contradictory as all the above put together, he
may begin to form some faint idea of the dread-
fully imbecile contradictoriness of his position as
a man who has always been a Freetrader and yet
has constantly desired to go to any reasonable
length in the encouragement of local manufactures.
And when he has realised these things—provided
always that his bead has not split open and his
intellect fallen out under the unwonted effort—we
would urge Mr. Sutherland to go down to the
bottom of the class and exert himself to show hia
real position by means of a diagram, and then
keep the diagram as a solid evidence that for
once in the course of his life he really knew where
he was.
*
“ Groans for the Queen.”
The mind (we may as well be courteous) of 1 f
Sydney E. News is much perturbed became
groans predominated over the cheers given for the
Queen “at the close of the meeting of those in-
terested in the tobacco industry,” held in the
Protestant Hall, Sydney, the other evening. The
News asserts that the people who thus displayed
their “ ultra-disloyalty ” are identical with those
who have “ shown their undying hatred of the
Education Act.” This is manifestly untrue. Tub
Bulletin has always refused to cheer the Queen,
preferring to do something to cheer up the people;
but has also been a consistent advocate of a
free, compulsory and secular system of public
education. Numbers of The Bulletin's readers
have eagerly imbibed these doctrines, and are
ready at all times and at all hours to express their
aversion to puppet worship and their fidelity to the
present New South Wales educational method.
It is notorious that the ptesent Government has
no intention of tampering with the Education
Act, of which Mr. Dikes was one of the earliest
and most doughty champions—he was indeed
champion of educational secularism, while Parkes
was a violent opponent thereof. Therefore seeing
that it is perfectly safe in his hands, there we are
content to leave it. Should it at any time be in
danger The Bulletin will be the first to sound
an alarm, though still steadfastly refusing to
“ cheer the Queen,” believing that her interests
are as antagonistic to those of the people as the
spread of education is to hers. Meantime, the
statements of those who have endeavoured to
arouse sectarian feeling are so palpably founded
on a false basis, so evidently untrue even to their
expounders, as to effectually discredit them in the
eyes of all capable of exercising the smallest
amount of judgment whether they be Protec-
tionists or Foreign-traders.
♦
A Gaslight Robbery.
Melbourne Metropolitan Gas Company has just
declared another half-yearly dividend at the rate
cf 18 per cent, while increasing the reserve fund
by a sum equivalent to a further dividend of 15
per cent. The extra bleated condition of this
bloated monopoly is all along of the late strike at
Newcastle, for at the time when householders
were paying famine prices for their firing they
were forced to submit to an unjustifiably high
gas-rate. And that they submitted with the
Christian resignation attributed to Mary's little
lamb may be accepted as a matter of course. The
docile citizen of Melbourne (or Sydney) is in-
capable of protesting against any State-protected
imposition, until the daily newspapers baye
printed several columns of dreary leaders explain-
ing that he—the docile citizen—is a worm
of the deepest dye. When this fact has
been driven into the docile citizen’s skull
by his particular morning organ, he begins
to think it is time that some of our lead-
ing public men organised a meeting at the Town
Hall, under the patronage of the Mayor. He may
despise the said public men, and speak of them
with much disrespect in the family circle, yet he
allows them to lead him by the nose, nevertheless.
It is true that in all cities of all countries the re-
tiring many are worked by the pushing few |but
it is the unavoidable misfortune of newly-formed
communities that the pushing few of political life
mostly have a finger in every “good thing”
(which is necessarily a bad thing), or else they are


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL EXCHANGE
-B BANK Off AUSTRALASIA, Limitid.
CIRCULAR QUAY (oppobiti osraxoM hodbb),
Directors t
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairmab.
B. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. j T. JONES. Esq,'
This Eask ondei takes the exchange of money
of all cations In addition to all nsnal banking
biiinew.
Intbbibt os Deposits ;
jS mosxhb M ... 7 pe. tenia
8 ~ hi hi m II II
8 II H) m Ml 8 II II
V. «a 9i«t*rt<n - - managing DlrnUr.
under the influence of those who scoop the profits.
ia also an unavoidable misfortune that the
monopolist and their friends shall be on more or
less intimate terms—even when they are not Com-
mercially mixed up—with the controllers of a
limited daily Press. These remarks apply more espe-
cially to Melbourne, where nearly all the strings
are pulled by men who forged bonds of fellowship
in the “fifties,’’and delight in interchanging highly-
coloured reminiscences of the days when they
tailed hafd and wete hottest. We do not in-
ginuats that the Abcds would support Dun I an
Gllliks lu a career of felony and personal violence
or that the Scotch gentleman in question would
aid or abet an auld acquaintance in any scheme
for plundering the helpless public. We merely
suggest that it is a pity for all the ruling powers
of a colony to be on bowing terms, in which
case some of them forget to criticise certain
small jobs because the other fellows are doing
well out of them, and it doesn’t matter much,
dontyersee The last sentence just about explains
why the Melbourne Metropolitan Gas Company
continues to escape attack from influentialquarters.
The numerous but humble body of consumers
haven’t yet begun to understand that they are the
victims of a gaslight robbery under Act cf Parlia-
ment. Or, if they feebly grasp the idea, they
imagine the Act to be unalterable as those laws of
the Medes and Persians which began to be noticed
about the time King Nbßuchadnkzzaß came
down to a plain grass diet. But all old-established
swindles have the bottom knocked out of them in
Course of .tiftie, and the profits on gas must shcrtly
tie cut oft at the meter. /
* /
The Awful Fall of John Haynes. /
Thk escaped Haynes, in his address to the electors
of Mudgee, publishes a table showing the
prices of farm produce in Sydney and Melbourne
respectively, and calls upon the agriculturists to
vote for. the policy which has served them so well
by keeping up the prices of their merchandise at
the expense of the consumer. According to the
unchained John's figures, chaff, which pays a duty
of 20s. pef ton in Melbourne, fetches there 30s.
less than in Sydney; flour (duty 30s. per bon)
realises nearly £2 per ton less in the protected
market; straw, also taxed 20s. per ton, is likewise
from 20s. to 40s. cheaper where it groans under
the tyranny of a crushing tariff ; onions (20s. per
ten duty) cost £1 less to the consumer; and
potatoes, struggling under the impost of 10s. per
ton levied by virtue of the fiscal barbarism of the
Victorian Government, sell at an average of
£4 10s. per ton less in the markets of the
Southern colony. Consequently the one and only
Haynes conclusively demonstrates by figures that
where the public are charged a duty of 20s. per
ton on their farm produce, they are able to buy
the same produce at prices varying from 20s, to
Soj. less than in the countries where no such im-
post exist, and gives the lie effectively to the com
tbntion of all the test of his party, who assert that
they oppose Protection because it raises the price
of fcOd to the much-advertised and mUch-wept-
over poor man of the period. Freetrade, accord-
ing to HaynbB, is a &yst> ifl of pernicious monopoly
by which the whole colony is taxed to support the
bloated farmer ; a vicious scheme to subsidise the
inflated producer at the expehse cf the crushed
consumer, and a beastly system whose object is to
centralise the wealth of New South Wales in the
hands of the agricultural classes; and we there-
fore rise to urge that the process of Decenti alisa-
tion be applied to that agriculturist without delay.
Jiut no'] content with thus elaborately tearing the
whole pedestal of his party to piece s, John turns
round and rends himself as well in these two
sorrowful paragraphs : -
Protection m?ana an artificial famine or drought.
This is a solid, upstanding assertion, warranted
sound and about 18 hands high. But on top of
this John cantentedly observes
I see that under Protection several owners of large
estates would, with their capital, resort to the use of
steam-ploughs and other latelj -introduced appliances, and,
with lets of thousands cf acres under cultivation, com-
pletely swamp Ihe struggling farmer, over-supply the
local market, and turn the average farmer into a beggar,
forcing him to accept any p;ica offering.
A system which would create “ an artificial
famine or drought,” and which would, at the same
time, “ over supply the local market ” and reduce
the price of food to the masses to such an extent
that the farmer would have to accept “ any price-
offering,” is about as anomalous as a tunnel two
miles lorg in a straight line through a hill half a-
mile in diameter. We respectfully ask John to
come out and look at himself and see if he can re-
concile these statements.
+
Tire Homicide and Hie Bible.
The Whitechapel murderer, having been arrested
all over the metropolis and in several provincial
towns, is now putting in an appearance in various
foreign countries, including the United States o!
America He has been identified abroad as a
Russian with a religious mania, which takes the
form of murdering Magoaibns in order that their
souls may go to heaven, and the latest New York
advices to hand prove—or attempt to prove—that
he is a butcher, whose mind is affected by the
changes of the moon, and who has been much im-
pressed by reading the book of Ezrkiel, c xxiii,
v. 25, 26, 33, 34, 46, 47 and 48 _ The chapter
refers to the vicious lives of the sisters Aholah
and Aholibah, and verse 25 is the key to the
situation: “Audi will ietmy jealousy against
thee, and they shall deal furiously with thee ;
they shall take away thy nose and thine ears ; and
thy remnant shall fall by the sword This
theory has one striking Dature which commends
it to the orthodox —it distinctly and de-
cisively proves the old missiinary pr> capt that the
Bible alone is sufficient to supply all the literary
wants of humanity, and that it contains between
its two boards valuable advice for every possible
situation in life from drainage right up to murder.
Curiously enough, the m»j jrity of the experts in
manslaughter who have considered the case seem
to have ultimately drifted to the cor c’usion that
the Whitechapel assassin is a religious fanatic
whose mind has collapsed through long study of
the unearthly atrocities which glare out of every
other page of the holy book, Ihe sacred volume
which is sent out so lavishly for the regeneration
of the heathen contains so large an assortment of
valuable horrors that we have frequently won-
dered why the enterprising proprietors of
the Evening Hunt did not think it advi-
sib'.e to re-publish it in daily instalments in
place of paying for weak, knock-kneed, second-
hand tragedies which cost a small fortune in
cablegrams and other expenses. The Book of
Judges alone, if reprinted with attractive cross-
headings and judicious comments, would ran up
the circulation ot any p ; ous “ horgan ” by at
least 20,000 copies, and the fact that this great
source of public inspiration has been so long
neglected is one of the most surprising features
in the gore-spattered realm of Australian jour-
nalism. The Song of Solomon, also, would
sell a paper right up to the tenth edition,
and the brilliant paragraphist who wrote the
Baok of Leviticus left behind him a legacy which
should help the daily press over many a weary
mile when sensations are few and far between and
the Gory Butcher is taking a rest from swinging
the Bloodstained Axe above a Heap of Dead All
over the holy volume, in fact, bits of human flesh
are flying loose, and dismembered bones are rush-
ing athwart the landscape, and scattered frag-
ments of prophets and apostles and Levites
and .Amalekites are speeding across the
sky as they have sped for 2COO years and
more, and still the Sydney editor pines in
ignorance of the great stores of knowledge which
lie, as it were, at bh very door, and continues to
grcf)9 in cuter darkness seeking for some common,
ordinary cook who has bitten off her employer’s
ear or some navvy who has flooded his wife with
a brick. It is the old, old story of the pearls
which were cast before swine, and it fills us with
vain regrets for the lost piety of the age.
The Gimlet Brigade igaint
The New South Wales Association for the Pro-
motion of Moral and Social Puiity alias the
Gimlet Brigade—interviewed, st they state in an
advertisement, every candidate for legislative
honours, for the purpose of discovering how they
st'Mid affected to legislation in the case of sexual
offences through the medium of the queitions here
appended
Are you in favour of legislation to raise the age of con-
sent ( r he limit now being If)?
Are you in favour of an amendment of the law so as to
give power to any woman who has beia seduced to main-
tain an action fof seducticn, and if recover damages ?
Are you in favd ir of an alteration of the affiliation law
so as to give power to a single woman, being pregnant, iff
summon the al’eged father before {he magistrates and
make an oath of * (filiation, and if the magistrates are
satisfied of the truth of the affiliation, to adjourn the case
till after the birth of the chill, when they make the
maintenance order?
Then follow the names of the would-be M.s P. to
the number of 44 who subscribed to the condi-
tions, headed by that same M “Million who the
other night said “ all things were fair in love and
war,” and intersected by those of the venerated
“bank” director, Fsawncis Abigail ;■ Alibied
Allen, a poet in whose works “love” tf the
Byronic hue plays a prominent part ; ’Uey Tay-
lor, the St. Anthony of Parramatta; and the
be-medalled, pig-raising h icliOLis B Downing,
who has just been ejected from Eden, and
various other political and social gimlets.
The omission of the names of Parses and
G ingee Clarke, M.bP,, deprives the catalogue of
much of the interest that would have
been imparted to it. Wbat more immediately
concerns the public, however, is the attempt to
secure support for time-servers by such means.
Here we have a series of questions to which few
cool headed, independent, and honest thinkers
would append their name 11 , for the reason that the
legalising of such proposals would place the lives,
happiness, and property alike of boys and men
absolutely at the disposal of the abandoned and
unscrupulous. Women certainly do require I r>
tection at the hands of the community; when
they are over-protected the rights of men are en-
dangered. The man who has determined to get
into the House by any means, fair or foul, will
sign anything that may bring him votes.
*
Dear Bulletin,- The way ih which propaganda
is made in Australia and elsewhere for HinPy
George’s land nationalism theories makes it a
duty to every man who has thrown in his lot with
the working classes to examine these theories, and
to recommend or to condemn them as the case
may be. Now, as I have been a Socialist ever
since I had thoughts of my own, perhaps it may
not be regarded as cut of my sphere if I venture
to criticise Mr. George's schemes. Mr. George
claims for the nationalisation of land the monopoly
of abolishing poverty, and in his last book,
“Protection and Freetrade,” he even accuses
Socialism of want of thoroughness—of not going
to the root of the evil. Now I assert that
it is Socialism and Socialism alone that will
ultimately abolish poverty, and that it is
Mr. George himself who dees not go to the
bottom of the matter. For, supposing land
were made public property by the very simple
process (Mr. George's patent) of putting a tax on
laud equal to the value of the land, how could a
working man without capital i c juire land or the
use of land any more easily than at present ? The
only difference would be that the tiller cr other-
wise user of the soil would have to pay his rent
to the Government instead of to private parlies,
and the only class that would have any benefit at
all by the nationalisation of land would manifestly
be the capitalists But capitalists are almost
identical with landowners, and therefore the same
people would in most cases retain the use of their
land. Now the landowners have, by utilising a
wrong—the private property of land—made
money; is it just that they should be allowed by
virtue of the capital they have stole nfrom us to
continue to reign over us? For this is what
George s proposition amounts to. As to the land
that is now occupied and improved, it would
be quite impossible for a working man to
get it, because he would have to pay the pre-
vious owner for his improvements, besides his
rent to the Government; and with regard to un-
improved land it is almost just as impossible, for
no man can go and take up a farm without money
enough to at least allow him to live for the firs') 12
months, and besides to buy material for fences,
house, tools, seed, horse and dray, &c , &c. To
get this money he would have to borrow it off a
capitalist, who would screw up the interest on bis
money to such a pitch that he would be the virtual
owner of the land, while the man who did the
work would have to vegetate just as he do°s now.
In short, it is manifest that there is only one road
to the abolition of poverty and the v:cis that
originate in it. This is Socialism. We must
nationalise, not only land but labour and capital
as well, before we can reach our goal. Mr. George
advises earnest men to throw themselves with
might and main into the agitation for Freetrade,
as this would lead to the recovery of land and
therefore to the abolition of poverty, &c. Now
my opinion is, and I am sure of it, that neii her I* ree-
trade or Protection will ever benefit the working-
man as long as capitalists and landowners hold
their sway over the multitude of toilers. First
nationalise land, labour, and capital, and then you
can have Protection or Freetrade it won t matter
which. Give us Socialism first, and all the rest
will follow of its own accord.—A German
Socialist.
The intellectual and oratorical power during the
New South Wales elections has been moat unmis-
takeably on the side of Protection. Even at East
Sydney on nomitation day this was conspicuous.
Toe great George Houston Reid gave a display
of buffoonery and horse collar grinning more
suited to the outside show of a travelling circus
than the hustings of an intelligent community ;
Mr. Street drivelled in a dreary and inane
manner ; the mighty landlord Bubdekin “ made
hay ” with three or four phrases, including “on
this occasion, ” ‘ ‘ the ensuing Parliament,” ‘ ‘ haven’t
changed my principles,” which he tossed in-
dustriously about until he got giddy and sat down
somewhat disconcerted and glad to get it over.
The little Ma-gMimjon, head of the “rag-doll”
Ministry, whose oratory is of the Defeati*ng-
Society-cttm-Sunday School order, got somewhat
tangled up in figures, and his claptrap about
“freedom,” and the “worrukin man” met with
the derision it deserved. The cool, deliberate,
well-managed utterances of Messrs. A bbott and
O’Masa stood out superior in everything calcu-
lated to rivet the attention of the thoughtful.
Extract from an address delivered at Waverley
(Sydney) by an obscure Freetrader named King j
The exports from Victoria in 1887 amounted to £11,351,145,
the value of £ll 2s. lOd. per head, as against £18,4% 191
in New South Wales, the value of £lB Is. lOd per heal
of the population. (Applause.)
Without any desire to interrupt Mr. King we
would urge him at this stage to go a little more
closely into details. New South Walts, as he
justly states, exports more largely than her
southern rival, but her turplus in this direction
consists entirely of raw produce, which is exported
that it may be manufactured in foreign countries
and then returned to the colony, burdened with a
double charge for freight and a 30 per cent, com-
mission to the importing firms of Sydney. In 1886
the older colony (bowed a surplus of £8,200,000in
wool exports, £26,000 in tallow, £95,000 in hides
and f kins, £24,000 in pearlshell, £55,000 in timber,
f 953,000 in coal, £460,000 in silver and silver ore,
and £720,000 in tin, making a total surplus of over
five and a-half millions bestowed upon the nation
by the mere accident of its geographical situation }
and in 4:887 i hare was a marked increase under
most of these heads. And here we would point
out to the blatant Foreign-trader of the period
that the fiscal policy of which he is so proud did
not make the wide plains on which his sheep and
cattle are reared, neither did it construct the
mineral lodes which yield so much of the colony’s
exports These things were built by Providence,
and unless Providence is a Freetrade institution
they have nothing to do with Parkes’ political
programme in any sense. We would respectfully
ask Mr. King to hire somebody to make a note of
these facts.
..
Ms. F. B. S ottos, at Bathurst, New South
Wales, admitted a little light into the dealings of
one large importing bouse in the West whose
members are God fearing people and go to church
three times on Sunday. It appears that in
Bathurst there is a man named Fysh, who is so
eminent in his business, tlat of a ploughmaker, as
to take prizes against all competitors at the agri-
cultural shows. The eminent firm alluded to by
Mr. SuTtor— and the charge was not denied —pur-
chased one of Mr. Fysh's prize ploughs and
shipped it to England with orders to manufacture
similar ploughs for sale in New South Wales.
The ploughs were made and shipped to Sydney,
arriving, of course, duty free, and were offered
for sale in the New South Wales Western district
in competition with those of the maker and de-
signer of the original. Mr. Suitor added that
the ploughs were a failure, as after all they wanted
the application of Mr. Fysh’s brains.
♦
THE S. M. Herald, in a prolonged apology for
the clergy, declares that if “ they are below the
intellectual level expected in the pulpit, it is
perhaps because they are kept below the financial
level.” Tnis is a novel admissi n from the organ
of e:clesiasticism. We have always been led to
believe that the clergy were “ called by the Lord”
on account of their spec'al fitness for office, and
that, like the disciples of old, the modern ex-
pounder! of Christian doctrines are only concerned
about the “reward hereafter,” and are in no way
influenced by fleshly hankerings after filthy lucre.
This idea the Herald’s sub-leader—penned pos-
sibly by an ex-pirson, who probably forsook the
pulpit for financial reasons —bas forever dispelled.
♦
The foolish old Argus has published a damning
axiom without thought for the awful conse-
quences. It allowed one of the staff ancients to
dip his palsied pen in the respectable office ink,
acd sling incriminating evidence as follows
“The true notion is that the Englishman who
comes to settle in the colonies is Australian, and
that the Australian who is attached to the old
country by the professions or the arts is an Eng-
lishman.” These are bright Bulletin sentiments
prosaically expressed. There is nothing Austra-
lian about the Argus. It is an essentially Eng-
lish journal, by whose professions and arts a small,
but well-fed clique of dull-brained blatherskites
remain attached to “ Scoatland ” and England.
Ireland, let us always remember, is not regarded
as forming part of that “ old country ” which our
Tories love —and, in most cases, left long »go.
‘‘ East Sydney, the premier constituency, bas
once more justified its claim to the title,” says
Sydney D.T. And how so 1 inquires The Bul-
letin. By again returning that commonplace
specimen of white-waistcoated landlordism, Mr.
Sydney Burdekin, at the top of the poll! Ben-
jamin Franklin, in protesting on a memorable
occasion against the property-vote system, said
that “ In the morning John Smith had an ass and
a vole. At mid-day the ass died, and in the even-
ing John Smith had no ass and no vote. The
vote thus belonged to John Smith s ass and not
to John Smith.” Sydney Bubdekin, Esq., is a
man with many tenants. In other words, he is a
man of many asses.
*
Just before the Murrumbidgee election the
Sydney Evening News mentioned with jubila-
tion that Mr. Dibbs had been refused a hearing
at Narandera. It did not spread itself on the
subject of Foreign-trade rowdyism, or the animal
brutality of the shoddy party, or the necessity for
putting down Parkesian ruffimism with a strong
hand, as it is accustomed to do if a Protec-
tionist clears his throat at a Foreign-trader s
meeting, but it rather endeavoured to convey the
impression that the people of Narandera were
apostles of progress and light to the last man, and
that they silenced Mr. Dibbs, not by the old,
coarse, mean, underhand expedient of shrieks
and heavy boots, but rather by the unanimous
moral influence of a cultchawed I oreign-trade
township. As the poll, however, showed that the
Protectionist party had a majority of nearly two
to one in the town where they could not even get
a hearing, this pleasing vision fades away into
emptiness lb wasn’t any refined moral influence,
after all, but only the large boots and the hoarse
voices of the people who read the Evening News
that suppressed the right of Tree speech at Naran-
dera.
+
Governor Look has been summoned to England
that he may confer with Lord Salisbury upon
the subject of “loyalty ” in Victoria, and submit
his views on the possibility of reducing other
Australian colonies to the abject state of grovel
which obtains in the adopted home of Duncan
Gillies, £. £, Smith, and Sir James Mac-
Bain. This is the primary object of Loch’s
mission. On arriving in London he will, with the
assistance of his secretary, explain to Her
Majesty’s Government the theory of that “God
Save the Queen ” system in which dear Lady
Loch plays an important part. He will then be
called upon to make practical suggestions for
the improvement of Queensland, and to
sketch out certain rules for the guidance of
Baron Bob, He will probably have to draft
secret desp atches for every Excellency who sei ves
under the glorious flag, and by the time he has kissed
h s Sovereign’s gracious hand Loch’s holiday
will be expired, and he will return to Victoria to
enjoy a limited demonstration of intense official
welcome. But ere this esteemed servant of the
Ciovn 1* aves Victoria at all, it is probable that
his faithful Duncan will propose a Government
grant of ready cash, that it may be fulfilled which
was prophesied in The Bulletin when Duncan
was so anx’ous to recognise the valuable eervices
and so forth of Mr. Speigbt, on the recent occa-
sion of his departure for England. Let us watch
this little business carefully.
The Sausage Candidate.
A TALE FOR THE ELECTIONS.
Our fathers, brave men, were and strong,
And whisky was their daily liquor ;
They need to move the world along
In better style than now—and quicker.
Elections then were sport, you bet 1
A trifle rough, there’s no denying
When two opposing factions met
The skin and hair were always flying.
When “ cabbage-trees ” could still be worn
Without the question, “Who’s your hatter,’”
There dawned a bright election morn
Upon the town of Pairamatta.
A man called Jones was all the go—
The people’s friend, the poor’s protector ;
A lorg, gaunt, six-foot slab of woe,
He sought to charm the green elector.
Now, Jones had one time been trustee
For his small niece, and he—the villain !—-
Betrayed his trust most shamefully,
And robbed the child of every shillin'.
He used to keep accounts, they say,
To save himself in case of trouble ;
Whatever cash he paid away
He always used to charge it double.
He’d buy the child a cotton gown
Too coarse and rough to dress a cat in,
And then he’d go and put it down
And charge the price of silk or satin 1
He gave her once a little treat —
An outing down the harbour sunny—
And Lord ! the bill for bread and meat,
You’d think they all had eaten money
But Jones exposed the course he took
By carelessness—such men are ninnies.
He went and entered in his book
“ Two pounds of sausages—Leo guineas.”
Now this leaked out, and folk got riled,
And s»i£ that Jones, “ he didn’t oughter.”
But what cared Jones ! he only smiled—
Abuse ran off his back like water.
And so he faced the world content;
His little niece—he never paid her :
And then he stood for Parliament —
Of course he was a rank Freetrader.
His wealth was great, success appeared
To smile propitious on his banner.
But Providence it interfered
In this most unexpected manner,
A person—call him Brown for short—
Who knew the story of this stealer,
Went calmly down the town and bought
Two pounds of sausage from a dealer,
And then he got a long bamboo
And tied the sausage tightly to it;
Says he, “ This is the thing to do,
And I am just the man to do it,
“ When Jones comes out to make his speech
I won’t a clapper be, nor hisser,
But with this long bamboo I’ll reach
And poke the sausage in his ‘ kisser.’
I’ll bring the wretch to scorn and shame.
Unless those darned police are nigh ;
As sure as Brown’s my glorious name,
I’ll knock that candidate kite-high.”
The speech comes on—beneath the stand
The people push and surge and eddy ;
But Brown waits calmly close at hand
With all his apparatus ready ;
And while the speaker Icudly cries,
“Of ages all, this is the boss age !”
Brown hits him square between the eyes,
Exclaiming, “ What’s the price of sausage ?”
He aimed the victual in his face,
As though he thought poor Jones a glutton.
And Jones was covered with disgrace—
Disgrace and shame, and beef and mutton.
His cause was lost —a hopeless wreck
He crept off from the hooting throng ;
Protection proudly ruled the deck,
Here ends the sausage and the song.
THE BANJO
On a recent Thursday the Even Koose
came out with a column oa the N.S.W. political
situation, and a quarter of a column on the
Whitechapel murders. The runners cried out the
latter. They know.
A market-gardener in an Australian
country town has just won the first prize for
oranges at the local horticultural show, and with
fruit stolen from a neighbour’s garden. The man
whose orchard had been robbed was placed tecond.
There is something decidedly fishy about
that Calliope Dock in New Zealand. It has been
completed since February of last year, and yes
Pierce Lanigan is still sending in his ■* little bill ”
to the Board, who meet every week and re-
ligiously find some flaw which prevents its
liquidation.


High Akt Photogeapht. —For artistic posing
? n «,. effeot * ve combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
* CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His BraeUomy Lord Carlos t jp
"«» ADOolatmealr
B
OFFICE
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, M, JIACIARDI,
Stetlonw, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer. Diesinker, Embossed Bookbinder
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o. f
Maoardtf, £5 Box Sena t9f
Note Address— -
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Garda
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invited.
The [?]rrected Kinma Ghost
Dear Bulletin, —In any sort of manly con-
test the next best thing to honest victory
is honourable defeat. When the present New
South Wales general election is over the
party of billycock-crowned monopoly will be
able to boast of neither one nor the other. The
most hopeful heart that ever beat inside ab im-
ported white waistcoat sickens at the New South
” ales Foreicn-trader's prospect noiv. The
monopolists have pnt forth the whole of their
strength—done their mightiest and done their
dirtiest to becloud the rising sun of Protec-
tion, but they might as well have employed them-
selves in trying to wipe from the sky the orb of
day with a rag mop. Whether the Protectionists
succeed in obtaining a working majority or not
this time is immaterial, since it is now an at shred
fact that when the battle is over they will campon
the held. The monopolists are hopelessly over-
thrown ; the Protectionists have cleared a straight
road to victory’s goal. This much is accomplish&d
already, and it is, therefore, of no great conse-
quence to consider whether or not DibbS will be
»blc to work the new House, If the majority for
Protection is not found big enough, another
general election will have to make it bigger, that
* * #
When the real crisis came, and the political pot-
bellies had to toe the mark in front of Protection
full grown, their true character came out. They
resorted to the coward’s trick of hitting below the
belt. They saw that Freetrade was doomed, and
sought to save it from the crushing logic of the
other side by raising up a sectirian cry and trying
to frighten the now stalwart Democracy of New
vbouth Wales from the path of duty by resurrecting
the Kiama Ghost. Foremost in this despicable work
was appropriately enough Mr. John Haynes, and
his chief assistants were Sir Henry Paekes, the
Daily Telegraph, and the Evening News.
That Sir Henry Paekes should try the ghost-
trick again was a matter of surprise to nobody.
It has stood him in good stead so often when
everything else failed that nothing in the world
was more natural than to find him resorting to it
in such dire political distress as that to which the
present Parliamentary dissolution reduces him.
It is impossible at the present period for this
obsolete politician to realise the difference between
the intelligence of to-day and the illiterate
bigotry which quailed before his bogey in
the ignorant past He is at that time
of life when men cease to look anywhere but
backwards, and consequently he can take no
fair account of the contemporary for jea energising
around him. The ancient fools upon whom he
u-sed to successfully play off his ghost-trick have
for the most part gone from the polling-booth to
the grave, and their places are taken by a new
and an educated generation who are not to be
humbugged so easily. But for Sir Henry Paekes
this all*important fact has no meanir g. Twent y
years ago white-headed men tottered to the ballot-
box and believed as they were told that unless
they voted for this or for that they would fall a
certain prey to the Pope. At that time the balk
of the men who now vote were children, while the
bulk of the men who then voted are now corpses
—voting corpses it may be, and many of them
somewhat old-fashioned even at that, I do nob
expect that Sir Henry P arke:-- will ever under-
stand the full significance of this change which
makes the raising of the Kiama ghost a blunder-
to-day, whereas 20 years ago it was only a crime.
•' * *
To find the Evening News making use of these
tactics is also a commonplsca affair enough. The
conductors of that paper have a remarkably keen
and appreciative scent for a divorce-episode, or a
“ spicy ”c se of criminal assault, and there is in
the land no sheet which can more effec-
tively exhibit to the public gaze the brutali-
ties of a flogging or an execution. In these
lines their suceess must be regarded as pre-
eminent and unchallenged. But nobody ever
gave that journal credit for the feeblest glimmer
of anything like political understanding. When
it saw Foreign-trade going to the wall and a party
coming into power which might not only give the
local workman a chance against the big solt-goods
advertiser, bub likewise refuse any longer to tax
the people for the free carnage of the Tow,n and
Country Jouenal, it was only to be expected
that it should do something desperate What it
simply did was to “ warn ” the Australian people
that if they did not at once quit arguing about
fiscal matters and give a blind block vote in support
of Calico-Jemmyism (and in favour of paying
through the Postal Department a huge annual
subsidy to the Town and Country Journal).
the Pope would get the lob of them body and
sonl for lime and eternity. Of such a news-
paper this is eminently worthy and may pass
without special remark. The people who do
such things are too irredeemably stupid to be very
mischievous in the long run. We may safely
leave them and their newspaper to be destroyed
by their own follies and by the strong and deter-
mined and growing opposition by which they are
now menaced for the first time in their ignoble
history.
• * #
But we confess that we did expect something
entirely different from a paper with the preten-
sions of the Daily Telegraph. Seeing that this
journal could not win anyhow in the cause of Free-
trade, it might have had the sense, if not the
decency, to be careful that it lost honourably. Is
was enough, one would think, for it to have to
bear defeat without courting disgrace and ridicule,
as it did by the grossly unfair tactics bo which, in
company with Haynes, Paekes, and the Evening
News, it descended. According to the arguments
it relied on for saving foreign trade in the present
contest, we cannot support local industry without
endangering the secular principle of the Educa-
tion Act. If the electors once vote for the em-
ployment of Iced as against foreign labour
—as ninety-five per cent of the Orange-
men in Victoria have done—they are, by
the logic of the Daily Telegraph, rendered
pflit i sally impotent for evermore. Their views
on the education question may remain the same ;
the vast majority at the bach of the secular sys-
tem may continue unbroken, but that makes no
matter, as the Act wiil.be altered all the same,
just as the Papistical minority may direct. In
one of its leading articles the Telegraph said
right out that the object cf, levying duties on im-
ported manufactures was to raise money for what
it called a “grant in aid” to the f|ope. The
D.mli Tkiegraph may have a lob to plead on the
score of political stupidity, but no excuse of that
kind will justify such a monstrous falsehood as this.
The must have known that in writing this
it was not only writing downright untruth, but
what 99 out of every hundred of its own readers
would scout as a flimsy and wanton lie. What,
then, was its object in imposing wickedly upon the
possible weak mindedness of the remaining one in
order to get his vote for Freetrade, not because he
believed in it, but because he believed that if he
voted against it he would be introducing State aid
to religion ? What greater crime against liberty
could be conceived than to attempt to ensnare men
their own convictions by such
despicable tricks as these ? There are a few re-
paTwhomlS/S 03 ° f Kf b? ignoraut and brutal
*Si Bht * ba ca V ghb in this trap and their
wbk?S th k n«p fr0 f m i he - m ’ t and for the purpose of
.°rf 10 those of their freedom the lie was
TiiXT r ° bbi ” g the Political blind man
as robbing\ ? a - ct „ a3 1 mean aE d as wicked
However Bw Pb L El S^ ly blind 1,1 an of his dog.
tcoTate fn the rtl bard y W( ? ltb the trouble, to is
for thSe nIJ tS’ 88 reeulbs hs^ab eady proved,
thev are n ° “ a tt fr how audaciously
thrLe of the F r pr °? Up the tottering political
The battlVn h f for an o ther hour.
Wales and dei^ 9 * !l b ° U^ 8 Wcn in New South
the bktHe of P E b 6 \ ld ° f the Kima tthcsO
whatever be ( £ Cr f el f ‘ tr ? de monopoly is los-,
iv/T - • x „ fate v of the presfiit
Ministry. Yours, &c . Nationalist
* “}•? Interest Scotch readers to know
that a Sydney man has in his possession no less a
treasure than a piece of the plaid worn by Prince
Cfiarhe at the battle of Calloden.
A correspondent who ought to know
assures as that there is nothing in the c mdition of
the Lewis Ponds mine to justify the recent heavy
fall in shares from 17a fid. to 6s. The writer Bays
the market is evidently being “rigged.”
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine scored the first
failure of its long career on Saturday, When
Parkes heard that Wise had been defeated he laid
aside the bottle cf Nertine which had kept up
« l i l ™ B ! ireDgtb sb da y- an< L murmuiing faintly,
“Ett «*, Brute, ” fell in a heap.
Many years ago, when Mr. (now Sir) John
Bobertson contested a Sydney constituency, with
Mr. Geoffrey Eagar, the present N.S.W.
L nder-bfcretary for Trade and Finance, the
latter took his audience into his confidence, one
night, and told them that when at school they
used to call his opponent “ Snuffy Jock.” Not to
be outdone in politeness Jock took his audience
PHOTO. BY FREEMAN. W. H. PALING,
A SYDNEY PHILANTHROPIST.
mto confideccs and told them that at school' Mr,
Eagar was known as “Betsy Jane”—which
nickname has stuck to Jeff. ever since.
To-morrow, February 12th, will be the
thirty-eighth anniversary of the discovery of gold
at Summer-hill Creek by Mr. E. H, Hargreaves,
This gentleman went with the big rush in ’49 to
California, and was s'ruck there by the similarity
of appearance In the hills of N S.W. and those on
the American coast. On returning he searched
for the dross and found it. He was voted large
sums of money by Parliament, but, like Oliver
Twist, persisted in asking for more till in 187 G the
Government of Sir John Robertson fixed the
matter up by a vote of £250 per annum for life,
which the old gentleman, The Bulletin hopes,
now enjoys.
The National Protection Association of
N.S.W. cannot be praised too highly for the ex-
cellent work performed by their organisation
during the election. In most instances the Pro-
tection candidates placed themselves undtr the
guidance of the Association, and in every case
where loyal compliance was given to the behests
of the central body, success was achieved for Pro-
tection—where success was possible. Three
seats, however, have been lost to the Na-
ticnal party through the selfishness and in-
subordination of candidates who sought to
advance their personal interests at the ex-
pense of the cause they professed to champion,
and it is well that these men should be
placed on the black list of the party, and
never permitted to contest another election
under the auspices of the central organisation.
Mr. Giveney, who made a miserable show at the
bottom of the poll for New England, certainly
kept Proctor from receiving a sufficient number o!
votes to beat “Tiger” Inglis, and Schey, who
persisted in making himself the fifth Protectionist
candidate for Redfern, footed the list himself, and
at the same time lost two seats to his party. These
names must never be forgotten - Giveney and
Schey nor must their offence ever be condoned.
The Poet Parkes—Once More!
Here are a few slabs from Sir Henry Farkes’
“ Baby Song ” —a dreadful exhibition of senility—
which appears in the current number of the Cen-
tennial Magazine
Had the Kiama Ghost man dealt with the N.S.W*
political situation in the same style and had ap-
pealed to an imaginary baby to
. . “watch the Yellow Doggie
Help me roll my little toggle, 1 ’
and so on, he could have thrown some valuable
side lights on the public affairs of this colony. In
metrical form he might have told the visionary
child how “Dear Cocky-wocky Burnsey-purnsy
had made a little roadsey-poadsey through the
Horr sby-pornsby estatcsy-patesey ” —and how
“ Gingery-pingery Clarkesey-parkesey had been
lickty-pickty for Orangey-porangy.” Had he done
this, we might have seen quite a lot in this the
latest fffusion of the great poet and statesman
Henry Parkes.
Representatives of the peephole—Mem*
bers of the N.S.W. Social Purity Society.
Judge Docker has been presented with an
address of sympathy by the lawyers. The ad-
dress is a beautiful work of art, and in the left-
hand corner there is- an excellent picture of the
devil.
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) mine has, during
the last six months, yielded 2;273,175 cz. silver.
It is expected that after starting the ore dressing
p'ant the Company will put out 110,000 oz silver
weekly.
Bdtish North Borneo Company is offering
10 dollars reward a head for the capture of run-
away coolies. And, by the way, the British
authorities are making strenuous efforts to put
down the slave trade in Africa.
Jubilee R lay, who was defeated at South
Sydney, says he means to wait till that consti-
tuency “shall have experienced a rewakentng.”
Riley means that lie intends to wait till South
Sydney goes to sleep. That will ba his chance.
A Murkan colonel has juat been allowed
£B-Bs. for a horse lest in the Mexican war in 18-18.
He spent three-quarters of a lifetime collecting
the claim, and now that he has got the money be
is too old to enjoy it. Wealth has come too late.
An anti-Semitic paper with morning and
evening editions, made its appearance lash month
at Vienna. Every man who ever “ did a bill ”or
popped a vatch will write nasty things for it, and
at last the Rothschilds will form a shindykit and
buy it up.
The big libel case, proprietors of Even-
ing News and T. and C. Journal v. proprietors
of the Sydney Freeman’s Journal comes on for
hearing shortly. A postponement was lately con-
sntal to bba defendants in consequence of til 3
E. News fire, bat the case, which promises to bi
one of tha mast sensational and instructive evafr
contested in an Australian court of law, is now bo
bo fought out right to the end.
Two Bagdad Jews have purchased the site
of ancient Babylon, and the customary shindykit
is being formed.
An English journal devoted to colonial
Interests advises an intending emigrant to go to a
rising young country like Fiji ;
R outlcdge’d firm sold 3,000 000 volumes of
sixpenny novels in three years, James Grant’s
“ Romance of War ” topped the list with 1(11) 000
copies.
The father of Mr. Wllshlre, one of the
new members for Canterbury (N.S.W.), was the
second mayor of the city of Sydney, he haviri?
held that office in 1844.
A Minneapolis gravedigger is responsible
for the horrible story that no fewer than nineteen
corpses unearthed in a local cemetery had turned
on their faces after interment.
We hear a queer story froth Sydney
Hospital. A woman is brought in supposed to be
drunk but really In a fit. She gets the regulation
cold bath and dies in half an hour.
The N.S.W. general election has de-
veloped into a war between city and country, the
former going for Foreign-trade and the country,
naturally enough, for Protection.
For whose baby, we wonder, does Premier
Parkes write baby songs ? Before you can write
a baby song you must have a baby, just as, before
you write love-verses, you mint have a girl.
During the recent rise in produce, a
Sydney merchant bought a large consignment of
chaff in Auckland and landed it for £7 a ton in
Sydney, where the ruling price then was £G a ton.
Footprints of a bird, measuring 8 inches
from tip to tip, were recently seen in Otago, N.Z.,
by a party of explorers. There is still a chance
of a real live moa figuring in a sixpenny side-
show.
A watercress seller in England has a re-
markable throat formation which enables the in-
terior of his chest to be inspected at any time.
The happy owner of this extraordinary throat
has received a good round sum in consideration of
his bequeathing himself to an hospital.
Words used by Lord Salisbury in a speech
at Edinburgh in November last“ Let us
assume that these gentlemen (Irish members) are
what are called political offenders. On what
ground is it that they are not to be punished if
they offend against the law ? Is there any pre-
cedent for it ? I will not go very far back ; 130
years ago political offenders in this country-well
their heads appeared above Temple Bar. .
Let us take the case of India—that was only SO
years ago. My impression is that they (political
offenders) were blown from the mouths of guns !”
Quite a religious revolt has jast been
raised in the kitchens of the “Hub of the Uni-
verse,” by the side of which the account of the
bogus insurrection in Mexico reads like a mushy
report of a Wesleyan Sunday-school picnic. Is
appears that in a certain suburb of Boston the
priest in charge wishes to erect a bang-up denomi-
national school. As the required funds are not
fi owing in freely enough, however, his reverence
has hit upon the ingenious idea of ordering all the
“slaveys ” under his pastoral jurisdiction to de-
mand a rise of 2s a week in their wages, the extra
money to go as contributions to the school-fund
The mistresses have all their buttons off over this
system of blackmail levying, however, and as
many of them have determined to do the work
themselves, or employ Chinkiea and niggers, the
cute priest finds himself hoist bv his own petard
and the slaveys are, of ccurse, hoisted along with
him.
The tremendous shortage In the accounts
of the Parkes Government opens up a little ques-
tion for the depositors in the N.S W. Savings
Bank, which is worth considering. Among the
ipads which the deceased “honest” Administra-
tion expended without authority on various
more or less public purposes before their un-
natural integrity led them into a state of collapse
was a sum of over £2,000,000 in trust-moneys be-
longing to various departments of the Govern-
ment. Of this, a very large amount is believed to
have consisted of Swings Bank deposits, and it
would be a matter of interest to depositors to
know if their money, or any part of it
as they handed it in at one end of the
building, was being carted away at the
other to pay for those famous road-making opera-
tions m o ocky Burns’ leafy haunts at Hornsby.
And, if so, it would also be interesting to know
, e “ or k° w the Parkes Government proposed to
get the money back from Hornsby, and put it in
the bank again, so that it could be found when its
real owners wanted it.
The promoters of the new Melbourne
evening paper, which is to be called the Standard
evidently mean business. The scheme originated
411 . e bra ?;“ °£ the artful Jimmy Thompson,
who is at the head of the concern as general
manager, and will have at bis official credit
before he starts £30.000, of which £15,000 i a
, e . a . y ia the bank, the shares having a further
° f Judging from its name
and the names of the directors* the Standard
will be by no means a beastly Democratic
organ. Indeed, it has been noticed in this
connection that arrangements have actually
been made to wash the reporters on the
premises. Yes the Standard will actually
ascend to the glory of lavatories for pressmen.
As already stated, the paper will be edited by
K r --Jf, (n l ge ¥ Pullagh Reed, who has a pretty
intimate knowledge of the affairs of most countries
under the sun. Two big Foiter machines are on
the water consigned bo the Standard, and as the
printing arrangements are in the hands of Mr. ,J.
Beach, late mechanical manager of the S.M
Herald, it is pretty certain that no fault will be
round in the new paper from a tynoeraohica!
point of view. The Evening Herald p?op?e are
getting ready for the fray, and are now laying
down foundations for four Foster machines of tie
newest pattern.
“ Baby, see the foolish doggie
B liking at the big-eyed fbcggie
In the rceebuth, green and shady,
Do you tee it, little lady ?
“ loahy loves all gentle B'asties
When they gather at their feasties
In the garden or the greenwood,
Loves them as a fairy queen would.
“ How she loves the joyous wiiigies
Flitting through the leafy dingies,
Ever singing as in duty
To delight my little beauty.
“ Precious tnby ! how we love her,
May the great good God above her
Never to the tempter yield her—
Ever bless her, ever shield her.”


Most and Ciiandons Champagne —Messrs. Meet and
Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their “ Dry-
Imperial” 1884 vintage is the pure juioe of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres in the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Grown ia in each corner of label, and 1884 branded on
oork ami label.
£JOOGEI PALAOI AQUAEIUM.
For the Last Time 1A
..=====AGINTON’ s==-
Terrific Flight down the Toboggan !
and
* J. * T. * WILLIAMS *
The Australian Parachutist, in his
i *"
iESIAI ACT IN THE DOME!
A. E. BTOPFOED. Maeager,
Sundry Shows.
Treatbi Royalu—" Dora ” and “ The Bar-
rister” p. 14
B«B Majesty’s.—“ Youth ”
Obitkbion. —“ The Magistrate ~ „
GAtBTi Theatre.— Gaylord-Silbon Troupe... ~
A scream, which started in shrill wails
and long-drawn-out cadences and then broke into
pieces and yelps and soared aloft in a fragmentary
abate until it made the celestial choirs imagine
that a dog was coming up the path, greeted the
Brough and Boucioaulb combination when it re-
appeared at Sydney Criterion to play “ The
Magistrate” on Saturday night. Mr. Robert
Brough lent out his ead lcoking countenance in
the grave and dignified character of Mr. Poskett,
and kept his eye on his part with that air of col-
lapsed, broken-down, ruined solemnity which is
peculiarly his own, Mr. Brough’s solemnity is
that of a man who is dying at the pump in bis
efforts to bale out a leaking universe, and who
knows that if he lets go even long enough to brush
a fly off his ear the solar system will go under and
be seen no more; and combined with this there is
an underlying expression which suggests that his
eight wives and 140 children have all just stepped
on a tack and thereby seriously harrowed his feel-
ings as a husband and a father and upwards.
Also, in addition to these surface aspects, there is
a gruesome look of woe which stands out con-
spicuously in his hair and shines in his eye; and
when all these combined griefs were bound up and
cemented together, and aggravated by an eight-
mile chase by the police over spiked railings and
apple - stalls and baked • potato barrows, and
through broken windows, and underneath be-
lated carts, and round deserted backya ds, and he
had lost all his money, and torn his collar, and
broken his nose, and split both pants across the
knees, and had acquired a thick outer coat-
ing of mud and an inner coating of grief
and self reproach, with an attack of rheumatism
spread loosely over them all, and he had also lost
his cravat, and borrowed tuppence, and had no
breakfast, and his wife had not been home all
night and was being searched for among the 1 rst
dogs and children left chargeable on the parish,
and all these things had combined to upset his
reason to such an extent that when the missing
lady did turn up he gave her seven days without
the option, Mr. Brough was entitled to feel that
he had achieved a triumph Miss Myra Kemble
filled a congenial part as Mrs. Poskett, atd
when she was brought up in hysterics
before the mud-caked ruins of her second hus-
band, and that avenger of the law doubled
up in temporary derangement, and ordered
her to be removed to gaol, there to have
her hair cut and sleep on a hard plank-bed,
she rose to a pitch of magnificent wrath which
brought down the house. Dion Boucicault, jun.,
though smaller and less muddy and more intoxi-
cated than the magistrate, was no less a cause for
public gratification, and Mr. Titheradge supplied
a long-felt craving for an Indian colonel with a
bruised countenance, who was washed in gaol.
Mr. Hans Phillips fell short of the colonel mainly
in the fact that he resisted washing to the bitter
end, and by his desperate valour escaped being
laved in the convict tank among drunks and
other active malefactors, and Mrs. Robert
Brough, Miss Emma Temple, and Miss Pattie
Brown combined at the tail-end of the pro-
gramme to cast a halo of gentle refinement
and feminine grace ever the scene. Tee Criterion
company includes no less than six star artistes and
three more who could pass very well as stars at an
emergency, and this circumstance illuminates
*' The Magistrate” with a radiance of unearthly
grandeur, and gilds the weary track which that
officer of the law follows in the police court at
Mulberry street.
#* # *
Mr. Frederic Cowen, the apostle of the
desperately high class order of music, is now try-
ing an experiment on the public at Sydney Exhi-
bition Building, under the financial guidance of
those eminent botanists and zoologit ts, Rignold
and Allison. So far, the results have not been as
great as might have been expected had melody of
a more ordinary character been levelled at the
exhausted Cornstalk race. Long things, with
names that require deep research and com-
prehensive grasp, chase each other all over
the bill, and articles in E flat or in J stand-
ing up are laid on with a lavishness which
is ruinous in its intensity. “Agitated move-
ments ’ of a heavenly character have their heels
trodden upon by “luscious effects” wh’ch are
orchestrated with colossal vigour, and the daily
Press is lost in a maze of long adjectives and
nouns with innumerable joints, which endeavour
faintly to express the massive nature of the situa-
tion. The orchestra holds forth at Her Majesty’s
Theatre on Saturday afternoon and Sunday even-
ing next, and will continue to discourse at the Ex-
hibition Building between whiles,
** * *
Here, for Instance, is what they are giving
us ! This is the Sydney D.T.’a musical critic when
he thinks he is rising to a great occasion :
No trace of any such feeling was apparent, however ;
nor could it have been witn a programme so full of con-
trasts and a rendering so variously attractive in its ex-
quisite shades of feeing. It is not ten much to say that
there were moments when the fleeting changes of the
ensemble were to the ear as beautifully expressive ts the
sunlight, when it cheers the distant landscape in its fight
and leaves it in shadow again, is to the eye. At such
moments the heart is pierced with pain at the transitory
nature of a beauty which it would like to claim and
absorb for its own for ever ; it is as it a single instant of
such ecstasy were all the frame could bear without disso-
lution.
Surely only a party by the name of Nancy could
have written this.
** * #
“Dora,” and that maddened and trod-
upon forensic worm, “ The Barrister,” are doing
vast business at Sydney Royal, and at the Gaiety
Gaylord and Silbon’s troupe continue to risk their
necks and put their whole anatomy in imminent
danger at a low price every night. George
Rigadd’s “ Youth ” still resists the en-
croachments of old age and decay accord-
ing to its wont. The Opera House stands
in dusty silence at its old corner, and no
sound now echoes where Dimitresco and Lab-
lacbe used to hold forth, excepting only the obser-
vations of the portly cat upon the roef. Pain, the
man of fireworks and brimstone and sulphurous
exhalations, is giving a series of exhibitions at
Bondi Aquarium, including a comet and “hot
and cold water free ”; and otherwise things are
very much where they were before they used bo be
before. -
** * *
The mysterious Australian “ Silver King,”
who was vaguely understood to have bestowed
his heart and bis vast mineral wealth upon Miss
Letty Lind, the fairylike dancer of the Gaiety
combination, appears to be gradually sinking in
public estimation. In his earlier stages it was
understood that he was the owner of miles and
miles of auriferous quarts on the arid plains of
this dusty continent, and when these great
deposits vanished away, it was still reported that
he possessed fabulous wealth in silver ore and was
prepared to buy up a continent any time he
wanted to. Latest advices, however, describe
him briefly as “ Mr. R. Pell, the Chloride King,”
and by the time the next mail comes in we expect
that he will have degenerated into an oxide duke,
or a mundic baron, or something equally ordinary
and commonplace. We are beginning to have
serious doubts about that silver king.
*# # #
Carl Herfz, the great conjuror, has in-
vented a new trick by which ho appears to burn a
woman to ashes on the stage. At a recent trial
disinterested investigators failed to discover the
whereabouts of the subject, although the ashes
became visibly agitated on somebody observing
that a lady in tharaudience was wearing one of
those latest lovely bonnets.
** * *
Jim Ashton, who has travelled the Aus-
tralias for 30 years as a circus proprietor, folded
up his earthly tent at Gladstone (Q.) the other day.
** * *
Theatric*! managers In the Und cf the
wooden nutmeg are never weary trying to lick
creation in the matter of advertising their pro-
ductions. A favourite dodge is to distribute what
they call “ souvenirs” among tha audience when
their plays attain a certain number of representa-
tions. Sometimes they give bouquets, mirrors,
scent-bottles,_ or candy, and occasionally more
substantial gifts. News comes across the sea that
a pushing young man is arranging to present a
consignment of kittens to his lady patrons. Pic-
ture 300 or 400 women emerging from the theatre,
and tramping the streets with infantile cats under
their arms or squeezed up in satchels and baskets,
each juvenile beast me owing like mad. Picture,
also, 300 or 400 kittens thrown away when the
owners get tired of them, and growing up to ba
300 or 400 ragged, dissipated, worldly cats, all over
the neighbourhood ; and then picture yourself a
householder in that locality heaving 300 or * 00
bootjacks nightly at the caravan on the back wall!
■#* # *
“ Sweet Lavender,” a family drama, fresh
and fragrant as its title, came to perfume the at-
mosphere of Melbourne Bijou on Saturday night.
The scheme of Pinero’s latest work includes no
dead bodies, no resurrections of bodies believed to
be dead, nor any bodies which ought to be dead.
None of the company plunge into a cold river for
the purpose of being pulled out agaia by a lime-
lit individual, who cries “ Saved !” There is a
conspicuous absence of dilngeons and detest'ves
from this story, and those persona wlp enter the
Bijou in the joyful hope of beholding 16 policemen
laid low by an undersized hero manifestly ig-
norant of the first principles of boxicg—those per-
sons will depart with their morbid curiosity un-
f ratified. “ S ire 5 1 Lavender ”is just a poem of
iondon everyday life, told in the chambers shared
by two briefless barristers, one of whom, Dick
Phenyl, is an amiable ruin when partially sober,
while the other loves to look upon the house-
keeper’s daughter when she is red. The fatuous
persistency with which this young man prefers his
humble little bit of Lavender to another and more
bewitching kind of blossom in Paris frccks is a
cause of general consternation through two
acts, His adopted father, who keeps a bank
somewhere, comes to London with a view to
explaining that he himself nearly effected a
mesalliance some years before, but didn't quite,
concurrent with which e x planation the bank afore-
mentioned goes bung, and circumstances point to
the fact that Sweet Lavender is the result of
that mesalliance which so nearly happened in the
long ago. After the banker has had a fib he
naturally regards Lavender as a suitable wife for
ary young man, and as the other flower has
mashed a wandering American in the meantime,
all obstacles to a wholesale matrimony are dis-
solved in tears of jcy. Whether the chastened
banker pairs off with his daughter’s m other re-
mains a matter for modest conjecture. The part
is admirably played by Mr. A. T. Hilton and
well backed up by Miss Lucia Harwood, who
pathetically identities herself with the wan and
weary housekeeper. Little Miss Brenda Gibson
puts a certain amount of sweetness into the
Lavender without supplying an intelligible reason
for the monotonous eyeing and sighing of Mr.
Cecil Ward-
Nob tall nor broad, is Cecil Ward,
Nor very big in aught but eyes ;
And yet in Ward we all regard
A man of most enormous sighs.
Mr. Frank Thornton struggles with the unstable
character of Dick Phenyl, and gets it fairly under
after the first act. If the character started by
getting Mr. Thornton under on Saturday he pro-
bably lost the opening fall bhrr ugh nervous dread
of relapsing into the Revd. Spalding and being
suddenly betrayed into a condition of fearful
hunger. The largest and brightest part of this
show falls to the lot of Miss Lilian Gilmore, who
now appears rather more superlative than ever
in all respects. As a representative of girlish in-
nocence Miss Gilmore is a standing reproach bo
the average innocence, and an elevating influence
upon the opposite sex. \ few other people, in-
cluding Miss Annie Taylor and the beautiful
Frank Cates, are also influences, and if “Sveeb
Lavender ” doesn’t hum it will be a public
calamity.
** * *
Hicks’ Coloured. Minstrels, a band of real
negroes in several shades who have been already
blessed with a Bulletin notice, struck Melbourne
Opera House on Saturday night. A colossal
audience received the Big Black Boom with every
sign of satisfaction, and Mr. Will Johnson lowered
his voice a hundred fathoms deep amid enthu-
siasm. Several other features of interest were
marred by the awful goings-on of the big black
orchestra, which wandered about into several
keys of a distressing character and played soft
music that sometimes resembled a bad attack of
colic.
#* * *
No alarming change is noticeable in “ Mar-
vellous Melbourne” or the Royal pantomime,
both of which spectacles look like lasting for ever,
or nearly so. “Mikado” fills the Princess’s for
the moment, and on Saturday occurs the new
comic opera “ Pepiba.” A Me. Walker Marnoek
has been imported bo do something he did in
London, and assist this gorgeous production with
some useful hints.
** * ♦
Dear Bulletin, — I send along a few lines
touching the wretched death of lima de Murska.
I have been moved to this by a vivid recollection
of her triumphant career in Melbourne. I shall
never forget her first appearance at the Town
Hall (which was cranjmed even to the organ
steps) when Hertz placed a wreath on the Diva’s
head amidst such s scene of wild enthusiasm as I
hare rarely beheld. After the concert the people
drew her carriage to Menzies’ Hotel, when she
appeared on the balcony and sang “Home, Sweet
Home to a crowd of 10,000 :
Ilma De Murska.
What of the time when on our ravished ears
Thy warbling fell and maddened us with joy,
When potentates sat meekly at thy feet,
And queenlier power within tby fragile grasp
Thou held’st, than many a sovereign woman owns ?
Amidst thy noonday splendour, when of men
Thou madest toys to please thy varying moods,
And every light caprice of thine was deemed
A priceless gift by him on whom it fell;
Ah ! why was not thy tuneful ear attent
To catch an echo from adown the years.
To warn thee that the flimsy-gilded cage
In which the world enshrined thee for its sport,
Sat in so fierce a heat and garish light
Would melt, and leave thee sad and songless soon ?
As burnished gold long used will lose its sheen,
And brightest gems into the furnace cast
Forfeit at once their radiance and their worth,
So glory, born of fleeting fame, will fade,
And laureled brows, death-dewed, may rest at last
Pillowed upon Life’s highway, spurned of all.
„ Henry O’Donnell.
Melbourne.
** # #
Mrs. Essie Jenyna Wood was known
amongst her intimates as “ Toby ’’—the nickname,
of course, being derived from the Latin Esse— to
be. Notice it?
** * *
Colonel Soffcgoods Sargood, of the Cab-
bage-Garden Royal Fallbacks, suggests that a
portion of the Centennial Exhibition annexes
should be converted into a winter garden. Con-
sidering the magnificent “frost” that the show
has been, this proposal proves that the “ Kurnil ”
possesses quite a rich vein of satirical humour.
*# * #
Darrell is playing “ First Class ” In Wel-
lington (N.Z.) mit a dank. “Real Water ” o’er-
shadows in the bills even the honoured patronymic
of Darrell, and the tank draws. Cold fresh water,
save in the shape of rain, is a novelty to the Wel-
lingtonians. A prominent citizen recently drank
half a glass of the fluid in question, with this ver-
dict: “Kota bad sort of drink—for a change—
but d d insipid, mind you !”
** * #
Fromtha AGEadvertiaement of aMelbourne
show running last week The play contains
nothing that is indelicate, much that is amusing,
and in the principal sensation scene, the execution
on the ec iff old, the author has scored a triumph.”
Nothing indelicate ! More evidence of the refin-
ing influence of the gallows,
*# * *
Essie Jenyna cannot be regarded as
having been a great success. She left the stage
without having had her diamonds stolen. One
must suffer the grand larceny to gain undying his-
tronic renown.
*# * #
Gilbert’s new comedy has been coldly re-
ceived, and in blind rage he has written to the
London D.T. demanding the dismissal of Clement
Scott, its dramatic critic.
** * *
“Dorothy” was withdrawn from the
boards of the Prince of Wales, London, on 17th
December, after a run of two years. The receipts
were £126,500.
***..*
Charles Warner’s father, for many years
connected with Sidler’s Wells and Drury Lane
theatres, died recently,
** * *
A panic recently occurred at Wirbh’s
Circus at Litrobe (Tas.) A gasoline lamp ex-
pl dad, and the fife shot up to the roof of the
tent, causing a general stampede. No one was
injured. That is where the circus tent has the
bulge over the theatres. In case of a fire, every-
one who holds a pocket-knife can make a door for
himself in the walls at a moment’s notice, and
even without the knife he can rush the side of the
building with his head and burst through.
## # *
Fanny Thomas, an how travelling
in the States, sends a wail of bitterness across the
wide Pacific : -
Every broken-hearted heroine weeps on exactly the
sime part of her arm, on just the same part of the chair
or sofa, with precisslythe same number of “boo-hoos”
since the first good weeper made a hit by doing just so.
Tne “ hit ” is left out now, however, when we anticipate
every time the repeated items. Who dees' not writhe in
ant cipation of the stage exit ? The two-step stride, the
closed-flat thump on the top of the door, the turn, the
sudden raise of head acd other arm, then the
turn, turn, turn, turn, turn, turn, of climax, and the shoot
from sigtt. Same old exit every time, cure. Yet, never
on earth, in any circumstances, has any cue of us ever
seen a human being go out through a door in just that
way. I can imagine tbe first time it w«sdone. Some
grand r ight seme king of the stage, who was a man
before he was an actor, made an exit in that way. It was
new, it was cbnsutent with his looks, (ones, and way of
doing things. Since then, there being no copyright on
gesticulation, this has been adopted as the trade mark of
every exiter from that day.
** * *
The bills for the entertainment given at
Newcastle by Mr. Wood in honour of his nuptials
with Miss Essie Jenyns totalled £1562. There
were about 700 guests. Expensive biz.
** ♦ ♦
That big show, the Melbourne Centennial
International Exhibition has dropped off into tbe
past and figure as a thing that is gone, and people
are beginning to cast up the .distinguished visitors
and lump them together and multiply them by so
much a weak to ascertain how far Governor Lccb
is out of pocket in undertaking to keep them full
of hash for atr fls like £6000; and, after laborious
calculation, the impression that his Excellency
has come out on top prevails in financial circles.
Asa matter of facf, the only distinguished v’sitors
who honoured Melbourne with their presence
during the Exhibition boom flourished in ephe-
meral grandeur at suburban boarding-houses, and
then shuffled into frayed and fringed pants and
broken shoes, and leant up against hotels and lin-
gered on the wharves, subsisting on free lunches
and the east wind, rather than cripple Sir
Henry’s resourses by besieging Government House
for the usual, shake down, pannikin of dt mper
dust and neck of mutton. Sir Henry Loch is now
going home on the money he has lost over the con-
tract, and the taxpayer is left lamenting. It was
absurd to set aside £6OOO for the accommodation
of distinguished visitors after expending over
£16,000 on a palatial morgue.
CORRESPONDENCE
i -f Broadfoofc ” : w e have unfortunately mis-
laid the slip forwarded.... “ Geebung " (Sydney): Victoria.
° e 0^ r ® e ' Lover of the Blue-Eyed Governess’
?® ads): If JOU were within «nge of the editorial
flatiron there would be a funeral at Tweed River. We are
very terriKe when we are roused....“ V.N.” (Towne-
ville): Don't write poetry any more, please. Devote your
time to makiog alligator soup.. ..“Sulky ” : (i) England
had more powerful war-vessels than America at the end
o the Civil War. (2) The Kearsage was an armour-
plated steamer....“ Banana Jimmy” (Brisbane): Jury of
matrons have not yet given in their report on your mag-
pie story. The other one is net suitable. ..“Frank
Chandoe” ; Kindly call and leave address “Lunatic” ;
It is true that the Australians have opposed the Chinese
from the cheap-labour standpoint alone. Australia does
noi seriously fear a Chinese invasion....“J.F.”; You
“plea for a true patriot” lacks fire. Its best lines
are•
“ * n J jou find such a ‘ straight,’ public man
As the idol of Mudgee— godson to old Dan-
Bread m bis sympathies, honest and clean,
He walks in the way of the meek Nazarene.”
This is,, as you say, pure sarcasm “W.T.H.Much
too long for our columns. Your remarks in the main are
correct and unansverab’e, bat your allusion to China and
Freetrade is unfortunate. That country wtuld probably
lose lees by tbs institution of Freetrade than any com-
mumty in the world, because her workers, occupying
the lowest rung in the ladder of civilisation, out-
ward competition- has no power to degrade them
E i.B. 1 ’: We don’t complain of the immorality of the
White-waistccat press (suppress would be a better word)
in ignoring National meetings or in garbling the reports
thereof. We are only filled with amazement and amuse-
ment at the short-sightedness of the newspaper-men who
can’t see the flash which precedes the arrival of the shot.
Protection has teen ccming along for years past, but the
penny papers haven’t had enough sense to come in out of
the wet. Thsy'll soon have to sit in the wet “A
Native of Germany”: It probably means that there are
50,000 Germans in Australia....“ Leo ” (Sydney); Don’t
know “lm Poser”: (Savernake); Good story—but
held over. Write again and often “S.E.”; He
changed his name, dyed his whiskers and eloped with the
servant girl, did he 1 And you want us to print all about
him ? Well, we re not going t 0....“ Kohoot” (Vic)-
Thanks. One very ancient. The other held over...;
“LW.”: One of the weakest features cf the “single
tax ” is the fact that it will produce its lowest returns in
thinly populated lands of large area where state expenses
are much higher in proportion to population than hr
crowded countries....“AvoniaH.”: Held for considera-
tion —“ W. Jay ” : The N.S.W. Foreign-traders have tied
their cause to a corpse. Foreign trade and sectarianism
will rot together in the same grave....“A.W.”: Tins
Bulletin is of opinion that the Crown Prinoe of Austria
fell up a well and got burnt to death. Henry
Howatd ”: You wi'l see that we have dealt with the
matter....“ E.D H.’ ; Yep, you may send us local items
. .. “ S Mackenzie ’ ; Wrong in your premises, you are at
eea in your conclusions. With the exception of Con-
necticut and another State the name whereof we do no)
at present remember, the only American States which
voted for Cleveland and what you choose to call “Free-
trade ” during the last Presidential election were the old
slave-states. The people of the more prosperous indos-
t.ial communities went straight for Harrison and Pro’ec-
-I'oa “ Blossom Field Poet Not up to {he mark ..
“ Edward Mason We presume that he got the Social
Parity Society’s v0te....” Lunatic" ; Next week.. _
' Barwon”: Will inquire.... “ H W. Dixon One man
ii just as much entitled to be addressed “fir l ’ as another.
....“Black Diamond” writ es_ suggesting that " Adam
Bede” should reduce the prizes given to the holdeistf
placed horses and give more to the starters and non-
Starters. Hethfntsif that were dene there would he
even a stronger inducement to invest “Bullco”: It
is true that Premier Dibbs has been twice insolvent ;
but it is also true that he has voluntarily paid all his
creditors in full in the long am. Pirkes has been three
times insolvent, and we all know how his creditors have
fared.
Scotch epitaph (adapted to local Wants) ;
“ Here lies Jack Want—lawyer,
Honest man.
God works wonders, now and then.”
According to a recent issue of the obscure
rag, of which Mr. John Hoynes turns the handle,
the only certainty in the N.S.W. general election
was that three Freetraders would be returned at
Newcastle. Since then Newcastle has returned
three Protectionists, and as John’s only living
certainty has thus vanished into thin air the
Escaped Haynes is left adrift on a shoreless sea of
unfixable doubt and bewilderment.
When the big silver lode peters out —•
which, of course, is rank heresy—and Broken Hill
sinks into the position of a quiet, agricultural
village, with turnips growing where the mining
plant used to flourish—which is pure treason—the
name of Oxide-street can be altered, to suit the
bucolic surroundings, to Ox-hide-street. And
even the name of the town may be changed from
Broken Hill to Bust Hill, and thus the eternal
fitness of things be kept steadily in view to the
bitter end.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is mora Wholesonu thaa
BRANDY or WHISKY,
Aad U a
Purs Refreshing Beverage,
Be Oerefol roo' obUlo Woin’a.
they oan get Ihose^eefu^artidp^ h “ dkBr ° hie,s because
Crab Apple Blossom it I n„P' Jrfu I ? ied ratia with
Stands £ S»e Pbehtmmy Co.'a
Is on thin See” " All Jielbournn
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western.
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
liathurst-street, Sydney.
For Dyspepsia
USB HORSFORD’S>ACID -PHOSPHATE:
Di|J.T, G. Va wormy, M.R.GS, and L R.U.P. II indtf-
worth, near Birmingham, Bag. says : “la ciees of atonic'
dyspepsia I consider it superior to any of the dilate -
mineral acids of the Pharmacopoeia.”
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and oomlort. ftfudt.
man. Mr Tm.oa," 164 King street Newtown.
POLITICAL POINTS
■x. F, Barns—Judicious Fank Burns.
Palsford says he never heard of John
Haynes ■;
Candidates “stand,” members “sit," and
both ‘‘ lie.”
In Illinois (17. S ).the marriage of cousins
aas been declared illegal.
Painful solution (lor some members) of the
political crisis—Bis-solution.
Two butchers, a Lamb, and a shoemaker
represent West Sydney.
Parkes took to his bosom the “ burning
brand.” No wonder he died from Burns.
Two N.S.W. political “ trimmers ” went
under last Saturday, namely, Neild and Schey.
A cablegram to the S.M. Herald speaks
of Prince Cohen of Coburg. Prince Cohen ! The
Juke d Moses!
There are 1443 Irish landlords holding
2,145,000 acres, valued at £1,500.000, who rarely
or. never visit Ireland. 1 ■
“ An Appeal to Liberal Colonists ” in the
Con i emporary Review by Frederick Harrison is
worthy of some attention. *
Ex Judge Faucett and R. E, O'Coanor are
the only members of the Roman Catholic Church
m the Legislative Council of N.S.W.
A certain ex M. L. A. cf N.S.W. who is
to get a seat intends travelling with Blue
Ribbon Booth as a shocking example.
It was feared that the miners of Northum-
berland, beirg under the direction of Curley
would not vote straight for Protection,
The managers of the Brooklyn railroads
advertised that, with the new year, they would only
keep American citizens in their employ.
Three guineas were recently paid, in Lon-
cton, for tickets to hear Mr. Gladstone speak at
Limehouse. Parkes can be heard rrratis.
The only Foreign traders amongst the legal
candidates for the N.S.W. Parliament seem to be
those »ho have been educated in England.
Mr. Paul, Foreign-trado member for
Bathurst, may, after all, not be able to sit, as
when elected, he was in receipt of Government
members of the present
Bibbs Government—Mr. Garvan-voted for the
secular Education Act and for the Bivorce Exten-
Sion Bill.
The return of Barnaby Horns for St.
Leonards is a red-hot burning brand of shame on
the fame of the electors of that ever-corrupt con-
stituency.
A recent speech of that “upholder of
purity,” Sir Henry Parkes, at St. Leonards, con-
tained some allusions to “ native industries ”
which no paper dare print.
\V est Australian politics are largely In the
hands of the medical profession. West Australia
is so healthy that the doctors are glad to do any-
thing to turn an honest penny.
Dean Marriott, of AU Saints Cathedral,
®**hurst, P re a°hed on Sunday evening, January
27th, on I reetrade and Protection.” A collec-
tion was taken up at the finish.
tle Senate has, as a protest against
the treatment of Irsih political offenders, rejected
the Enghah extradition treaty by a majority
of _3 votes. England, the home of freedom I
The public money was spent on my lands
Tis true, said Burns, you all know it: ’
But, still the affair doesn’t soil my hands.
Refund ? No, I’d much rather owe it.
Mr. James Torpy. the new Protectionist
° ra I ngP ’ S - W -» an old Lambing
agitator, who took a prominent part in the
anti-Chinese agitation on that famous goldfield.
A N.S.W. country paper, speaking of a
candidate, says that he “has been in the House
for two years, but has conducted himself more
like a gentleman than a member of Parliament.”
“ Great Freetrade victory !” shoats the
Sydney B.T- in one leader. In the vary next
column it prints a rabid appeal to the ignorant to
Billy and glrd UP thei3r l ° inS and vote for K’ng
“ Jack ’ Want’s heavy polling at Padding-
ton is due to the fact that he got both the Foreign-
trade vote and the votes of those who were grate-
Govern™at r ove, throw of the corrupt Parkes
Cotton Is the paid lecturer of
the N.S.W. Land Nationalisation Society, which
has very foolishly become the cat’s-paw of the
Gahco Jimmies. Cotton is always useful in
making shoddy.
At the nomination for St. Leonards, ex-
*VkeB from the time he entered the hall
till he left it never exchanged a word with any of
candidate. He even turned his back
on pretty Cocky Burns,
According to Mr. Hebblewhite, of Goul-
burn, wages are not in any way determined by
the standard of living, but simply by the demand
n°™Sw Ur -. his , ia n °t “ore absurd than the
usual Foreign-trade arguments.
At the last general election there were only
S“ e “ b ; r 8 of the Australian Club(Sydney) who
* P . ro - ecVlon - Now there are 70, and it
C!nh mu milar , Bt,abe of thin s a exists in the Union
l he world does move after all.
„ ladles of Loadon, being
without sin,” have protested against Sir Charles
nf a " adulterer, becoming a member
™j£P° Unfcyo , ouncil * In order to escape their
h to come, the baronet has quietly withdrawn.
A large nnmber of German workmen have
m h e “ imported to make British bayonets.
for od. per hour, whereas the British
ha t 8 been getting 7|d. God bleis
tration! twopennyhalf Penny war adminis-
Speaking of elec-
tioneering prospects, Fri-
day’s Even Nooze draws
attention in five places to
the fact that certain state-
ments put forward “ lack
confirmation.” Those two
words would make a most
appropriate heading for
the whole of the paper.
Sir Alban Jubilee
-Riley complains in the
Sydney DT. that the
Roman Catholics voted
against him at South Syd-
ney. Very likely they
did. And yet Alban once
spent £lOOO on an altar
at St. Mary’s Cathedral.
However, it was a pretty
good ad.
Mrs. Garlaad, the
charming editress of the
Carcoar (N.S.W.) Chroni-
cle, has been canvassing
the Carcoar electorate in
the interests of her hus-
band, Mr. “ Charlie ”
Garland. On dit that
Charles receives at least
several of his political idesa
behind mosquito-netting.
A section of the Tory
press urges that restric-
tions be placed on the
vernacular Welsh press, in
consequence of its fierce
and persistent attacks on
the Queen and landlordism,
and on the Church of Eng-
land, which ip, it says, a
mere political machine in
the hands of capitalists.
As a sample of the
effects produced by Parkes’
policy on N. S W. politi-
cal morality it may be
mentioned that the prin-
cipal Orange lodge in the
Hartley electorate con-
tains 300 Protectionist elec-
tors. who, on the grounds
of bigotry, have decided to
vote solid for the Foreign-
trade candidate.
Arise ye dead, and
come to the polling \ A
Kimberley (South Africa)
paper asserts that at the
recent elections over
there one of the candi-
dates in the Transvaal ** r «
yard of dead men.” Someone ni^htT* grave '
cuted for infringing the Fvl* ‘® be pr ° 3e '
this is true. freetraders' patent if
The Mr. Macnamara who had a <mmo
jraa sa?*.-
--- stt tes asa:
nomination was a retired clergyman of the Church
of England, who has for the last 33 years drawn
£l5O per annum from the treasury of Freetrade
New South Wales. What has he given in return?
The other day, In the N S.W. Assembly,
Mr. Frank Smith alluded to Paikes as “my
honorable friend.” Parkes retorted that he was
not Mr. Smith’s friend. The old man might have
answered; “lam not your friend, sir. 1 have
been your political benefactor. There is a wide
difference.”
Remarks Queensland Figaro “IfN. S,
Wales embraces Protection at this crisis, the fiscal
policy of all Australia will be determined for at
least a century; a great stride will be made
towards Australian Federation; an Australian
Monroe doctrine will be the next thing hatched ;
and Bibbs will unexpectedly become the political
sponsor of many notable changes that will make a
lasting impress on Australian destinies.”
The revenue of Queensland for January
is £292,440, an increase of £63,342 on the revenue
of that month in the previous year. The in-
creases on Customs and railways are 30 per .cent.,
while the only decrease is under excise, a oonse-
sequence of the remission of duties on local manu-
factures by the National party.
Ihe Sydney dailies abuse Dlbbs for so
arranging the sequence of the elections that a
.large number of Protectionists should be returned*,
at once. They conveniently forget that at the
preceding general election Parkes so “faked”
matters as to have the opening record stand 28
Freetraders to three Protectionists.
Mr. D. Larnach, the well-known authority
on matters of colonial finance, writes from the
Bink of N.S. Wales, Load in, to his Sydney
agent, Mr. lij V. Lamb: “1 hope to hear
that you have re-imposed the dd valorenl duties,
add that you protect generally all things which
you can produce within your own borders,”
Tho death-rate of Melbourne and suburbs
is 239 1(5 per 100,000; that of Sydney is 222 37;
Sydney suburbs, 19716. Victorian country dis-
tricts show a death rate of 88*02; N.S W. country
districts, 75 77. West Australia is the healthiest
of the Australasian colonies, N 2. comes next,
South Australia third, and Tasmania fourth,
The “ Bloody Shirt ” has been hviog out
most conspicuously all through the N S W. elec-
tions by two Sydney daily papers. Not only
were the editorials run on these lines, but
“ alleged ” letters have baen continually “contri-
buted ” for the purpose of working up the agony.
The thing, however, ultimately became too pal-
pable.
The Contemfor4ry Review his an article
exposing Bismarck’s efforts to ensure the succes-
sion of his son, Count Herbert Bismarck, to the
Chancellorship of the German Empire. The
article also deals with Count Herbert Bismarck’s
brutal treatment of the Dowager Empress Vic-
toria, and the gross insults offered by the Em-
peror William to the Prince of Wales.
THE PARKES GOVERNMENT—FIR FD-
OUT, JANUARY, 1889.
To promise, pause, delay, postpone.
And end by leaving things alone %
In short, to earn their yearly pay
By doing nothing every day :
Taese were the joys and hopes, in fine,.
Of Parkes’s crowd of Eighty nine.
It takes a clever Preetrade chairman, with
a gift of vigorous and vociferous arithmetic, to
work the “vote of confidence ” trick at a Sydney
election meeting just now. And we are somehow-
reminded right here that the electors of/ St.
Leonarda.actuaUy declared that they had “con-
fidence ”in Cocky Burns. Any electorate that,
will admit that it has “confidence” in Cocky
Burns is on the wrong side of Gladesville.
One Wheatley ..in the Sydney Daily Telbv
graph asserts that when Protection is brought about
the worker will be compelled to woik seven days*
more in the year, in order to provide bread for his*
family at its heightened price. As the toiler in.
Victoiia has more holidays in the year than the
NSW. operative, and as bread the e is cheaper-
than in Sydney, the ingenious. Wheatley is knocked
out in the first act.
Ope of th,9 sights of the South Sydney-
election was that of a leading supporter of Drangeism.
sitting alongside an RO. priest. At every good<
point, or witty remark the two, exchanged congra-
tulatory looks, and beamed on. one another from
beneath spectacles in the most amiable and ami-
cable manner. If can do nothing more,
than wipe. out the sectarian divisions in the com-
munity it deserves the support of every man it-i
contains.
At St. Leonards, one of the Foreign-trade -
candidates, a retired Congregationalist clergyman,,
lately connected with the S.M. Herald, declared 1
that the Protectionists were greedy, selfish v
Now, on the hustings at the nomina-
tion this courteous, gentleman was supported-
by another retired clergyman who has been-
drawing a State pension at the rate of £l5O per
annum for 33, years ' “ Greedy ?'■' “ Selfish V:
“ Harpies V-
Dart of Sic Jamie Mcßain's prayer offered l
up on the occasion of the formal closing of the-
Melbourne Exhibition runs “O Lord, we rendor--
oijr hearty thanks for the favour which Thou hast*-,
extended, to the people of this country, blessing;
them in their efforts to take possession of the good-
land.” Fr v ,m which we gather that the Almighty-
dummied for the Wilsons, Moffat?, and sich, who.
ha v 0 descended on the good land and gathered it,
ip, as a hen gathers her chickens.
John Henderson,’’ writing to the S: M(
Herald, idiotically says that Bismarck put on ro •
striesive duties in Germany merely in order that-
he might protect his own timber from foreign.
competition ! As this statement is calculated to
set down Bismarck on the level of the Hornsby-
©statesman, and as Bismarck is a personal friend,
of ocr.ra, we deem it our duty to bring the. matter-
under his notice at once, to that, when, he shall
have got through at Samoa, he may send his.
people to Sydney to demand ,tho bodies.of Effitoi
Curnovr and “ John Henderson.”
Mr. W. H. Traill, formerly,editor of The
Bulletin, was returned at the top of- the poll for
South Sydney, where he received J;€3(, votes. At
last general election the only Protectionist candi-
date returned polled 1999) votes. At the Glebe,
Mr. Bruce Smith, Foreign-trader, returned at the
top of the poll, got 1634 votes, 1113 being awarded
to Mr. Conlon, the unsuccessful Protectionist can-
didate, who, in returning thanks, pointed out that
at the preceding general election the Protectionist
candidate only polled 225 votes, and lost his £4O !
Foreign trade still progresses backwards !
A correspondent cf The . Colonies ane
India, a London piper, opposes State-aided emi-.
gration to the colonies, on, the ground that
nub schemes tend to the depopulation of the
old country, and to b ijldingnew nations in the
colonies, which will by-and-by do what America
did, and set up for themselves. “It is all very
well,” adds the writer, “ to talk about the loyalty -
of our colonists, but wait till the colonies are
strong enough, and if they don’t get exactly what,
they want they will soon turn their backs on the
mother country—witness the Qmensland inci-
dent.”
The other day Mr. Riognose Wise, the
brawny sprint-runner of the Freetrade party ap
peared in court re an order for the winding-up of
the affairs of the Atlas Irpn Company, and as he
applied for a mandate to extinguish one of the
few remaining sources of, employment for the poor
i( e n?u- Be^ a cackle of .derisive merriment :
luis is striking another blow at the encourage-
ment of native industry.” The me a who are
thrown out of work, by this latest development of
kreetrade will cherish a kindly remembrance of
tne heartless lawyer who ventad that imbecile-
jeer at their misery.
Every nisjm becomes either better or worse,,
leaner or fatter ; every cause gains or loses, waxes
or wanes, as the days, the weeks, the years roll
by. v Which is the gaining cause—Protection or
1- reetrade ? Sixty years ago the world was pretty *
UP OR DOWN
'y/O LI p '
$
Take tME
ELEVATO R
35-
fsi o Change
Qi/fN
H £,R E
f
c
I [Re cheat e t d to the Australian Religious Press.]
. / A W i^'f -- PE T ER sat b y the celestial gale
/\. / A Wa - for new ’ amvals. Soon there came
/ A sprightly member of the Fourth Estate
And^iit ve pass 9 IKe 9aint requi^ed
Ilia recent calling, and abiding-place
Ere he could show him to the realms of grace,
“ a v e - dit c? v ’J’ re P lied the shade-
« it: I J^ ed in Sydney and my name is Snooks."
Ho, ho ! remarked his saintship, “ I’m afraid
Your name has not been entered on my books
B ’Hnt!i ,nl ° thla r ? om >' herc comes the waiter. ’
Hell show you when it comes, your elevator.’' ■
He waited for some time, but weary grew;
'He was so anxious to ascend to glory.
At last he asked the attendant if he knew
How long he had to wait like this before he
Got lifted upv The menial, with a frown,
Answered : “ Ybu-r elevator, sir, goes down."
Wellington, N.Z.
A. STUART.


Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.„
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
•• The greatest appetizer, stomach and liver regulator—
'Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
Patknt RoUiRB FiiOPE. It is the greatest success of the
age.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
16-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, YUlai,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List ef Businesses fur Bale Issued Dill},
All Lists posted Free on application.-
well Freetrade ;to day it is Protection. Five or
B i x years ago there sat in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly just abou three avowed Protectionists—
men who were despised and jeered at as outcast
cranks. And to-day—well, we are sure of GO Pro-
tectionists in Parliament, anyhow. Yet to read
the Foreign-trade papers you imagine there was a
doubt as to the ultimate issue of the contest That
barometer at the Sydney D T. office will burst
when the really heavy weather comes.
The Evening News publishes a long dirge
from a Freetrade “ Working Man ” who has been
in Victoria and has come back feeling tired.
Whether there is any “working man” in the
case, or whether the report was merely fixed up
on the premises is a mere side issue ; but, anyhow,
the individual, real tr imaginary, is particularly
ill on the point. “ I have no hesitation,” he says,
“in stating that the working classes of Victoria,
if a ballot were taken, would en masse go for
Freetrade.” Probably he forgets that the ballot
be yearns after has been taken at every election
for the last 20 years, and the working classes have
not gone en masse for Freetrade to this day.
Dear Bulletin, —R. A. Proctor, scientist,
philosopher and world’s teacher, died, leaving for
his family £lso—made by writing books which
never paid him but by which the world has largely
benefited. Tom King, ex-bruiser and late book-
maker, left by his exertions over £50,000. Surely
there are in the world 50,000 persona who have
benefited to the extent of £1 by Proctor’s work
and who are willing to acknowledge the debt to
his family. lam one and here is my £l. Please
make a move in the matter.—Yours, Gyjipie,
[Wewill be happy to receive and acknowledge other
subscriptions for this laudable object and thank
“ Gympie ” for his suggestion.—Ed, Bulletin ]
The famous Jawbone Nelld Is left out in
the cold. At the Paddington election last Satur-
day four candidates represented the Protectionist
and four the Foreign-trade interest, while Mr.
Neild, as the odd man who declined to commit
himself to either side, represented nothing bat two
long moustaches. If he had turned up clean-
shaved and with a contrite heart, and stood as a
representative of the National cause, the result
might have been different; bub as it is he has been
beaten by men whose hair isn’t a patch on his,
and whose pants are all in creases, and whose coat-
tails look as if they had been sat upon fer three
weeks, and —worst insult of all—he has been licked
by a poet.
The bo- called system of Freetrade la ap-
parently, from N S.W. electioneering speeches, a
thing largely dependent on circumstances Thus
the Foreign trade candidates for Balmain have
been compelled to state that they think the Go-
vernment of the day should have all their railway
engines, steel rails and bolts made in that district.
The Foreign traders who are stumping the coastal
districts have also publicly avowed their intention
to vote for the retention of the duties on “ butter,
bacon, and cheese.” If there were other districts
manufacturing specialities, it would be found that
every “Freetrader ” (?) was in reality, at least so
far as his own constituency was concerned, a
thorough Protectionist.
Mr. Street, Freetrade member for East
Sydney, derives a large part, if not the largest
part of his income from the kerosene industry. This
industry is protected by the Foreign-trade party
with a duty of over 33 per cent., and if it was not
so protected by the men who curse Protection in
every shape Mr. Street’s profitable kerosene in-
dustry would be busted up Consequently, if the
Parkes party enjoys another spell of office, The
Bulletin calls on them to take off the kerosene
duty and expose Mr. Street to all the blessings of
Freetrade. Even if the party should lose Mr.
Street’s vote by doing so they will have the satis-
faction of knowing that they have sacrificed him
to a great principle, and what is one small Street
when a great principle is involved ?
One of the campaign songs, named “ It’s
British, You Know,” of the Republican Party in
America has aroused the ire of certain British
journalists. Here is the last verse
“ It’s too long a story their wants all to tell,
Frcm Britain, you know—Great Britain, you
When in London it rains, here they raise their
umbrell—
That’s British, so British, you know.
American toilers, what do yon say ?
Are you ready to cast all your birthright away
To convicts and paupers who toil without pay ?
You’re Yankee, not British, you know.
Chorus :
« jti’a Freetrade they preach and it’s Freetrade
they teach—
That’s British, you know ; quite British, you
They’ll never take anything out of their reach—
That’s British, so British, you know.”
Considering the shameful manner in which
the N.S W. Protectionist party have been treated
by the Sydney capitalistic press, it is tolerably
certain that Sydney will shortly witness the
advent of a big democratic newspaper with a
policy based on Protection, free, secular, and com-
pulsory education, and Australian Nationalism,
In view of the political opinions held by those who
do the chief literary work of the daily press, it
would be monstrous were the present farce to con-
tinue much longer. Almost every man on the
staff of the Foreign-trade Sydney Daily Tele-
graph is a Protectionist. The writer who has
contributed the breezy columns of political com-
ment which have done more than anything to
lift the D.T. out of the mud of dullness in which
the average daily stands up to its neck, is a Pro-
tectionist by conviction. The general manager of
the paper, who used to write Protectionist articles
when the D.T. was a Protectionist organ and pub-
lished in Barrack-street, believes m the National
policy, and was formerly associated with a 1 ro-
tectionist newspaper in Ballarat. The late com-
mercial editor, Mr, Cclbeck, who necsssarily had
to daily deal with subjects in which the
fiscal question arose, developed into a strong Pro-
tectionist, and parted company with the D. T. in
consequence ; in order to make sure of getting a
man who would not turn heretic they bad to re-
place him with Foreign-trade Secretary 1 ulsford.
Several of the D. T. directors are Protectionists,
notably Mr. Bob Sands, and it is an open secret
that serious dissensions frequently arise at the
board-meetings in regard to the fiscal policy. One
of the largest shareholders in the paper is Mr.
Robert Burrowes, for 20 years a Protectionist
member in the Victorian Parliament ; another is
Mr. J. B. Watson, the millionaire Sandhurst
reefer, also an uncompromising Protectionist.
That famous old Sydney hoatelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr,
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.
Personal Items.
A Sydney man is to sub-edlt the new Mel-
bourne evening paper.
Colonel Bob Ingersoll Is a tireless theatre-
goer. He attended over 100 performances last
year.
The Empress Frederick of Germany has
just been left £400,000 by the Duchess Da
Galliera.
Gladstone has just completed the arrange-
ment of 60,000 of his letters in a fire-proof room at
Ha warden.
£. £. Smith Is so called because he
charges £1 every time to the young man who
doesn’t feel well.
John Bright, who is 78, is recovering from
h'w late severe illness. He has been in the British
Parliament 46 years.
January 29bh was Conductor Cowen’s
birthday. Even the greatest of men must be born
on some day or other.
The will of Hon. Thomas Holt, who died
an absentee in London, has teen proved in N.S.W,
at a little under £300,000,
For the first time on record an official of
one of the British West African colonies has lived
long enough to earn a pension.
Two of the poems recently contributed by
Henry Lawson to The Bulletin have gone almost
the entire round of the American press.
Sir William Jervols, the departing Gover-
nor of N.Z., says that were Lady Jervois willing
he would reside permanently in Maoriland.
The Sultan of Turkey is advertising in
eleven European papers for mind readers to reside
in Constantinople and receive large salaries.
df
HIS SCISSORS HAND.
Rev. PETERSHAM PIEBITER: “WELL, WELL, WELL YOU ARE THE
LAST MAN I SHOULD EXPECT TO MEET HERE. WHATEVER HAS
BROUGHT YOU TO THE MOUNTAINS?”
Editor of ZIONS STOP WATCH: “ALAS! I AM SUFFERING FROM OVER-
WORK AND CAME HERE FOR A LITTLE REST.”
Rev. PIEBITER: “YOU! WHY I NEVER SAW YOU LOOKING SO WELL!"
Editor: “AH! BUT YOU SHOULD SEE MY SCISSORS HAND!”
The Shah of Persia, who Is again about to
v j s jt Europe, is 57 years of age, and is a very dirty,
greasy person, even for an Asiatic potentate.
Mf> w H> Day, Police-Magistrate of
South Brisbane, is brother to Mr. Justice Day,
°. ne of the Judges on the TiMEa-Parnell commis-
sion.
Sydney is not a healthy place for coroners,
a month ago the acting coroner died somewhat
suddenly, and now Mr. Shiell has joined the
majority.
1° Ba * d that more money has been spent
on perpetuating the memory of the Prince Con-
«ort than on all the royalties in England since the
V 1
Mr. Peter Lalor, ex-Speaker of the Vlc-
torian Legislative Assembly and Eureka hero, is,
we regret to hear, seriously ill of his old cono-
plaint, diabetes.
George Robertson, of Melbourne, who
has been bookselling and publishing in Australia
'<* T r lVV'“*’ h “ Biven S),d,,ey
tachof tabu*™, . „
The author of “Home, Sweet Home
never had a home; and George Macdonald, the
author of “ Annals of a Quiet Neighbourhood,” is
the father of 11 children.
j Q ou i dj R U3ae ll Sage, Sydney Dillon,.
A. L; Hopkins, and other railway and telegraph
miUionaiiea in New Ycr k, have luncheon together
every day. They never take liquor.
bolWrog larf _
thinks Sirenree Parkes is a good poet, but a
better Premier. We think he is a bad Premier,
tat a wort. po6b-alm«b won* bhan Alfred .»
*
A shindy on art has occurred between
G. A. Sala and Harry Furnisa. The Imperial
Bevikw says that Sala knows to little on the
subject that a drawing of a foot which he made
actually had six tots.
. If Ton. Waghom were .live he woold In-
route, and died, leaving the Baron to reap a rich
harve ’ 8 t from his labours.
t , wonridva* (mudmi nn
~ F P I i r» r a
®f Sydnev* realise between £2o*ooo
Tn d Je waS“ iUSSSi to be a
rich man—for a Dean—either.
Vogel’s latest scheme la the ll Gating of a
fiilver b mine at Nelson (N.Z ) His novel, anent
which there has been so much gush, is to ba issued
this month in “ shilling shocker ” form under the
bible of •• Anno Domini 2000.”
During the period of Lord Sackville’s
residence at Washington, his butler visited Balti-
more and successfully passed himself off as his
master. There is very little real difference after
all between a lord and a butler.
When John Bright waa balieved to be at
the very point cf death a pious Hindoo presented
bun with a Bengalee translation of his (Right’s)
windy speeches. And yet the crackbramed
Q uak e r lived on. He must have an iron constitu-
tion.
M w*lf ‘Rlnnf (to
r - Wilfud Blunt relieved the monotony
of P™on life b 7 composing a number of Irish
songs. They are to be published, and when they
appear in print the Coercion Government will
probably send Mr. Blunt back to do some more
comp:sing.
Arthur Leslie Boucicault, brother of the
great Dion, has purchased the Shepparton Argus
(Vic). Arthur Leslie B. was »b cn» bin.e pro-
prietor of the Rockhampton (Q.) Aegus. He
will edit the Argus in a velvet-coat and Bedford-
cord smalls.
General Blyth—not Bllgh, as the local
papers have it —is dead. Captain Frederick
Samuel Blyth served with the 40th Regiment in
Australia in the fifties, and went with it to New
Zealand in 1803. He saw service also—such as it
was—at Ballarat, in 1854.
The last surviving granddaughter of
“ Bonnie Prince Charlie’s,” Flora Macdonald,
died the other day in B ngland, aged 82. She was
the child of Flora’s son, Colonel John Macdonald,
and lived and died an adherent of ths dead and
forgotten “ king o’er the water.”
There is a member of a certain Australian
Legislative Assembly whose sister-in-law is a pro-
fessional fortune-teller. For years this legislator
has had his eye on the Chairmanship of Com-
mittees, but up to the present his sister-in-law has
never been able to predict that the event would
come off. «
Alexander Britton, now of the S.M.
Herald, is the only surviving ex-sub-editor of
the Melbourne Argus, and he just escaped the
cold and silent tomb “ by the skin of his teeth. ’
Sub editing the Argus means staying in the office
from 3 o’clock every afternoon until 4 o’clock every
morning. Hallelujah !
Archduke Rudolf, Crown Prince of Aus-
tria, has, it is cabled, died of acute rheumatism, or
he has shot himself in the bead with a revolver,
or he has been shot by a lady’s husband, or he
has been killed by the brother of a lady whom he
had seduced. We don’t know which, but anyhow
it's a step in the right direction.
Sir Henry Blake’s wife, with all her wlb
and accomplishment?, was not a success at the
Bahamas. She made herself rid'culous and dis-
liked by an absurd ocntrcversy as to htr rif?ht to
be called “ Her Excellency,” and by snubbing the
colonial ladies with the insolence that is supposed
to sit well upon persons of her social rank.
Said English County-Court Judge Cook
recently “I prefer to retire before old age may
leid me to do something which will throw dis-
credit on my long career.” This is a memo, for a
large section of the N.S.W, District Court Bench,
which, though it has long been discredited, might
advantageously make a death-bed repentance.
Pocr George Watson, the Melbourne
sporting man, who is reported to be dangerously
ill, if he should leave us (which Heaven postpone
for another half-century !) will re-join three wives
who are buried in the same grave in the Melbourne
General Cemetery, beneath a tombstone beating
their names and their relationship to the popular
starter of the V.R.C. There is still another Mrs.
Watron living.
There is a member of the Vic'orlan bar
who is remarkable for bis chronic hardupishness.
“ How’s Blank getting on now said Hood to
Topp in the Melbourne Supreme Court library
the other day. “Famously,” replied Simuel S'.
John, “ busy as he can be drawieg bills.” “Ah !
got some work from Wrixon?” said J. H. F.
“No, no; I don’t mean parliamentary bil's/’
answered Topp ; “ bills of exchange, old man.”
The yet undynamited no catch of all the
Russias, it appears, is greatly displeased be cans 3
the foreign journals persist in calling him ihe
Czar, which title he considers vulgar and impro]: er.
The daily strain on his mind through dodging
nittro-glycerine bombs and escaping from railway
accidents has not extinguished in bis bosom an
unsatisfied longing to be known throughout the
habitable world and the planetary system as “the
Emperor of Russia.”
Lord Somebody, one of the bulwarks of
Britain’s greatness, and brother o! Lord Some-
body Else— a peer whose coronet has blaz d over a
thousand billiard-tables, and who has b •. n sus-
pected, though perhaps unjustly, of selling the
k’rect card on innumerable racecourses,-- was com-
mitted for trial at Cootamundra (Q.), the other
day, on thi ( ee charges of valueless cheques. JJe
wore a haughty smile, and went to the icck-up is
a light tweed suit, a wl,i :e hat, lavender gloyes,
and a little cane.
The following names cf “ distinguished ”
absentees are to be found on the East Sydney
electoral roll: —Viscount fcherbrooke (Robert
Lowe), freehold, 147 Eorbss-street; Lord Rose-
bery, freehold, 64 Hunter-street; Earl of Car-
narvon, freehold, 122 Forb=s-street; Sir Daniel
Cooper, room, Union Club; Sir James Lorimer,
office, 34 O'Connell-street. An electorate imbuid
with such a tincture of aristocratic sanctity could
hardly be expected to vote in accordance with
National principles.
That great wit, Judge Docker, has got ’em
again as bad as ever. On being told that a
prisoner at the recent Mudgee .(N.S.W.) Quarter
Sessions was named Hang Hee, his Honor gravely
remarked that “Hang Hee was .very bad grammar :
it ought to be Hang Fim.” The prisoner muttered
something about a good hanging being far prefer-
able to such jackass joking, tut his Honor
ilaughed, and the “ foorce laughed, and the court
laughed, and a circus proprietor who was present
said it was a bls/Ang shame that such a splendid
clown was for ever lost to the sawdust arena.
The late J. M. Grant, the Victorian
politician, as everyone knows, was of a convivial
disposition. At a later period of his life, when he
hadn’t his former prestige in politics, he moved
an adverse vote against the then existing Govern-
ment. Later on he was met by the late Teddy
Cohen, M.L A., who obtervei to him : “The
motion was right enough, bat you weren’t the
man to move it.” Grand went forth into the
highways and byways and bars repeating Cohen’s
speech. “ Good heavens !” exclaimed J.M., “to
think of this from the chap who used to get worms
for me when I went a-fishing ! ’
Phil. Robinson Is getting himself liked in
N.Z. Not only does he properly value “ Our
Magnificent Climate ” and “ Our Grand Mineral
Resources,” but he discovers a special charm in
each city where he lectures. Dunedin is “so
beautiful,” but Christchurch is “so English,
dontcherknow, and commercially comfortable - ob,
yes ! quite comfortable.” Wellington will expand
—“ must expand, dontchersee.” While Auckland
—“ Bai Jove, ah ! Auckland is so metropolitan.”
Phil, is so amiably appreciative that he’d praise
the weather in Sheol and ornament his furnace-
door there with the legend “God bless our home !”
Archie Forbes, on the contrary, if in Paradise,
..would throw his newly-cleaned boots downstairs
to be repolished just to show St. Peter how aw-
fully swagger an ex-cavalry quarter-master-ser-
geant could be.
For not keeping a proper set of books
while in business, a bankrupt named Stevenson
was lately sentenced to four months 1 “ hard ”in
Mount Eden Gaol, Auckland.
Mrs. Gallagher, of New Plymouth (N.Z ),
is a syren weighing about 1851bs, avoirdupois, and
the proud possessor of £120,000 sterling. She was
asked by Father O’Donnell, the parish priest, to
take a little drive with him, juat to see a lady
friend, “ av coorse,” and the husband strongly ob-
jecting he was held by another meek and lowly
son of Mother Church while the O’Donnell pro-
ceeded to “ knock the stuffing out av him.” When
Gallagher had been three times round the room on
his head, and there remained no more blood or
tobacco-juice to be mopped up with his saffron-
tinted locks, he was taken to the lock up, and
eventually bound over to keep the peace on a
charge of assault. The sons of Mother Church
are now open to box all comers on the above con-
ditions, and a large constituency of the faithful
await with bated breath the probable action of the
bishop. Let her go, Gallagher !


c
H °’r
rrn&F£: *
r'*J: Tulls'
o<j "r
df
The Same Old Bo gey.
PARKES (to White Waistcat Press): 'NOW, BOYS, ALL TOGETHER! HES OLD AND RATHER PLAYED OUT, BUT HELL DO TO FRIGHTEN A
LOT OF 'EM YET!"


m
d
PtyM
fd
, . J
#•
■ f
ji? af '•? _ P tofi&?t*'*- tC * r -
Vej Meff Jai(- /? 'oie a/t
&// rf/J/fa/ r a p cL '
/. j
/? PoL/t'CaL o^TU^T/orA
7,\,' Jru 9 K /A/ $• r f
/>arh<t I /^ c / jV’f *5
jv!f,A AAyyP^yrpC;
,/ Sco-p, 7e/’/afi#e< !2 "? a '
■jHSqt/ose t/ise f ’r'/Z-
-S„..'
ius!yis*j f j'
KtMVA N i
-puf
til o ***'
' far fa/y/c fa//fa faas
Ordered /d c/o a fade a/ot/r
' ] r/e 7j/?A//fa//%A* W**, *
' &c// //& rfe pre fer-
c/erj. ft /ntts */aM *T , •
n OA>P/£AJ
of // <& 'V ** *??*“ *o**/*
Course l/f ty/Sc/rcivST *
Things in General.


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Franktoa, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
BWKET BOROWlA» the New Perfume. Mane-
factored from th West Australian " Boronia
Uegistiguia." Bold Everywhere. Price, Ba. 6d.,
sa , and 19a. Foat tree to any addreaa la
Australaala. Be aure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONQMOBB, 188 Booake-at.. East,
nuema,
Everybody days—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’a Snow-whits Patsnt Rollkb Flock is the
beet In the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconefield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1300 ft. above sea-level.
N.B —Owlf two house Irene Uilboam
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1861.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos. Organs. Hnslo.
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention la sailed to the
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS i
UEBBL and LEOHLEITBR PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £3S.
BSTEY ORGANS. BBTBY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves 1 The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, In order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many Inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work
manshlp and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY FART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. HUM 110-, lu
SBC GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
The formal closing of Melboarhe Exhibi-
tion on Thursday last was as slow and solemn as
a Jew’s funeral, and, apart from the greater glori-
fication of his Excellency the Governor, did not
appear to be designed and builded for any par-
ticular purpose. The sad ritual commenced with
the departure of Sir Henry Loch from Govern-
ment House, when the minute-guns boomed dole-
fully. Upon his Excellercy’s arrival at the Exhi-
bition, the people who were there assembled in
awed expectation of something imposing, assumed
a less forbidding aspect, and chirruped a thin,
asthmatical cheer, whilst divers white shirts
assumed conspicuous positions, and bowed con-
tinuously and elaborately. When the Governor
was established on the appointed site, everybody
seemed to have forgotten what to do next, and the
authorities varied the monotony by shifting un-
easily off one foot on to the other, and coughing
at fixed intervals. At length a consequential
gentleman with exorbitant boots was moved to
read an address bearing chiefly on the enormous
advantages of a man like Sir Henry Loch to a
young country, and those bonds which bind us,
after which Sir Henry was awakened and recalled
to himself, and he read
an address bearing chiefly
on the unflagging zeal
and high qualifications of
the Commissioners and
those bonds which bind
us. This excitable per-
formance was followed
by a dead march along
the Avenue of Nations,
the band played a sad
requiem, the cannons
banged, and, all being
over, large numbers of
people fled in disgust.
* * •
“Yes, our revels
now are ended,” and
“ Ichabod,” are now the
only mottos which can
be fittingly hung up on
the walls of Melbourne
Centennial Exhibition.
No more will gay police-
men disturb the midnight
hour with wild careering
on velocipedes. The
dudes and chappies who
frequented the cellar bars
and die coursed fustian,
or tried to, with Hebes
of all nations, will find
half their occupation
gone. The great body of
officials who have figured
so largely in the public
gase will have to be con-
tent with the status of
ordinary mortals; and
the blushingmaidens who
paraded the aisles so
sedulously in search of
living exhibits must seek
for fresh woods and pas-
tures new wherein to ply
the skill of the hunter.
• • •
A lady was nearly
drowned in a swimming
bath at Williamstown
(Melb.), because when the
nymphs with her began
to scream, the bath people
took no notice. This
apathy is explained by
the fact that “it is so
common a practice among
lady bathers to call out.”
Quite so. The world is
becoming hardened to
the noise of lovely
woman ; in fact, a
feminine scream is
properly regarded as an
expression of agitated joy. When a girl is
kissed for the first time she is apt to scream some-
thing awful. The pioneer hug produces a weird
cry of delicious agony. Those shrill, soprano
notes are not to be regarded as appeals for assist-
ance, however. They are just giddy, girly invita-
tions to renew the old bill-and-coo. They are
demands for an immediate encore. Let me scream
again, let me scream again ; O ! darling, sq-u-ee ze
me, and let me tcream a g-a in! Music by Arthur
Sullivan.
• • •
The great questions which are agitating
the minds of the Victorian ladies just now are:
Are Governor Loch and his family going to Eng-
land to arrange a renewal of office or to “ bring
out ” and present at Court Mies Loch, who is now
older than Juliet was when her parents directed
her attention to the important subject of mar-
riage? After her presentation it is to be pre-
sumed that a matrimonial union will be “ar-
ranged ” for the lady, and the chanees of any of
the Melbourne chappies being in it seem to be
very remote.
• * *
The Dunedin medico who made such a
startling statement to the Medical Congress at
Melbourne, in regard to the conversations which
ladies indulge in at afternoon tea, has thought it
necessary to deny, in a letter to the ladies com-
mittee of the Melbourne Women’s Hospital, that
he ever said anything of the sort. It was a case
of who excuses himself accuses himself, for the re-
marks in question not having been reported (they
were unfit for publication) the ladies’ committee
had never heard of them—except at afternoon tea,
doncherknow—and were at a loss to understand
what the letter meant.
• * •
Admiral Faitfacts and his fleet lie moored
at Wellington, N.Z., and the “Hearts of Oak
with the view, probably, of preserving the traditions
of a time when British seamen were sieh and not
merely ornamental stokers —indulge in the usual
equestrian exercises. The other day, two jacks,
mounted on one caracoling barb, made short tacks
down Lambbon Quay. One rode in the insipid
conventional mode; the other faced the starn and
grasped the tail like a rudder. The Hon. Johnny
Martin, M.L.C . accompanied by his white-waist-
coat, gout, dignity, and unearned increments, was
nearly run into by the dizzy steed : “ Beg pard-
ing! ” bawled the sea-wolf who engineered the
preceding half of the animal, Beg parding, but
’taint my fault, it’s the fault of the—term of
endearment among sailors—who’s steering !”
• • •
New Zealand “ eaaslefcy ” is in a perfect
whirlwind of excitement over the visit of the
“ horficers” of the] squadron. At one garden-
party in Auckland over 300 invites were accepted,
ahd the local belles were much disgusted at the
berpsichorean efforts of the brass-buttoned
Adonises. One ofjthe fair creatures has suggested
t■> the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals that these sons of the sea should have a
dancing-master on board each boat, or that the
Admiral himself should teach them, a la Sir
Joseph Porter, to shake a leg in a becoming
manner.
* • •
The Arcadian simplicity and monotonous
calm of a certain little country town in N.S.W,
were boisterously upended a few nights ago
through tiwo of the residents endeavouring to
ascertain for themselves if marriage is really a
splendid success or a frozen failure. One of these
searchers after knowledge was the thrifty son of a
settler; the other the housekeeper of the R.C.
priest of the place. The ecclesiastical portion of
the service being completed the bride went back
to the presbytery, while the happy bridegroom
took his friends to the nearest pub., shouted once,
and then begged to be'excused. The friends were
pleased to look upon this as a decidedly mean
ALL THAT WAS LEFT.
“WAITER, BRING ME THE MENU.”
MAYNOO, MAYNOO! ALL OFF, SIR. ROAST BEEF, BOILED MUTTON AN’ CARROTS IS
ALL THERE IS LEFT!”
piece of business, and by way of revenge formed
themselves into a tin-kettling party, and
determined to make matters nice and lively
for the newly-married pair. About midnight they
accordingly tuned up in front of the bridegroom's
residence, but to their intense disgust discovered
that the place was empty. In the midst of the
serenaders’ sorrow, however, it was suddenly
remembered that the bridegroom’s father was
entrusted with the keys of the church, and that,
attached to the church, there was a small room
occasionally used by the priest as a sleeping apart-
ment. A move was accordingly made for that
place, the window was raised, a light procured,
and the loving pair were discovered blissfully
dreaming the happy hours away. An endeavour
made by the ‘ 1 friends ” to hook off the bedclothes
by means of a long pole awoke them, and
hostilities at once began. Desperate attempts
were made to secure the bed drapings, the
newly-martied couple replying by a vigorous
fusilade of crockery, candlesticks, and chairs,
but the blankets, etc , were at last dragged out,
soaked in the water tank, and then hung on the
belfry to dry, while one of the attacking party
celebrated the victory by a furious ringing of the
church bell. The bridegroom’s boots were also
secured and baptized in the tank but not with-
out a determined resistance from the besieged
pair, the result being thitt every window on that
side of the church was broken, and the bedroom
itself looked as if it had just been hugged and
danced round by a Californian tornado. The row
raised by the ringing of the bell caused half the
townspeople to rush out in the scantiest of
toilettes and make for the seat of war ; by which
time the “ friends ” had beaten a masterly retreat,
and the battered bridegroom, as he covered him-
self with an old surplice and a towel and lay on
the floor, owned up, in sorrow, that marriage was
indeed a most beastly failure.
• ■ •
“ Don’t) you think it extravagant, George,
to give £l5 for a diamond ring for your wife ?”
“ Not at'aU ; you seem to forget bow much I shall
save on her glove-bill.”
♦ * *
An English paper avers that the entree of
Government Houses in “ ouah kawlinies ” is not
allowed to tradesmen. A member of the latter
class lately consulted a junior officer as to the
best means of removing the bar. “ Oh,” said the
officer, “ turn consul for the Sandwich Islands, the
North Pole, or the Liberian Republic.” Verb sap.
* * *
Lady Onslow, the new Governoress of N.Z.,
is said to be a very capable amateur actress. The
woman who is sure she cm shake hands with all
the young ladies from all the registry offices on
reception day and still look pleasant, must indeed
be a most capable actress.
The Esquimaux believe that woman was
created from the thumb of man. Man has always
been under the thumb of women, but if the
Esquimaux are right and it is his own thumb, it
doesn’t matter so much after all.
• • ■
Smart society women in England now wear
shoulder-tights with their low-necked dresses.
The elastic webs alluded to can be purchased of
all tints, to suit the blonde or the brunette, the
sanguine flesh of the red-haired girl, or the pallid
and cadaverous anatomy of the washed-out
spinster.
• • *
A reverend gentleman in England was
absent for a brief holiday, and had secured as
locum tenens an old college chum. His bishop
called to see him, and the door was opened by the
pretty housemaid. “Is Mr. at home?”
was the inquiry’. “No sir, he ain’t; he’s gone to
London,” replied the girl; “but if it’s anythink
about the church, p’r’aps you’d like to see the
local demon ! ”
* • •
This paragraph, from a London society
paper, is calculated to shake Potts Point to its
very centre
It is a somewhat amusing fact, and splendidly illustra-
tive of the rage for titles among all classes, that that of
Lord Bertie, as applied to the eldest son of the Earl of
Lindsey, about whose return to Sydney as extra aide-de-
camp to Lord Carington such a fuss has been made in the
papers, has no real existence at all The Earl of Abing-
don pos jesses a barony of Bertie, and could style himself
Lord Bertie if he so chose, or his son, if the latter did not
prefer the title of Lord Norreys ; but the Earl of Lindsey
has no barony of Bertie, and, in short, no barony at all,
which he could transfer to his son. The title of Lord
Bertie is, in fact, evolved purely from the inner conscious-
ness of the Earl of Lindsey, who did not like bis son to be
called plain Hon. Montague Peregrine Bertie, as he un-
doubtedly ought to have been. , . . Certainly from a
Sractioal point of view, there is no doubt that the Hon.
tontague is likely to receive a far more lavish welcome
from the Antipodean snobs and saobesses as Lord Bertie
than as plain Mr. Bertie.
• •
When Admiral Fairfax visited Auckland
recently he remarked on the absence of many
familiar faces, and was informed that one-half of
those who were absent were bankrupt, and the
other half had gone in search of work. Aristo-
cratic Auckland bankrupts—and there are not a
few of them—are not so modest as to absent them-
selves from their former haunts for insolvency
reasons—indeed, were they to do so, the bold
Fairfax and his officers would be relegated entirely
to “ lower middle class ” society.
The Auckland fashionables are quite ex-
cited owing to the fact that a young and passably
good-looking local tenor vocalist has fallen in for
a fortune of £30,000. Thirty thousand pounds
and a tenor voice !
• * •
New Zealand volunteer batteries have
been dissolved, and that colony now equals
America in the number of her generals, colonels,
and majors on the unattached list. Indeed,
Auckland has contributed a lieutenant colonel to
the ranks of the Sydney unemployed. He was
once a modest bobby, but has since risen in the
world, and now seeks employment as a carpenter.
* • •
Hark to the tale of a tent-peg :
Not many years ago, a certain officer left an English
garrison for the seat of war in Egypt. After his departure
It was discovered that a tent peg (value sixpence) was
missing from the stores he had held in charge. Forth-
with the machinery of official correspondence was set in
motion and postage stamps commenced to fly around.
The official was requested to explain. He did so. The
explanation not being “satisfactory,'’ he was referred to
again and again, and yet again ! In the meantime, the
harassed officer was knocking about all over Egypt, but
the correspondence, which grew apace, relentlessly pur-
sued him like a Nemesis. He dreamt of tent-pegs and
his waking hours were haunted with dread expectations
of the ever-recurring correspondence. He went on service
to India, and served bis Queen and country for several
years, but the red-tape fiend was at his trail with steady
persistence, as month by month went by. At last Le was
transferred to Canada, and there be was successfully
“run to earth” by a peremptory order to “pay up” by
the head of his department. With a just'liable groan he
“parted,” but bad sufficient wit left to forward to the
home authorities six penny Canadian stamps, and
solaced himself with the reflection that they were not
negotiable in the happy land of roast beef. The “ pro-
tracted correspondence,” whose bulk at its conclusion
was a curiosity of official literary talent, cost in its t'avels
£l3 ! Balance against the happy taxpayer £l2 19s. 61.
Next t ! me that official intends to le»ve a t c nt-pec
too many when he gives up charg° of his stores
He is curious to se° whether it will be sent after
him, or whether he will be ordered to return from
the ends of the earth to take it away, or whether
there will be a general census of all the tent-pegs
in the British army in order to find out where the
extra article came from.
• • *
Provincial jealousies are carried to an
absurd extent in New Zealand, and this is
especially the case with Wellington and Auckland.
The new Governor, Lord Onslow, has decided to
make Auckland his point of landing, and the
aristocracy of Wellington fairly trembles with
rage because it is to be deprived of the privilege
of the first “ grovel ” The papers of that city
storm and rave on the subject, while the Auckland
snobs, delighted at the prospect opened up to
them, are already on their hands and knees,
ready to crawl.
• • •
In the ballroom. He : “ How is it that
we see so little of you nowadays ?” She: “ Well,
you see, my husband objects so much to low-
necked dresses.”
# * •
The ladies of Brisbane are going to have a
club. It will consist mostly of tea and buns,
whisky-and-soda, puff-boxes, and hair-pins.
* • •
Doctors like a good story as well as any
other class of people, and a very taking one, told
at the expense of a specialist in throat-diseases,
went the rounds at the late Intercolonial Medical
Congress. The specialist was boasting of the
powers of the laryngoscope he bad in a lady’s
throat, telling her that with it he could see every
vein and muscle in her anatomy, as though her
Whole body were illuminated. “Oh, doctor,” she
said, as soon as she was able to speak, and check-
ing the withdrawal of the instrument, “do tell
me if both my boots are laced. ’
• • •
Tradition in Maoriland hath it that the
Almighty created N.Z. from designs famished
Him by “The Three F.sFeatherstone, Fcx,
and Fitr.herbert. The late Mayor of Wellington,
who was known as, par excellence, “The Prac-
tical Man,” recently orated thus i “We must
hever remember what we howe to hour founders
‘The Three F.s ’ —Featherstone, Fite’erbert, and
Pharazyn /” [Loudapplaws, and roars of “Bully
for you, Sammy!”]
• • •
Yon have to watch and wait ere yon be-
come aF. and O. captain. We hear of one officer
who has been in the service for over 30 years,
during 19 of which he has occupied the rank of
chief officer, and he is a chief officer still. When


COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
he does get a ship it will be a small one, as pro
motion goes by size and importance of ships as
well as by seniority of service. And then when
ton do become a captain, if you lose your ship
or even put her aground you leave the service tor
ever. »
* • •
there la in Melbourne a pressman wlii
until lately went about carrying a black bag full
of leaders and with a black dog at his heels. Ibe
dog has now disappeared ; it is said he ran away
because his master went up home late one night
and tried to hang him'on the hat-rack believing
he was the black bag.
• * •
The lower floor of Groavenor-ohambers,
Melbourne, the local artists’ habitation, is oc-
cupied by a corsetmaker. Modern woman is a
great Work of Art.
# • •
Wo respectfully suggest to the poor Angli-
can parson who goes about Sydney streets with
seedy pants that hardly reach his ankles, that he
had better get his trousers mended. In these
days it doesn't do to go about in the shabby con-
dition of the Founder of the Faith.
9 » •
A young female evangelist spoke to a
Melbourne suburban audience for three hours and
twelve minutes, one night last week. Clearly tne
difference between church bell and church belle is
nob a matter of tongue.
* • •
A man who attempted suicide in Mel-
bourne a week or two back, according to a local
daily did the deed because he was tired of his
“wife.” Of course “life” was what the man
said, but all the compositors engagedon the staff
of the paper mentioned are married men.
• •
A woman has been arrested at Melbourne
for gold-painting five jubilee shillings and passing
them as sovereigns. She has confessed her gut-
Poof soul 1 she saw fashionable women gold-
painting old boots and blacking bottles and setting
them up in the drawing-room : why should not
she, the underpaid, overworked clerk, gold-paint
a few shillings ? It means eighteen months, we
presume. #
At the Customs examination at the Albury
station. Customs official to young lady with a
bag : “ Have you any new or unused articles of
clothing or jewellery in that bag, miss ?-■ Young
lady, with earnestness : “ No; I only wish to
goodness I had.”
• * •
Beware of the curly-headed man. Ba-
ware also of the drawing-room tenor. He’s pretty
nearly always a rascal.
* • •
The Anglican minister of a Western
(N.S.W.) township sleeps, summer and winter, in
a tent pegged in a paddock attached to his house.
tt *
It was inevitable. The Melbourne Mrs.
Grundy is beginning to talk seriously about a
young wife and an imported bachelor, both of
whom are included in the inner Government
House circle—
If youthful husband stoops to folly
~ By drinking like a fish all day,
His wife shakes off her melancholy
When Don Giovanni comes that way.
* * *
The Countess of Dudley has taken out a
£lOO,OOO insurance policy upon her life for the
benefit of her younger children—brothers of the
little object who was lately fooling around Aus-
tralia in white ducks and a black silk bell-topper.
Considering that a widowed countess seldom dies
o! anything but extreme old age, it would be
interesting to learn what premium the insurance
companies are charging on the policy they have
cut up among them. Lady Dudley is a much
better risk than the late Duke of Hamilton, who
is also said to have insured his dissipated career
for £lOO 000 shortly before he fell down a flight of
stairs for the benefit of the present dcok. Yes,
Lady Dudley should bs a “gcod life, profes-
sionally speaking A much better life than her
sister, peer “Lady” Munro—which reminds us
that the pathetic ruin referred to bai not been
noticed reeling along our streets for some con-
siderable period. The very last time we saw
Lady Munro she was in Elizabeth-street, Mel-
bourne, inflicting a boozy salute upon the lips of a
dirty old man who was seated beside a dirty apple
stall. It is only fair to add that the aged fruit-
vendor gave Lady Munro no encouragement what-
ever. She went for her Romeo unexpectedly
(probably taking him for the Prince of Wales)
and then passed on, smiling the high-bred ridicu-
lous smile so peculiarly Ir-r own.
* * *
“ Why don’t you support your wife like a
man’” queried the Melbourne City Bench of
Jacob Wells, the other day. “Baoause, your
Worship,” answered Jacob, triumphantly, Be-
-cause she’s insupportable 1 ”
* * *
Extract from “As You Like It” in the
rg.M'. Herald;— “Her Majesty the Queen has
had nine children; and a cat has nine lives.
Here let us remark that from information received
from the Registrar ■ General of Sheol, we are
■enabled to state that the devils who entered into
the swine were nine in number, also that it takes
nine- tailors to make a man, and that her
“ grayshoes ” had just nine children too many.
A Victorian J.P. was brought before Mr.
Panton, the worshipper of Lord Be erthirst, charged
with cursing a constable. The offending beak was
let off soot free, because “ the Bench had no desire
to record a conviction against a brother magis-
trate,” after which Pauton proceeded to drop
heavily upon a succession of drunks and other
misdemeanants who had no claim upon the Bench s
affectionate regard. And now we are beginning
to understand why a belted British earl always
■demands to be tried by a jury of his peers. Panton
has made it plain.
* * *
Mr. Malpas, petitioner in a spicy Mel-
bourne divorce case which is still affectionately
remembered by us all, was the victim of assault
and battery the other day. He was so misguided
as to have an altercation with a butcher on tbe
deck of an excursion steamer. The butcher was
ultimately charged £l7 for sandwiching Mr.
Malpas between the folds of a deck chair.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street Kortb, Sydney, Feb. 5, 1889.
Dear Moorabinda, —
We had something approaching a midnight tragedy
last night. Our next door neighbour, Mr. Ebenezer
Potts, has an intense aversion to the opera, but his son
Phil does not share his pa's sentiments by any means, eo
contrived to see Lablache in “II Trovatore ’ and the
fd
HIS TROUBLES.
SQUATTER : “SAY, OPEN THE GATE.”
GUARD: "CANT, SIR, TRAIN IS COMING."
S: "OH. THERE'S PLENTY OF TIME ME TO GET ACROSS."
G.: "CANT DO IT. SIR, THEM'S MY ORDERS."
S: "WON'TIT! I'D HAVE TO CLEAR AWAY THE BLOOMIN' MESS."
“ Bohemian G'rl," of course, without the old man’s know-
ledge. Hearing glowing accounts of her success as Car-
men, Phil decided on hazarding another visit, and, ac-
cordingly, told his father he was going to the Y.M C.A.
Young Potts enjoyed the opera immensely, and on his
return to the paternal mansion took the precaution, as
before, of gaining admittance through the dining-room-
window. This particular evening being very sultry, E
Potts, senior, had taken a fancy to sleep on the sofa just
under the window, consequently when Phil cautiously
raised the sash, and, boots in hand, stepped quietly in,
he trod heavily on the old man’s head. Startled by the
unearthly yell that followed, Phil let the boots he was
carrying fall on the old gentleman’s face and made his
nose bleed, thus evoking more yells and cries of
“Murder” which soon brought the household on the
scene with lights, &c. It took more explanation than you
ever heard in all your life before to settle the little diffi-
culty, and even after two hours’ discussion the old man
continued to look aggravated.
I saw a charming hat on a fair little four-year-cld,
yesterday. It was composed of drawn pale pink lisse,
with unmounted daisies put on in little groups, at regular
intervals, all round the brim, which was caught up on the
left side by a large bunch of marguerites veiled in tulle.
In direct contrast, as regards taste, is a costume worn by
a lady whom I see in the street daily. Dress, bright
green, trimmed with dark green, blue fell hat, with an
immense bunch of scarlet at the side. Panama hats,
turned up at the back, and adorned with poppies and
other bright floweis, still hold their own, together with
the übiquitous gem and close-fitting shape.
Summer skating has been found undesirable even in
Hobart, and the local rink has been temporarily closed.
I heard of a peculiar rinking soiree introduced there this
seasen. It consisted in the hostiss buying as many ad-
mission tickets as she desired guests, and presenting
them to certain favoured individuals who went and skated
among the common people who had paid for admission in
the ordinary way, until towards the close of the evening,
when the invited few were treated to refreshments while
the outsiders “ went empty away." It seems a funny
half-and-half sort of entertainment, apparently organised
to avoid the expense of hiring the rink for an evening,
jet my informant tells me that it was entirely among
the “ upper cruet ” that these nondescript affairs took
place.
The suffering wives of New Zealand’s freemasons have
beeti lifting the foot of feminine deois’on and bringing it
down on all fhe beautiful principles of brotherly-love,
belief, and truth. Elaborate evening toilets, hurried de-
partures, apron-cases in hand, and breathless assurances
—“ Most important lodge meeting ; don't want to go but
must, my dear ! ” —on the part of their lords, have re-
cently been received with chilliness, while the palsied
wreck who returns from “passing” or ‘‘raising at
2 a.m., accompanied by the hiccough and the statement,
“ P fecly shplendid gaih'rin’, boot ful cemny,” and who
attempts to wind up his boots with the tow'el horse,
has not received that tender, loving • sympathy nor that
assistance upstairs and to bed'which he has long regarded
as his due. In fact, there has been a partial female re-
volt against “ lodge night.” 1 ruler these distressing cir-
cumstances “ the craft ’’—appropriate term !—have de-
cided that the squaws must be placated. With this view
a Wellington (N.Z.) lodge lately invited the “ missus ” in
the aggregate to a conversazione, and put up a “ brother,”
an ex-M.H.R. and a newspaper man ol blood-curd-
ling fluency, to deliver a short address on “ The
Social Aspect of Masonry,” in which the brother con-
clusively proved to the satisfaction of the brethren that
tyling, and tippling, and tapping, and coming home
with the milk in the a.m. were matters by which
alone society could be regenerated, home made happy,
and heaven reached. After the lecture the females were
let loose upon the victuals and drink and permitted to
dance. Going home, Brother Senior Deacon said to Mrs.
Deacon; “So you see, darling, Masonry is not mere male
selfishness, after all 1 ’ “ Look here, Deacon,” replied the
lady, “ if you think a greasy little lecture, a piece of cake,
two polkas, and a glass of bad sherry once in ten years
are going to make me sit up for you till three in the
morning about 40 times a year. Including 1 emergencies,’
as you call them, you’re mistaken. If Maeoary is such a
heavenly thing, why can’t the women belong to it?’
Poor Deacon sighed, muttered something to the eflec?
that he was “ not understood !’’ and changed the subject
with a jerk.
When I was in the land of the Maori and the Moa, I
knew by sight and repute a little woman, who, though of
humble origin, had already and successfully commenced
the toilsome ascent, and who, even in those early days
had shown, by cutting dead her father in the street, that
she was destined to tread that path that leads to glory and
Government ’Ouse. Lately, I hear, Mrs. Marmalade has
suffered a reverse, and, as the story conveys a moral and
a warning, here it is; At Wellington (N.Z )At Homes—or
should I not say “hat ’Omes”—are not the exclusive
privilege of the “higher spheres.” Tradesmen’s wives
affect them, and the 5 o’clock congou is languidly sipped
by those whose mothers were not above “wrastl-
ing" with a scrubbing-brush. Mrs. Marmalade
was “at Home ” recently and the drorin’-
rcom was full, when honest Mrs. Isaacstein
waddled in. Mrs. M., blushing through several coals of
red lead, greeted the lady with a bow frigid as a freezing-
chamber and after the cold-blooded custom of the haul
ton never attempted to introduce her to the assembled
elite of Newtown. Soon the Isaacstein waddled out
again, and a guest inquired why the “ fat pusson ’’ had
not been “ introjuced.” “ Impossible, me deah, impos-
sible ! ” said Mrs. M., “ One must draw the line some-
wheres, Hi draw it at pawnbrokers! ’’—lsaacstein is the
public’s uncle. Shortly afterwards Mrs. M., learning to
her surprise that Mrs. I. was visited by quite “ swagger
parsons of the shent per shent order, called on Mrs. 1.,
when it was the latter’s At Home. Cordially received and
introduced all round, the room being full, our Marmalade
crowded on canvas to such extent and so monopolised
conversation that the guests to whom she was a stranger
thought she must be a very large vessel indeed—probably
a Bijuatter’s wife. Only when a female happened to praise
her cup of tea, Mrs. L, with a number nine smile biit
partially concealed by a number eleven hand, eaid :
“ Joost reminds me ma, tears, joost reminds me 1 Dat
tea vai from Mister Marmalade’s leetle chop in town.
T ought I’d tell you. Give ’im a turn, ma tears, give im
a turn 1” Marmalade is a grocer.
Lady Loch, 1 hear, is unusually gay and festive at the
thought of seeing her dear boy again. Young Hopeful was
packed off to England on the “ proper education ” ticket
about three years ago, atid during that long interval bis
letters frcm home have given more pleasure to his mother
than any ten Toorak ladies calling to know “'ow her
ladyehip had been keepin’ this ’ot weather.” I was told
as a positive fact that the se are the very words in which
the stout wife of a stouter squatter makes polite enquiries
at bovingment 'Ouse. A flattering portrait Of theiquattei-
appears in Herr Kahler’s clever painting, “ Derby Day ” at
Flemington. You didn’t tell me whether you thought it
better than the same artist's “Cup” picture, so much
raved over in Paris. I think I do.
1 suppose you heard about the Frenchman who was
recently arrested on a Melbourne railway platform, the
capture being brought oil under highly melodramatic
conditions. The individual eo unexpectedly “ wanted ’
on a charge of forgery was formerly a cook, and the
Evening Herald published a ridiculous yarn, making it
appear that he played a leading part at the French Club
in Melbourne. The big-wigs of the Club, so Charlie tells
me, knew nothing of the ambitious cookie, except that his
name was on the rolls, and as for his social successes they
were attained chiefly in the Herald’s florid imagination.
The feelings of the French Club have been a little bit
ruffled by this unpleasant scandal, all the same.
So Lady Robinson and family are to rejoin papa when
he acts as locum, tenens for Sir Henry Loch, during that
chieftain’s mjsterious visit to England. If ball that
one bears is true Sir William Robinson endured bis
bachelor solitude at Adelaide with the greatest fortitude
after the manner of grass-widowers in general. No doubt
he has suffered from an aching void in his heart, however,
and will be delighted to have the assistance of a Cover-
noress in all that handshaking which ths Lochs have
made such an important item in the vice-regal life in Vic-
toria. The temporary leader of Melbourne saseiety must
expect to take an extra size in gloves before she has done
her six months. I can scarcely believe that dear Lady
Loch wore 7| when she commenced her trying social
duties. She has broadened her hands with sheer hard
work in the way of warm greetings and good, old-fashioned
applause. It was quite refreshing to notice Lady Looh
smacking her expansive palms together when the stage
players took her fancy. Signora Majeroni, for instance,
always got a “reception” from her blue-blooded patroness.
Talking of pictures, by the way, what awful things Mr.
Arthur Loureiro, of afternoon-tea celebrity, has executed
to the order of doting Melbourne parents 1 Three or lour
of his canvases were included in the Victorian Loan Col-
lection at the Exhibition, to the evident satisfaction of
many artless critics. The one that gave me most fits
was a portrait of a pink-faced young innocent engaged in
blowing bott!es. I’m sure a medical man would say the
original was suffering from fish-poisoning when Mr. L.
took him in hand. Perhaps it is a faithful portrait,
though. Some real children give one the idea that they
were bought at a bazaar or won in a raffle.
People don't seem to be very loyal in Hobart. I am told
that when Dr. Crowther’s statue was unveiled the other
day, Premier Fysh, who performed the ceremony, wished
the National Anthem to be sung as the usual intimation
to a crowd that the proceedings had terminated, but no
one could be found to start the air. After waiting some
time without finding an individual able or willing to lead,
Mr. Fysh attempted it himself, pitching it so high that it
ended in a terrific screech, far more absurd than impres-
sive, but it had the desired effect of dispersing the crowd.
I have noticed of late that some of the medicos are
being driven round by their wives, who probably take good
care that “the doctor” doesn’t linger for very much
more than ten minutes by the couch of (say) that grass
widow who has such a bad headache. We women are
proverbially good at holding the reins, and when once we
get them w; never let go. Anyhow, it's very much safer
(and cheaper) in a whole lot of ways to be driven round
by your wife—and it’s very much safer also, in many
other ways, not to keep a ooaohman.
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting Items of fashionable Intelligence Intended
lor this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Suite, Bulletin Office.]
Mount Morgan ia now paying dividends
at the rate of £lOO,OOO a month.
Moonta copper mine, S.A., has paid 64
dividends of a total value of £1168,000.
The estate of a Melbourne dairyman was
sold off the other day. Amongst a large variety
of items there was an American pump, but not a
solitary cow.
Garnet Walch and Nat J. Barnet are
suing a company (which lately issued a society
paper under their management) for damages
to the tune of £4OOO.
Since Ist January over 400 Supreme
Court writs have been issued in Melbourne to dif-
ferent parties. The majority of these have been
served in the land-boom interest.
New Zealanders usually succeed well In
Australia. The reason may be that they come
from a country 1200 miles further east, and there-
fore get up earlier in the morning.
Last week at Sydney, a man who had
embezzled the money of his employers was sent to
gaol for four years and ordered to repay £330 out
of his estate. Embezzlement, however, doesn’t
always pay a dividend.
A new monthly journal named “Free-
dom ; an advocate of S ocial, Political, and Re-
ligious Liberty,” edited by W. W. Collins, is just
out. It is well printed, carefully compiled, and
its price is threepence.
The Dutch colonists of the Cape have not
as a rule much faith in the average Britisher. At
a recent election there, a Boer clergyman supported
the candidature of a Mr. Sydney Jackson with
the remark that he was “A God-fearing man,
though an Englishman.”
There were some sports on the other day
at Montalbion (Q ), and in the midst of them a
black gentleman attempted to chastise his gin
with a spear, and sent it right through the face of
J. M'Gregor, removing several of his teeth. This
was rough on M‘Gregor, but there is always some
fun going on in the festive North, and that gentle-
man might have lost his head for the amusement
of the populace quite as easily as his teeth.


Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to Announce
they Are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George- street. In anticipation of
a large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps-
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The follow-
ing are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz , check-lever with front escapement.
Ihe parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
J^i/ he *r rea are of v , er y besfc Bteel * in the bass
with copper only. The vibrations are
reverberated by a sounding board specially secured
•gainst changes cf temperature, imparting a clear.
t“ ] ’. round, delicious singing tone in marked con-
trast to the tin kettly, metallic sounds of inferior
instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double oblique, the
»tarings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
All Hapsburgs are trichord,
mu u ve seven octaves Ato A.
btjh ’ Jheyhave consolidated iron frames of great
, B , e frames ar e square reaching from
the bottom of the case to the extreme top of the
wrest-plank, securely bolted through the latter.
the whole with absolute
rigidity. Ibat (ftese precautions are necessary
may be understood from the fact that the tension
£“ e .T r6B eq^al3 a BUS P en ded weight of 13 tons.
rapid mutations of our climate ate
resisted and tuning is only required at long inter-
, 7tlb ‘ ? elfcB are clinched on the hammers, in-
fastened onl y b y as is’the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Hapa-
-Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
w a , Bp , eci f l .safeguard against change. A
Hapsburg P lB aD un^nown accident to a
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
•rfprovided M ° ths ’ Mice ’ &c ’ Wir e-gauge backs
Vn h -‘ A ll int ® rior blocks and bearing are secured
J tbe »-Places by screws, which is a |reat excep-
tlo ° to the usual style of construction! P
h'orohanXbfc 16 aoli “ “ adjustable . n d
12th. The Cuter Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
? d ’^ u : ab,e . and beautiful woods, and
wiii, ha k m u alnut ’ Rosewood, or Ebony, with
®r without gold engraving. J
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
. k -ii- . . CHARLES S. PACKER
f brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Austral;*
has known the associate of MendelS Tcalber'
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of’the wS
th« t « BlD? » l^.r Man0 ’ Grisi > bablache ; the author of
tatms, han^et^uJthe^oll'ow^ngT^ other n °ble composi-
MeMrs h ße e al^nd d r the Hapa - bu «l' by
o i B f an( l Com P a ny. ih all the various grades and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulne-s’ and
P? W f er of , the instruments. The tone and finish are all
e .f esi j?d- The proper balancing of bass with
unsu Ced C l y v^nv r - Get l er t Uy 1 insider them
Madame CHARBONNETKELLERMAN wrote :
Beal/et
Juin,lBB^^ N ’ dU Con3erva toire de Paris. Sydney, 30
.... CERTIFICATE.
PI A vmTr 8 oI ) eCted M s fBra - Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
, 0 .? tbe severest tests, and am greatlv surprised
POWER g^ at their MARVELLCUS SWEETNESS and
CHAHBONNETSir^v’ 1 ' 1 them.-CSigned) ALICE
P^ L C ° Mervatoire 01
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia tha
composer Of Unfurl the Flag ” and other patriotic sonvs
HAPSBURG%°ITNO? UBiC J aD ’ examined a“ d tested the
HAIbbUKCx PIANOS, and gave his unoualifled reccm
mendation, which was duly reported in tha Adelaide
papers at much greater, length than can ba her* given!
Pa lmer, Lieutenant Governor or Queensland
•elected and purchased from us a Piano n-i
account of its special sweetness. 1 = ano 0n
..mv, D - The BRISBANE CWRTMI.
wan I T ed J°t r , the U accompaniments and the solos
playem
..tv, D - . TELEGRAPH.
. a- a 6 a iano used on the occasion was a Uarmhnrcv nf *
beautiful quality of tone and plenty ofTower.” 8 *
. L 1 The AUSTRALIAN.
The voices blended beautifully with the accomnani
sa wh s.r„r n ,°r- °f ssS;
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and its qualities under the thrilling touch
o the conductor were displayed with consummate^effect.' l
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone. ”
"r!2 U J n AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
•hin Tb Th P m bUrg i !l anos are all of excellent workman-
the P *nH U fu hr ? )^hout ia remarkably sensitive to
f ? d the y° lum e is admirably balanced am'
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
„ D . . , VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
„.. Bl ®hop s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883
Keumon has much pleisure in saying that sh<
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at thf
b tr&Se U nt Plea Bed by the qUalHy and 9weel
Ing the B Hapsburg plm™ mUch pleaBu “ “ lBCGawaend
. HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Yean.
h«ve’ e been E BOM UN Th RE ? T H °V SAND of tbe ™ Organ.
JW«»
a i nd :r bber belloWB (which insects will not
to ich), ivory keys, massive oases, exquisite tone.
If AYDN HARMONIUMS— Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY.
Catalogues Free by Post.
*B2, *B4, *B6 Gborss Strbbt, Stdnit.
wU°PW T n* W » E HKJOU LIVE we w iH st3piP i y
0, ** n ’ arm SAjav xu*«
* Adam Bade s *
f joXSULTATIQXS.
“ All thb Ykab Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
See Sydney Bullbtin, January 19,1889.
No. 1 on the
Newmarket Handicap
Run at Melbourne, March 2, 1889.
Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horae Pl^nn
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
AUSTRALIAN CUP,
Run at Melbourne, March 5, 1889.
10,000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
i l ”* H °J se ... £4OOO
oecond Morse ...
Third Horse ... ... £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
On both these events, 3 per cent, of the gross amount
of the sweep will be devoted to charitable objects.
,Jf, he names o' the holders of the Winning Tickets
wll on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdb until after the laces have been run. y
• bscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result.
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N, Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event (£IO,OOO)—SYDNEY GOLD CUP,
Run on APRIL 22, 1889.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
WORKS, CLYDE, NSW.
HEAD OFFICE: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
_ DIRECTORS:
James Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; Geo. R. Dibbs, M.P.,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney; T,=D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden ; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works havebeen erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold-bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold-saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
The works will be in full operation during the
month of February.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
JUST PUBLISHED
" Recreations of an Australian Surgeon,
SAMUEL T. KNAGGS, M.D.
Mind Reading examined,
Spiritualism exposed,
Phrenology criticised,
Tea Poisoning demonstrated,
Eminent Doctors reviewed.
Public Health, the Medical Profession and
Registration of Deaths in New South Wales.
W. M. MACLARDY,
Printer and Publishes,
319 GEORGE STREET,
SYTIDdSr Ei"3T_
And all Booksellers and Bookstalls.
In one of the Buffalo lodges of Sydney
there is a “ Sir ” Joseph Porter.
PERFECT HEALTH I
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australis. The Intercolonial Investment Co-,
Bathurst street, Sydney.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Batin’s Ming Mrs,
Orient Square Slue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP.
Vinegar, Slacking,
ftOif ft o*| fto.
Steam Wobks and Bbewbry :
SASRIS STRISr, ULTIMO, I7ME7
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Q. AIB T Y T
THEATRE.
THE MOST STIRRING DEMONSTRA-
TIONS EVER WITNESSED within a Sydney
theatre have signalised the advent to Australia
VERY MOST REMARKABLE
COMPANY that has ever entered this htmis-
phere. Messrs. Hiscocks and MacMahon promised
the Sydney public a surprise in the appearance of
THE GAYLORD-SILBON TROUPE.
How that promise has been fulfilled the Sydney
public are now aware. Each night a crowded
audience has witnessed this extraordinary per-
r« r^^?S. SUCCESS 0E THE SILBONS
IS COMPLETE, revolutionary of all pre con-
ceived ideas, and sensational.
PRICES — 4s, 35., 2s , and Is,
Joe F, MacMahon, Business Manager.
OBITERION
THEATRE.
bole 1 roprietor Mr. John Solomon.
_ _ Management of
a r \? ROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
nririT^lr EVERYMGHT at 8,
BOUCICAULT COMEDY
COMPANY in Pinero’s Sparkling Comedy,
THE MAGISTRATE 7
THE MAGISTRATE,
with nearly the whole of the original Australian
cast.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
TH BI AT R E RO YAL.
U nder the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Immense Success of
Mb. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by a
Most Powerful Dramatic and Comedy Organisa-
-1 ion in
. “DORA” and “THE BARRISTER.”
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
JJ ON D I AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dady. Spiendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
-t ree to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
la,; Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and AUison,
uoors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45,
Tremendous Success of
Thb Gband Ohbistmas Pboddotion,
YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH,
PRICES, Bs., Ss., 25,, Is,
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
m
vr
G
A S.
GAS.
|G A S.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEO
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
m om-
Sufferers from Nervous Com-
plaints, Sure Cure, 14 days.
Apply in confidence to MEDICUS, Box 120
Sydney. Personal advice by appointment, Free.
0.P.0.,
GOOD BUSINESS OFFER.
£2O »£4O
per month Ready Money.
No capital required. Special
inducements. Pleasant and healthy occupation.
LOCAL AGENTS WANTED.
Full particulars,
R. B. JONES,
6 Beidge Street, SYDNEY.
Mt Tailor,” 151 Sing-street, Don't hrirel
a.ai, Suite so measure (or £3 Ss.
N BWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mancvaotobt j
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
ii
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes lot
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPBINO AND O’CONNELL Stbhii,
F I Y^t£9J JNI)S fifteen SHILLINGS
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towe! Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O'CONNELL AND SPBINQ StBEBTB.
EDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
Silvered plate-glass door; Washstand, with marble
to P a “ d ? lle back and Towel Rail; Toilet Tabln.
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Odpboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Ohaxbs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbinq Stbbetb.
f
A U3 wood BENT -
FURNITURE,
A Vebl OOMPtBTa
Assobtment.
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
df
Canvas folding
DOTS, for camping
oat. A cheap occasional
V Btoong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to SO feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices. *
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.j BxB
S' •*% 9-' M-: 10*8 10.. 6d., uxs”! M 8;
12x10, 155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
ifipP s
PATENT
BHUT-UP
, CLOTHES DEYKE. ,
185 (eel of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON ft LAMB.
df
£JANVAB FOLDING
OH A IKS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Frlae Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPBINO AND O’OONNKti StbBBTB.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, Bft. long. Rusiia
ana l£t iton StandardB - 14a - 6d - 0! “> h - Navraon
GARDEN SEATS, 19b. Verandah Chain
Indian Lono-Abm Lounges
NEWTON & LAMB.
R A Tif„ AN TOAKDAH" LOUNGES, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s
oa., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Nbwton
sweet NBWTON * £aiib * Importers, O'Connell-
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Connell street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire baa
«*■ 1.0 sobi ga? 4 . i sa ***
NIWTON sad LAMB-


Dry Imperial Champagne.— Messrs. Meet and Chandpn
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL ’ 1884
vintage is the pure juice cf sileoted grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crovn ii in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD & DECEIT.
In oraer to protect the people from
being defrauded and cheated, the
American Hop Bitters Company offers
the above Reward for the arrest and
conviction of any person or persons
refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any
vile nostrum or compound as the
genuine and original Dr, Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, or for counterfeiting
the Company’s Label —a Bunch of
Green Hops on a White Label, with
Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP* BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK).
CONTAINS
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE*
DANDELION.
And thb Purest and Best Medical Qualities o t
all other Bitters.
THEY CURE
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleepless-
ness, Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
Of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, volun-
tarily sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not
make the cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters, that makes the cure. It has
never failed and never can. We will give reference
to any one for any disease similar to their own if
desired, or will refer to any neighbor, as there is not
a neighborhood in the known world, but can show it*
cures by Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
NO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
fd
Weak Back, Pain and Weak-
ness across the Kidneys, Shooting
Pains through the Loins, Lack of
Strength and Activity, instantly re-
lieved and speedily cured by the new
process. Apply by letter, Box 1081,
G.P.0., Sydney.
PIl O S PE C TUS
OF THUS
Sou fide Gold Mining Company,
(limited Liability),
.TARCUTTA, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE MINING PART-
NERSHIP ACT, 1861.
Capita! .. £400li, la 810 Shares of £5 each.
With Power to increase the Capital to £10,000.
Four huridred of the above Shares will be allotted
and paid over to the present proprietors, Messrs.
Wilhoo, Crisp and Co., as the full consideration
to be paid for the property, the ba’ance to be
f ff red to the public in two issues of 2.0 easb, the
first issue immediately, on the following terms
IOj on application, £1 on allotment; the balance
in ca'ls of 5s. per month, if required, of which
21 days’ notice will be given. The second issue,
viz , 200, to be sanctioned by the Board and then
to be offered at par to the members in proportion
to the existing stares held by them. And such
offer shall be by notice in writing, specifying the
number of shares to which each member is entitled,
and limiting a time within wbiih the offer, if not
accepted, will be deemed to be declined. After
the expiration cf such, or on the receipt of an
intimation from the member to whom such notice
has been issued that he declines to aceept the
shares offered, the Directors may then dispose of
the same in such manner as they think most bene-
ficial to the Company. The same shall and will
apply only to existing members as ahovementioned
on the issue of shares to the extent cf the increased
amount of capital.
All moneys will be placed to the credit of the
Company for the immediate development of the
mine, less the actual expenses for registration,
printing, advertising, and securing of the ground,
&3. No Brokerage to be charged on the contri-
buting shares.
Provisional Directors:
JOHN HELY, Proprietor of the Club House
Hotel, Wagga Wagga
P. B. ROOHAN, experienced miner, Tarcutta
P. J. WALSH, Baylis street, Wagga Wagga
E W. NICHOLLS, Bay lie Street, Wagga Wagga
A. F. HELY, Junr., Club House Hotel, Wagga
Wagga
W. H. CRISP, Wagga Wagga
BENJAMAN BARBER, Sydney
A. WILLSON, 203 George Street, Sydney
C. W. GORE, Wagga.
Bankers:
THE JOINT STOCK BANK, Wagga.
Solicitors >
A. MAOKINLAY, Esq., Barristers’ Court
Sydney.'
Treasurer (pro. tern.);
JOHN HELY, Club House Hotel, Wagga.
Secretary (pro. tem.):
E. W. NICHOLLS, Wagga.
CTHIS Company is being formed tor the puipose of pur-
. chasing from the present proprietors, Messrs. Wilson,
Cri »p and Co , their interest in Mining Permit 2, consist-
ing of 20 acres, in terms as stated above. In their 20
acres lease of auriferous property, situated in the parish
c£ Tarcutta, County of Wynyard, New South Wales, and
surveyed by Mr. Mining Surveyor T. W. Raymond, on the
12th December, 1888, commencing immediately North o
that proved and valuable auriferous property known as
Beaver s line cf reef, which has b( en worked from the
surface to a depth of from 3b to 50 feet without the aid of
powder, and within a few chains of the proposed Com-
pany’s ground, and giving the grand yield of from one
to five ounces of gold to the ton from the claims if the
following miners, Messrs. Beaver and party, Minahan and
party, and Rohan and party. The average thickness of
the lode has been from Ifc. O n. to 2ft O n. in width, with
every prospect of its increasing, and payable from the
surface down. Tne same lode has been worked with
equally good results on the north of the proposed Com-
pany’s ground.
TERMS.
The consideration to be paid to the vendors for this
valuable and auriferous leasehold property is four hundred
fully paid-up shares as ahovementioned ; the vendors
requiring no cash, but simply shareholders to assist them
to immediately develop the mine in a manner commen-
surate with the wealth of the lede, for the benefit of both
shareholders and vendors.
Ths land commences immediately north of Beaver’s line
of reef, then runs northerly, taking in the whole line cf
reef, 1460 feet along the base line, being the continuation
of Beaver's, which has ahead/ givtn such good results.
There are two good crushing plants on the Tarcutta
Creek of the latest improved princple available for the
u>e c f the publ o, and only about two miles from the mine.
There is abundance of timber on ths ground and in the
vic’nity for mining purposes. The distance is about 21
miles from Wazga, with a good road. The present direc-
t rs will hold office and undertake the entire management
for the immediate development of the mine until the first
me ting of shareholders is call el. when directors and
other officers will be electel. The qualification for direc-
tors will be the holder of five contributing shares.
The regulations of Table A. of the Compn ies Act shall
bs deemed tr be the regulations for the guidance of this
Company.
In conclusion, the directors have every confidence in
recommending this valuable property as being a safe,
sound and good investment, and worthy cf support, and
wish to draw the attention of the public to the following
letter from Mr. P. B. Roohan,’a worthy and practical
miner, resident at Tarcutta, and also a contributing
shareholder, as a proof of his belief in tie reef in question.
Tarcutta, January 4th, 1889.
E. W. Niciiolls, Esq.,
Chairman of Messrs. Wilson, Crisp, & Co.’s claim,
Tarcutta.
Dear Sir,— q "* •
I suppose that ,you will be greatly surprised at heir
addressed-by me upon the below-mentioned subject; bi
I hope that you will exouse the lioerty that I have takei
It has come to iny kno Hedge that you and the othi
shareholders of the above-named Company are about 1
proceed with the woik of further development of vor
Mining Permit of 20 acres, north cf Bsavar’e line of rei
at Tarcutta. I respectfully beg to inform you that I ai
ensof the parties • who opened out the line of reef o
Beaver's land, and know the land where your Mining Pei
mit is Miniated ; therefore, should my advice or knowleda
of the country and its gold bearing qualities be of any us
or benefit to you, I will be only too glad to supply th
same or any other information that you may require
faithfu’ly and fearlessly, free of any consideration, at an
time. I, and the late B. O. Holterman, of Sydney at
plied fer the sime land as that held by vuur party a
present; but, through the untimely death of Mr Iloltei
man, our lease—viz , 40 acres—lapsed, and was neve
resumed, through not having a crushing plant the
erected at Tarcmta that was capabla of saving flue gold
but now, having one of the best gold saving machine
there is to be obtained erected at Tarcutta distan
about two miles south of your land, I can safely rc
commend your property as one of the best invest
menta in tne district. The oace fsmed gold-bearin
claim known [as Roohan and party’s, and situated oi
Beaver's land, is distant only about three chains fron
your staiting point. The stone sect from Roohan am
parly s claim to the Adelong mills for treatment yieldei
from 251w(s. to 2741wts. per (on of smelted gold to th
value, at the Sydney mint, of £3 18s. lOJd per ounce
firmly believe that your Company’s land’will be of greate
value than what our old claim on Beaver's lard was am
that little or no explosives will be required to work fchi
greund. I may suggest that, should you wish to sink i
shaft on the proparty at any time, I would undertake th.
work or resist you with my opinion as to where is thi
best placs to sink ; also, shoul 1 the shareholders deem i
advisable to form a company to work this reef I wouk
be very glad to avail myself of the opportunity of takini
whatever shares they will allot to me, at the fixer
premiums.
Hoping that I have not intruded in any form by ad
dressing you on this matter,
am, yours respectfully, P, B. ROOHAN, Tarcutta
The Referee.
Talt’s little black demon, the Barb, which
died the other day, waa by Sir Hercules, Rom
Young Gulnare, and was foaled in 18(53, Amongst
other brilliant performances he won the Melbourne
Oup (Gab. lllbs ).. and the A J.O. Derby in '6(5. In
’6B he won the Metropolitan Stakes (9st. lOlba.),
and the Sydney Oup (Bst. 121b5.), Jimmy Ash-
worth up in both races. In '69 he again won the
Sydney Cup ; on that occasion carrying lOst 81bs.,
and he was again followed home by the aame
horses that were placed the previous year—
Stumpy 2nd, Tim Wniffler 3rd. He won the
Queen’s Plate at Rand wick in 69 also, with 9it.
131bs. up, and he passed the post first for the same
event in '68, but on weighing in his jockey was
found to be short of weight, and the race was
given to his old rival, Tim Whiffler.
* *
At the recent Auckland summer meeting
horses trained by " Jemmy ” Kean won £1459 out
of the £3658 given away in prizes, and his brother
Jack headed the list of winning jockeys with five
victories. Both are natives of Bathurst (N.S.W.)
and brothers of Joe Kean, the Caringbon Ground
starter. Racing evidently runs in the Kean
family.
• • •
At the recent meeting of the A.J.C. the
Hon. W. Long came down with a “sickening
thud ” on what he rightly termed “the unsports-
manlike and bastard selling races of the present
day,” which are “simply instituted for the benefit
of proprietary club?, who were anxious that the
highest price should be given for a horse so that
their funds might reap the benefit.” “ Rather
than run a horse in one of these selling swindles,”
continued Mr. Long, “ I would draft him into a
yard and get rid of him for a fiver.”
• •
The following extract Is a clipping from
the columns of the Sydney Evening News ;
Norris, a well-knowo Eiglish pedestrian, ran 20 miles
against an Arabian blood horse, lor a prize of 800 roubles,
at the Christowski Gardens, near Si. Petersburg, Russia,
recently. It was stipulated that the horse should trot
the whole of the distance, being allowed to break 21
times, but to be pulled up the moment it broke, or if it
galloped over 20 strides io was to be disqualified. The
track was 300yds. in circumference. Norris got cff the
quickest, and at the end of the first lap he was two yards
ahead. Tae horae continued to gain, and on the twenty-
second circuit lapped Norris. The latter recovered the
lead on the seventy-fifth lap, and on the ninety-second he
lapped the horse, which was very tired. Norris gained
rapidly in the last three laps, finally winning by more
than that distance, finishing at a sprint pace in Ihr. Smin.
IGjee.
Anyone who knows anything about church raffias
will at once appreciate the undoubted correctness
of this statement It only remains for us to
remark that although Capt. M‘Gowan, an Amur-
rikan trotting horse, did his 20 miles in 58min.
25iec, the fastest time for a man is “Choppy”
Warburbon’s 20 miles at Blackburn, and it took
him Ihr. 56miD. 38iec. to complete the distance,
just 48 minuses longer than the Noo/e man’s per-
formance. If that paper is willing to bet on its
statements it might make a whole pile by import-
ing Non is and backing him to race a special
express train from Sydney to Parramatta.
• «. •
The following comprehensive challenge was
“ Professor ” Miller’s last and best effort in San
Francisco:—
As I sail for Australia on Saturday, November 17oh,
previous to doing so I issue the following challenges, to
take place at any of the athlet’c clubs in San Francisco on
Friday evening, November 16th, for a suitable purse. I
will make a match against any two athletes at boxing,
Grro 30-Roman wrestling, heavy dumb-bell lifting, foil and
single-stick fencing, the winner of the most exercises to
be declared the winner. I will also meet any athlete at
boxing, Graeco-Roman wrestling and heavy dumb-bell
lifting, the winner of the most exercises to be declared
the winner, or will contest against anyone at boxing and
best two falls in three at Graeoo-Roman wrestling. If
each should win an exercise, the one winning in the
shortest time to ba declared the victor. lam also pre-
pared to meet Joe M'Aulifle, the champion heavy-weight
boxer of the Pacific Slope and Western States, in a six-
round contest with ordinary boxing-gloves. Should one
be knocked out under six rounds, be shall be declared
defeated, but should both come to time for the seventh
round, the match shall be declared a draw. lam fully.;
201 b. over-weight at the present time, and shall entertain
no other propositions excqot the challenge now issued,
and shall not enter into any newspaper controversy.
* • •
The looks of some of the miserable, over-
burdened equine hat-racks who struggle out to
Randwick, drawing behind them 24 or more bulk-
ing, bloated, brainless, and heartless sight-seers,
is a soimwhat sarcastic comment on the ridden-
to death assertion that the primary object of
horse-racing is the improvement of “the noble
animal.”
* * •
A rather played-out English pugilist,
named Dan Thomas, has just offered up the
Devil’s leavings to Heaven. He has quitted
the ring and turned preacher.
* •
Mr. D. Cameron, the Sydney racehorse-
owner, should name the next horse he owns
Boccaccio.
* * *
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —The suggestion
so clearly and forcibly placed before your readers
a few weeks ago with reference to organising a
series of “ Racing Consultations ” whereby a sub-
stantial portion of the commissions derived from
such sources is to be devoted to the funds of
Sydney Hospital, is worthy of the earnest atten-
tion of the thousands who patronise those invest-
ments. With regard to the present’ hospital
building no sane person will deny that it is a
scandal and disgrace to our colony. If the
Government will not supply the necessary money
to construct a suitable building, and an indifferent
public seem careless about the matter, then those
who benefit by such an institution should
feel grateful for your admirable suggestion, espe-
cially if the attempt to raise funds in this way is
successful. It is a matter of public gossip that a
well-known “ sweep ” organiser is netting
from £20,000 to £30,000 per annum at little
cost to himself, and if only a third of
this sum were devoted to an hospital fund
in a few years the Infirm of Sydney would
be well provided for. You are to be com-
mended for presenting to the public such a bold
and practicable scheme. When I consider the
fabulous sums that are pocketed every year by
private enterprise in this direction, surely the
people of Australasia, who are noted for their un-
paralleled generosity, will not fail to co-operate
with your well-timed and admirable idea of rais-
ing funds for the Sydney Hospital. Wishing
every success to “Adam Bede,” yours, etc., M,
T. Montgomery, Manly, 21st January, 1889.
• « *
“ Adam Bede's ” benevolent consultations,
an advertisement concerning which appears in
another column, are filling rapidly. Early appli-
cation should be made for tickets to avoid disap-
pointment. The Bulletin recommends every
sweep-investor to apply for circulars.
* • *
English racing statistics show that the
largest winner during the past season was the
Duke of Portland, who picked up £26,811 10s.; a
far more satisfactory result than his previous
year’s performance when all he secured was £954.
Lord Calthorpe was a good second in ’BB, with
£26,647, and as he won £14,327 in ’B7, he has the
best of the deal at present. The Duke of West-
minster was third, last season, with £18,845. F.
Barrett tops the winning jockey list with 108
wins; but he had 542 mounts, while J. Watts,
who had only 458 mounts, got home on 105
occasions and T. Loates finished first 58 times
out of 288 tries.
••• • »
Higgins, llu English parachutist, who re-
cently met with a mishap in mid air which nearly
ended his career, has retired from the business.
His hair has turned perfectly gray from the scare
he got on the day when he last went parachuting.
• • •
With reference to the queries of numerous
correspondents we may state that, if “ Adam
Bede’s ” Benevolent Consultations on the New-
market Handicap of £lO,OOO each, fill, the Sydney
Hospital and other charities will benefit to the
extent of £6OO.
• * *
lb Is proposed to send another New Zealand
team of footballers to England early in August,
and to limit the number of matches to forty.
Wellington players are the most enthusiastic on
the subject.
* • *
An innocent young man by the name of
Gollan was a large purchaser at the N.Z, Go’s
sale. No lees than five yearlings fell to his
nervous nod, and have since been shipped to
Napier. Ten thousand a year are the figures
opposite the name of this very interesting candi-
date for turf honors.
• • *
The stewards of two minor race meetings
in Victoria have made a new departure by inviting
newspaper representatives to attend official
inquiries of a kind hitherto shrouded with the vail
of secrecy. One of these inquiries dealt with an
alleged attempt to square a pony race at
Dandenong, on January jO, and the evidence pub-
lished is calculated to shake our grand old faith in
turf innocence to its foundation, also to convince
us that stewards have been covering up running
sores lest they should frighten away the punters
who supply race-meetings with strength sufficient
to support life under very diseased conditions.
Two ponies (horses of stunted growth, per-
haps), ran a dead heat for some petti-
fogging handicap at Dandenong, and the
owners being enthusiastic sportsmen, agreed
to “run it off,” with the result that Rover
beat Pinsticker. In his first paroxysm of grief,
the brother of Pinsticker’s owner went about
declaring that he had paid £5O to “stiffen”
Rover and reduce the physical “run off” to a
moral “ walk over.” The story of this sportsman
set forth that one Barney Allen—known as the
Golden Ring—offered to buy over the jockey of
Rover for £5O, and that he gave the Golden King
a cheque for the stipulate! amount, which was
immediately handed to the jockey, who passed it
back again to the King, say in?, “ I owe
you most of this,” whereupon His Majesty
pocketed the cheque and gave the jockey
some gold. The brother of Pinsticker's owner
accordingly backed his relative’s p r ny for the
precious “run off” and lost his money, either
because the other pony wasn’t stiffened, or because
both ponies were stiffened and Pinsticker stiffened
most. This injured man wrote to the stewards of
Dandenong B.C. six days later, re-affirming the
story he had told on the course. He wrote after
consulting Mr. Miles, the well-known V.R.C.
official. The stewards waited another 12 days
be'ore holding their inquiry, and by that time the
brother of Pinsticker’s owner had discovered that
he didn't mean what he said on the course and
subsequently allowed to be written over his
signature. He also wished to apologise to
the Golden King and generally to wash that
monarch’s moral character free of stain. The
actual owner of poor Pinsticker also came forward,
quite on his own account, to state that Rover’s
jockey (the artist who ought to have been stiff but
didn’t stiffen, only it was all lies) wanted him to
stiffen his pony, which he declined to do. Never
theless, be considered that Pinsticker was stiffened
in spite of him. This Pinsticker’s jockey denied,
while stating he thought the other side was
stiffened. And so forth. There is no arriving at
any truth in a matter of this sort. On the one
hand it seems incredible that a real Golden King
would barter away his high sense of honour for
£5O. It is more ic credible that Pinsticker’s
uncle by purchase would go out of his way to tell
gratuitous lies to a solid man like Mr. Miles. Any-
how, if all turf scandals are henceforth to be in-
vestigated in the presence of reporters, it may be
advisable to stiffen the Press.
*• . *
The veteran png., BUI Sparkes, has jasb
died at Leichhardt, Sydney,
• #
Slavin knocked out Burke, at Melbourne,
on Monday night. For a time the Irishman
managed to doc'ge Slavin’s terrific blows, but
when once Slavin fairly got on to him the battle
was scoa over. Slavin was most savagely in
earnest, and completely lost bis temper.
• * *
Australian two-year old form got into Us
usual annual tangle down at Geelong, when Mr.
James White's Rudolph easily beat Carrington
for the Sires’ Produce Stakes, decisively reversing
their positions in the Maribyrnong Plate. This
would be understandable enough if Rudolph had
looked like a colt that would “come on” more
than Carringtonduring the three months’ interval.
Appearances pointed just the opposite way, how-
ever, so the poor punter finds his “ book ” as un-
reliable a_ guide as ever. Unless Mr. Inglis
changes his mind Malua will finish a grand turf
career by adding the Geelong Gold Cup to his
little list. But Malua has been retiring for five
years or so, and has run his last race about fifteen
times already.
• * *
A syndicate of eight compositors la the
D.T. (Sydney) office recently drew the second
prize in a racing consultation which returned
them £l6B each.
* • *
It Is Dick Sandall’s intention to return
immediately to Sydney, and arrange another con-
test with Seale to take place three months from
the date of the last.
• • *
Stale as the Maori footballers must be by
this time they apparently have no difficulty in
“walking oVer” the footballers of the South of
England.
Mr. J. 0. Steel, tanner, of Bulletin-lane,
Sydney, has won the gold medal and certificate
of first order of merit for sole-leather, at the Mel-
bourne Exhibition.
Mr. Morton, the Foreign-trade candidate
for Shoalhaven, is the agent of Mr. D avid Berry,
who owns 95,000 acres freehold of the most mag-
nificent land shone upon by heaven, and who can
probably muster 200 votes on his colossal estate.
Lord Kintore, the new Governor of S.A.,
is described as “an amiable giant. He is tall and
commanding and of fine physique, so that he will
be a decided addition to the social functions of
Government House.” Most of which, we may
remark, could be said with probably a good deal
more truth on behalf of the rather brainy Jack
Thompson, pugilist and bookmaker.
According to the London correspondent of
the S. M. Herald, it is likely that Lord Caring-
ton will —heaven help us !—be succeeded in the
Governorship of N.S.W. by the Marquis of Lome.
This, of course (al though we don’t know, consider-
ing all we have heard, why we should say “of
course ”), will mean that one of the Queen’s
daughters is to reside for five years in N S.W.
What a fine new crop of male and female toadies
will be grown in those five years !
The prospectus of the Bona Fide Gold-
Mining Company cf Tarcutta, NSW., which
appears elsewhere in this issue, reads almost too
good to be true. The capital is £4OOO in 800 £5
shares with power to increase capital to £lO,OOO.
The directors do not want any cash for their in-
terest in the property, being satisfied with 400
contributing shares, no brokerage fees will be
charged, and altogether there are evidences that
the venture does not belie its name as a bona-fide
mining investment. Assays from reefs to the
South of the claim have given from one ounce to
five ounces per ton, and the promoters believe
that by sinking 60 feet they can reach a good body
of payable crushing-stone.
Parkas said at Parramatta that “unless
the people were slaves they would rise against the
Dibbs Government, which would drag the country
from the high level from which he (Parkes) had
raised it. He wanted to raise it still higher.”
What a humourist ! He elevated N.S.W. by
politically associating with a man on whom he
had stamped the “ red-hot burning brand of
shame never to be tffaoed,” by taking to his bosom
a letterless sectarian with money in his pocket
made from the usurious grinding of the faces of the
poor; by continuing in office with a Treasurer
on whose own private land the public money had
been spent j by borrowing money from men whom
he subsequently appointed to office; by “ slipping
up ’* the workman Macnamara; by appealing to
the lowest sectarian passions of the mob.


EED’S “MAGIC ME A L,”
WR fATTWMN* A til S&DS“OF .
Stock and Poultry.
„ t —
hictracts from Testimonials :—
6. S. Veo, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor :
" J tried the ‘ Magic Meal ’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. H Li dwis, Registered Dairyman, Croydon : “
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition. ’
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “i
tried the • Magic Meal ' on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse feed.”
Sold in Bags—7lbs. 3s , Ijlbs. Ss Od , SGlbs.
18s. 6 d , and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Paresis of 561bs , Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Gastlbrbagh Street,
SYDNEY.
EAD, MARK, LEARN.
Far-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Western Australia, close to the Citt.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO EACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARE SELLING
RAPIDLY.
They Cannot be Replaced at the Price.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &c., posted to any
address on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
“AUSTRALIA. FOR THE AUSTRALIANS,”
By
A. B. PATERSON.
VERY Australian should read the new
LI Pamphlet just published under the above
title. Land Reform and Protection. Read it
before recording your vote.
Price, 6d. All News Agents.
£2O
£2O
BUCKBOAKD BDS6IEB
Regular shipments of the Beat Backboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
«ko., £37. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works In
Australasia. Call and see ns. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERQ & 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Ciabxnox Stbszt, Wyntabd Squab*.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
IjIREB BY POST for six penny stamps, a
JU Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters. Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
ings. Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY,
J. LAWLER - & SONS,
Gerkbal Importers and House Furnishers,
SYDNEY.
Established 1880.
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
It takes a week to go through Moet and
Chandon's cellars.
France is making seven million Lohel
rifle?, which inflict absolutely incurable wounds.
Every man in the French army is to ba furnished
with four of these Efl s, which are to be manu-
factured at the rate of 80C0 per day during the
next two years.
A Lovely and Dblioatb Completion.— This Is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kaltdor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Oconto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Porv, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Reoeiileii, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, Ac. Unequalled Hlgh-olaaa Wines are
only to be had from Hookinqs of ilO Georg Mtreel, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.etreet *
E. C. ELEY
•o
=#
4?
<b
Cv
y-
*
y-'
o
#
v ot
&
4>
V
4?
o*
o
ay
# v
<b
*
<< x
O
390 a GEORGE S T
BYDNBTT,
Advertisement from a Glasg iw paper i—
“James Hodge continues to sell burying crape
read/made; and his wife’s niece dresses dead
corpses at as cheap a rate as was formerly done by
her aunt, havine not only been educated by her t
but perfected in Edinburgh, from whence she has
lately arrived with all the newest and best
fashions for the dead.”
Write for Plan of £lO Lots. Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
William's Australian Inseotlcld Is death to all Insert*.
Simple In application— Bare In effleot. this Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while it Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing oil a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 867 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs HUett Bros.,
and I. Prosser ft CO.*
K
o
H-
s
T
o
U
T
fd
yU.EJNTS,
DELISSA k PHILLIPS
> 3& J Barrack. St keet.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STOREY.
• I
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Jcaes’ S'e'wixa.gr 2v£a.c3a.lxxes,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. ——
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
rULEI&B, NETTBEIH & Co., Tuans and Leather lisrchuts,
16 Y 0 R K SI REE T, SYDN E Y.
mm Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland. -
o
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details, Including Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &o.t and of the following Special Lines : PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanner* Tools and Materials, Indents executed on Favourable Terms,
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
LT
NSU
CO
OS RICHARDS
rtvi
5? HOB X m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and OH el
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived bis medical education in the leading college!
and hospitals of Europe. He baa devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASEa
He has by profound research thoroughly Investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with nnswerving faithfulness to hla
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MIN
who suffer from the results of early follies,.trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles arondd
the eyes, Giddiness, Irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
disoontentedness, weakness or pains In the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises In the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful Is about to happen,' weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness In society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to In-
sanity and death, should consult him, for be has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Bd. hi
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
TREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
*, BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private ot
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well Its general Informa-
tion and prescription may assist you In restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced Incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination Is sometimes dan-
gerous, It would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly In your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
courteously, a candid and straightforward
option of your case. If you do not think yon
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
Id the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, In all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ali-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 35,009
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All eoecauclaa-
Mobs should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
Fit! Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CON BULT AT JOB MS MM,
MRS. W.: “What are you doing, dear?”
MR. W.: “Musing on the infinite.”
MRS. W. “You must stop it. You[?] go crazy if you keep your mind fixed on your
debts.” -E XCHANGE.


Business Announcements.
BRUNTO N’S
BOTAfi FA. TENT BTBEB BOBBIE
FLOUR
Cm In obtained throughout New South Welei,
Queensland, end Victoria.
SYDNEY m „ M Fin BIUH.
BRISBANE Edwaid Bnn.
MELBOURNE _ - Btnon Bnm.
EPPS’S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
Medical*
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured 1
Ike Greatest Success \
oi Modern Times. /
nnssoo
{All Chronic Disease
are Curable.
Uj, B, E, SnSSLXAVN, Emilia* Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist fob all Cheonio Diseases,
•• WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of quea-
Hons (fees) by which they oan be treated equally well at
»ny linn's treatment differs from all others
known, and ie perfectly unique and original to himself. If
vou are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
nnderstandUbe producing causes of. all Chronic Diseases
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
**Bea<F the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
lOOPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880)
•e H. K. Kuoelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, Ac.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank B. B. Knight,
ef Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888. but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it lor about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought ft was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated lor four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute lor six months, and,
Although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and alter treating mo
lor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was P°ispn.
then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
neotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
Fungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About thia time l Baw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
■Un from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but alter this crisis I commenced to improve very tost.
Alter three months’treatment the expectoration and odfigh
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die • a nd fr om that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill an * »biUty)l
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delayaa Idid until I was given up to
dl e> i remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. B.
KNIGHT. Witness—J. 0. DANIEL. Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.— THOMAS A. BWING, J.P.
MT All Consultations Free.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is Incurred in the event of Ou»b
hot BiiNO Effected.
T
0 SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY 0E BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
X :X
IHEY Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
x ;x
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all eases.
N. B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to dU parts of the Colonies .
"■“T T *“
Note the Addbkss s
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
132 EliuM Stall, M Park, Sjduy.
MATRIMONY.— A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, good-looking, wishes to correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
offer on first-class station in North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X.Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens-
land.
Have far the Deaf.—Nicholson’s Patented Art
noAL Bar Drums. Cures Deafness in all Its stages, fhs
most astonishing cures have been effected. Bend for 181
paged Illustrated book containing •• Essay on Deafness,'
oi the Drome, copies of patent papers, letter!
(ton Doctors, Lawyers. Editors, ole., who have been
mil by Ihsss Drums, and who teeemmead them.—De.
MICHOLIOV, si WHUAV «mm. Wleeraa.
0-:E3-A. 3D t HOTEL,
OOBHBB OV
CT" MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
£S
D CCSCROVt
SOV
i
T 1
il
nit
jr
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Beading and
Smoking Booms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon's Hotel) ~ Pbopbiiibiss.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
fd
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB 1b Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready lor use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosl Haircutting Saloon,
_ Nine Haircutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Faison’s t G-rape t
TRASS MARK— "IBS aBMNWICH OBSIBVATORT."
Specially prepared from BIPE FBUIP, and it the best of all Fruit Salines,
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING. INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Prcpriutor I
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Aoints:
W. H. FLETCHER & 00., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
LEA & PERRIN S'SAUCE
Mt
V PttW
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE. which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bo tils
bears their Signature thus—
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
genuine
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Nameon Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper.' Wholesale and for Export 9 by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, <frV., drc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
TTsT'lxsut is 37-oto.x *?
m
am.
Most people have one o
some sort. If yon don’t
happen to have one, or
If yon have been Indulg-
ing In one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of It
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keep a
bad one. If you have a
taste for Art : If you
waflt a remunerative
hbbby—try
Photography!
fd
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn It—every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low It will surprise you
i
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE <u*> PHOTOGRAPHIC WAREHOUSES.
-! :
LICIEZTZTBZe <55 CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
'-r AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street BRISBANE.
2d. Stamp for our new Illustrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, ** THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER.’*
Assurance Companies.
T“5
AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MAN ASS*
MINT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY. Limited.
(UHifltiMd by Aob of Parliament, IV Vlfci
No. IS.)
Registered Capital w m m Sl.Nl.tll
Paid-up and Subscribed m m Ml.lll
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, 800.. F.1.A., Depoty
Chairman,
This Company reeelre* deposit* at the following
rates of interest
Foi 8 yean T pet cent.
W Oi 0 month* 0 pei oent.
ret 1 y mi - B per ml.
Foi I month! _ ■ yei ml.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate eeal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOB BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, ete., Collected.
Estates Bub-dlvlded and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hiad Oivxen—ll, h U HUNTER STREET
JNoTcT NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, llfl*
CAPITAL. ftSH.NI.
Sydney CSm.
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices— 2B3 Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia)
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay*
able by Instalments at very reasonable rates of ln>
terest. Bills discounted dally.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS I
8 months, 5 per Mnt.
8 •• ® ii
18 i, 7 m
And a Bonne declared to Deposits ol II month
per cent. I months 1} per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 13 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1$ per cent.
By order ol the Board ol Directors,
BUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
Business Announcements.
KING’S V'EWg
Of SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c, &0.,
315 GEOSSE ST., Between Buitr-il,, 13,1*0,
TATTERS ALL'S
lllim C9IIQLTATIOII
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars sec
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall's," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
{From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTH THE ADDRESS-
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(i few doors from 0.P.0., next to Colonial Bank).
MELBOURNE.
FOR BALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Ceve Rivets. Apply,
Bsiinir Offls*.


Grosvenor Hotel,
Qroevenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
rpHIS MAONmcuNT Hotel la now open,
and will be conducted on the beat
methods of similar American and Euro*
pean establishments.
It ia centrally situated, la built on the
most elevated site in Sidney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders It
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
isltora.
Tbi.ro raph and Tblbphons Omen
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended In
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Oas, and has a Furnished
Smokk Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Geosvbnor Drao will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now Invited.
J. ROWAN, Manager,
f
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager*
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bobber Valves, Washees, Gaskets Slo„ Slo. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods lor all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
R
ows
EMBROCATION
SOLD \n
|, |-
j \£\/ERY,WHERE(I
E 5
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of_ confidential enquiries instituted.
Frigate enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
M A.RRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The Best In the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mi: HildscMdilt S Co.,
231 CLARENCE STREET
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
BI«N WRITERS
ASS
-—ART ++ DECORATORS
96 Castlereagh Street*
One Doob from King Street.
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co ,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
Sven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing,
ress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTUN BROS., 11l
Rnssell-street Mel bourn 9.
ATIONAL PROTECTIN ASSOCIATION.
Orient Chambers, Hunter Street,
Sydney, sbh February, 1889.
NOTICE,
That when m any case the Committee has de-
cided to request any Protectionist candidate to
withdraw on the ground that he is endangering a
seat by competing with a full number of other Pro-
tectionist candidates adopted by the Committee
after conference with the local Protectionist bodies,
and su<Sh candidate has refused to accede to the re-
quest of the Committee, it shall be published in the
newspapers circulating in the electorate, and by
other means if necessary, that such refractory candi-
date is a rebel against discipline, and is not to be
supported by Prot:ctionists ; and that further a
Black List be started to contain the name? of such
mutineers, who shall be rendered ineligible as
candidates for any seat in future. The committee
earnestly advise all electors net to throw away
votes on such candidates.
N. MELVILLE i
E W. O SULLIVAN
T. S. PARROTT
C. B LOWE
D GRAHAM j
Joint Hon. Secs.
Jon Rmmroßo.
(Late of Saywell'ft Tobacco Co,),
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN it ALL),
SYDNEY.
A SOTBSEI9V' ft.EHSDT
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tio
Doloeeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, ob. Head, ; ; > * ■ • i
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTH AM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days !
The Australian Remedy* No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is,, 2i. 6d., 5a., and 10s,
CUBE FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad "
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sstndy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who havfe recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best'manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George Street, Only .
“Mt fiiLOm,” iti Klng-itmt, Newtow*.
Hint Inlto li etiinn let II It.
DMI foiftl ’
iVi uas 'Qii' i
van
THE
NEWEST INVENTION —G RATES! NOVELTY.
Y*N
Patent Diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.'
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen Says:—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
Clod Mclda", New Zealand Exhibition, 1883
«»;<{ Medal, (Ugliest Award
For Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award !!! Cold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
OATJTION —Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
\t BNAT/o
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
31a,rend.on. Hotel, IL£an.l3r,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
i T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Slippers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
CjL served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
lere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that cam ch sibly make one
lOmfortable pan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti 5) ■ j vided. Table
U H6te at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KilMinstbb to make her
ilitora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony,
■re. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hofei,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
BISISIB-A-asTIEI § HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
VM!
otrf
"/•
a mu
mm
-Jo.-
A MlKiim '
I* ■ r
A#-,
saaasoasss;
■ .
MSHs
tuanui u. i smawfc >wui«*
A. DEUiUSJS
Proprietor.
, French Liquors & Saranna Cinrt t SnecialitT Ssnse.
Cnisiss francaise.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAIN EOT TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
__ LOVELY 51...,
opMplerioa, loft, smooth »nd delicate neck, fa os, hmairmstA Musts asaSwst {j® gUk«(|
i»y dlKAjrdlng all leaden and grassy cosmetics sad cheap soaps, which, art fesfent affiesmjß it
aaMtawiiTOf 9M®. ecaaot 'josslbly haw ar y good effect on it. and by ■<rin £
Kalydor
. fh. d .l*l reshln &. for 4518 *«<*; a&nto and n OS sffl
sj and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
sunburn. stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the ns© of hard
*”^^ r reB ij Te f B P° 48 * discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relleyse inflammation,
burns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rongh skin delightfully smooth and
ii!5 t iSS e £.^ fter sh *l Tl^ K wIU ? nd it “lays all irritation and tenderness of the skin s
“Ujlead or mineral m^edisnt* p can b® nasad with Impumity ontb®
(sam oi the mom delicate lady or child p
Else at Sb 3d **• and 9s. M. per bottle; 'bottle# ■«• Mf swssii
***" ** ***, £*******
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO wMteas the teeth, mmtmfo iaeay, safi altos a
40 breath. Ask anywhere for BOWIdtHBr ofi so. Mate
tealUmaon, and »»oSd cfeM. wtUsee taaltattosA
Wholesale nod Retail Agents— Elliott Bbos., »nd E. Pbosseb & Op., Fydoey.


df
MANIFESTO
OP TSE
national protection association
10 THE
Electors of New South Wales.
Fallow Electors,— We feel it to be our duty at this important political juncture
to call your attention to our present business and industrial position:
df
During the last font years the colony has
been sufleriag from general stagnation. We
managed for some years by foreign loans to
stave off the depression that has now over
taken ns, bat these loins have attracted
population in excess of our means of em-
ployment, and the Government have been
compelled to provide relief works to prevent
thousands from starving.
Four thousand empty houses in Sydney
and suburbs show that want of employment
has compelled a large number of working
men to leave the colony, while evidence Is
dally forced upon us that a large number
remain that are unable to find work, and
that a very large amount of Machinery,
Buildings, and Capital are lying idle and
unproductive, while we have a large tract of
country teeming with undeveloped natural
wealth. These considerations force us to
the conclosl m that the fiscal policy which
we have been following is unsalted to this
colony.
This pdicy admits farm produce and
manufactured goods free, while the same
countries from which the Imports come,
Impose heavy duties on our goods. This
colony is now the only sink in Australia Into
which the surplus stock of the world may be
emptied and sold, regardless of the cost of
pr >du Jtlou, to the great injury of legitimate
Importer*, local minufaciurers, and strug-
gling farmers, while the supposed benefits to
consumers of cheap goods are swallowed up
by a class of parasitical dealers that this
system has called into existence.
Even if consumers gee the benefit of cheap
surplus stock, the Injuries inflicted on im-
porters, manufacturers, and those they
employ, far exceeds any advantage that can
be derived from cheap g >ods, f' r giods,
however cheap, are of no banefio to those
without employment or money to purchase
them.
Tne late Ministry has had to retire through
Inability to efficiently and honestly carry on
the administration of the country, and a new
one has been called into power composed of
men whose past characters are a guarantee
of able and honest administration, and whose
general intelligence and abilLy will preclude
a dictator usurping the position of a Govern-
ment, as in the late Ministry.
The new Government are folly aware of
the evil effect of our present policy on the
Industries of the colony, and will propose
measures to remedy the evil. It is for you
to say whether this remedy shall be applied
or no .
If you are satisfied with the policy and
administration of the late Government j if
you are coatent wloh our present industrial
position, and desire its continuance for
another three years, give your vote for the
Foreign-Trade party ; bub if you desire to
see home industries established, so that our
youths can be pub bo useful trades ; if you
desire to see the permanent settlement of
the country established, so as bo enable it to
expand In population and industrial develop-
ment, do not give your vote bo the Foreign-
trade party, bub support the National one,
so that a trial may be made of a policy that
has been adopted by nine-tenths of all civi-
lised communities in the world, and by all
che colonies and offshoots of England, with
the exception of New South Wales.
We earnestly ask you to consider this
question, and do not let prejudices or fore-
gone conclusions overmaster your reason. If
any of you cannot reason out the relative
merits of Freetrade and Home Industries,
judge the two policies by the effect that each
has had on the respective countries that have
adopted them Such an inquiry will show
ohat countries which encourage and protect
their home Industries enjoy a high standard
of comfort and intelligence, while those
countries content to import manufactured
goods with proceeds of exported raw material
have a low standard of living and comfort,
and remain or become poor and Ignorant
communities.
In this election campaign, use the full
power of your vote by voting for all selected
candidates, and do not let personal feeling or
friendship for any candidate Influence your
vote contrary to your conviations, for no
measure of reform, however urgent or im-
portent, can be carried out 1! principles are
sacrificed to personal friendship.
The Executive Committee of the National
Protection Association are using their best
endeavours to assist electorates to select the
best candidates, but it cannot be expected
that such Candidaoes can please everyone.
We ask those that are displeased not to en-
danger the success of the election by voting
for unrecognised candidates. It must be
manifest that in this election such votes
will be wasted, and may result in the
Foreign-trade party carrying an election
when they are in a minority.
To avoid such a disastrous result, we ask
all such candidates to retire from the con-
test ; those that refuse are traitors to the
cause they profess, and deserve to be ex-
cluded from the National Party in future
elections.
The issue that will come before you in
this election is one involving the prosperity
and welfare of nine-tenths of the entire
community. We must have more production
—more employment —even if the required
measures should increase the cost of neces-
saries ; but it must be borne in mind that
increased coat of necessaries is not paid away
to any other community, it will partly go to
form revenue, and partly be distributed
among producers, and that nine-tenths of all
consumers are likewise producers, and as
much interested in the sailing price as the
buying price of goods.
We again repeat: Do not sacrifice principles
to friendship. Let your vote answer the sneers
levelled at your opinions by adjoining colonies,
and vindicate your intelligence before the world.
Arcliibald Forsytli,
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the National Protection Association.




Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
melboure.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer Street.
VISITORS patronising the Above hotel, whlsh
has lately had an addition of over IN looms,
will find all modern Improvements, snob as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large pnblle-
*oom, smoking-room, hot and oold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, eleotrle bells,
telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
surpassed In Australia. Visitors can rely upon
being called lor early morning trains. Betters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prises very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.-
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET]
(Between George and Terk Streets.) P.O. Box MO. Dr]
Speer, Is a regular Graduated Physician, educatedj»t
Harvard College, U.B. (for confirmation see Mew Zealand
Gazette, January list, 1886] | also New South Walee
Gazette, April 17th, 1868). The doctor has devoteifls
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, Akb
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these'were In the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
Mo experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
A2OO. His reason for doing so Is this—when there Is no
Organic disease, and nothing but an Inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there Is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes It distinctly understood that he does not ni»im
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed In hie speciality—CHßONlC AHD
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
Melding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail os treated at home. The course of treatment will
■ot in any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Chargee} moderate. H. J.
Gram, M.D., U Margaret Street, between George and To A
Streets, Sydney. Poet Office Box, No. 020. Office hear*,
10 a.m. to II a.m. | Bto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only
FREE
PBBSOBIPTIONa in to
the “ LIGHT AND
MITE, "jpg the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY Mid Kindred Diseases, ftp. A copy of
Mils book will be aent Free, sealed, for Six Fanny
Stamps. Address—
B. WAP ft 00.,
Bfdney'Fharmacy,
7* Hunter Street Sydney.
Mesmeric, magnetic, and eleotrio
INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
of Db. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in (Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
American Remedy Company. Au Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only, his motto being : —“ Nature cures Nature’s
decay.” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
Soar days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self In being the only person known in the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Tongue without Surgical Operations of fany kind;
In fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
Incidental to suffering humanity, even [when all
other treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N,B.—
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is ’a surety that yon get
nothing but the genuine article. A* Fact.— This
Is the only Institution of its kind in the World
where all Kinds of .Cures are Effected [with little
or no medicine. &
Please'Oopy r the Address— *
f DR.~ ST. VINCENT, g
177 Liverpool Street (facing Hyde'Park), Sydney.
plSAmaiij
Eucalypte Ou.
df
THE
EXTRACT/
hr
r&rm
IV. '.The Only Pure Eucalypte in' thelW«rld.|
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize [Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chestjand
Bungs ;'lj also, for Gout, Rheumatism,” Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival : for I Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds, r Also,
manufacturers of s the Euealypte (Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and ; our world-
lamed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young children ; and aged
people. Also, makers of the;Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Oootamdndea.
Sydney Wholesale'Depot—227. Elizabeth-street.
Posted_to any part of the Colonies. SokTEvery-
Where. Beware of Imitations.
B usiness f Announcements,
SKATE ROLLERS, * f-f
M. ,'«*»*■■ lj i: -»»f- • »
rpURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the beat In the Amerl-
•*" oan market, at the following low prices:—
IJ.ta. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots .. *l5 per tel
.. .. 10,000 „ .. *l7 „
4»• •> „ 50,000 „ „ *l2 „
s ,n - •» » 50,000 „ ... *l4 „
Through rate to Australia about *1 500.. per 1000 rolien.
Address—
JOHN T. lONfi,
182 & 184 S. Olark-street, Chicago, 111., U.B.A/ |
d
u
K
tttofOIITCAS OF
HATS CAPS
4M.CE OR CE ST
-SYDNEY %
jLaAattUr^
Branch
67 8 GEORGE STREET,
BBIOKPIELD HILL,
(Next to Oraig and Aitkens.)
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS. AND
OTHERS.
460,000 tiTLsni.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR FROFEBTIIB.
STOCK, Ska.
HADFIELD, ALLAN &CO., Stock, Statloa,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, N Pitt-
street, Sydney.
ST PUBLISHED,
- J? 1 A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
t SUBJECTS. i j
It contains Information most Valuable'in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES.
For its Hygienic Rales are worth its weight la
gold. Send your foil address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Sorry, Hills, Sydney. M • m
SPECIAL NOTIOH—The Stdhit Bnuni,
Tasmanian Edition, (Publishers FITS*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), St* Shillings andl« Sixpence; pm
quarter, or One Found per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sa<e every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners la
the street.
V\^HTCASR£,SS%
■*-f*L)FACTURING HATIEfiS
GEORGE STREET
S V O N ELY
V PORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And «t ALBERT STREET, BRISBAM*
THE ORIGINAL
fd
fd
ANO
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
&
■- k
IStMEBEST IMTHE WORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGHS
RECEIVEDTHE'.'INTERNATIONAL
P R I Z E .M EDAL
Manufacture© byJamesChannom
Harbour S t Svdne*
■Sold by All Grocers and StapeKeepan
Medical.
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Aim universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, CoStireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nerrous and Tremb-
Wag Sensations, Ac. The first dose will fire relief
ha twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
fees of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
ca a few doses of them carry off all humoure» and
tote® about all that is required. No female should
without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any* obstruc-
ts® oar irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
fitag to the directions given with each box, they
wdT seen restore females of all ages to sound and
reboot health. This has been proved, by thousands
who hare tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
stoeurthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
ot health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEBOHAM’S FILLS have the Largeet B*l* of an*
Fatoni Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
Am a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
rhtness and Oppression of the Chest,
H, these Pills stand unrivalled. They
ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difß-
•ulty ef breathing, which nightly denrivs the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEICOHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will to a short tune be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Be tail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. HeLeasTEe*-
Whirs, England, in boxes Is. IJd. and Se. N. —oh.
| S«ld by all Druggists and Patent
I Peelers everywhere.
I MJh—Full directions are given with each box.
mHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
X Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most'favonr-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN,
m
2 PATENT
? PILLS.
S
*7
a
ss
45
V
gOIENOE OONQUERS^DISEASI!
C2U The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
MMording to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mom MEBOUET ob other Noziobm
BtOHAOHIO CONTAMINATIONS.
■r. T. CT WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., fta,r~o
wT" “' 'Z EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Sidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia whs
holds, the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Tletorlan Progressive Medical Institute,"’
18. FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
(or the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Net*
reus Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so i if not, he will tell yon also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
sure. _ It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
H&fierers aan be treated equally well at a distance,
i !H.8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that 1 do not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I slalm only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—■
HOKESSITE VESICAL IVSTITQTZ,
58, Fundbbh Street W., Melbourne.
BST Mo connection vAtk any other Medical Institute in
Australia Box S6B, G.P.O.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Elvers., Apply
Bulletin Office.
fr||Business Announcements.
Gtainess’s Extra Stoat.
riRSi
QUALITY,
WMIIIW
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Baichin, Johnston and Go.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney
Robert butcher * 00,
hare REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
{Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets)." V"
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out~o(
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D"RI DOE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS ino INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced Into tbs
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL. FOOD MHJLS.
. _ LONDON, ENGLAND.
C. STEPHENSON
■AS OK SALS—
WINE OASES, BREWERS' OAWwa, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, ft; WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE TATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fto.
COOPERAGE,
IST KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET
B2n| sad Market Streets, * i.,**
trrii
mi or ban foot-
Mary Moattacha ta .from S to
~ 7.TT- * •*«*• «<« fcwr/nflt.JOjOOO 1
yotutQ mm afrmdy moor >0
Mar*, havUe uni lto 3 phu. Mtlafmy, «wOy
2a oAlo# Brtu»l*e#e 1m CJ A -*- nj T
Manitoba orwl TOiVm.
Boydf’o Board Btoir did (Mi,
■***■*
fd
fd
SWALDER, Test, Tarpanlin, Oilskin Maket.
• 296 PITT STREET.
MABQUIES ON HIBB.
LLAS
BfcCOVEREO.
S 1
\rv nm j
Hats tT«Vella
mA i
toHtrw, at
3. ST7I,IitV-
MGcorpSMI
X2<r«rpool n&l
ftmoU mads to
mi Repairs osattr <
"FOB FRAMING A PICTURE 'IfEAI
win te- AND^WELL."^
D BERNARD'S Piotubh Rod MoutDise
• StOKB, 899 Seorge-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), la acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stf etched and moon tod. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cat with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Flash
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
I F E PRBBHRVATION
BT
D». J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
19 Lonbdaki Sebiii Eabi, Mikbosibb
This work is a medical treatise describing ac*
oarately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in*
discretions and other enervating Influences with
* ' associated evils.
f Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Cos*
fidentlal Complaints.
I For the benefit of all who desire a speedy ana
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail Ss. Bd. (any colonial stamps). Ce
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne,


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MAD*
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30b. to 21a. -
MS PITT ST„ BIU.VEV (Near Tattersall'a.)
Porpoise. Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
i : V
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
&T LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight I
MASON BROTHERS,
(UMITBD.I
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
ironmongery
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND CO.’S
Cognacs
J. T. G A YEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
fd
P. R. LARKIN,
XMPOBTKB OF
*r WINES, SPIRITS, BBBBS &C., &?0„ U
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 bo 10 yean old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wises
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, MarbeU’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
tST The Besb Porb and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. tST All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Au and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Singh Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
tar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. *e»
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ ISWhHHT ROOM ni LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdeen & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prmce of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND '
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
f, - —■ ■■ ■ rjmrr-ni .■ urn »i I'lwiiiiiinmn nirwr-“— — - fn
BEHAN’S
Slack Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
eb, emu s mi
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scan.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, USI.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRXBB
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES. GREASY HEELS, RAND
and QUARTER CRACK ITCH and MANGX)
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S. Huffman*
and 00., J. Brush, Son and 00., W. H Bimpso*
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bror.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbibbank ; E. Fletcher, Jam.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAX, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Ksdletßi
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers,
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
XTOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMBNf.
i~| There is not a country in the oiivlised world where
the healing virtues ol these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In a!! the ordinary
ailments of humanity their henefioidnt action Is at onos
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxkoeo-st., London. Stt Pur-
chasers should look to tha Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they an
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
IX XHI
SEWIHB MACHINE OEPOTS
nr
VI C T
B X
MELBOURNE
Richmond
WINDSOB i.
BALLaRAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA ...
BEEOHWORTH .
HAMILTON
WARE-N AMBOOL.
BALE
MARYBOROUGH.
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Stores* East, near Swaaatoa Slice*.
New Oofiee Palace, Bourke aureei.
69 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Start Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aesohimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PABTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
AGBXTgt
tT, H. Q-EID3DBS <SB Co,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BE' NT ON ’ S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Mans Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market,
T 0 AO FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS m TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents:
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., B 3 VQRK STHEET, Sydnsy.
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Hebb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervona Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Sbu-Oubb bob Nbbvous Dißam ARB
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address*—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
fZB
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
m-
er Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
—!:}■
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so cemmon an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. , . , , , , .
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Wat.tham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, IT.S. Mint assay. . . . . , . . , „ , .
WalthaM Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
W altham Presentation Watghes, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches, jhe “ No. 1 fcize” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most p -rfect watch yet made. ~T „ . . -, r . , a
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New bouth Wales, Vicuoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Chronographs and Vlxndtb Recorders. Dnequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold a« vantages, are p eferahie to all others.
Waltham Watches are bold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
fd
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Utilizings, Band Street* SYDiiEY-
