

AMERICAN
SIZE
5Tk® c ?
aid*
A *s
The Beat Timekeepers the World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are adapted to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly -back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
ď
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENCY,
Waltliam Buildings, Bond. Street, Sydney.
Lever Brothers, “ Sunllg’lit Soap” Manufacturers,
OFFER the following PRIZES to the successful competitors who compile the most English Words from the letters contained in the name “ Australasia.” FIRST PRIZE, Five Pounds (£5); SECOND
PRIZE, Two Pounds (£2); THIRD PRIZE, One Pound (£1). In addition to the above ELEVEN PRIZES will be given to the successful competitors from the words “Sunlight Soap,” for
Children Under Fourteen Years of age —One 405., two 205., four 10s., four ss. With each list a Sunught Soap Wrapper must be attached, and with the children’s competition a written statement that
the list is the work of the child, and the name of the school at which the child attends. Lists to be sent in not later than August 30th, addressed, LEVER BROTHERS, SYDNEY.
BUEEOTJGHES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
All Requisites for tla.e Game.
Also Lawn Tennis, Cricket & Football.
8 BOND ~~ SYDNEY,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metad Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODE.V WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices— ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and afl appliances.
SON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanxnore Road, Petersham.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OP HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
408 BZBKTT STREET, STTDKTBY.
f.
«John ; no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and SV dnky Tea Com PANT. j>
rw°H^ c -
I
j£TujLi
!h
F
i i
SWEET SPIRIT, HEAP MY PPAYEP.”
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
Ml
Mi
m
mnliMi
JJUi
DIXSON^SONS
*
&
w
o
o
X
o
<v
yov\
iSiR ROGER
&0
4 v
o
Q
O'
□ IXSONS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAISTT B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tgbacco),
in spite of competition, is still t par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.” ■ >
Something New ! Something New !
The *3£ackage. “Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker's Companion! tsa
. containing the following : -v"
lift. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
lib. .Can t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacep
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IHh Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 electroplated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
■■,, . Jib-Long Cut, American
Delivered tree at Kedrern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its p'ace. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved I 60 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIHHOXS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkrt, Sydney.
&
c o.
■ ,• r
T> RITTEXBERG
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarencs St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
.A.’X’KXiNrsonsr’s
Ban de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
Of dU Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—’BY TAKING —
Kruse's Fluid .
v- 1 ■ 1 1
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Mecfals.
SUPERIOR to an OTHERS!
, (Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &d., accompanjdng each Bottle.)
x
—TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
-'s
XX
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd.
a«3i
BwyyLi
AUt
Sn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottlg
hears their Signature (hus~ —
Without, which :no sbdttle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine ,
Ask for LEA ansf PERM /tvs' Sauce, and see Name-on Wrapper, Label, BotfU and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crocs< and
Blackwell, London, (re,, (gee,; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
Building 1 Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1886. Oct.. 1886. Oct., 1887. Oot., 1888.
Subscribed Capital .. £130,425 £350,000 .. £431,125 .. £580.000
Paid-up and Accrued Capital " 61,880 .. 120,000 .. ‘206,685 .. 251,015
Deposits Received ~ 93,581 .. 261,500 .. 391,356 . . 1,123,949
Advances Made .. .. 123,248 . 247,840 .. 307,828 .. 625,826
Total Income .. .. 200,106 .. 451,085 ■ ... 797,990 .. 2.048,951
; Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers.
Terms Liberal.
JL
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£2b Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The. holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1886, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con,
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years*
>
Hon._ John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
‘ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY. *
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, Georo-e Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10-No. 499.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1889.
Price, 6d.
R e -Institution of Religlous Tests.
“I consider that the religion of N.S.W. Public-school teachers should be known.”— Sir Henry Parkes, the “ Liberal," in N.S.W . Legislative A ssembly.
PARKER (to applicant for place as teacher in N.S.W . Public School) : “ WHAT IS YOUR NAME?"
APPLICANT: “MURPHY, SIR.”
PARKER: "AN, HUM! YOUR NAME HAS A ER-HUM-A RATHER POPISH SOUND. I’M AFRAID WE CAN’T EMPLOY YOU WIHTOUT HENDANGERING
THE NON-SECTARIAN HIDEA OF OUT PUBLIC-SCHOOL SYSTEM.”
APPLICANT: “BUT MY NAME IS MACTAVISH MURPHY-FROM THE NORTH-“
PARKERS: “AH! WELL THAT QUITE HALTERS THE CASE. HPLL SEE WHAT HI CAN DO FOR YOU!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO S f TBS Cl ' Ui EES
(pavahlo in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 ti 0
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he. addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political., Social, or other Articles,
Terse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin’’ will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct toTar. Bullktin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which, yon may pay hy Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1889.
London in Travail.
First the Bitter Cry—anon the Clenched
Hand. Yesterday a groan —to-day a growl.
In the foregoing fourteen words we have
writ the political and moral history of the
strike in London initiated by the Dock
labourers. A strike 1 Only in name—as
yet. One hundred thousand men struck
what ? They struck aside the hand which
tendered them the mockery of wage, the
grimly misnamed “ Reward of labour.
Was ever so subtle yet so savage a satire ?
More than five years have passed away since
the Capitalist-slaves of London raised an
exceeding hitter cry which penetrated even
through the adamantine walls and softly-
padded doors which Capital has contrived for
the stifling of their murmurs. It was a
shriek so terrible, so fraught with woo, so
instinct with the extremity of human suffer-
ing, that it startled even the conductors of the
“great” newspapers, those spurious “organs ’
which ordinarily neither hear, nor see, nor
feel save what it suits the class which con-
trols them to acknowledge the existence of.
That awful cry, so penetrating, so expressive,
caused Rank, and Privilege, and Wealth to
shiver uneasily. Not because it spoke of
pain. For they knew—had always known—
that for millions of Britons life was hut one
prolonged suffering. It caused them to shiver
because its intensity bespoke a pain which had
passed endurance, whose torments had be-
come aggravated to the point when despera-
tion begins. Therefore Throne, and Rank,
and Privilege, and Wealth bestirred them-
selves. They knew full well that the torture
which had extorted that weird shriek was
due to them ; that the lower people screamed
because they were being crushed to death by
the burden of the Higher Orders,
St St , : >S
The Higher Orders, we say, bestirred them-
selves. But not to remove the cause of the
pain. Not to offer a fairer adjustment of
burdens. They scurried about and adminis-
tered narcotics. They distributed “charity."
They exhorted the wretched to endure
but a little, while a diagnosis should be
making of their trouble. The diagnosis
took the form of a “ Royal Commission of
Inquiry ” into the condition of the London
poor. The Heir to the Throne was graciously
pleased to accept the presidency thereof.
And the people, clutching at the illusive
hopes prepared for their distraction, stilled
their cries. The rest —so far-—is matter of
common knowledge. The Commission as-
sembled, and drew fees. It made inquiries,
and drew fees. It reported, and drew fees.
It became fashionable to go “ slumming,” to
visit the dens of the common people, stir
them up and observe their writhings, leave
a sovereign as the price of the entertainment,
and return home with a conscience set at
ease hy the donation. But when the Heir
to the Throne had dropped out of the game—
which was tedious and had circumstances of a
worrying nature connected with it—and the
Commission had drawn all the fees it decently
could, and its “Reports' were with the
greengrocer, fulfilling, as wrapping for small
parcels, the only practical service they had
ever rendered, then “slumming” went out
of fashion. And the people, who had ob-
served all these things, were silent, and no
more cried aloud.
* # #
In the reign of Elizabeth there lived a
man, exceedingly great, exceedingly small,
exceedingly just in his ideas, exceedingly
corrupt in his actions, exceedingly foolish in
his own rule of life, and exceedingly wise in
his maxims of practical philosophy. His
name was Francis Bacon, Lord Verulanx ;
sometime Lord Chancellor of the realm.
Amongst other “ sage advices” he writ down
was one relating to the treatment of discon-
tents. The best means, he says, of checking
discontent is to search the causes of it—and
remove them. It will he perceived that in
dealing with the miseries of the London
poor, the ruling class did not follow even the
first part of Bacon’s counsel. They only
pretended to seek the causes of the misery
whose plaint had alarmed their complacency.
They were dimly conscious that their own
indulgences and their own superfluity of
wealth were the causes of the horrible desti-
tution with which they found themselves
confronted. They had an uneasy sense that
the real and only way to extirpate
the withering poverty of the common-
people was hy eradicating corruptions
of the social system from which was
derived their own bloated luxury. They
dared not, would not, therefore, lay hare the
roots of the wretchedness they feigned to in-
vestigate. As for the latter, and most essen-
tial part of Bacon’s wise counsel, they never
even pretended or attempted to adopt it.
They simply kept up a show of interest and
bustle, until the hitter cry ceased to ring in
their ears, and when there fell silence, they
lapsed into renewed indifference.
# # #
The Capitalist rulers of Great Britain pro-
fess a philosophy of their own, distinct from
any of the antique schools, yet deriving
something from each of these. The capi-
talist philosophy is embodied in the doctrine
of Political Economy, and its cant catch-
words are “Supply and Demand,” “ Buy in
the cheapest, sell in the dearest market.”
But they owe to the stoics their mental
attitude towards the common people and
their miseries. If these moaned with tor-
ment, they consoled themselves with the
comfortable doctrine that sensation is merely
a passive affection of the mind. And in
their dealings with their own consciences
with regard to external circumstances the
Capitalist class borrows from the Epicureans.
With the latter, they held that Truth is not
an object worth pursuing for its own sake,
but only in so far as it contributes to the
peace of mind of the inquirer. How justly
we attribute this tendency to Epicureanism
to the Capitalist-class, readers of The Bul-
letin resident in Sydney may judge hy con-
sidering whether this qualified treatment of
Truth is or is not conspicuous in the system
of the Sydney Morning Herald. Residents
in other metropoli can test the dictum hy its
applicability to the capitalist Press of their
respective cities. Persons who are governed
hy a philosophy of this character are little
likely to esteem the inductive method of Bacon
or any reflections derived therefrom. Other-
wise they might, with advantage, have pon-
dered his warning in relation to popular dis-
contents, not “ to turn the humours hack
and thereby cause the wound to bleed in-
wardly.” This is precisely the course adopted
hy the ruling classes in Great Britain. The
mockery of a Royal Commission which
effected nothing, while pretending to provide
a remedy for the terrible evils which elicited
the Bitter Cry from the London poor,
“ turned the humours inward.” Inflamma-
tion has ensued, and now the morbid matter
breaks out in a dangerous, because conta-
gious, eruption.
# * #
“The docks of London are the very focus
of metropolitan wealth. The cranes creak
with the weight of the precious burdens
which they bear. The warehouses are
choked with goods, ranged like ingots of
gold. Above and below ground you see piles
upon piles of treasure that the eye cannot
compass. The wealth appears as boundless
as the very sea it has traversed. There are
productions enough, one would think, to
stay the cravings of the whole world ; and
yet you have, by the side of this amazing
excess of riches, the same amazing excess of
poverty. If the incomprehensibility of the
wealth rises to sublimity, assuredly the want
that co-exists with it is equally incompre-
hensible and sublime, for human brain can
scarcely conceive it. Pass from the quays
and warehouses to the courts and alleys
which surround them, and your mind will he
bewildered with the destitution of one place
as it is with the superabundance of the other.
He who wishes to behold one of the most
extraordinary scenes of this metropolis should
wend his way to the London Dock gates at
half-past seven in the morning. There he
will see congregated masses of men of all
grades, looks, and kinds
everyone who wants a loaf and is will-
ing to work for it. Presently you know by
the steamer passing through the gates, and
the rush towards particular spots, that the
‘ calling foremen ’ have made their appear-
ance. Then begins the scuffling and scram-
bling, the fierce struggle, to catch the eye of
him whose voice may give them work. The
aspect of that multitude of famished beings
struggling to obtain a day’s—an hour’s-
meal can never he forgotten ; and the struggle
is made fiercer hy the knowledge that hun-
dreds out of the number must he left to idle
the day out in want. For weeks many have
gone there, and gone through the same
struggle, the same crisis, and have gone away
after all without the work they had screamed
for..”
* # #
“ A fancy picture 1” perchance a reader
exclaims. Scarcely. The foregoing para-
graph is not from our pen. Nor is it
liable to challenge as an overcoloured de-
scription by some excited partisan of the
men on strike to-day. It is a description of
a scene which has been repeated daily for
over forty years. That paragraph was
written in 1838 hy a special reporter of the
London Morning Chronicle, a Conservative
journal, and it is true in every essential to
the scenes of to-day. When the “Bitter
Cry of the London Poor” rung a few years
ago in every ear, there were published de-
scriptions of the struggles for employment
at the docks, identical in all respects with
that drawn in the second year after the
establishment of Freetrade in England.
Since then a generation has passed away.
The wretched toilers of 1838 are in their
graves, and it is their successors who have
struck. The earlier sufferers probably scarce
dared. The traditions of their youth weighed
upon their spirits. When the description
we have quoted was written the savage laws
against “ combinations and conspiracies for
raising the price of wages ” had been re-
pealed only about a score of years, in 1825,
to he re-enacted with a disguise of clemency
the very next year. Many of them had,
doubtless, known men sentenced to fine, im-
prisonment, whipping, and the pillory, for
daring to attempt, in union with others, to
obtain a fairer wage than had been allowed him
hy a league of employers. The men of to-day
have learned in a school less oppressive, hut
it may he theirs to receive a lesson of a
very peremptory character. Privilege and
tyranny never lack weapons. There are old
statutes enough unrepealed to serve at a
pinch. There are penalties for unlawful
assemblings. And if none of these he avail-
able no difficulty will be made about unlaw-
la wf ally suppressing lawful assemblies. The
Trafalgar-square meetings were dispersed hy
force, by virtue of a quibbling pretence that
the square was the Queen’s private pro-
perty, and if severe measures were needed,
the boasted Constitution would not stand in
the way. The Habeas Corpus Act, magnifi-
cently described as the very Palladium of
the Constitution, has been suspended when-
ever the Constitution was found to incom-
mode the ruling class in their grasp of arbi-
trary power. It was suspended in 1716. It
was suspended for twelve months in 1722,
for six months in 1779, when the people of
Great Britain were sick of fighting against
the freedom of their brethren in America.
In 1794 it was suspended for nine months
because the British people had imbibed Re-
publican principles from the example of the
French revolutionists. Thenceforth it was
suspended as a matter of course whenever a
Cabinet chose to abrogate it.
But it is useless to violate the constitu-
tional safeguards of the liberties of Britons
unless there he at disposal a physical force
adequate to support the infraction of these
liberties. In the present instance it appears
that the police have, for the first time,
taken to heart the truth that they, too, are
common people. The authorities suspect
their zeal if flung upon their suffering
brethren. The army remains. If that he
like the police, disaffected to restrain or
murder their un-uniformed fellow-subjects,
the Revolution, long expected, has arrived.
The sympathy of their red-coated brothers
is all the common people of England await
before breaking their chains. Generally flic
soldiery has fraternised with the people
before the police have done so. If, then,
the police will not club the people and the
soldiers will not shoot them they are masters
of the situation.
# *•
Meanwhile the people suffer. Struggling
for the right to live, they are in peril of
perishing hy the very foe —starvation—which
they have taken up arms to escape. Arms !
Yea, the only arms available to them • the
arms of endurance, patience, hope—the hope
that their persecutors will endure loss firmly
the loss of pelf than they, the victims, will
endure sufferings and hunger thrice intensi-
fied. Now is the hour for the heavy-
pursed patriots of Australia. One hundred
thousand men of their own race, and a cor-
responding contingent of women and babes,
say, four hundred thousand—half-a-mil Hon
in all, are struggling for right, and like to
perish in the fight. Where are now the
enthusiasts who opened their hearts and
flung cheques of £lOOO into the collectors’
hands to help quell the Soudanese Arabs,
“rightly struggling to he free?” Is there
thirty thousand pounds in N ew South Wales
available for a massacre-fund and nothing for
a Liberty-fund ? Let our people listen for
the response and know who are true.
The Re-Institution of Religious Tests.
The New South Wales “ Freetrade and Liberal ”
Association last week held a series of meetings,
the style and tone of which can best be judged by
the fact that, of all the speakers, none received so
battering and marked a reception as that Mr. B.
R. Wise whose bumptiousness and flippant super-
ficiality have ensured him such cordial dislike that
at no openly-conducted meeting in Sydney can he
get a hearing. This gentleman was cheered to the
echo, round after round of applause greeted his
appearance on the platform and why? Because
he lately wrote, in an English magazine, an article
which re-sounded the top-note of that racial and
religious hate, the death of which would be the
doom of New South Wales Foreign-trade—that
religious hate on which Parker has ever traded,
and which he and Ids friends are endeavouring to
make the slogan of the coining general election.
Mr. Wise was greeted with frantic applause at a
“ Freetrade and Liberal” meeting, because he had
done this thing, and for no other reason. Men
who had grown grey in the service of the Free-
trade cause were received with cold welcome in
comparison to that accorded Mr. B. R. Wise. In
the eyes of the “Freetrade and Liberal ” Associa-
tion lie is the hero of the hour; he has wilfully
re-opened an old feud, which it is indispensable
for the welfare of Australia should be left to die
out as speedily as may be. The old and, we had
hoped, forgotten quarrel between Dutch William
and the Pope has been deliberately called into the
political arena to help the Freetrade party to keep
their slippery grip on the reins of _ Govern-
ment ; and the sectarians, now having their
thirst for quarrelling re-awakened, have succeeded
in becoming masters of the men they are supposed
to serve. They have thus driven those who pro-
fess to be their leaders but are really their ser-
vants —Sir Henry Parkes and Co. —into a position
utterly divorced from liberalism. They have
driven them into taking up a position exactly
similar to that of the old Tories whom the old-
time Liberals overthrew. Sir Henry Parkes, the
leader of the “Freetrade and Liberal ” party, the
“ broad-minded statesman,” the once Chartist and
Radical, lias publicly declared his intention of
doing a thing which is the first and most import-
ant step towards re-placing New South Wales
back in the dark ages of tyranny and religions
persecution—a thing which will make the “Mother
Colony of the Australian ” a by-word and reproach
among all truly Liberal communities.
In his speech the Premier of New South Wales
said :
He could remember the time when the members of
Nonconformist churches, the Wesleyans, the Indepen-
dents, and their brothers had not, the liberty to marry or
to be married. He remembered the time when a Roman
Catholic could hold no office under the British Crown.
. . . The whole world was changed—the English world
was changed—and the colonial world was changed. For
instance, the Roman Catholics were emancipated—the
Nonconformist churches could marry themselves, and the
children of England were fast acquiring an education almost
as good as that which the children of New South Wales
had. . . . How came it about ? All this work had been
done by the great Liberal party of England. (Cheers.)
He well remembered the struggle for the first Reform
Bill. Lest his hearers should think that lie was older
than he really was he would tell them that he was only a
boy at the time —but he had heard his dear mother say
that ho was a very good boy. Let that be as it would.
Good, bad, or indifferent, he entered into the grand agita-
tion for the first Reform Bill. He attended a meeting of
a quarter of a million of men. Over that stupendous
meeting there waved a thousand banners, and the pro-
cessions that came to form it had 50 bands of music. The
meeting was so large that in order to preserve order there
was a gigantic crown, fully 10ft. high, raised in the midst
of that immense multitude. He managed to squeeze near
enough to hear some few words from the speakers. It
was decided then to wear a badge and never take it off till
the Reform Bill became law. He was only 15 years of age
at the time, but he put on the badge—(cheers)-and he
never took it off till the Reform Bill became the law of
England. His friends, who never agreed with him, and
never supported him, and who never lost any occasion of
vilifying him, would be surprised when he told them that
the first petition that ever he signed was a petition for the
emancipation of the Roman Catholics, (Cheers.)
Sir Henry Parkes looked back with pride on
the day when he joined in an agitation to do away
with religious disability—to make all men free and
equal, leaving to each the right to think and be-
lieve as he liked without interference or question-
ing. Let ns see the position which, to his eternal
disgrace, he now, in his old age, leading the soi-
disant “ Liberal” party in New .South Wales pro-
poses to take up.
# # #'
In the New South Wales Legislative Assembly
last week, “ Uncle ” Abigail, M.P., (member for
Yellow Dog) delivered himself of a violent Orange
harangue, purposely to rally the Orangemen to the
side of his party in the coming elections. How did
Sir Henry Parkes, in his “ Liberalism,” treat the
matter? Did he arise and say that religions fends
and quarrels belonged to bygone ages of oppression
from which the Liberals had delivered England,
and that he, as a Liberal leader, meant to dis-
countenance any resurrection of those quarrels?
Not at all. The question brought forward was,
that at a certain State school there were more
Roman Catholic than Protestant teachers, and the
Liberal Premier said :
“ He maintained, that the religious beliefs of teachers in
public schools should be known. While he would consider
it a wrong thing to have an undue number of the Roman
Catholic teachers in these schools, he did not for a moment
object to Roman Catholics in proper proportion.”
This is the man who glories in the fact that the
first petition he ever signed was for the emancipa-
tion of the Roman Catholics ! The civil and reli-
gious liberty, the freedom of thought won for every
man by long years of patient striving and culmin-
ating in the Reform Bill, he now wishes to
overthrow. We do not propose to consider the
matter from the Protestant standpoint, or the
Roman Catholic standpoint, or from that of any
other creed; but, placing it on the only possible
democratic, basis, viz., the greatest good for the
greatest number, will it bo for the general good
to revive the practices of religious inquisition?
The question of .State action towards religion has
been asked in every country in the world, and the
answer, sometimes written in human blood, has
always been ‘ ‘ leave to every man complete free-
dom of religious belief.” In arriving at that
answer martyr-fires have burnt, and sanguinary
wars have been carried on from generation to
generation. But Sir Henry Parkes tells ns that
the question has not yet been answered in New
South Wales.
* * %
The moment an Inquisition is instituted into
the religions beliefs of individuals who desire em-
ployment from the State, old animosities, hypo-
crisies, and tyrannies are re-awakened. “In
proper proportions,” forsooth! The State in-
quires into no man’s religion, and must in this
matter neither set up nor know any proportions.
If there are to be “ proportions,” surely the Pres-
byterians will claim to be represented ; the Con-
gregationalists will demand a fair share of educa-
tional acknowledgment; the Hardshell Baptists,
the Jews, the Quakers, and the Shakers, will all
demand that a “ proportion ” of the Public School
teachers shall be of their denomination. There is
a large Chinese population in the colony. Is the
religion of Joss and Confucius, which has seen


The life of the Into Mr. Maybrick was
insured in the Mutual Life Co. of New York —
which company, by the way, is represented in
Sydney by Major Rennie - for .€2OOO, and at latest
dates the company had advanced several hundred
pounds to Mrs. Maybrick’s solicitors to defray a
portion of the cost of her defence.
other religions rise, flourish, and die, to be unre-
presented in the general religious strife ? What a
prospect for the youth of New South Wales —to be
educated by a collection of men selected, not on
the ground of fitness alone, but also on the basis of
a religious test! Better have again the old squalid
slipshod, beggarly Denominational School system
and have children taught at the public expense
to hate and curse each other lor the love of Gon
in the good, old-fashioned way. There is no
safety possible but in the present method-—paying
regard solely to ability, character, and experience,
utterly ignoring the religious beliefs of individuals
and sternly discountenancing any attempt to in-
culcate religious beliefs of any kind.
What necessity has been shown for the proposed
Inquisition ? If a man has brains enough to teach
in a secular public school he has brains enough to
know that inside its walls ho must leave religion
alone. A teacher who attempted to instil his
own beliefs into a child whose parents were of
another religion, would be an arrant fool. Children
babble, there are spies in every school as in every
camp, and any attempt at religious proselytism on
the part of a State-school master would be bitterly
resented, not only by the parents, but by the
authorities. The present Act gives power to
the religious pastors and masters to teach
the children of varying creeds during a certain
time each day, to hate and despise each
other, so that the days of the priest and the
parson may be long in the land. Sectarian
animosity need never die if only the priests and
the parsons are wicked and energetic enough to
keep it alive. The religious question has been
provided for by the only possible means, viz., by
shelving it as a State function, and allowing the
private bodies to teach it if they choose. As a
matter of fact the opinions formed at the parental
table are more deeply-rooted than all the doctrines
of the churches. The public schools are not in
danger any more than they are hotbeds of immor-
ality. If we allow the Test Act to be re-intro-
duced, permitting Inquisitional inquiry into the
religious beliefs of school-teachers, then we shall
have, ere long, the principle extended to all public
offices. This is the position in which Sir Henry
Parker has voluntarily and deliberately placed
himself.
* # #.
Only those who watch closely political affairs
know how dangerous the religious question is. It
blazes up on the slightest pretext ; it overpowers
men’s reason and urges them to follow blindly
leaders merely for the sake of “ the cause.” There
can be no peace and no prosperity for a nation
where a religions test embitters men’s minds, and
where the State takes cognizance of its units’
inner beliefs to their advantage or disadvantage.
We have had enough of old-world religious quar-
rels. The day of the Test Act and the Inquisition
belong to the long-buried past, and the leader who
re-introduces them will earn and deserve the
curses of all those who love their country and prize
intellectual liberty above all things.
# * #
Parker, considered as a statesman, is a sham.
Even as a copyist of other men’s good things he is
in a colloquial phrase, a “ fraud.” His loudly-
vaunted Education Act (framed for him by a
political ex-parson in whom the seeds of religious
rancour remained) is a botched and bungled copy
of the really democratic, free, secular and com-
pulsory Victorian Act. His fiscal system, osten-
sibly Freetrade, is nothing but a series of clumsy,
unscientific compromises between Protection and
the bounty system. He is a declared Liberal, and
yet, is attempting to revive the religious test; a
declared democrat, and yet was prepared to mow
down the Newcastle miners with Nordenfeldts; a
declared upholder of the British constitution, and
yet in denying to Chinese aliens their legal rights
under the flag, was prepared to defy the Supreme
Court of his country. An avowed hater of Sec-
tarian strife, he cheers the flourishing of “ the
bloody shirt.” A statesman who never did a
really original big thing which was not a political
crime; who never said a good thingwhich was really
his own, and never borrowed a good thing without
distorting it in the process of assimilation. No
man with equal brain-power ever had greater
opportunities; no man ever failed so utterly to
utilise his chances for benefiting his fellow man.
# # #
The Radicals of New South Wales have thus
had their duty mapped out for them by the
venerable humbug who, while posing as the
creator and guardian of a non-sectarian system of
education, shows his sincerity by encouraging among
the teachers those miserable religious quarrels
from which he pretends that he would have
the pupils and the community abstain. The
Public Instruction Act must be amended. It
must be made free, secular, and compulsory, and
amenable to the influence of neither pope nor
parson* Parker will, and at no distant date, be
forced to swallow the principles of the Victorian
Act which he spoilt in “cabbaging.” The State
School system of New South Wales must no longer
he utilised by illiterate cobblers and those for
whom they act as jackals as a means of raising
Kiama Ghost scares and winning elections on the
cry of Holy Roman aggression being a menace to
“ Protestant Ascendancy.”
A “Surprise” Claim.
Every now and then Society, weary of a mono-
tonous course of prescribed movement, demands
novelty. The careworn followers of fashion rebel
for a little while, and hungrily lapse into a perfect
spree of informality. The males throw off the
chains of lawn-tennis and dancing and billiards,
and sally forth to have a night of deep and holy
happiness in shifting signs, removing knockers,
and damaging any kind of unprotected property.
The females, blash with a formal round of card-
leaving, bored to death with archery, and haggard
from over-much opera, organise and carry out the
“Surprise Party,” which, of late, has desolated
homes and sown anguish throughout this country.
The motive of both kinds of dissipation is the
same ; the enjoyment is wholly derived from wit-
nessing, or gloating in anticipation upon, the
astonished dismay of somebody who has sud-
denly had injury done to him, and is help-
less to avenge it. The look on the face of
the man who finds that the rare flowers
and shrubs which he has grown and tended
with such patience have been dug up in the
night and Bathurst burrs planted in their
places, is worth seeing. So to those who do not
see a natural expression on the faces around them
once in a week is the look of the man who has had
notice of a call instead of a dividend on his shares,
or who has backed the wrong horse altogether, or
into whose house a bailiff or a mother-in-law has
secured admittance, or who is just on the point of
retiring to his miserable couch, when two or three
friends, whom he hates the sight of, and fifty
perfect strangers, arrive with baskets of sand-
wichesand incidentally mention that they are going
to take charge of his house for the night and enjoy
life.
The other day the Sydney papers published
some details of a “ Surprise Claim to Property ”
which describes the largest undertaking of the
kind above alluded to that we have heard of, only
in this case the object of the surprise is not merely
current enjoyment but future gain. Some 50
years ago one Isaac Nichols died, leaving 900
acres, most of which had come to him as a Crown
grant, to his three sons by deed of entail. At that
time there was no Registrar-General’s office, so
the deed of entail was registered “ by memorial,”
whatever that may mean. The three sons, it is
understood, agreed to sell, and the present holders
either purchased directly from them or from others
who did so purchase. Now arises a grandson of
old Isaac who feels aggrieved because his father
and uncles set aside the entail. He bases his
claim upon some legality or technicality which no
follow can understand and which we have no-
thing to do with. As affecting the case be-
tween the “surprise” claimant and the thoroughly
surprised holders of land which, we suppose, they
have paid for, we have not a word to say, and it
would hardly pay to say it if we had. But there
are other aspects of the matter. The present
N ichols may have legal or even j ust grounds of com-
plaint against those who broke through the entail,
but we are going to show how monstrous the
iniquity of the whole system that grants title-
deeds and entails is, and use this case for an illus-
tration.
4f*
The Single Tax advocates have already done
this. Speaking at North Willoughby (where part
of the land claimed is situated) Mr. Pox all put
the matter very plainly. In Pickwick it is shown
that the remark of one of the counsel that the
defendant was a slow-coach who would have his
wheels greased by the jury, was keenly appreciated
by one of them, who had that morning greased the
wheels of a cart. So Mr. Poxai.l was happy in
having an audience to whom he could dilate on the
injustice of a system of land-ownership which dis-
possessed the majority of men of their just in-
heritance, in that it contained many who had just
had writs of ejectment served on them. These
people he asked—
To consider what was involved in the claim of Mr.
Nichols, and what it was that aroused in their minds so
acute a perception of the injustice of that claim. Simply
this, that by the action of the residents, by their labour,
skill, industry and thrift—by the presence, in fact, and
the needs of population—a value had attached to the land
in question which Mr. Nichols, who had been away all the
time, had evidently done nothing to create. This value,
through a legal process which might or might not be
upheld, Mr. Nichols now desired to appropriate to his use
and benefit. In the manner in which this was proposed
to be done the moral wrong was very easily recognised.
Would it, however, have been so easily recognised had
Mr. Nichols’ claim never been disputed, and had he,
instead of coming now and demanding from them in a
lump sum the total fruits of their industry, simply
remained upon the scene all the time and have taken
from them in the form of rent the fruits of their industry
as they produced them ?
# * *
The North Willoughby land claimed is said to
be worth £300,000, but there are some 3| acres at
Surry Hills which the modern Nichols is also
going to have a try for, and the value of which
must bo enoi’inons. But we can affoi’d to confine
the examination we propose to make to the North
Willoughby property. We have no data from
which to gather the original value of the 580 acres
which was the grant to Isaac Nichols, but as it
could not have been much in those days it will be
the height of liberality on our part to suppose
that it was worth £1 per acre. Now it is
said to be worth over £2OO per acre, unim-
proved value. Why—because the labour of its
occupants has added that value to it? No —
simply because population has so grown that,
roughly speaking, for every one individual
who wanted to use that land then, 200 want to do
so now, and would bid against each other for its
use. If the growth of population had not gone on
from that time to the present, Isaac Nichols’
Crown grant would be worth no more to-day than
when it was allotted to him, except through im-
provement effected to it. That grant is now
worth, say, £116,000 (we are putting it considerably
under the true value). Pour per cent, on that,
which would be a very modest annual rental, in-
deed, would yield £4640 per annum. Reckoning
the wages of the average New South Wales wage-
slave at £3 per week (which is above the mark)
it would take the full earnings of 30 men to
pay the yearly tribute of unearned increment de-
manded by the owner or owners of that Crown
grant at the present time. He or they,
without any expenditure, without the exertion of
an hour’s labour or the contribution of a penny’s-
worth of value to the province, could call on 30 of its
workers to give up the whole of the produce of
their labour —in other words, he or they would
have 30 slaves more productive and quite as
tractable as those purchased at auction and driven
to work with goads and curses. White and
Christian slaves, he or they would have, who
would go to their work from year’s end to year’s
end under the impression that they were free, and
would occasionally devote a mite out of the land-
lord-tribute to go to the freeing and enlighten-
ment of that unknown quantity the heathen, who,
in his blindness, bows down to wood and stone.
That is what it amounts to—plain, unvarnished
slavery. They who drive may not see it, and
they who are driven do not see it, but there it is a
palpable fact. Give me a Crown grant of certain
lands, or let me buy certain lands, in a place where
the many who will come afterwards will want
land, and just in proportion to the number of
them will I take their earnings; just as their need
increases will I profit by it. Let us assume that
Mr. Nichols gets back that one part of the
estate alone, and assume, also, which is highly inl-
probable, that for helping him to do so the
lawyers do not take any of it, then he will have
established a claim upon the people of New South
Wales, without having given them anything in re-
turn, for an annual income, which will go
on increasing with every successive year. How
many such claims—how many thousand such
claims—are already established ? How many
Nichols are draining the life-blood of this and
every other country, and have been quietly doing
so for years without exciting remark or protest ?
Every landowner is a mute ? inglorious Nichols,
who, without the brilliant display and fanfare of a
Surprise Claim, takes what is not produced by
himself, and must, consequently, be produced by
someone else. So far as the community is con-
oerned it does not matter much whether he wins
or loses in what will undoubtedly be a cause
cdlebrc. In the first case one man will be entitled
to draw an enormous tribute from the industry of
this colony—in the other, a number of men will,
as at present, continue to divide it among them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Item Pensions.
Every year in every Australian Parliament this
item is attacked by one or more representatives.
It was seized the other night by members of the
New South Wales Assembly, and worried for half-
an•hour in the usual way. But what good comes
of these periodic protestations ? It is admitted
that the theory of pensions rests on an undemo-
cratic basis. Unless the labourer on the public
roads and the artisan at his bench are to receive •
State pensions after twenty years’ work, the Chief
Justice in full-bottomed wig, and the Under-
secretary in his cushioned mahogany chair, have
no title to pensions. Nevertheless, year after
year the pension list is enlarged ! Why do not
some of the financial reformer’s go beyond an '
annual protest and work for a Parliamentary law
to sweep away the present practice or to straighten
it out on the lines of equity and justice ? Only
the other day the New South Wales Executive '
Council approved of the settlement of £750 a year on
Judge Dowling. This official has been drawing a
substantial salary for a fair amount of work
these last 38 years, and since 1801 has punc- '
tually pocketed £1500 a year as a Judge of
the New South Wales District Court. Out of that
he might very Avell have spared something for the <
time when work would be irksome or old age |
incapacitating. At all events, if a tradesman or *
clerk, wdio had been in receipt of half the money !
over such a lengthened term, now threw himself a <
burden upon the State, he would be roundly de- ,
nounced as lacking the prime virtues of the valu- ,
able citizen. Sir Alfred Stephen stopped '
working as a judge nineteen years ago, and has *
been drawing £1820 a year as a pension ever since. •
Sir William Manning takes his £1820 for having i
once been a judge and £800 besides for having once ]
been a Solicitor-General ! Mr. Peter Faucett
also moves about the world with £1820 a year
goingtohis creditfor having administered law when
his health was good, and Mr. F. L. Merewether, ;
who was auditor-general thirty-three years ago, ■
has been collecting his little £900 a year ever since.
It is true that many of the pensions are drawn
under Imperial Statutes and the politicians of to-
day are blameless in respect to them, but when the
Governor and Council started a list they kept
close to the Imperialistic idea. The man who did
little and drew very large pay for doing it, re-
ceived the large pension, while the man who
worked hard and was paid badly, got the small
one. That is always the way. An ex-trooper gets
£9, an ex-surveyor £32, and an ex-under-secretary
£800 a year. Even when Imperial Statutes and
the Governor and Council stand aside and let
Parliament take a turn at the pension-list the re-
sult is fairly up to the old bad standard. Under the
N. S. W. Railways A ctlately carried Mr. Goodchap,
whose services were voluntarily withdrawn from
the department which that Act affects, was'given
£93710s. a-year as a pension for life. Life-pensions
are not in all cases to be condemned. Men may
be suddenly disabled in the discharge of their
duties, or may work for a lifetime for the public
good cm terms which at last the public recognises
as having been all along insufficient, and either a
lump sum or a pension becomes then due. That
idea is, however, different from the one lying at
the root of the present practice. A Chief-Justice
who receives £3500, or a puisne Supreme Court
Judge with £2600, or a District Court Judge with
£1500, should lay by for old age. Judges homilise
frequently on thrift; they should be made to
practise some of it in their own persons.
♦
The Great Tramway Job.
That highly respectable and influential affair,
the Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Company,
Limited, has issued its yearly balance-sheet.
During the joyous 12 months just concluded the
directors have paid four funny little incidental
dividends of three per cent, each on the subscribed
capital, and now they follow this 12 (3 x 4—12)
with a sinful 60 per shent, making in all 72 per
cent, per annum paid to those enterprising citizens
who had the public spirit, pluck, honest persever-
ance, &c., &c., to invest on this “moral”
provided for them by a bloated Corporation. Under
the blessing of Providence, a Municipal charter,
an Act of Parliament (which allows the privately-
owned tramways to compete with the State-
owned railways), and other glorious institu-
tions, the M. T. and O. Company, Limited, is
authorised to bleed the public of fares which
yield a golden harvest of 72 per cent, dividend on
capital invested- just as the Melbourne Gas Com-
pany, also with the connivance of Providence and
Parliament, is permitted to wallow in wealth at
the expense of consumers who cannot go to
another shop for their light. There is one
Tramway Company, and one Gas Company,
and the suffering community is their profit.
Bismillah ! Both concerns should be run
by the council for the citizens, with whom
it should be left to decide whether the pro-
fits were to be absorbed in reducing rates or
in lowering the cost of gas and tramway
travel. But, instead of this, a clique of private
capitalists are allowed to create monopolies and
bleed the common herd by Act of Parliament. Of
the two swindles the Gas Company is the lesser,
because its dividends —over and above 20 per cent,
or so—can only be slowly increased as the charge
for gas is slowly diminished. The Tramway
Monster has no conditions imposed upon it, and
will doubtless be drawing 200 per cent. divs. long
ere its 50 years of life have come to a wicked
end. For the information of wooden-headed in-
dividuals who may sneer at these remarks, and
who suppose “ it doesn’t matter ” (the popular
Australian creed), and that tramway-fares are
very moderate indeed, dontyerthink — for the in-
formation of such Ave will quote a feAV figures from
the M.T. and O. Co.’s balance-sheet. Total
expenses for the year, including allowances for
depreciations, debenture interest and sinking fund
amount to £349,379 3s. 3d. ; traffic receipts, being
total amount of fares charged at 3d., are £526,588
8s. Id., shoAving a net profit of £177,209. The
paid-up capital of the company is £250.000 only,
therefore we find that the travelling of the public
is yielding 70 per cent, interest on original
shares. That is not our point, however. At
a twopence halfpenny fare (lid. for children,
as hitherto) the traffic receipts avouW have
been reduced by not more than £77,000,
seeing an all-round allowance of one-sixth on
receipts merely means something under £88,000.
We will say £77,000 from £177,000 leaves a net
profit of £100,000, Avhich, according to Cooker, is
40 per cent, interest upon a capital of £250,000.
If fares on the Melbourne tramways had been
21d. this last year the good old virginal share-
holders might still have looted their 40 per shent.
It makes no diffei’ence to this great fact that par-
ties have since bought shares off the market at
high premiums, and are not making anything like
40 per cent, on their money. They might have
invested in anything else. What we Avish to drive
home is this : Every Melbourne man av ho uses the
tram twice a day is paying thirty fthillings a year
more than is necessary to return the original
speculators in this monopoly a dividend of 40 per-
cent. —and the Government ought be hit with u
brick.
4
The latest from Mr. David Christie Murray :
Britain is not a military power, but out of her populu
tion of 40,000,000 or thereabouts, she could, on a conscrip-
tion, raise an army of a million men. But it is not a
(|uestion of the army, for were England for one moment
in danger, there would he an uprising of the whole Eng-
glish-speaking race. Canadians, Australians, and Ameri-
cans, too, who would never see her suffer; and, as Mr.
I >israbli said, has she not an army in India which is
greater and stronger than those of all the European
nations put together?
Here is a reversal of the usual Imperialistic slush.
Britain does not, according to Mr. Murray, exist
for the protection of her colonies, -they exist to
protect her. How delightful ! What valuable
assistance? she will receive from the down-trodden
natives of India in case of emergency! Mr, Murray
makes the usual British mistake of thinking
that a tyrant, be he king or landlord, “ owns ”
and has the gratitude of the people he jumps upon.
If Mr. Murray's interviewers don’t libel him he
is a silly person who ought to renounce politics for
parlour-magic and forsake the fictional discussion
of big questions for the “ yellow-back” story -
writing which is clearly his mission.
4
The Imperial Parkin departed from Melbourne the
other day amidst the wheezy cheers of eight elderly
gentlemen flanked by an Argus reporter, their
combined efforts representing the voice of the
country on this melancholy occasion. Previously
a conspiracy was a-foot to work a popular demon -
stration over Parkin and send him off from
Spencer-street terminus with a wreath of laurels
round his skull. The original scheme included a
body of volunteers upon the platform, two brass
bands, a wild rush of citizens to get one last
lingering look at Parkin as the engine puffed
away, and a glittering denouement sweetened by
the strains of “God Save the Queen.” Put the
Imperial scheme crumbled to pieces and nothing
emerged from the ruins thereof, save those eight
antique persons held up by the reporter aforesaid.
The hat had been sent round with such feeble re-
sults that the Imperial agent got nothing better by
way of souvenir than a gold albert with trimmings
and a purse of sovereigns, the latter half of the
souvenir being so slight in bulk that the contents
have probably melted away in expenses ere this.
Sovereigns are but evanescent remembrances at
any time, and an empty purse is the merest
vanity. The presentation of this national tribute
took place in a bar-parlour attached to the rail-
way refreshment-rooms, where they drank
Parkin’s health and carefully primed up the
Argus representative, who gave vent to his grati-
tude in a full-length account of this dismal show.
After which Parkin was fixed up in a first-class
carriage and the asthmatic burst of enthusiasm
duly occurred. It was a ridiculous ending
to a ridiculous mission, but Parkin kept his
brazen pecker up and skited to the very last.
Gazing upon that octette of idolaters (not so
much as one K.C.M.G. was on the job) in that
bar parlour, he said, “When I came to Melbourne
some six weeks ago the utmost flight of my imagi-
nation could not have conceived a gathering such
as the present—-a gathering representing so much.”
Thus history is made. A few hundred old Tories
—honest enough in their ignorance, perhaps—
read the long Argus report next morning, and
said, “Splendid send-off they gave to Parkin, to
be sure; great gathering at Spencer-street station,
I’m rejoiced to find.” Posh! —also hah! We
were there and saw the miserable farce for ourself.
4.
For ten years past the Tory daily press lias been
drawing gruesome word-pictures of the wicked
Socialist —a villainous-looking creature sneaking
about Europe with bits of dynamite up his sleeve
and a twelve-inch dagger sticking out of Iris boot.
The desperado was represented in the act of wait-
ing for a favorable opportunity to blow up society
at large, and dance a double-shuffle upon the
heaps of slain. Usually the Tory press concluded
by thanking Heaven that the police had their eye
on him. Put, owing to a strange editorial over-
sight, the Arr/us printed this heresy last week ;
“It is reported that only the influence of Mr.
John Burns, the well-known Socialist, which is
used to restrain the men, prevents them from
breaking out into acts of violence, and saves
London from arson, pillage, and general turmoil.”
It must have been a staggerer for the venerable
supporters of the “leading journal” to find that
Burns wasn’t a bit like Guy Fawkes after all.
4
T ie Tories, now in power in England, are plotting
to bring about a war with France. The situation
is somewhat like what it was in 1789. The French
Revolution broke out, hailed by Fox and the
English Reformers. The Tories saw plainly
enough that England would enter upon Reform
unless something desperate was done. Burke by
his apostacy won the favour of the King. Ttie
cruelties of Robespierre, Danton, and Marat
were produced by the outside pressure of the
enemies of France attacking her, just as it might
be to-day. As early as 1795, Lord Howiok, after-
wards Earl Grey, brought forward a Reform mea-
sure in the Commons. The Government squelched
all this by joining in the crusade against France,
which lasted 20 years and cost 900 millions. It is
the game nowadays to start something of the same
kind, for otherwise the Tories see that Republi-
canism will become irresistible. Study current
affairs by the light of this—all the bogus sham-
ffghts, captures of Portsmouth, ■ Edinburgh,
London, and what not. What is the motive ?
Simply to stimulate a foreign war in order to
distract attention from domestic affairs.
Will Chief-Secretary Deakin, of Melbourne, ask
himself the question—Why he is of no weight in
Australia at large ? It is because he has missed
his tip. He ought to lead the Australian Party.
Instead of this lie has chosen to kootoo to the lin
perialists, and all the Half and Halfers. He talks
by the yard, but it is all pump-water. He tries to
play the same game as Chamberlain— sitting on a
rail. Deakin is supposed to lead the Victorian
Democrats. What has become of the old tradi-
tions? What would Heai.es, Wilson Gray, and
Ebenkzer Syme say to the limp style of Deakin?
Coalition! What do we want with Coalitions?
Let the people rule, not a mixture of the people
and the anti-people. The upshot is that the Con-
servatives really rule. Deakin is one, indeed. He
is very like the Hungarian patriot, Dkak, whose
backbone was so thoroughly drawn out in Austria.
There is about as much backbone in Deakin as it,
a necktie. Cannot Victoria produce a Man :
Why, they haven't even a Paekes ?


[?]
£46 Macquarie-strcet North, Sydney, September 4, 1889.
Mv T)kar Mooeabi.nda,
Did you know that looking pleased is considered awfully
atrocious form, just now ? The “ best” people—no matter
how realistic their false teeth may seem —never smile, and
in saluting acquaintances nod grimly in a severe, mercan-
tile manner; the old smiling bow is considered quite
townshippy, don't you know. Another fashionable whini
is lo carry the arms folded at places of entertainment
(not, so far, on the block)—a real chav-female fold, such as
Lillian Oilhuore engineers in “She Stoops to Conquer.’
lime our society damsels caught the idea from her?
And, in re the folded-arm fad, a little rhyme from a
masculine point of view suggests itself- -
Gov. Carington didn’t go to the Cabbage Garden after
all. An “urgent telegram*' recalled him to Sydneyand
sain ,■ Potts Point ladies would give their cars just to get a
glimpse of that urgent wire ! Some people arc so absurdly
curious !
Government House, Melbourne, is to be re-gilt at a cost
of £4OOO, against the Earl of Ilopetouu’s arrival, the sum
named being, suppose, the price of the paint that the
both children have kicked off. 1 wonder what Sir
lloinembor-mc-no-mofe Robinson will do when the work-
men are around. Fancy evolving a love-song with the
plumber on the immediate roof !
The frequency with which Australian Government
Houses require the paint-pot is somewhat puzzling. Is it
because our itinerant vice-regalities are fastidiously par-
ticular? or is it—which is far more likely—that the
heterogeneous throng who ever surge through the various
gilded portals, leave grease-marks wherever they rest their
heads? One Australian Governor always had the chairs
set a foot or so from the wall, and local sassiety used to
remark it and snigger. It was noticed, however, when
the usual repairs set in that they cost half the usual sum.
A large theatre-party of society people whom, as I in-
tend to remark upon, I will not name, recently descended
on to a cosy Sydney theatre. Most of the girls wore
white, though one lady—the chaperone—sported a cuirass
gown of black heading, and another black lace and moire
and scarlet poppies in her hair. But it was their free glad
tittering that petrified yours truly. I never thought to
live to sec a “ society ” pusson giggle behind her handker-
chief and wallop—very slangy, hut it's the only word-her
escort with her fan. And one damsel in the front row,
garbed in a white vestment and souvenir roses, would sit
in a bent-forward position, and as she was painfully decol-
Letts the effect was—er —Oleopatrian.
Some one asks— apropos of theatre-parties—how these
functions finish up ! In America—whence comes the
custom—the giver usually winds the affair up with a
supper, but in Sydney they end sadly enough. The girls
are bundled into their cabs or carriages—that’s all.
A recent trap to catch a boarder laid in the Sydney
Herald concluded with the surprising statement, “ bath
late dinner, 355., etc.” Quite the most ingenious way of
alluding to the all-pervading “extra” on record, isn’t it?
“35 shillings, etc.” And how that little etcetera does
mount up !
The excellent concert in aid of several distressed families
held in Mrs. Hoffuung’s ball-room, Potts Point, on 29th
nil. would have been even a greater success if it had not
commenced so late and had concluded a little earlier-
Amongst the stars who assisted were Miss Carrie Swain,
Kowalski, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Bracy, “Lucy” Allpress,
and Madame Beldam’, who, during the evening, perpe-
trated a little oration, thanking Mrs. Holfnung for her
invariable kindness, &c., and presenting her with a floral
fan of violets and snowdrops. The “gate” totalled over
sixty pounds.
At Kowalski's matinee benefit the other day, when Will
Stevens—mistaken by one misguided d.c. maiden for
Gilpin —in a derelict hat and a limp expression, wandered
on to the stage and blankly announced “I’m married,” a
voice from Olympia sympathetically responded “ You look
like it.” Marriage is a failure.
A Sydney Mormxg Herald scribe, in a long jeremiad
headed “With the Gods,” evolves the following chunk of
glowing fiction r
Far down below you see the comparative luxury of the
dress-circle, its soft light and colour, the shimmer of Silk
and the flutter of fleecy fans, and the frequent flash of
jewels. There are graceful forms in evening dress, of
young girls and their gentle mothers who have never been
brought into closer contact with the harsher realities of
life than they are now, just poised between the gallery
and the stage.
Quite old-worldy, isn't it ! I don’t know about the
“ young girls,” but I certainly regard the average Austra-
lian mamma as “aperfeot whale” on harsh realities. People
don’t accumulate lucre behind a city beer-engine or a
store-counter and yet retain a Verc de Yere ignorance of the
battered side of a threepenny-piece, do they ? And as for
the “shimmer of silk,” “ fleecy fans,” “flash of jewels,”
and all the rest of it—perhaps I go to the shows as often
as anyone, and it’s only one woman in a dozen I ever espy
who has a get-up worth spoiling paper about and who
doesn’t look as if she had borrowed her jacket and put it
on upside-down.
The Bessie Hoyle benefit concert, engineered by Miss
Frances Saville, netted the handsome sum of £lo4—a
draft for which will he forwarded to Miss Bessie by the
first mail.
I 'he ladies’ return ball to the members of the Western
b eventuated at West’s Rooms, Sydney, on 30th ult.,
3n about 70 couples “ took the flure,” which was ex-
dingly lively—many dull flops being audible through-
the evening. On the whole, the dressing was nice,
; some of the gowns were Pickwickian. I liked a Greek
e in cream cashmere, the draperies edged with gold
id and looped over a side-panel of yellow silk designed
*o!d braid, the hanging sleeves lined with gold silk
; a vestige of tournure— a gold girdle tied loosely round
i waist.
wonder why fat women always have their bodices the
htest fit procurable? One large person who adorns
Iney society cannot attempt to fasten her bodice un-
< d, and another holds her breath while Jane operates
the fastenings with a boat-hook. But why? Glove-
i reveal every inch of the figure and conceal no super-
ities. The very wisest style for fat women to adopt is
; loose and flowing, for then people cannot bo quite so
re which is outline. But when will they see this ?
V Silverton (N.S.W.) correspondent moans over the
mde-lmrlesque-like conduct of some leading ladies of
oken Hill who took deep tucks in their clothes and
rled sawdust to their stockings and performed at a local
ncert in aid of the Anglican temple. The show was a
wling success, of course, and is to bo repeated by en-
usiastio request.
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union sports at Sydney Associa-
m Ground on 31st ult. were spoilt just before the ten-
,lc flutter by the awful downpour which made yours
ily think she would require an ark to got home in. On
sloppy lawn the promenading was mainly relegated to
e men, who turned up their coat-collars and endea-
ured to “mash” the mass of femininity on the grand*
md from under borrowed umbrellas. 1 saw several nice
iwns, for the day had promised well. A cinnamon-
own cloth, the coat fronts opening over brown moire,
gh toque hat exactly en guile, and gloves to match. Two
dy-like gowns were of tailor-built dark blue cloth, small
ilor hats (these are very fashionable just now) simply
burned with a dark blue band. On the members’ stand
i Indian vcd-.cn Directoire, with bows and ends in the
out of white ribbon, the draperies edged with gold and
d galon. Some of the top-knots were rather atrocious,
ie girl sporting a gigantic structure ornate with bright
ue ribbon and orange-coloured flowers ; while a rather
>ugh damsel of, say, 40, balanced a baby-girl’s bat of
bite drawn nainsook and ribbon with long - ends hanging
i the rear. The sports went well—considerable fun being
rused in tire ten-mile race by a weedy cyclist in a crim-
m guernsey taking a header off his machine and-going
aout on the ground like a Catherine wheel all on account
i the cramps ; also when a gust of rain and wind sent the
and-stands over, the big drum bowling solemnly down the
wn with a bandsman in full cry before a grand stand
onbled up with mirth and inclined to bet on the drum,
ydney bicycle sports are to happen at the Association
round on 7th hist., when 1 hope we will he able to leave
ur umbrellas behind.
I hear that a certain pretty actress intends obliterating
er engagement with her (Melbourne) fiance, who insists
n her leaving the stage immediately, while she refuses to
reak faith with the managers. It looks quite a serious
uarrel, hut I suppose love will triumph as usual.
A big Brisbane drapery firm is piously rejoicing over
he well-advertised fact that their town-traveller is a real
ve Tistocrat. On (lit also that the sister of a very well-
uown Victorian squatter is about to supervise a frock-
uilding establishment on the Melbourne block - taking
eart of grace from the Labertouoheiah example, I
oppose.
It's a pity the Triumvirate won’t run their present
Sydney double bill for a month ; both pieces are delight-
edly successful. In the “Pirates of Penzance” Nellie
Itewart wears a lovely gownlet in the Empire-citwi-
Hrcctoire style. The skirt and Empress bodice are of
rhite cashmere pinked out at the foot, while the coat is
if ivory white brocade ornate with large oxidised silver
(uttons—white “Mabel ” hat swamped in white feathers—
i silver chatelaine—white gloves, and diamonds wherever
hey could be placed-a pretty picture even on paper,
sn’t it? I don’t like Leumane's Frederic, and I don’t
ike bis odd habit of staring fixedly into the boxes-or
possibly admiring friends in the wings—when he ought to
ict as if he were wrapt up in the “ Mabel ” or “Pepita”
re is spooning. Is it because ho can’t wear those inevit-
ible pince-nez behind the footlights ? And Fanny
Liddiard, I grieve to remark, is cultivating the Lilian Tree
prop. In “ Charity Begins at Home” it is mostly May
Pollard and our William. May makes a fetching Susan in
a, pink cambric frock, and her silvery singing in the
“ Twinkle Little Star” trio, and Elton’s biz with the pea-
shooter are worth waiting for. By the by, an ardent ad-
mirer of onr William in an.O.P. Box threw him a button-
hole the other evening, and as he picked it up he giggled,
“ Won’t ma be pleased?”
A great attempt is being made to supersede white visit-
ing cards by all sorts of fancy pasteboards, but it’s some-
thing to know that the idea doesn’t catch on, A card was
brought to me the other morning, such a marvel of gilt-
edging and flourishes that it took quite a time to get the
dazzle out of one’s eyes and unearth the name. These
horrors, however, are only used by country mayoresses
and so on, who seize upon every novelty under the mis-
taken impression that it is “the fashion,” while plain
white pasteboards will continue to be the k’rect card as
usual.
According to an English journal, Miss Cornwell is hav-
ing “ her biography written by a leading journalist (Phil.
Robinson, we presume) under her own supervision.” I
should think so. Boulanger may be a Republican, but
perhaps a too-prosaio account of how the fair Alice ran
the “Clarence” would make the “ Here, d'or’’ a little less
pleasant to lunch in.
Lord and Lady Carington have been married eleven
years—yet it was only the other day that the Chapel
Royal, St. James’s, where the ceremony came off was again
utilised for a marriage, this time for the “splicing” of a
simple “Mister” and “Miss.” What a sacred person the
Baron must be, to be sure! We shall never, until he
leaves Australia, be fully aware of the awesome regard
in which he is held in the centres of civilisation.
It’s a curious fact that when a woman bounces into one
of the fitting-on boxes at our common friend the frock’
builder’s—where the doors hang open and the partitions
are singulary airy- she immediately discovers her defects
and deformities, as if the attendant were in the next
street. What naive confessions I have been forced to over-
hear and from people with much a reputation for genuine
figure ! One woman I could mention has to be padded
from her shoulder down to her waist to make her even—
she told me so herself unconsciously ! Another wears a
shoulder-pad for an “ unnatural depression in the bone,”
and slates her frock-builder for not putting more wadding-
in the sleeves of her last gown at a pitch of voice quite
audible next door. Yet another asks with a howl if her
soissors-and-pins genius would advise her to leave off her
false frontal development when she wears a blouse. Oil,
dozens of such little confidences are forced upon the
woman who awaits her turn in the ante-room of a success-
ful city dressmaker. Considering this fatal feminine habit
I shouldn’t advise Juliet to bring Romeo to wait while she
tries her gowns on. In his enlightened despair he would
probably flee downstairs and elope with a show-dummy,
A oreepy-crawly ghost-story is being whispered just
now about a house recently occupied by a “ doctor ” who
suicided. Footsteps are alleged to go down the stairs—
along the hall and into the surgery, where there is a sound
as of a blind being pulled down—every night, at the
regulation ghost-hour of twelve. The sceptical medico
who inhabits the house has watched to see if any appari-
tions appear, but nothing is visible, though the footsteps
are quite distinct.
I wonder if it is the rumour of the monotonous Austra-
lian inverted-saucer bust that has attracted to our shores
a lady medico, who heads a startling advt. with the
obvious truism, “Women may be beautiful. The bust
may be developed? ” I bear she has far more patients
than she knows what to do with, and the bales of cotton-
wool that strew the floor of her sanctum after a successful
seance with a thin society girl are enough to prove what
a iong-felt-want is. When she isn’t encouraging an arti-
ficial embonpoint 1 hope she will turn her attention to the
yawning “salt-cellars” of Australian beauty, and if, at
the same time, she could subdue the imposing knots on
society's spine she will indeed have done a noble deed.
By the. by, “Women may be beautiful,” is rather good,
isn't it ? Seems as if we in Australia have so little experi-
ence of the article that we required guarded encourage-
ment, as it were.
Quite the latest thing in correspondence is to indite your
notes, invitations, and such like in gold ink. It has a
very pretty illuminated effect, especially on dark paper,
and is best used with a broad nib. The much-talked-of
white ink hasn’t caught on all.
Masculine fashions are to obtain this summer, and the
brother of the fashionable girl will have to keep a tight
hand over his shirts. Feminine loveliness, on the whole,
doesn’t assimilate with a starched front. For one thing,
the girl—and, oh, please let her always be a real girl !
who wears it must have the very slimmest of figures, and
the woman of the apoplectic pin-cushion shape must shun
it as she would large checks. Small sailor-hats and short
coats will be the correct wear for the shirt costume,
which, though it should only be worn at the sea-side, and
far from the madding crowd generally, will, of course, be
largely represented on the block.
Clara writes me from Melbourne that the local Govern-
ment House was a scene of splendour all last week. On
Tuesday the Kintores arrived from Adelaide and were
trotted round to a mixed variety of shows ranging from
camelias to agricultural implements..- The vice-regals put
in one drowsy evening at the Town Hall listening to the
new National Orchestra, and another at the Princess’s
with “Captain Swift,” a piece which didn't appear to
favourably impress the noble visitor from South Australia,
although he was palpably impressed in his solemn way
by the reckless profusion of powdered shoulders in
the circle. Clara describes Kintore as a long, stiff,
“ sawney ” kind of young man, straight and mili-
tary, but decidedly gauche in bis movements. She
fails to see bow he can be very fetching in a kilt, or
anything else. The Countess didn’t strike anybody dumb
with astonishment either, so the stories about her grace
and beauty must bo taken in a vice-regal sense, I suppose.
From the same source I learn that the exhibition of
“ Impressions at Buxton's Art Gallery gave great satis-
faction to the little crowd who assume to represent higher
culchaw down South. Pictures were mostly crazy enough
to (hid plenty of purchasers, and the little room was
dressed out in really tasty style. The management pro-
vided I o’clock tea, net to mention musical afternoons,
and the grouping of love-sick maidens round the presiding
Bunthornes was intensely harmonious or sickening—just
according to taste. An “ impression ” which was a work
of art, without any nonsense about it, caught a customer
in Lady Clarke, but most of the other sales (more than
half the whole collection went off) might be attributed to
certain people’s eagerness to do what was vaguely under-
stood to be the correct thing.
Some young men regard marriage in a strange light. A
Sydney hostess told me that she recently extended an in-
vitation to dinner to a young man of her acquaintance,
who duly accepted it. The day came but the youth didn’t ,
and in bis place a note saying that he was “too ill’’
turned up. Imagine the lady's surprise when, next week,
she saw the announcement of his marriage on the same
day as her dinner-party !
Yours Affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Parkes’ address on “True Liberalism'’
should be labelled “An address on True Egotism.”
Parkes siys that the New South Wales
public schools are “not secular schools but merely
non-sectarian. ’’ Just sufficiently secular to “dish
the Romans,” in fact?
Evangelist Varley says there is a great deal
of immorality in the N.S.W. public schools. Such
a statement, but a choleric word on the part of a
Varley, is flat blasphemy when it comes from a
Higgins.
I British Royalty is German to the back-
bone, and German it will remain. Its princesses
retain their prerogatives by marrying the Coburgs,
Tecks, and Battenbergs, and forfeit them when
espousing British peers.
“What does this sectarian cry mean 1 ?”
asks Parkes. It means, Henry, that you are get-
ting ready for a general election, and that Abigail
is the cat whom the monkey gets to pull the chest-
nuts out of the fire for him.
One of the leading N.S.W. Foreign-traders
says (in print) that those who identified themselves
with Henry George on account of Freetrade need
not identify themselves with him on the Single
Tax question disinterested friendship !
G. H. He id says that the Pennsylvanian
miners work on broad and molasses with meat only
once a week. Now men can’t work as coal-miners
on bread and molasses ; therefore there are no
miners in Pennsylvania, and consequently no
mines. QE D.
The Now South Wales Crown Solicitor’s
pay, as stated .in the Estimates, is £lOOO a year,
but now it appears that “in cases where costs are
recovered against clients the Crown Solicitor
pockets them, and that in cases where the Crown
loses the Crown has to pay the costs.” Mr. John
Williams is a good lawyer and so on, but it would
be just as well for people to knowhow many thou-
sands a year he does make. If his screw is £lO,OOO
a year don’t let us call it £lOOO. It looks so mean.
Mr. Vivian, who “mags” so much at the
N.S.W. Freetrade holiness meetings and love-
feasts, and who is already canvassing St. Leonards
with an eye to Parliament, is a good-looking,
nicely-barbered young man with a shiny hat and a
peaky beard. He has a jaw that nothuig can
humble, and is _ a brother-in-law of Canonbar
Allison (Protectionist), with whom he has a
deadly political feud, which is either the cause or
the outcome of a personal quarrel. The dream of
our life is to see a N.S.W. Boiled Shirt Ministry,
consisting of Bruce Smith, George Reid, B. R.
Wise, Mao Million, Dick Teece, Jawbone Neild,
(who has just discovered that, after all, he really
docs believe in Foreign-trade), and John Haynes—
a Ministry which, as it would wear nothing but
“ samples, ” would be the Barber’s Joy and the
Tailor’s Pride, and would be represented in the
Upper House by K. Burdctt Smith, Esq.
To see a row of blushing girls
With folded arms o’er laces only—
In the dress-circle's half light mellow-
It's quite enough to make a fellow
T'ccl desperately snubbed and lonely !
oh ! row of folded pink-armed elves
Why waste embraces on yourselves ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Dorothy.”
Her Majesty’s “ Julius C'sesar."
Criterion 4< The Silver Shield.
Opera House “ The Beggar Student.”
Gaiety “ Old Curiosity Slioy).”
Gyclorama “Battle of Gettysburg.”
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Harbour Lights.
Opera House “ Fun on the Bristol Co.
Princess’ 44 Jriclv-i J->ox.
Atiien/euji Hall SnazelK
/ “ Romeo ana Juliet ;
Alexandra \ .. Rip Van winkle.”
St. George’s Hall London Pavilion Co.
Gyclorama “ Battle of Waterloo.”
That tuneful satire on ancestral pride,
police efficiency, &c., the “Pirates of Penzance,”
has occupied the Sydney Royal stage during the
past week, and will be hustled off this week by
“Dorothy.” These “noblemen who’ve gone
wrong ” have not looted Sydney to any extent
since Alice Rees and Verdi assisted Maggie Moore
and Howard Vernon to make the operation suc-
cessful. As old friends they were welcome, but
the piece does not compare favourably with the
later structures of its architects. After the hard
work of “ Pepita ” —withdrawn chiefly, we
imagine, out of merciful consideration to her
Nellie Stewart, as Mabel, had a comparatively
easy task, and answered admirably to all
demands, though in one effort the numer-
ous vocal frills that adorned her ascent to a
high note seemed an ingenious protestation against
the severe simplicity of her costume. ■ _ As Majah-
General, Howard Vernon was quite in his
element, but Ins performance requires neither
description nor criticism in an Australian journal.
The Frederick of Mr. Leumane, vocally con-
sidered, was pleasing, but the colloquial
provincialism, that sat admirably on the ignor-
anius Inigo, marred the utterances of the
scholarly and cosmopolitan pirate. Fanny Lid-
d ard’s sacrifice of facial charms was scarcely ruth-
less enough to make her assumption of the piratical
maid of all work a complete success —in other
hands the part has attained greater prominence.
The Pirate' King of Walter Mai nock was of such
giant proportions and tameless ferocity that even
his own voice trembled before him. All the
minor characters were creditably assumed. The
lame and impotent conclusion of the performance
by the rising of a brawny-limbed Britannia out
“'of the azure (canvas) main" to the tunc of
“ Britons never shall be slaves, as a
jest, is feeble, while, seriously regarded, it simply
makes folks tired.
* * *
“ Charity thinketh no evil, therefore, con-
ceruing “Charity Begins at Home, it may be
well to say little, as it cannot be “puffed
up.” The “Joe” of Mr, Elton alone saves
this “charming musical proverb’ from being
engulplied in a yawn of Caringtoman pro-
portions. William evidently considers that, as. the
son of the beadle in charge of the stocks, he is en-
titled to make free use of the gag. Helen Kin-
naird. May Pollard, and Messrs. Johnson and
Rigby make the most of their limited opportuni-
ties. The most successful musical number was
the “Twinkle, twinkle” trio, where the prompt-
ing business, if not quite original, is sufficiently
novel to be regarded in that light.
* » *
The English Opera season, opened at bydney
()peraHouse with the sparkling “Beggar Student,”
will be fitly closed by its reproduction. The cast
is considerably stronger than before, though
Madame Lablache is much missed. As Laura,
Lilian Tree holds her mannerisms in abeyance
and pleasingly depicts the haughty yet loving
maiden. That indefatigable little woman, Miss
Flora Graupner, makes the most of her oppor-
tunities i her duet with Opalinski in the third act
is a vocal gem*. The vocalisation and enunciation
of Mrs. Bracy as the proud and impecunious
Countess Novalska arc faultless, but her conception
and representation of the grand madam is faulty,
particularly in the minuet where her exaggeration
of the attitudes of that most graceful of all dances
compels Ollendorf (who has a comic part) to over-
burlesque his travestie —and thus is overstepped
the narrow line that divides the hnmorously-pos-
sible from the ridiculously-improbable. In the
name part Mr. Bracy is admirably suited; m
every particular he is the devil-may-care, merry,
good-hearted Bohemian, and when we overheard a
nrj r | evidently delighted with bis mode of making
love - fervently style him “a dear,” we felt that
more could not be said for him in a volume. the
Opalinski of Knight Ast n is impassioned
in the love scenes and otherwise creditable.
Our old friend John Ford, as Colonel Ollendorff,
takes advantage of a strongly-accentuated part to
efface his marked individuality. The Ouuphne ot
Mr. W. Steven, previously faultless, is now some-
what unduly obtrusive. The Schnapps of Mr. A.
Farley is an improvement on that of Ins prede-
cessor, and the parts allotted to the Misses Stuait
and Brooks, Messrs. Gassier and Hall are coui-
mendably ponrtrayed. At the end of next wee v
the company proceed to occupy the roomy Mel-
bourne Alexandra, where glory waits them.
-;if -:ic- &
“Julius Caesar,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
is a spectacular triumph. Not the Emperor as an
individual; but the whole show, including tlio
forked lightning, the milker’s calves, and the gory
cadaver on the hand-barrow, which does duty fen
J Ciesar what time the management is bringing
him round with whisky-and-soda, after he has been
punched full of holes in the senate. George
Rignold’s day out is divided between Ins orations
in the Capitol and in the Forum; the latter tor
choice. The Forum scene would inevitably have
reminded anv returned Austral an who mG
have chanced to be tonring in Rome on that o -
cas : on, of a suburban land-sale with a free tmu-ii,
or a meeting of the unemployed at the stattoo
listening to the silvery periods of the «
Jones ” and the “ keystone of the democratic ami,
the whole-souled member for
O’Sullivan, we mean. And, ap-opot ot statue - ,
there is one in the square just behind Mark Antony,
erected in honour of the Wellington of the per.od,
the afterpart of whose horse fades as suddenly m
the perspective as did the Freetrade majoii y
last N.S.W. general elections As niany of tb,
glories of ancient Rome as could be gottogei
m Sydney are collected at Her M ajesty s, but ai
this trouble about Caesar occurred so y
that neither he nor Brutus nor some of the otn
conspirators had time to get a new set o - - j Jt)
teeth from the only American dentist tlien , " y
city, and it is probable that the pages f
would have been dabbled with more g°Vy. ss j u3 ,
the clear enunciation of Marc Antony and - ■ ■
who happened to do most cf the talking- ’
taken on the half-shell as a solid block of 1 ■ 1 >
blasted out of the pages of Shakespeare by D e *>


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND W
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. 3ML MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, Sec., Scc. f
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties.
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which ho will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. |3?" A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 OEOROE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
Kignold’s own self, it beats the southern record up
to date, and will probably continue to do so until
a fresh gust of ambition and a falling-off in the
receipts rouses him to another gigantic effort.
* * * *-
The success of Miss Yon Finkelstein’s
Sydney series of lectures has been interrupted by
that lady’s indisposition. She has been ordered
by the prophet Elisha —we mean her medical ad-
viser —to retire to the summit of Lebanon —we
mean the Blue Mountains —for recuperation.
* * * %
Miss Von Finkelstein will step from the
platform into the pulpit next Sunday, when she
will preach in the Centenary Hall, Sydney, in aid
of the Boys’ Home, of which (also of the Sydney
Lancers) Baron Carington is Commander-in-
Ohief. This is a purely disinterested act of the
Daughter of Zion, for she has no boys of her own.
* * * «
Mr. Fred. Hiscocks is now in Sydney
making arrangements for the appearance of his
European novelties in that city. The Electric
Orchestra ; the Midgets ; the monologuist,
Snazelle; and the London Pavilion Company are
all at present running to good business in other
capitals, and if report speaks truly they are bound
to captivate the support of Sydney also.
* * & *
“The Old Curiosity Shop,” as staged at
the Gaiety, in spite of the critics’ carping pre-
serves the story’s main features as closely as stage
requirements, and the necessity for giving pro-
minence to the Little Nell and Marchioness of
Miss Katie Putnam, will permit. By the way, a
contemporary pays the lady a doubtful compliment
by stating that “ Her American accent is so pretty
and fetching that the audience greet her through-
out with rapturous applause.” We prefer to con-
gratulate her on the way her Amurikan twang is
huddled out of hearing, and feel convinced that
the Curio Emporium is destined to grow in public
favour. Next week we shall be able to deal more
lengthily with the production.
At Ultimo, the bright, well-ventilated
Metropolitan Skating Panic continues to accom-
modate well-behaved crowds.
# * 5$ &-
The partially-cremated Skinner resumes
business, during the repairs of his incinerated
establishment, at the Crystal Palace, York-street,
where Elite season-tickets will be acknowledged
on presentation.
# # #
“She Stoops to Conquer” continues to
charm at the Criterion, and will be ousted by a
“Silver Shield” this evening. We met a horse-
reporter there the other evening, who suggested
that the piece might be brightened up if Tony
would substitute “Ballyhooly” for the “Three
Jolly Pigeons,” while his Pa and Ma danced a jig
in the Hardcastle mansion for the entertainment
of their visitors. In this connection it might be
remarked- that Goldsmith wrote a song for Miss
Hardcastle entitled “Ah, me! When shall I
marry me?” to the tune of the “Humours of
Balamagairy,” which has just as great a claim to
inclusion as that sung by her step-brother at the
hostelry.
* * & »
The hairy Jo-Jo and his friend, the woolly
Albino—-who, between them, offer cosy alternative
residences to Übini’s tame fleas —still hold levee at
the Waxworks.
-* -* * *
The shilling-Sunday at the Cyclorama
never fails to fill the platform to overflowing, and
orchestration, interspered with vocalisation, draws
large houses on week days.
# *
Lack of patronage has compelled the
Frolics to evacuate Sydney Academy. The show
was deserving of better things.
* * » #
Mesmerist Kennedy has entered his third
week at the School of Arts. Joe Brown is tired
of counting the money.
* * # 4ff
The Opera House Co. give a matinee
benefit to Johnny Solomon, Friday next, 13th
Sept., at the Criterion.
« * * *
“Jackin the Box” bobbed up serenely
before a large attendance at Melbourne Princess’s
last Saturday. It appears to be a venial crime in
four quarters, containing passages of crowded sor-
row intersected by comic songs and sinfulness,
the whole concern lying prostrate at the mercy of
one small boy who dances on its conflicting
emotions until virtue comes out best. The male
midget is encouraged in his desperate enterprise
by the remnants of a circus professor, and, as the
result of their labours, somebody is constantly
escaping from somebody else, and an infuriated
mob bursts open a cardboard booth with a batter-
ing-ram in order to strangle an Italian padrone.
This hurdy-gurdy farmer is generally playing up
with creation in a big, bade kitchen, where waifs
and strays from Italy frolic under his instructions,
except when he puts them in a cupboard and pelts
them with bits of broken English. The lurid
foreigner, however, calls for most reprobation on
account of his insane resolve to worry a harmless
old buffer with a revenge of many years’ standing,
which causes the elderly pigeon to be con-
stantly escaping from a “ trap,” and ask-
ing what he shall do now. A thoroughly
bad character is this organ - grinder im-
porter, but the boy gets him properly hanged in
the long run. The old buffer’s only daughter is a
nioe girl, and when she kisses the cheek of the
rorty infant aforementioned he collects the dews
of her endearment on his fingers and licks ’em like
a boa-constrictor. A superior type of monster in
new clothes is also largely interested in trapping
the ancient parent, while a quantity of minor
characters take sides in the struggle and provide a
moving background for the superhuman kid.
There are sufficient flashes of method in the mad-
ness of this work to betray the ingenious hand of
G. 11. Sims. He wrote “ Jack-in-the-Box ” for a
sprightly Jewess named Fanny Leslie, a lady who
can turn somersaults and Catherine-wheels and
walk on her head. Miss Jennie Lee seems want-
ing in these particulars, but otherwise she is a
bright and winsome realisation of the author’s
dream, and especially commendable is her evident
willingness to let other people have a show when
their turns come. Mr. Walton takes advantage of
these liberal opportunities to discharge musty
wheezes with deplorable success, and Mr. Herbert
Flemming will be a striking organ-grinder when
he works up his lingo. Mr. J. H. Olyndes lays on
the villainy with a bold, full brush, as usual and a
largo residue is more or less first-class. _ T he ad-
vertised twelve nights ought to see this matter
fairly through, all the same and notwithstanding.
* * iff #
Another crowded congregation swooped
vown upon a revival of “ Harbour Lights ” at the
Royal, and sniffed the odour of brine from tire
ocean with patient endurance. “Harbour Lights”
was a lucrative production some years ago, and
may be expected to yield another bountiful crop
of “ oof” this harvest, yet there is no getting away
from the stupidity of the gilded reprobate who
cha-.es a maiden round his drawing-room when he
knows perfectly well that a third person is hiding
behind the curtains with vindictive designs. The
hollow intensity of that false situation iswell sus-
tained, however, by Mr. Sass and Miss Clara
Cowper, either of whom might win a Sheffield
handicap from scratch if they were fairly on the
job, Mr. Sass’s early death at the hands of the
third person is a severe loss to the play, but there
is nothing much to complain about in connection
with those who live on, after incidentally mention -
tinning, that Mr. Wilmot Eyre might as well die if
he wants to. Mr. Bucklaw lacks Phil Beck s
dimple in the heroic character, and Boyce scarcely
wipes out remembrances of plain Billy Elton. On
the other hand, the fair Miss Edith Blande appears
to advantage as Lina Nelson, and Miss Aggie
Kelton, seen for the first time out of comic opera,
suggests an angel who has left her halo on the hat-
stand. The scenery and Captain de Burgh are
also beyond description, the roaring waves make a
horrible row at times, and realistic doses of salt
sea spray are chucked about regardless of expense.
# *
Widely O’Brien is still Avinking her wicked
old eye at Melbourne Opera House, and “Wages
of Sin,” at the Alexandra, has lifted Mr. Dam pier’s
company in public estimation, inasmuch as every
member of the crowd, from the drooping Lily
downwards, shines more than usual in this closely -
Avritten drama. It comes to an honourable end
this (Thursday) evening, and to-morrow Miss Lily
takes her first Melbourne benefit in “ Romeo and
Juliet,” to be produced on an exaggerated scale of
splendour for one consecutive night. Then, on
Saturday, an American actor, Mr Robert M‘Wacle,
Avill try to galvanise the corpse of “Rip Van
Winkle ” into life once more, rumour asserting
that M‘Wade is better than Jefferson in a dif-
ferent style. It is to be hoped that he doesn’t
take so long about it, anyhoAV. Meanwhile, Mr.
Dampier AvithdraAvs his forces from the Alexandra
for a Avhile and if the landlord of this once desolate
temple has any sense of the fitness and things, he
Avill take the present opportunity to bless the im-
prover of his property. A year ago there seemed
no hope of ever getting a tenant avlio could liA’e
through a three Aveeks’ season.
-;l;- « * *
Mr. Snazelle grows in favour at the
Athenaeum, as a man of such enlightened vieAvs is
bound to do if they only give him time. His cul-
tivated voice begins to reneAV the vigour of other
days, Avhen he Avas a leading feature of the first
English Opera Company Avhich the late Carl Rosa
introduced to London. The all-round readiness of
Snazelle is such that in place of Nazareth he
noAV sings “ The Fine Old English Gentleman,”
and the limelight is duly turned on to that over-
rated relic of a period Avhen fine old gentlemen
drank till they couldn’t see and used to die of fall-
ing over the bannisters. In other places the pro-
gramme has changed, but Bill Adams keeps on
Avinning Waterloo in a canter, and the Cyclorama
people think of putting Bill into their battle-scene
straightaway.
-& % * -&
Jolly Nash and Co. are fairly in it at St.
George’s Hall, and the Royal Museum is continu-
ally invaded by fresh monstrosit’es with inhuman
names, but the unappreciated Jensen entertain-
ment knoAVS the Victorian Hall no more after
Friday.
»# # #
On Saturday afternoon (Sept. 7) a farewell
benefit to the Majeronis comes off at Melbourne
Royal, when those admirable artists will be aided
and abetted by as much of the cream of the per-
fesh as can crowd into this deserving occasion.
And —with an earnest desire to inflame the popular
imagination beforehand —Ave beg to mention that
His Excellency, also the Mayor and other un-
paralled attractions, will be there at the time.
5K- #- # *
“ Jolly ” Nash and W. J. Eaton were pre-
sented with pleasing mementoes on leaving London
for Australia. The Avriter remembers “Jolly”
Nash 25 years ago ; he Avas then a broad-faced,
large-mouthed, shoAvily-attired person, Avith dark
mutton-chop-Avhiskers, Avhich might have been
false, and his style of bawling songs was strongly
brought before us the other day as we listened to
another London vocalist in an Australian hall.
* * #
A Melbourne skit, purporting to be pas-
sages from a loyal play, “The Girl Queen,”
written by an Australian named Garraway, has
been received in sober earnest by the English
press, which cut leaden jokes at the fictitious
Garraway. But although the English press Avas
badly “had” in this instance, it can be forgiven
for imagining Australian loyalty guilty of any
stupidity. The loyal leading-articles of this un-
happy country are asinine enough to justify a
belief that we Avould swallow ten drivelling plays
about the Girl Queen.
*# # *
A prominent London musical-hall per-
former, who recently Avas appearing nightly at a
West End house, is a leper. What a dreadful
creature he must be ! Leprosy superadded to a
flaming red necktie ! The typical London music-
hall comique is a bull-necked brute with pig-eyes,
thick legs, and tight trousers, who alternately
belches forth, in a rasping voice, “patriotic”
blather and witless, ungrammatical dirt. Being a
cad, he can’t help dressing like one. If he escapes
becoming a leper it is because he dies of drunken-
ness before his time, or because the leprosy escapes
from his system, per medium of his comic songs,
and is distributed among the people who are so
dull and stupid as to pay to hear him.
-;K- * # -X-
Melbourne is to have a good dose of Ibsen.
Janet Achurch and Charles Charrington are at the
Princess’s Avorrying up rehearsals of the “ Doll’s
House, their stupendous London success, although
it was produced at a theatre with far inferior
resources to the Melbourne Princess’; so that
Melbourne is to see a much finer production than
London. Genevieve Ward and W. H. Vernon
have produced another of Ibsen’s plays in London,
the “ Pillars of Society,” and the success is great.
So it is evident that Ibsen will take up a London
position rivalling that of Sardou and Dumas. Yet
the profession universally condemned his plays
as unactable. The whole series of them Avill hoav
be brought forward. The most terrible is called
“Ghosts.” Even the French stage has not been
able to stand this play, which demonstrates lioav
the punishments of the fathers are visited on the
sons. A mass of literature about Ibsen now floods
the magazines. Only about a quarter of his writ-
ings are translated into English. His magnificent
poem of “ Peer Gynt ” is compared to Goethe’s
“Faust,” and is the Scandinavian epic. Ibsen
lives mostly in Rome. Mrs. Grundy just drove
him out of his native Norway.
At Poverty Point.
Blanche Fenton (Mrs. Lusoombe Searelle) is about to
leave the South African stage. The burthen of Lus-
combe’s dedication to the “Dawn of Death ” has probably
been too much for her.
Amy Fenton, Lusoombe Searelle’s sister-in-law, intends
to study in Italy ere returning to Australia. Verdi has
joined the company.
The Oockney comic-singer is also entertaining “culti-
vated and refined audiences ” in New York. Thus:—
“ E’s all right when you knows ’im
But ’e’s ’i.sty when'’e’s ’wexed,
’E’ll black your eye one minute
And ’e’ll stand a pint the next.
’E wouldn’t ’urt a biby,
’E’s a chap as you can t rust,
’E’s all right when you knows 'im,
But you got to knows ’im fust.”
Beautiful, isn’t it !
“ Inigo Tyrrell and Marcus Clarke’s five-act Anglo-Aus-
tralian ‘His Natural Life,’ was presented to a large and
appreciative audience at the Third Avenue Theatre (New
York) on Monday.” Inigo Tyrrell and Marcus Clarke!
Ye gods !
An American paper says that ‘ 1 Milly Palmer takes a
tramp through the woods every morning.” This is a novel
form of amusement; but does the supply of tramps never
give out ?
They are very old and wrinkled at the elbows. Corpse
de ballet about fits them.
A N.Y. museum has secured the services of a young
man who lunches on tenpenny nails, and finishes off the
repast with tacks.
Somebody has written a play called and
Fiend.”
A certain diminutive Australian actress, whose husband
is a veritable giant, enjoys among the profession the repu-
tation of being a thorough little bully. On one occasion
this fairy began to upbraid a sister actress at a rehearsal.
“ I won’t stand your bullying, I tell you,” said the actress,
sharply. “ You needn’t think you have Mr. —— to deal
with now.” Poor Mr. , who happened to be in the
wings, had to be “assisted out.”
Dramatist Sardou is a “ collector of conversations.”
The most business-like of playwrights, he makes it a point
to record the sayings of those with whom he comes into
contact. His powers of memory are wonderful, and he
jots down every night the leading feature of the conver-
sations he has heard that day. Thus he has always on
hand a stock of life-like chat, and avoids the difficulty
which most dramatists feel of providing appropriate and
natural conversation.
Not satisfied with his success as a vocalist, “ Uncle ”
Abigail is now coming out in a new line. At a late public
meeting he got off a little thing commencing, “ I ’ad a
dream, a ’appy dream.” We tremble for the future of the
leather-industry.
They were giving “ She Stoops to Conquer” the other
day in a small provincial town. A penniless individual,
anxious to see the play, stalked past the ticket-office in a
careless, independent sort of way. When stopped, and
asked by what right he went in without paying, he re-
plied; “By what right? I am Oliver Goldsmith, the
author of the piece they are going to perform !” “Ah 1
beg ipardon, sir,” said the check-taker, making a bow.
And Goldsmith walked in to see his play.— Yankee.
Barnum says he was one day walking beside a railroad-
track with a man who was very hard of hearing. A train
was approaching, and, as it rounded the curve, the whistle
gave a nerve-destroying shriek that pierced high heaven.
A smile broke over the deaf man’s face. “That’s the first
robin,” said he “ that I have heard this spring.”
Virginie Dejazet, in honour of a new part she was to
take, ordered a beautiful new set of teeth. Finding
her teeth uncomfortable, she took them out as soon as the
play was over, and put them in her pocket. In the green-
room she unfortunately sat upon them, and rose up with
a scream. ‘ ‘ What is the matter ? ” asked Adolphe Dennery.
“Nothing,” smiled Mademoiselle Dejazet. “I only bit
myself.”
Good parts make good actors. Good actors always have
good parts. There are no bad parts, except for bad
actors. —Ex.
Theatrical tattlers have it that'aU is" not serene in the
Boucicault-Thorndyke household."
Miss Duff-Damper (at the circus): “ Yes, it’s very nice,
but the elephant’s tricks are not the same as advertised.
How’s that, I wonder ? ” Mr. D.: “ Why, then, he’s not
billed that way.”
Here are the dreadful and unspeakable lines which the
Lord Chamberlain felt constrained to expunge from the
text of Ibsen’s “ Pillars of Society.” Mrs. Hummel
and a party of gossips are telling a new-comer how the re-
spectability of their host’s family was once marred by a
liaison with an actress, which was discovered by her hus-
band. Mrs. Hummel: “And there he found—no, really,
I’m ashamed to tell you.” Mrs. Holt: “ Why, you know,
Mrs. Hummel, he found nothing, for the door was looked
on the inside.”
A Melbourne print publishes a ghastly picture, alleged
to represent Miss Jennie Lee (“ Jo ”). Apropos, thus our
tame poet:—
What 1 Surely not the Jennie Lee we doted on as “ Jo,”
in Dickens’ “ Bleak House.” No. Oh, dem me !
Not that fair one whose lightsome limbs flashed in
“ Grasshopper,” and made mirth with Leopold as “Jingle,”
and with someone else as “ Dismal Jemmy.”
Oh, let us die, ere you assure us that sweet Jennie in
her looks has grown but so-so.
Stay 1 Happy thought, we feel convinced that “Jo” is
but a comp.’s misprint for “ Jo-Jo.”
David Christie Murray has collaborated with Hermann
in a drama entitled “ As Good as Gold,” which will be pro-
duced in London next spring. Murray opines that late
and heavy dinners are responsible for the decline of the
drama in England. It is our opinion that heavy writing
is more to blame than heavy dining.
One night, at the Prince of Wales’ Theatre, Londom
royalty gave very short notice of a visit. Bancroft’s
custom was to turn two boxes into one for the royal box.
Both the boxes were let—one to Mr. Z., the other to Mr.
X. Mr. Z. was quickly found, and gave up his box. Ban-
croft’s man went to Mrs. X.’s house. Saw Mrs. X. She
said her husband had gone to Liverpool. “ Pooh,” said
the boxkeeper, “he has taken a box for to-night.” At
night, in the theatre, Mr. X. turned up with another lady.
Mrs. X. turned up, too, and there was a better scene than
any on the stage.
Professor Jensen has been performing before the crowned
heads of Europe at Broken Hill.
Mrs. Shaw, the American whistling lady, is now, fallen
from her high estate, performing in a London music-hall.
“ Most music-hall, most melancholy.”
The Taylor-Carrington Co. are about to play “ Barnes
of New York” at Seymour (Vic.) in aid of the local
hospital.
Managers who have taken companies to Queensland thi s
winter, call Lydia Von Finkelstein “The Jerusalem Art.-
choke.” Neither music nor the drama has a show against
“ Living Pictures of Bible Life.”
Before D. Christie Murray left England, H. S. Smythe
was asked by cable to manage the novelist’s Australian
tour; but the Much Travelled would not desert the native
of Jerusalem.
Monty Browne is in Melbourne, just returned from
Broken Hill where he ran a variety company. Monty
says they made no coin; “no money,” he says, “ in the
(adjective) place.'’ No money at Broken Hill! Great
Scott 1
Phil Ray’s English and American Dramatic Co. have
done big “ biz ”at Forbes and Parkes (N.S. W.). There the
Sunday concerts excited the wrath of the clergy, who
denounced them from the pulpit, notwithstanding the
public “ got there just the same.”
The smartest business man in England, is a Hornsey
official. Recently a parachute performer named Williams,
making his ascent from Highgate, failed to detach his
parachute, and was forced to hang on to the balloon with
his hands. He come crashing down on a roof belonging
to the local Board at Hornsey, crippling an arm, damaging
the slates, and some telephone wires. As he got down to
terra firma he was confronted by a clerk with a demand
for £5 for the damage he had caused to the Board’s
property.
Katie Putnam will return to America shortly, where she
has a big reputation. She has not struck good luck in the
colonies.
It is not improbable that Lionel Brough, uncle to
Robert of that ilk, may visit Australia after his South
African tour.
The fulsome notice which appeared in the S.M. Herald
anent a certain performer in “Julius Caesar,” has made
the profession sit up and smile.
Harold Ashton will act as manager for Mr. John Solo-
mon’s new venture in George-street, when opened.
“ Willie ” Elton has signed for another year With W.>
G., and M.
The Sydney Point is thronged by out-of-work “pros.”
G. 11. Snazelle, the single-handed entertainer, will open
at Sydney,School of Arts on sth Got., under Hiscocka'
management.
The stage-hands in Brisbane have formed a society and
play top-ropes with managers at a moment’s not ice.
Hiseocks’ London Pavilion Company and the Midgets
will shortly appear in Sydney.
A live alligator, 16 feet fong, and weighing half-a-ton, ®
starring a Queensland show just now.
Dampiev’s late experiences at Melbourne, Alexandra
have led to a personal coolness between him and the
“ divine William.”
G. 0. Miln opens at the Opera House, Sydney, soon in
“Othello.”
Genevieve Ward is about to appear in Ibsen’s “ Pillars
of Society,” so savagely denounced by the S.M. Herald.
She declares it a “noble comedy, with characters so
intensely real that she does not fear it will be over the
heads of the public,” and vastly superior to the “Doll’s
House,” “Ghosts,” or Ibsen’s other play—“An Enemy of
Society.”
The motley wear of the Opera House chorus was the
cause of much merriment at the Criterion on Sunday nigh I
last. Evening dress suits were at a discount and dirty
boots at a premium.
Harry Jew’ett is a native of Dunedin (N.Z.), and is
reckoned a good actor—and footballer. But he cannot sing
a bar of music correctly. His “Grandfather’s Clock” is
unique.
Harry Leston is now’ business manager for Larry Foley.
George Fawcett Rowe is dead.
David Christie Murray gives tongue in, Sydney Protes-
tant Hall on September 14,
The American lecturer, Major Dane, has some difficulty
in finding a suitable hall in Sydney. This is unfortunate
for the Sydney folks. The gallant lecturer, W’ho, during
the last three years has explored Australia thoroughly,
contemplates a visit to Mount Morgan.
The Australian Natives Association has decided-to thank
George Rignold for the preference given by him to Aus-
tralian actors.
We have seen the “Marble Woman.” She’s very “ soft ”
compared with her old man—nobody worries about her.
It is said that Dillon, M.P., the “ Redemptqrist ”
fathers, and Grattan Riggs took £2OOO out of Gympie (Q.)
in about a week.
By the merest chance, in the lobby’s gloom
At the narrow aisle he met me,
And I tried to pass, hut he made no room ;
Oh ! I tried, but he would not let me.
So I stood and blushed ’till my tie grew red
From my massive cheek above it.
“ You can’t get in on that pass,” he said,
“ It’s a benefit night and the free-list’s dead.”
How the man in the box-office raised his head
And smiled when lie heard what the usher said.
Oh ! the benefit night, I love it!
Answers to Correspondents.
“W.M.W.”: A good idea, but you “gave away 1
the thing by not keeping dark your anti-climax. Try
again “M. A. Doyle”: Will write you “Lunatic”:
It’s been done so often “ Car-fare Warfare ”: From the
fact that you send no name we suspect that it isn’t
original “Tommy”: With some needful alteration
will suit “H. J. 8.” (Brisbane); Rather too long, other-
wise good “ A.8.A.” (Gunnedah); Paper not to hand..,
“J.8.M.”: Most of your items have already been dealt
with “Subscriber”; You had better enter for our
Ananias competition “J.W.” (Georgetown): Can’t
decipher your communication anyhow.. “G.R.”: Thanks..
“E.A.S.”; “Calico Jimmy” does not merely mean an
importer of calico, but is the generic name of every fat
man with a gold chain and a white waistcoat whose for-
tune is made through local artisans being deprived of
work..A Constant Reader”: We agree with much
that you say, but consider your theory requires a more
extensive elucidation “R. Ross”: Already too widely
circulated “Caution”; Will look into the mat-
ter. Of course, everything depends on the care with
which the money is invested “Jimmie Pannikin”:
Thanks...." Republican”: Mr. W. H. Traill is no way
responsible for the grovellings referred to—“J.
Morrelli ”: Sorry to hear of your misfortunes. The libel
law alone precludes us from publishing your letter....
“ J.H.W.” : (1) Such men as you describe yourselves to be
should prosper in Western Australia, but it would be
w iser if one of you took a trip over and looked round ere
making a decided removal. By jointly spending £5O now
you may possibly avoid the loss of your savings. This we
say as a matter of prudence, and not to discourage you.
(2) It was intended, when the publication of the history
was begun, that it should be reprinted—“ Excelsior” ;
See no reason for the non-publication of your letter, a
brief and courteous exposition of your case. Where the
public school system fails, to our mind, is in not inculcat -
ing in the youthful mind the knowledge that the punish
ment of wrong-doing is not postponed to another world,
but that “ the evil done in the flesh” recoils on the head
of the doer in this world, and is, and must necessarily be,
a source of unhappiness not only to him, but to the entire
community. The morality of the man who does the right
for its own sake, and for that of his fellow-men, is of a
higher and more durable stamp than that of the man who
is terrified, or bribed, like a child, into the ways of dog-
matical righteousness “Coalville” : Yes; certainly —
“A.J.1.”: Your MS illegible. [Many communications
held over.]
It is said that Peter Jackson is about to
perform an Ethiopian fantasia on the white keys
of Slavin’s grand piano. Pete drinks Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.
Is it not remarkable that the Queen’s
Speech to Parliament contains no reference what-
ever to the Dock Laborers’ Strike ? What a com-
ment on the blindness of Governments ! “ Oh,
pooh, pooh,” says Salisbury. Yet this strike is
positively the greatest event since the Revolution
of 1848. There’s nothing in it!
It is alleged that the Sydney R.C. autho-
rities lately issued a circular to the local clergy re-
questing them to recommend certain insurance-
companies (conducted by bhoys of the right colour)
to the patronage of their flocks. We wonder
whether those companies assure agin purgatory as
well as agin hell fire ?


Faci'v bod v should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Koi-hsr Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Important Notice.
x'hb Bulletin’s special prize for the best original
joke lias been awarded to
MR. G. H. REID, M.P.,
for the following :
Mr. G. H. Reid, in moving a vote of thanks to Sir Henry
Parkes, spoke of the good example set the youth of Aus-
tralia by Sir Henry.
Mr. Reid will, on application, receive his certi-
ficate and shilling.
The next Bulletin prize will be given for the
best original lie. Winner of prize in previous
competition will be barred.
That Prize Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The clocks of the city were striking the hour of
noon as the editor of the Post and Rail Gazette
dropped his scissors, and, pushing aside the paste-
pot with a sigh of relief, tilted back his chair and
gave himself up to meditation and sausage. He
had subdivided his frugal meal into suitable allot-
ments, and was about to dispose of a corner site
when a modest tap upon the door of his sanctum
arrested his hand. Instantly the mutilated
sausage was swept up and thrust into an empty
pigeon-hole bearing the legend, “ Original Items,”
and the wily editor started to scribble furiously as
lie shouted, “ Come in ! ”
Then the door opened slowly, and a sad-eyed
young man squeezed himself into the room side-
ways and stood motionless, gazing open-mouthed
at the flying-pen of the busy editor.
“ Be seated, I’ll attend to you directly,'’ said
the perspiring pressman without turning his head.
The visitor balanced himself upon the extreme
edge of a gin-case and nursed his hat patiently
until the scratching of the pen ceased, and the
great man turned with a cheerful smile and
inquired his business. The young man gazed
earnestly at the receptacle for “Original Items,”
and spoke thus :
“ I sent you a short story about nine mouths
ago, and as the cheque hasn’t turned up I thought,
maybe, that you had mislaid my address. ”
The editorial smile faded into a frigid stare.
“ What was the title of the story?”
“ ‘Hidden in Mystery,”’ replied the author,
with his eyes still riveted upon that pigeon-hole.
“ There must be some mistake,” replied the
editor hurriedly, “ I fail to recognise the title. ’
“ Well, it was some time before I recognised it
myself, as it appeared in the Gazette,” said the
author confidentially, adding as an after-thought:
“ I think your police-court reporter must have
added a few touches to it by mistake.”
“ Ahem! quite so.
Perhaps it was not con
sidered quite up to our
standard for remunera-
tion,” suggested the
editor with a slight blush.
“ On the contrary,” re-
plied the author eagerly,
as he took from his
pocket-book a slip of
paper—“ Here is your
preliminary notice of my
story. I will read it to
you ”
In our next issue will ap-
pear “ Hidden in* Mystery,”
a pathetic story of thrilling
human interest. The gifted
author has pourt rayed with
a master’s hand the inner life
and noble aspirations of the
Australian bullock-puncher,
a character hitherto neg-
lected by the writers of
romance.
“ There you are, what
do you say to that now ?”
queried the young man
waving the slip before
the editor’s vision.
“ I remember the story
now,” he answered,
placidly, “but it was
entered in our Prize Story
Competition, and we can-
not decide who is entitled
to the prize until the
whole of the stories have
appeared.”
“But there's no mis-
take about this story be-
ing mine, is there?”
asked the young man,
anxiously.
“See here,” he con-
tinued, drawing a copy of
the P. & R. Gazette
and a roll of MSS from
beneath his vest. “In my copy I simply head it:
"Hidden in Mystery,’ but in the Gazette it is
trimmed up with several additions. Here we are :
‘DESPERATE ENCOUNTER WITH A
DESPERADO,’ "EXCITING ESCAPE PROM
GAOL,’ A TERRIBLE CRIME REVEALED.’
Now, there’s nothing in the yarn about any
encounters with desperadoes; no terrible crimes,
revealed or otherwise ; and there isn’t a gaol men-
tioned. How do you account for those sub-head-
ings ?”
“That’s merely inserted to excite public
interest, ” explained the editor.
“Ah, yes; a sort of fifth-edition catcher,” mur-
mured the puzzled author. Then, running his
fingers through the MSS, he continued ;
“ Here, again, you’ve cut out the third chapter
and all the poetry. What’s that for ?”
“ It’s rather too long, and we were over-set that
week.”
“ But don’t you think it rather disconnects the
story ?”
“ Not at all. You see, we removed the exciting
Incidents so thickly congregated in the third chap-
ter and spread them more evenly around in the
fourth and fifth chapters.
“But you left out the scene between the two
villains, which foreshadowed the denouement and
explained the plot. ”
“ You see our readers don’t care to be worried
with plots, and besides,” added the badgered
editor desperately, “the foreman had to cut some
of the letter-press out to make it fit round the
illusti’ation. ”
“ Well, of course, that’s reasonable enough, but
here again my copy reads : —‘ Gwendoline ad-
vanced quickly to meet her lover, her ruby Ups
parted with a tender smile of welcome, and her
delicate features suffused with a radiant blush of
exquisite joy at his return,’ Now the Gazette
has boiled that passage down to-- ‘ Gwendoline
rushed open-mouthed at him,’ which seems to in-
sinuate that she meant to chaw her lover’s ear off
instead of kissing him.”
“ That shows your inexperience,” cried the
editor, becoming suddenly animated upon the
subject of his art. “ Your passage is too tame for
our readers, and does not do sufficient justice to
the impulsive ardour of the average Australian
girl when she means business. When our sub-
scribers read that the young person rushed open-
mouthed at her young man they can readily
picture her, with her lower jaw dropped ready to
fasten upon his ear. That’s what we call realism,
an art that has made our circulation the envy of
the literary world. It requires a genius to satisfy
our subscribers’ thirst for realism. ”
“ It does, it does,” murmured the young author,
despondently; “I am not a genius, and maybe
that is why I prefer the original copy.”
“ Exactly,” replied the editor, with an encourag-
ing smile; “our aim is to foster and guide
native talent and that is why we took the trouble
to correct and improve the story you sent us. ”
“I’m very grateful for the alterations,_ but it
seems hardly fair to the other competitors.'’
“ Quite fair, I assure you. We touch ’em all up
alike. No favour is shown, and every competitor
will have the same chance at the final decision —
when it comes off,” he added aside.
“ I’m glad they all get touched up,” replied the
young man with an air of intense relief —“I
shouldn’t like to obtain an unfair advantage, you
know.”
Silence feigned for a few moments and the
editor’s eyes wandered to the door and back again
to the young author, who sat knitting his brows
in troubled thought. At length the editor stirred
and inquired if there was anything further he
could explain to his young contributor. “Well,
you see,” said the gifted author, uneasily shift-
ing his battered hat from side to side, “you see
the story appeared months ago, and I laid out
a pile of money in those voting coupons and
‘shouted’ for all the boys to vote forme. Now I
thought that as I can’t afford to wait any longer,
maybe you would feel inclined to buy my interest
in the prize, which, according to your notice and
the strokes of realism you inserted gratis, ought to
be a good one. ”
The editor appeared slightly surprised. “I’m
not in a position to accept the risk,” he murmured,
“you must know that there are thousands of
stories yet unpublished, all of which have an equal
chance for the first prize. ”
The young man’s jaw dropped like his heroine’s
when rushing to meet her lover.
“ When do you think this raffle will come off,
then ? ” he stammered.
THE YOUMEN OF THE GUARD.
TENOR: “I HAVE A SONG TO SING, OH!”
SOPRANO: “SING ME YOUR SONG, OH!”
ALL TOGETHER: "YOU-OW-OW WAHOO MAIOW SSSS-TH! WOW!”
“ The final Judgiiai, ’ replied the editor, with
the accent on the judging, “will take place as soon
as all the stories have appeared. !
“ Great Scott! ”
“ You’ll excuse me, hut if there’s nothing
further ”
“ Say ! If you’ll give me £lO for ray chance m
the lottery I’ll allow a liberal discount for the
realism.”
“ Couldn’t think of it.”
“ Well, I’m not greedy, say £5 and a parcel of
stationery.”
“ Sir,” said the indignant editor turning again
to his writing, “ You ought to be satisfied with the
honour of appearing in the Gazette I am proud
to edit.”
“ But I can’t live upon honour, however gor-
geous,” cried the unhappy journalist. “Come,”
in an imploring tone, “lend me enough to pay my
passage back to the Namoi and you can scratch me
for the event.”
“ I’ll sling you out of the window if you don t
slide out of this quickly,” shouted the hungry
editor rising and advancing upon the terrified
native talent.
“ All right, I’m going,” was the mournful reply.
“ It seems hard that I should put all that money
out on coupons without being able to realise on
the outlay.”
The door closed on the disappointed author,
and the worried editor with a sigh of relief, took
his “ Original Items ” from the pigeon-hole and
resumed his labours. He was deeply engaged in
the work of “condensation” when the door was
pushed open cautiously and a hoarse voice mur-
mured : . .
“ Say, could you spare me a few of those Original
Items ? I’m mortal hungry. ”
“Goto Sheol! ” A heavy ruler struck the door
as it closed with a crash. But it opened im-
mediately, and the unruffled prize-story competitor
peered cautiously into the room, and, fixing the
editor to his seat with a mesmeric glare, exclaimed
in tones of warning :
“Now mark thin. If you don t shed a little of
your realism around that coin you owe me for that
talc, you’ll find your circulation stopped with a
dull’, sickening thud.” ,
Then the door closed softly and the editor, bow-
ing his head on his arms, murmured brokenly
“ And this is my reward for encouraging native
talent ! ”
BOSSO.
Jolter’s Ghost.
A STORY WHICH ENDS BADLY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ I was nut much past 19,” said Swidgely, “ and
I was a romantic noodle. I had a bosom friend,
Harry Jolter, a year or two younger than myself,
and we had pictured an impossible future in which
neither time nor distance nor matrimony was to
separate us. We were both to marry, of course,
when the perfect women came along that were
good enough for ns. And then we and our wives
were to form a family party of four, in which
bickerings were to be unknown and only the party
wall between two semi-detached houses were to
divide us.
“ Meanwhile, I lived with my people, who had
allowed me the top floor of our large, old-fashioned
house in a broad and populous Loudon street, and
Harry lived with His people, who allotted him
nothing at all, but were stingily pious and in-
tensely disagreeable, a few hundred yards away, in
a quieter and less important thoroughfare.
“ But Harry’s folk, with their penurious habits
and narrow ways, were not much to his taste, and
he spent all his leisure at my house. He had a
latch-key, and came in and out like one of the
family, and at last a bed was put up for him in an
inner room intended for my dressing-room, only
to be reached by going through my own room,
which was an enormous low-roofed affair, with
three great windows in it and a gaunt old fire-
place anathematised by all the servants, who, in
order to fill it, had to drag the coal-scuttles up 90
stairs. Here we sat in the evenings, played, sang,
drank, smoked, fenced, and boxed now and then.
\] y bed was in the room, it was true, but there
was space for twenty beds and for furniture for a
modern cottage to boot; and a very decent, com-
fortable, disorderly kind of place it was. I wish I
could get the like on the shores of our Beautiful
Harbour.
“One cold night in early spring Jolter, who had
not troubled his own people for nearly a week,
turned round at the end of a game of chess, which
I had won, and said :
‘ 1 ‘ Ted, I think I’ll go home, or the Mater will
believe she’s rid of me for ever. ’
“ I did not persuade him to stay, for though we
were impatient of separation and awfully fond of
each other, we were so constantly together that
we hardly said good-bye when we parted or good
morning when we met. He left at once, with a
smile and a nod, and I decided, though it was still
early, not to join the family circle downstairs, but
presently to go to bed. I sat half-an-hour by the
tiro, chuckling over Lowell’s newly published
1 Biglow Papers,’ and by ten o’clock I turned out
the gas and jumped into bed, where, in my usual
fashion, I fell asleep instantly I laid my head on
the pillow.
“ I awoke an hour or so later. The fire was still
glowing brightly, and the reflected light from the
street-lamps shone on the ceiling, for I had
neglected to draw the curtains or lower the blinds.
All the sounds of life were in the street and in the
house; my sister was dashing away at an opera-air
a couple of floors below, the rattle of the hansom
cabs was loud in the roadway, and every familiar
object in my room was distinctly visible. I was
not in the least startled into wakefulness, nor was
I at all surprised when, sitting at the chess-table
which stood where we had left it by the fire, I saw
Harry Jolter, who had left me an hour before to
go to his own house. He sat easily in the chair
he had occupied during the game. His face was
turned towards me and he leaned his head on his
hand, as he did when he pondered over a move.
He looked exactly as though he were studying the
positions of the pieces and trying to see whether
he might not have avoided my checkmate. I had
not been at all triumphant about it, by the way,
for he did not like being beaten, while I, caring
only for his society, never minded whether I was
defeated or not. I was just a little sorry that he
should give the subject a second thought, and,
supposing that lie had altered his mind about
going home, or had found his people in a bad
humour and returned, decided to say nothing at
all and see what he would do. I expected he
would presently strike a light and take a book, or
that he would walk into his own room and go to
bed.
“He did neither, but sat still until I began to
wonder why and what was the matter, and pre-
sently I called to him. I only gave the usual
British ‘ Hullo, back again, Harry ?’ But I might
just as well have held my tongue, for I got no
reply. I spoke again, but all of a sudden it
flashed across my mind that the very solid-looking
figure I was staring at might bean optical delusion
since there were plenty of prosaie reasons why he
should have gone home and stayed there.
“I closed my eyes and thought of it awhile,
and then, after counting fifty to make sure I was
cool and calm, I opened them again, and there was
the figure, silent, calm and solid as before. The
1 gilt from the glowing fire gleamed in its brown
hair and glistened in its eyes, and shone on the
finger-nails of the hand which supported the head.
The face, which gazed fixedly at the chess-men,
was ruddy and fair, the lips, full and red, were,
pouted in slight vexation, the teeth, firm, white
and. even, were just visible, and so was the line of
the dawning moustache which was the pride of
Harry Jolter’s heart. 1 noticed how the firelight
glowed and danced in the deep-red stone of a big
carbuncle ring I had given him a day or two
before, and I made up my mind not only that lie
had actually returned but that for some reason he
wanted to scare me. I felt a little vexed, but not
angry. I should not have been angry with him if
he had set the house on lire, or run my own knife
into my heart. I told you I was a romantic young
noodle in those days. But I wondered why he
should act so oddly, and again I closed my eyes
and thought over the situation. 1 Now,’ said 1 to
myself, ‘ if this be a mere delusion, when I look
again at the figure I shall see the table through
it. If I do not do so it must be real and solid,
and the sooner I have an explanation the better.
Once more I opened my eyes and saw the figure,
living, substantial and perfect. I noted the posi-
tion of every object in the room, I listened to the
tread of the passers-by, to the hum of the horses
in the street. I heard some people who were
coming home from the t lie at re singing as they
went the Servants’ Chorus from “Martha”- —
With light hearts here we come
Servants all gay and free.
I knew myself sane, collected and self-possessed,
and jumped out of bed to touch the visitor, I think
I meant to pull his ears —and —it was gone.
“Now my story unfortunately does not end
properly. The correct ending would be the state-
ment that Harry Jolter had died suddenly and
that his strong affection for me had brought him
back to take a final leave and communicate the
news. I have had excellent reason to wish that it
had ended in that way. It did not. Our friend-
ship cooled a little but lasted fourteen years after
that night and was terminated by Harry Jolter
cheating me of three hundred and sixty pounds.
Requested a philosopher recently :—“Give
me more taffy while I am with you, and less
epitaphy when I am gone.”
Rev. F. H. Browne, a Melbourne clergy-
man of Congregational persuasion, has been de-
nouncing the modern tendency to dote upon inane
works of fiction—the story of Jonah and the
whale doubtless coming within the radius of his
denunciation. The gentle shepherd pipes to his
flock in this strain : “ Any man or woman who
enters the temple of literature will find it replete
with the purest joys. Our energies in spare mo-
ments should be turned to history (The Bulle-
tin’s “ Illustrated History of Botany Bay ” is pub-
lished at a shilling), biography, philosophy, science,
and poetry. First and foremost of the various
subjects is theology. . ... A man should be
discreet in his choice of a newspaper, and should
not accept with unquestioning faith all that ap-
pears in it. Especially should he avoid going to a
newspaper for his religious convictions, as editors
often handle religion in a superficial, cynical, and
unfair manner.” All of which do we steadfastly
believe. With a modest blush The Bulletin ac-
cepts Browne’s discourse as a direct compliment,
and in a twitter of joyous gratitude we twang the
trembling lyre : —
Sing hey ! These words of wisdom from the worthy
Mr. Browne
On your little mental tablets must be neatly writ-
ten down:
A wholesome course of thinking it behoves you to
begin,
So invest a silver sixpence in the Sydney Bulletin.
For our literary temple is replete with purest joy,
False deities by dozens with a hammer we destroy;
You will learn the true religion if you weekly
enter in
To the ruddy-covered temple of the Sydney Bel-
le L'IN.
Its priests will give you history, biography, and
verse;
At aught which smacks of evil they will cast a
pious curse ;
No grovelling excuses for the lord or lady’s sin
Are made within the precincts of the Sydney
Bulletin.
Not there are sung the praises of a favoured class
or clan —
Not there you’ll hear assertions that the money
makes the man —
No prayers for Vie. Regina and her German kith
and kin
Are uttered in the temple of the Sydney Bul-
letin.
We preach the rights of labour, the nobility of
worth,
And not the vested interests of grabbers of the
earth—
While, as for gilded butterflies who never toil or
spin,
They seldom fly for comfort to the Sydney Bul-
letin.
The worthy Browne has mentioned that you ought
to be discreet
In your choice of daily papers—and his warning we
repeat ;
Their creeds, turns few exceptions, are as poisonous
as gin
(Though it’s worry good with soda, says the
Sydney Bulletin).
For science and philosophy we carry off the cake
Our sermons on such subjects keep the audience
awake :
All cut and dried theology seems bigoted and thin,
Compared with what we give ’em in the Sydney
Bulletin.
Herewith we ask a blessing on the worthy Hr.
Browne:
Upon our mental tablets let his words bo written
down.
If a higher course of thinking you are anxious to
begin—
Then invest your Sawbath saxpencc in the Sydney
Bulletin.


An Australian Salvation Army major is
named Sprat. Sprat is pretty good bait for soles.
Neil Matteraon will bo delighted to read
in a late issue of the Nooze, a savoury insinuation
as to the cause of his late indisposition. The
allegation could not have been more tastily worded
in the columns of the Stalk Foul.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd,,
96 Bathnrst-street, Sydney
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age,
John MiEwan & Co.,
A ITTION KMIIS,
X- .A. IST 13 A.G-EKTTS,
Uusinew Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swan stem Street, Melbourne,
60 i>ncro List. Country I *»•<«) >, rri* s, Farms, Crazing
Properties, i*te., &<■.
46-page List Melbourne anil Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &u.
Printed List Itiisinesses lor Sale Issued Pally.
All Lists posted Fkeb on application .
POLITICAL POINTS
The British Revolution is coming. Tt
began with the shooting at Trafalgar-Square.
Spin away, Machiavel.
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade Conference,
’twill be observed, discards the One Man One
Vote plank.
“Uncle ” Abigail has declared in the N.S.
Wales Assembly that the famous “more Popery
than Fiscal” letter, attributed to him, is a forgery.
Dillon. M.P., says that the contribution
to the Irish National League’s fund at Port
Douglas (Q.) averaged £2 per head of the European
population.
Uncle Abigail says that he has always been
identified with every movement to “better the
condition of the workingman.” The Australian
Banking Company, for instance.
Emperor William of Germany, said the
cable, met with a splendid reception in Metz -
owing to most of the French inhabitants having-
left the town before he arrived.
The Executive Committee of the N.S.W.
Freetrade and Liberal Association is to consist of
the president, Sir John Robertson, Mr. C. H.
Re id "and Mr. E. W. Foxall. Thus two out of the
three will always be sober.
What is the secret of the enormous profits
of the Melbourne Tramway Co.? Simply this.
The tramways compete on every line with the
railways. People are afraid to go on the railways,
because of the continually recurring accidents.
The West Australian says that “ before
The Bulletin’s nationalistic sentiments take hold
a real grievance against Imperialism must bo
established.” We have the grievance. Tt is the
existence of such a paper as the West Australian - .
The speech read by Mrs. Vivian at the
N.S.W. Foreign-Trade Pow-wow was penned in a
seemingly masculine hand. Pupsford squirmed
uneasily on his chair whenever the lady blundered
or halted to decipher some puzzling hieroglyphic.
The Victorian Opposition is hatching a
motion condemning Government bonuses to the
wine-growing industry. This seems a pretty art-
ful move, because a few of the members are
teetotallers and the rest want a reduction in the
price of whisky.
Premier Parkes says ;—•
I have found from painful experience that if you create
a new office, and give the new officer a round table, and
two stools, and au errand boy, the next year he will have
a clerk, a mahogany table, and an easy chair, and however
you watch him the third year he will have an under-
secretary, a messenger, and a sofa.
“ Judicial exuberance ” (the daily papers
invariably call it “ righteous indignation ”) is the
phrase applied by Capt. Taylor, M.P. (Vic.), to
the illogical cruelty of certain judges who are
always “carried away by their feelings ” in sen-
tencing prisoners. The phrase is neat, and pro-
mises to be historical.
San Francisco, judging from the lamenta-
tions of its press, believes itself threatened with
commercial extinction should the Australian mail-
service cease. Sydney can afford to look upon
’Frisco’s mental contortion witli equanimity. For
twenty years or so America has quietly let t he
Australians find all the money fur the service.
The Sydney penny morning shoddy organ
says that the N.S.W. Freetrade conference “has
decided to make the visit of Henry George to
N.S.W. a success in the interests of Freetrade.”
This is delicious. George’s visit is to be a success
nut in his own interest—that of the single-tax —
but in the interests of Calico Jimmy. “ The devil
can cite Scripture for his purpose. ”
Says “ Nice -young-man ” Carruthers,
N.S.W. Minister for Education :—
Freetraders are too quiet. Elections had been lost be-
cause a hundred or so Sydney merchants had been too
lazy to walk out and vote.
Delicious! The Sydney Merchant who votes in
twenty constituencies, whose hansom is perpetually
laid on at his door, and who has a monopoly to
uphold, “too lazy to vote.” No, sir.
Salomons, Q.C., says that murderer Morri-
son was by law clearly entitled to appeal to the
Privy Council, despite the decision of the N.S.W.
Executive to the contrary. And so also emphati-
cally say Sir Alfred Stephen, Barton, Q.C., and
Healy—the latter the best criminal lawyer in the
country. However, in N.S. Wales they don’t
worry much about a condemned criminal’s status.
The Executive simply holds a meeting, “jumps ”
the functions of the Privy Council, and tells the
sheriff to go right along.
A newspaper-man called on a Victorian
Minister lately and asked whether, if he started a
Sunday paper in Melbourne, the authorities would
try to put it down. “ No,” replied the great poli-
tician, “ the Government will take no such action
unless you try to make your paper a great political
force.” In other words, if the paper supported
the Government it would be reckoned moral ; if it
didn’t, then it would be treated as a thing of
iniquity. And this is what Victoria has come
to under the Coalition !
The new front of Parliament House, Mel-
bourne, to the end of Bourke-street, is a decided
success, as unveiled, with its row of pillars. Any
suggestion of squatness will be removed by the
dome, which is yet on paper. In a lobby is J. G.
Knight’s original design for the building, a mag-
nificent dream in white bridecake, outvying the
Capitol at Washington. This was designed oyer
30 years ago. At that time O’Shanassy, as Chief
Secretary, laid the foundations of the intended
Chief Secretary’s office, in Treasury Gardens. He
calculated that the Victorian population, by 1880,
would bo six millions ! No wonder they entered
upon big things.
It’s wonderful how a Bulletin joke livens
up a daily paper. Says Sydney D.T. in a
Foreign-trade-meeting report: —
But it was left to Mr. Haynes, when supporting a vote
of thanks to the speakers (Messrs. Abigail, Martin and
Frank Cotton) to point the moral of the tale. “ The calico
that is going to spring up and flourish in this country,”
said the member for Mudgee, “ will ho made of this
Cotton,” pointing to the apostle of the single-tax on the
other side of the chair, and the witticism elicited a burst
of cheering from hundreds of single-tax throats.
Now, some time ago The Bulletin pointed out
that Cotton aforesaid would be useful in the cause
of Shoddy, and—well, now John Haynes is worry-
ing the idea. Not that we attach any importance
to the appropriation, per paraphrase, of our jibe.
You see, unlike John, we are constantly throwing
these neat little things off our chest.
There is a £9OOO gaol at Forbes, N.S.W.,
which, during the lasi year, held an average of
about four prisoners who were thus (at four per
cent.) living in quarters worth a rent of £OO a
year ea-h. They must have been a very desperate
lot, as it took one gaoler, at £225 per year; a
matron at £5O; two warders at £l5O each; two
warders at £125 each ; a medical officer at £5O,
and two chaplains at £2O each to hold them.
Salaries totalled £Ol5, or £228 15s. per prisoner :
which, added to rent, made £3lB 15s. - apart from
food for warders and prisoners, probably averaging
£4O per head. In other words, those prisoners cost
£350 a year each all because the people of Forbes
support good old Centralising Sir Henry I’arices
who borrows the money in England and adorns
the town with a nice new gaol to take the starch
out of the adjoining hamlets.
Major-General Edwards, the more or less
distinguished Imperial officer who has lately been
inspecting the Australian forces and defences, says
he is astonished to find in Au-tralia so much fear
of foreign aggression. “I can’t understand,” lie
remarked at Adelaide, “ why 3,000,000 British
people, with all the immense resources they have
in this grand country, should bo afraid of what
one particular European Power might do. For
herself, with her naval squadron and a com-
mon system of united defence, Australia need
have no cause to fear.” As a contrast let us
give the utterances of “ Old Colonist,” in a Sydney
daily paper:—
Our talk is more idle than that of the Barbadoes nigger,
who says, “No fear England go down while Barbadoes
stands stiff.” If any notice is taken of us by the mighty
potentates of Germany and China of Victoria, the cab-
bage garden, New South Wales, the sheep walk, Dua'iia
A LESSON IN BULLOCKDRIVERESE.
BUSH PARDON (casualiy examining school): “YOU REALLY DON’T KNOW IHE
MEANING OF THE WORD HERMIT?’ NOW, MY LITTLE MAN, IF I
WERE TO LIVE ALL ALONE WHAT WOULD THE PEOPLE SAY?”
COCKIE'S CLEVER SON: “PLEASE, SIR, THEY’D SAY YOU WERE
‘BATCHING. ’”
B. P.: “ CAN YOU THINK OF ANY OTHER NAME FOR IT?”
CLEVER BOY OF TEE CLASS: “PLEASE, SIR, THEY’D CALL YOU A
"HATTER.’”
laud, the cattle-run -what would say the rulers of many
millions? What be these far sounds in our ears? The
drunken hiccup of red-shirted diggers, the lowering of
cattle, the bleating of sheep.
FIVEPENCE AN HOUR.
Oh, what is this sound of wailing ? From whence
comes this angry cry ?
It comes from the haunts of mis’ry, the hovels where
freemen die.
Tis the shout of the British worker, at length
aroused to do,
Revolting against the burdens of the gilded and
pampered few.
He works while the sun’s in heaven, he toils when
the sun has set;
His lot is black and hopeless—his lips are pale,
firm-set - -
He labours e’en as an infant, to manhood through
stunted youth,
To be cast aside like a potsherd without concern
or ruth.
’Tis enough ! The storm grows louder, its clamours
high heaven fill,
Nor can all the pleadings of Mammon its awful
murmurs still:
For this is the fiery slogan of the struggle that is
to bo
When the serfs will arise in their manhood and
swear that they shall bo free.
Personal Items.
John Davies is said to have established a
duck-farm at Campbelltown.
In Belfast (Ado. ) dwells a publican named
Tennyson. His “little things” are always in-
serted.
John Whiteman, the husband of “Madame
Midas,” lias allowed his action against Mr. Alfred
Dam pier to lapse with costs.
An effort is being made to bring out in
book-form some of the literary remains of the late
Carl lYilberg, of Queensland.
As they refuse to raise Manager Speight's
salary from £3OOO to £5OOO ho threatens to leave
his post and return to England.
Niniau Melville, having boon dumped into
the N.S.W, Chairmanship of Committees, has
finally retired from the coffin business.
The American lady whistler won the Hindi’s
wicked old Persian heart, and they -ay lie made
her a splendid offer of a haremy nature.
Mr. David Berry, of Shoalliavcn. who is
v ortli some millions, is in had health. Ile is only
07. and all his coin, it is said, will go to the kirk.
The Amn s speaks of **Signor Verdi, the
colonial baritone.'’ This is another insult to
Ireland, where Bill Green first opened his beauti-
ful eyes.
An examination of the records shows that
Le Caron, the British spy, 'was a rank coward
during the American rebellion, and was imprisoned
because he refused to fight.
Louise Michel now wants to defend the
man who lately shot at liar. She says that the
would-be murderer was “ hypnotised” by her
eloquence. This sounds like a quotation from
David Buchanan.
An ox-member of the Victorian Upper
House went to Sandhurst railway-station, the
other day, for the express purpose of hissing a
convicted embezzler-—an enemy of his—on his way
to Pentridge prison.
A brother of the Mr. B. R. Wise who
lately wrote in Macmillan's Magazine about the
Irish billet-hunters of A ustralia, lias just been
quietly pitchforked into the N.S.W. Civil Service
on the “special qualifications” pretext.
Says a Melbourne contemporary, bitterly
enough: —
The Aon critic says of David Christie Murray that he is
“ even a light unto the small aristocracy of intellect.” He
must mean the aristocracy of small intellect.
A subscription, headed by Sir John Robert-
son, and promoted by confidential circular, has
been opened “to relieve the Hon. John Davies
from the pecuniary part of the injury lie has
recently suffered from the State Prosecution, which
closed so much in his favour.”
Mr. W. V. Read, acting secretary of
N.S.W. railways, has retired on a pension after
34 years’ service. Mr. Read’s father, Sir John of
that ilk. retired on pension from the governorship
of Darlinghurst Prison only a few months ago.
The old ones are better than the new.
Mr. Leete, of Liverpool, recently exposed
for sale at his rooms the furniture and effects of
the late Mr. James Maybrick. Before the sale
commenced Mr. Leete treated his audience to a
short dissertation on the Maybrick case, and asked
them to withhold their judgment as to Mrs. May-
brick.
Mrs. Langtry is very ill, the doctors say,
and it is possible that her stage career may be
nearing a close. The operation she had performed
a year ago left her in a weak physical condition,
Tor some time past she has had great difficulty in
breathing, and it is said that her lungs are now
seriously affected.
An old Campbellfcown (N.S.W.) identity
in the person of Mrs. Fioldhouse has just died, at
the age of 83. She arrived in Campbelltown 55
years ago, and kept, during that time and up to
the day of her death, the Jolly Miller public-house.
It was the old lady’s boast that she had never
been before a police-court in any capacity in her
life.
The recent spectacle of Baronet Clarke
presiding at a meeting of the Australasian Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science was calcu-
lated to bring Newton from his honoured grave
and make him say “ Dim ! ” At the same time it
is an outrageous fact that Sir William’s bald head
gave him an air of being the most soiencey man in
the whole crowd.
w hen Charles Cavan Duffy used to pipe
and squeak, like a toy doll, iu the Victorian Par-
liament, robust men used to wonder how long thev
would outlive this old woman. But Duffy is still
alive, drawing his £lOOO a year pension and spoon-
ing with his prospective fourth wife in the gardens
ot Monte Carlo. Wo will bet he marries a woman
under 20 this time.
John Macarthur, the father of the wool-
producing-indiistiy of this country, had 13 miles
frontage to the Nepean or Cowpasture river
granted him in 1803. The sons of Mrs. Onslow—
• lauu-s Macarthur’s daughter, and widow of Cap-
tain Onslow, who formany years represented Cam-
den in the New South W ales Assembly, are now
the heirs to this vast property.
1 he Shah, when introduced into the great
hall where the Queen of the Belgians stood iu
state surrounded by all the Court dignitaries, said,
in French, to the King, pointing to the group of
Ladies-in-Waiting, “Your harem, Sire?” The
astonished King of Laeken said nothing ; and the
Shah, taking his silence for an affirmative, re-
marked mildly, “ You will have to renew it.”
An American paper publishes a letter re-
ceived from Father Conrady iu which it is stated
that, after the death of Father Damien, at Molokai,
strange to say, not a single mark of leprosy was
present, although three weeks before his death the
disease had increased terribly on his face, mouth,
and hands. Stories of this sort read even better
in Butler's “ Lives of the Saints " than in a Yankee
paper.
Adam Lindsay Cordon's grave at Brighton
(Melb.) Cemetery presents the appearance of being
well looked after (as it is, at the expense of a
Sandhurst lady) and doesn't need railings round
the plot of ground, which is double the regulation
size. It is quite the sort of grave that any man
might be proud to live iu, and those people who
talk about children playing “ bo-peep ” round the
column have probably never been to see it.
The wife of that expressively-named
Viscount Dunlo, Belle Bilton, is dwarfish in ap-
pearance, but has a lovely face, man-slaying eye.-,
and a dove-like expression. She is so beautiful
that a firm of photographers actually pay her a
hundred or two yearly for the monopoly of her
counterfeit presentment. She can’t sing, dance,
or act much, but as “ a professional beauty” is a
big draw, and gets £3O a week from a music-hall
proprietor through its exhibition.
John Dcnnistoun Wood, the barrister, is
corning back from London to Melbourne to prac-
tice. He was a Victorian star 30 years back,
battling with O’Shanassy, Haines, Nicholson,
Wilson Cray, Heales, Michie, Chapman, Owens,
Evans, Ireland, Aspinall, and all those. He will
find, however, that Purves, Madden, Isaacs, and
the next generation to him don’t allow him much
of an opening. He is old enough to bo Judge
Hedges’ father. Like Serjeant Sleigh, he will he
a fish out of water.
A new biography of Abraham Lincoln, by
his former law partner, Mr. Herndon, brings out
all the most intimate details of his life. Lincoln’s
first and only love was a young girl of great
beauty named' Eldridge. He became engaged to
her under romantic circumstances, but she died of
consumption. Lincoln afterwards married Miss
Todd. He did not care for her at all, but was, in
a manner, inveigled into the marriage. They
lived a cat-and dog life. This accounted for the
shade of melancholy always observable in Lincoln,
despite his jokes.
The new Under-Colonial Secretary for
Queensland is gazetted as “W. E. Parry-Okeden.”
In days gone by, at Burrandowan and Mount
Debateable, in the Border Customs and at Cunna-
mulla he was plain Willie Okeden and about as
good an all-round man as they make ’em. If he
has been adopted and had the Christian name as
i t used to be welded on to the other as it now
stands, then is the hyphen sacred to “ propputty ”
and he is hereby congratulated. If it is only a
frill —well, every jackass in the wilderness wears
Inn, and he is not the first man iu Queensland who
has been hyphen-struck.
Having just learned that the name the of
Arpyle family was Campbell, he said he could now
understand the meaning of the song, “ The Camp-
bells are corh(b)ing.”
Buy at the railway-station for a shilling
The Bulletin’s “Illustrated History of Botany
Bay.” That in your hand, you won’t bother about
the scenery by the way.
The Governor of Ipswich (Eng.) gaol has
been fined £75, at Suffolk Assizes, for compelling
a prisoner on remand, who was afterwards
acquitted, to strip naked and wear prison garb.
In Colonel Mundy’s “ Our Antipodes ; or
Residence and 'Rumblings in the Australian
Colonies,” there is a story of three footsore
wanderers on their road to the Bendigo goldfields
meeting under the shadow of a gigantic gumtrec.
The first of the three muttered to himself, sotto
roec, two lines from Horace, the second continued
the stanza, and the third finished the ode.


“The Secret of England’s Greatness” Fivepence P er Hour !


aH h a I H11 jHDIBI j 11
111 111 1111
d
ď
đ
d
I I I 11 I I
■l^p
-4i! J j | j j |
Burning; Questions in New South Wales.


“HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
F. B. WHEELEII k CO.,
205 C* I.AHKN'CK Stheut,
S Y ID ZEST jE IT.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
*• W. JO\SO\, Pitman's Certificated Teacher,
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Fee
•12s. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
AYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3STew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Ehithner, Collard, and other
A lso of the wonderful Victor Pianos sa/t £45 and Estey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms,
Society
According to the S.M. Herald report,
Maurice _ Gerson, the affectionate young married
man against whom Miss Solomon (we are sorry to
be so indefinite) lately got a Bead-sea-apple ver-
d.ctfor £250 seduction-damages, stated on oath in
the Bankruptcy Court last week—firstly, that he
was a son-in-law of a Brisbane Rabbi, and fourthly
that he had an interest in a bacon-factory at
Camperdown, Sydney. 0 Moses 1
* * #
“Ad.” from Sydney daily :
TYT ANTED, Young MAN, to do cooking, no previous
, knowledge required, and odd jobs in butcher’s
house. Wages ss. a week and all found. As all live
together, a well-educated man preferred ; suit new
chum or gentleman waiting for appointment: re-
ferences required.
We are sorry for Mr
Monfcmorenci Planta
genet Cecil de Vere
Carington, just fron
Hin gland, who, while
waiting for a private
secretaryship involving
much lawn - tennis anc
carrying of plush wraps
has to bustle round for
“references” in ordei
that he may be permittee
to scrape tripe and tun
the sausage-machine
Such are the tragedies
incidental to colonial ex
perience—and Free Com
petition.
* * #
An amended Educa-
tion Bill (Vic.) provides
for the use of Richard-
son’s Temperance Lesson
Book in State schools.
When father comes home
drunk the little scholar
will double him up with
quotations from Richard-
son, pointing out to the
old man that he is socially,
morally, and physically
going to blazes. The
family will then gather
round their unhappy fire-
side and warble to the
lost wretch: “Drink,
dad, drink, is not good
food but poison ; drink,
dad, drink is dangerous
to smell; drink, dad,
l»jings death and desola-
tion ; think, dad, think
before you go to Sheol.”
# * #
The JB itzroy (Melb.)
Council intends taking
action in connection with
certain local streets wholly
given up to bad charac-
ters. Disgusting scenes,
it is stated, are daily
enacted by women who
stand at their windows
half-clad. The whole
matter has become a huge
scandal. Quite right
These exposures should
only bo tolerated in the
upper and dress-circles.
* # *
Writes a Bulletin
correspondent:—The Sal-
vation Army has cleared
out churches and public-
houses alike in Gympie
{Q.) It is a great sight to
see big burly miners sing-
ing and praying—band,
lasses, torches and all,
every evening outside the
courthouse. The scoffers
are there but they scoff
under their breath. The
Army has made Gympie
the soberest town in
Queensland. Of all the
4000 miners who welcomed
Dillon nut one wasiioh r
drunk or disorderly.
A Kansas town has elected a female
police-magistrate. On the first day of her official
existence she fined a common or garden drunk five
dollars with a true Delohery click of the jaw. She
subsequently set a hen, made a “ direckwa ”
dress, and returned five calls.
The Australian notion of “ historic relics ”
is somewhat recent and modern. A number of
Melbourne citizens, it appears, are putting on
frill because they are the proud possessors of
special-constable Mtons served out to them or
their progenitors during the Chartist riots of 1848.
The fact of oneself or one’s papa having turned
amateur “ peeler ” on that occasion is nothing to
blow about, and as for dignifying the aforesaid
sticks with the title of relic, it is just a joke.
About half a million Scotchmen in this country
can flash claymores which their ancestors soaked
in English gore at Bannockburn.
# * #
If the proprietor of the Cloncurry Advo-
cate (Q.) inserts marriage advts. at Is. an inser-
tion, we must firmly decline to buy hiili out,
Look at this :—'
MARRIAGE.
Ryan— O’Riellv.— At Cloncurry, on the 28th December,
1888, by the Registrar, afterwards by the Rev. Father
Mouton, by special license, Patrick Joseph Ryan, Over-
seer to the Cloncurry Divisional Board, eldest son of James
P. Ryan, Barbers Town, Straffen, County Kildare, Ireland,
and cousin of Dr. Ryan, Francis-strebl, Dublin, to Mary
Theresa Josephine O’Rielly, eldest daughter of Patrick
O’Rielly, Maryfleld, Mudowarra, Victoria, native of County
Kayan, Ireland ; eldest sister of Joseph O’Rielly, Montana
station, Cape York Peninsula, Queensland, late’of Monkey
and Margaret Yale stations, Gulf of Carpentaria, of the
Ann of Richardson and O’Rielly, squatters; grand-daughter
of the late Captain Brett, late owner of - Brett’s distillery,
Kilbeggan, County West Meath, Ireland, and Dr, Win.
Brett, of the Royal Navy, relict of the Foxes, Clara Hall,
Clara, Ireland ; and great-grand niece of the late Countess
M’Gauley, Ireland.
The Countess M'Gauley ! And, pray, who is
WHAT MAY HAPPEN TO A MAN IN SYDNEY.
MRS. GIDDY BOY: “BRIDGET TELLS ME SHE HAD HER FORTUNE TOLD YESTERDAY.”
ME. GIDDYBOY: “INDEED! I WONDER WHAT THE OLD WOMAN TOLD HER?”
MRS. GIDDYBOY: “SHE TOLD HER. FOR ONE THING, THAT THE GENTLEMAN IN WHOSE
HOUSE SHE LIVED WAS VERY FOND OF THE FAIR SEX.”
Earl M'Gauley, and what part of Oireland did he
rule when the O’Nixes were thrown off the throne
of Munster ?
* * *
The question whether Miss Winifred
Butler, daughter of the late Edmund Butler,
Q.C., shall be brought up in the Protestant (her
mother’s) or the Catholic (her father’s) religion is,
as we write, still undecided. Four N.S.W. judges
and a dozen or so barristers and solicitors have
struggled with the question so far, and the greater
part of the local Bar will probably be mixed up in
it before it is settled. First, Judge Owen decided
that Miss Winny should be educated as a Roman
Catholic. On the inevitable aj ipeal to the Full Court
Judges Darley, Windeyer and Foster sat for twodays
listening to arguments—costing, perhaps, £2OO a
sitting—on the matter, and reserved their judgment.
When they pronounce it there will probably be
an appeal to the Privy Council, and then, perhaps,
it will go to the House of Lords, and in seven
years or so, by the time pretty Miss Butler is
married, the thing will be finally settled. In the
meantime the Court will, of course, grant an in-
junction, restraining either side from proceeding
any further with Miss Butler’s religious instruc-
tion, and the chances are that by the time the
lawyers have done with the question, she
will be of age to choose for herself, and will
embrace the doctrines of the Plymouth Brethren,
the Hardshell Baptists, or Jos. Symes—for you
never can tell. This would be very saddening,
were it not that by that time all the young lady’s
money will have gone to the land-sharks, and so
the legal interest in the question of her religious
belief will be at an end. Meanwhile Miss Butler
is a winsome little lady of thirteen years, with a
few thousand pounds of her own and a colossal
lawsuit all to her own pretty cheek ; were she
penniless her religious training would be a matter
of indifference, especially to the legal fraternity.
* * »
Everyone knows how particular the Antrli-
can Bishop of Melbourne is to keep theatrical
placards off the Cathedral hoarding. Well. G. G.
Miln has told us how lie counted the flaming
advertisements of Six Whiskies on the Cathedral
boards, while Richard 111., Julius Caesar and
Hamlet were warned off as devilish. But surely
Bishop Goe has not been round there lately ! For,
would you believe it, there has been posted on the
Cathedral boards for ten days and nights a four-
sheet bill of the new Si n'day 1 imes I Oh, where
are we all Goeiug to ? Tins shows the mischief of
making liard-and-fcist rules, through which <i conch
and six can nevertheless be driven. Ihe Bishop
spyktp pmf: ‘Mind, not a single theatre bill!’
-\ll right, says Lessee Hoff, and up go the
whisky and Sunday limes.
'. , * T *
Is Marriage a Failure ( Not long ago a
certain crooked speculator, whose “better-half”
rode in carriages and always “had ’em all on,”
finding himself broke, committed suicide. He was
afraid to meet his wife, but not afraid to meet his
God.
# * #
So Prince George is to be made Duke of
York before he leaves England for Australia.
Imagine, if you can, the joy of spooning by moon-
light on the lee side of one of the Orlando’s guns
with the Duke of York !
* # *
In a N.Z. Roman Catholic journal, a poet
drops into rhyme, thusly :
Come hither, my heart’s darling,
Come sit upon my knee,
And listen while I whisper
A boon 1 ask of thee.
Then, after talking wildly throughout seven verses
of “coals of kindled fire,” and stating that he
feels her “arms about him and her tresses on his
cheek,” he flippantly concludes —
Thou wilt not fail nor falter,
But bend thee to the task—
Put buttons on ray shirt, love
That’s all the boon I ask !
Now, what does Cardinal Moran think of this
sort of thing? He doesn’t look like a man who
lets girls to sit on their reverences’ knees so that
the holy fathers could more effectually ask them to
sew pearl-buttons on to the washing.
* * *
Gustave Lachal, of Melbourne, has been
killed by the bursting of the Land Boom balloon.
No common money-grubber, this, though he was
led away by the excitement of the golden shower-
baths. Lachal was a founder of the Melbourne
French Club, and was sent home to Paris with
the Melbourne contribution to the French Indem-
nity for Germany in 1871. He originally came to
Melbourne in the employ of Denis Bros., the rich
jewellers, and finished as a partner. It was the
old moral : Let the cobbler stick to his last; the
jeweller to his Doctor Beaney, theDkmond King.
Lachal didn’t stick to Beaney, but unfortunately
went sticking to Tommy Bent and the Maribyr-
nong Estate. The Insolvent Court was too much
for him —it broke his heart, Sylla Denis died
only a month or two ago.
# # #
Venerable Austin lias come back from
England, after thirty years, like a Kip Van
Winkle, and Geelong capers and squirms with joy.
He was its second mayor. Then he left Australia
disgusted, a prophet of evil. His first grievance
was the selectors’ villainous taking of the land from
the virtuous squatters. Another great grievance
was the mischievous discovery of the goldfields. A
third was Protection. Venerable Austin shook
his hoary locks in England, and flourished at
Glastonbury, where he was a big-bug, in an appro-
priate sphere. Here were all the glories of aris-
tocracy. Men touched hats to you when you
walked abroad. No rascally democracy. At the
fag-end of life Austin condescends to look again at
Geelong, and pretends to sing, with the poet
J enkins —
Hail, Gteelongia ! Hail, thou favoured spot,
What’s good is found in thee, what’s not is not.
Kardinia, Bellerine, Gheringhap ! Sweet sounds!
All the identities swarm round to lick Austin’s
English Spanish-leather boots. Now he says
he knew all the time that Australia would be
great. Go back to Grand Old England !
Christie Murray’s friends made a mistake
in trying to boom him up so in Melbourne. You
cannot make him into a Forbes, or even into a
Charles Clark, for lecturing. Australia is just as
well-informed as London in the status of a novelist.
Murray cannot be screwed up into a Chas. Reade,
or even a Trollope, by all the forces of the Argus
and the Yoriek Club. He’s a good second-class
man.
* s #
i’ho very quiet funeral of Lady Yerdon
in Melbourne indicated a mighty march in funeral
r dorm. Everything was as plain as possible.
Taere is a well-known hearse-driver in Melbourne
who lias been at it these 30 years. He finds that
tle glories have departed. Yes, the glories of
nodding plumes, black or white, on the horses’
heads and the hearse will soon be gone for ever.
Tae next step will be cremation. When will Aus-
t 'alia be scandalised by a calcination? It only costs
about £7, and the ashes of the loved one go into
lib. Lady Verdon lies in that very beautiful
Boroondara Cemetery, just beyond Kew, and on
the slope of the Prospect Hill, with a lovely view
over to Heidelberg. Indeed, it is a romantic
little place. Here are the monuments of Henty,
'V yselaskie, <loldsbrough, and others of the rich,
whose money has been very artist’cally spent in
this regard. The undertakers say that when the
pi lines and trappings are gone the next thing to go
will be the wine, and everyone knows how good
they are on the wine. In fact, it is the funeral
worn day after day that debauches undertakers.
V hat has come of the mute? Oh. what a grand
boozer he was ! What a taste for'Moselle, which
always used to be the correct tipple for tiptop
funeral .s. Offer au beer—flood Lord !
One of the most comprehensive books that we
have seen for a long time is Dr. Philip Muskett’s
“ Health and Diet of Children in Australia,” pub-
lished in Sydney at a modest half-crown. There
is very little about medicine and a gi’eat deal
about ventilation, bathing, clothing, exercise, and
diet. It is a book that ought to do something to
dispel the popular idea that a jar of brimstone-and-
treacle and a pig-skin strap are all that is neces-
sary by way of special provision for bringing up
children. And when we say that the author has
managed to insinuate, on a transparent pretext,
recipes for salads and other nice dishes, and (let us
wnisper this) devices for improving the com-
plexion and making the skin soft and pliable, and
the eyelashes long and silky, we think we have
said enough to interest all young mothers in the
health and diet of their children. With the addi-
tion of a chapter on scientific spanking and the
address of a firm of bootmakers whose wares
wouldn’t go at the toes, Dr. Muskett’s book would
contain as much on the subject of rearing a family
as any one person ought to be allowed to know.
* * #
Quong Tart, Sydney’s boss Chinaman
here may be wealthier Chinamen in Sydney
than Quong, but none of them have the sense to
wear kilts, sing Scotch songs, and patronise the
clergy), is now going to patronise the Press. He
has taken the late offices of the Daily Telegraph
in King-street, Sydney, and is fitting them up as
a club-restaurant at a cost of, say, £2OOO. Tea,
therefore, succeeds D.T., which is a decided im-
provement, and Tart follows closely on the heels
of “pie.” He means to keep the place open
night and day all the year round, and employ two
culinary staffs, so that the newspaper man or M.P.
who is, or says he is, at work all night, can at any
hour procure a good meal. This has been one of
the wants of Sydney for ever so long. Ever since
the community became so godly as to abolish
Horne’s there has practically been no place where,
if you asked for a chop at much after 8, you did not
see some tired little woman with her bonnet on
ready to go home, pucker up her little mouth with
anguish and adjectives.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
DO KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 0i per cent.
12 Months 8S per cent.
6 Months 7* per cent.
3 Months per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
If You Have
CONSUMPTION
bronchitis
SCROFULA
COUGH ORCOLD
Throat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Tliroat and Dungs
arc Inflamed, lack of Strength or Nerve
JBotver. you can he Believed and Cured oy
SCOTT’S
EMISSION
PURE COd'IIVER OIL
With Hypophosphites.
Palatable as Milk-
Ask for Scott’s Emulsion, and let no eos*
planation or solicitation induce you to accept
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists,
SCOTT & BOWNE, New York.
BERT SON’S WHISKY.
( ~VIA AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
1« of 45 each, 25 42, and 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Ao-ents, ALL'- 1 - 1 00., Limited,
CHAKL 0 T T E PLA C E.
SYDNEY
Once more has the noble Australian cus-
tom of “ tin-kettling ” a newly-married couple
with a view to fluid blackmail, led to trouble. Mr.
Edward Stribling, manager of the Colonial Bank,
Kuroa, got married, and was besieged at his resi-
dence by the tin-pot brigade, whom he declined to
•dcoholise. By and by the newly-wedded pair
shifted to the residence of the bride’s relatives
and so did the tin-can gang, who began to
break the windows and force open the doors.
Hereupon Mr. Stribling put a charge of duck-snot
into one Fuller, who just now is fuller of lead than
lie is of whisky. Some years ago, it will be remem-
bered, a man was shot by aN.S.W. bank-manager
whom he was tin-kettling. The moral is obvious.
# * *
The latest tin-kettling story (from Gipps-
land) relates to a professional man, who, having
taken unto himself a wife, was waited upon in due
course by the bullock-bell and oil-can banditti.
The bridegroom held out against the torture foi
two hours, but finding that “the boys ” were still
in good buckle and that “pianissimo” had only
given place to “forte,” he compromised by handing
the chief brigand an order on a local storekeeper ;
“ Please give bearer XOlbs. ordinary biscuits, ihe
deputation having procured the biscuits requested
the storekeeper to re-purchase them for Js., there
being 18 thirsty souls among them. Ihe merchant
being a good old sort, consented, and in due course
the newly-married man received his bill, bhout
or shoot —these are the sole alternatives in dealing
with the cow-bell fiend.
Evangelist Yarley points out, apropos of
the golden image exhibited by "Victoria of the
£247 000,000 sterling extracted from her gold-mnvs
since the foundation of the province, that she has
spent in drink the whole of this enormous sum. It
is indeed fearful to think how much V ictona has
spent in grog and parsons without being any the
better for it.
.... # #
Mr. Yarley, by the way, emphatically says
that immorality is not a necessity. Judging by
the number of saints who “go crock every year
one would really think it was.
* * *
The art of painting pictures will soon be-
come lost in Victoria if the success of a recent
“ Impressionist ” exhibition encourages legiti-
mate” workers to cater fur the ignorance of
patrons who, at this late hour of the day, feign to
find money value in canvases covered with four
smudges and a daub. Among this batch of im-
pressions, so-called, there were a few pictures of
considerable merit within narrow limits, but the
most of them differed in no particular from ordin-
ary amateur outrages. The creed of Impres-
sionism is that genius—properly defined as a
capacity for taking pains-may be seen m every
splash from a painter’s brush, provided the said
painter can produce anything worth mentioning
when he expends sufficient time and trouble upon
the effort.' Sir Joshua Reynolds, who was a
pretty decent painter, by the way, told quite a
different tale to aspiring young men. Jhs ideas
about art were on all fours with Douglas Jerrold s
views on literature. “ Easy writing is d d
hard reading.” While these Melbourne impres-
sions ” were selling like cherries, a man at St.
George’s Hall was dashing off vastly better things
every evening. He painted them upside down.
# * *
Amorous Dr. Rose, of Melbourne, still
keeps a warm corner in his heart for the wife or
baker Weeding, and the baker seems to be more
knocked out of the betting than he was before that
abortive divorce-suit of two years ago. Ihe
wretched dough-kneader can neither get hold of
his darling nor get rid of her. She is his wife and
she ain’t his wife, as Jennie Lee Jo might express
it. Sometimes the baker would like to feast his
eyes on the woman he is cherishing in the sight of
heaven, but she’s never on the premises, so he sits
beside his lonely fire until the demon of jealousy
steals into his forlorn bosom and suggests the pro-
priety of rousing up the naughty doctor. On such
occasions Weeding usually raps at the front-dooi
of Rose’s little bower, and asks for his Maria or
whatever the lady’s name is—-in a loud tone of
voice. But, after waiting a bit for his lost love, he
goes away again of his own accord, or else he leaves
111 consequence of bricks and other hard substances.
Last week, however, the baker turned up at dead
of night, bringing a surprise party of three to
discover whether Mrs. W. was reading the Ten
Commandments to the doctor without having
another lady present. This band of marauders
broke through the dining-room window and
prowled about the house until they found the
doctor and Mrs. Weeding, also an old lady whose
presence cast a halo of Respectability around the
situation. Then Mrs. Weeding rushed forth in
her robe de nuit to fetch policemen, but, as the
baker and his fellow bandits had departed before
the foorcearrived, nothing further occurred. Mrs.
Weeding th ught it was most disgraceful, so did
Dr. Rose, so did the baker, so did the perlice.
There the matter rests for the present. T his story
WHAT HE HAD HEARD.
NEWCHUM: “AND DO YOU MEAN TO SAY THAT YOU ACTUALLY EAT
THE OLD WORKING BULLOCKS? I SHOULD HAVE THOUGHT THEY
WERE VERY TOUGH.”
SQUATTER: “OH , NO, THE CONSTANT PUNCHING HAKES THEM VERY
TENDER.”
NEWCHUM: AH, YES; I THINK I HEARD THEM SAY IN ENGLAND THAT
THEY BEAT THE STEAK BEFORE COOKING IT.”
has no morals at all worth mentioning, and
Shakespeare was quite right when he observed
that the Rose by any other name would smell as
sweet. Our own opinion is that it serves the other
man right for being a baker.
# # *
The report that Lady Try on had died last
week turns out to have been a malicious, but
particularly uninteresting hoax. A try on, in fact.
* * *
A wooden-headed globe-trotter has re-
turned to his native Canada with the news that
Australians are a drunken lot, whose country
swims with whisky and water. The Canuck pro-
bably saw herds of larrikins loafing into the pubs,
and wrangling outside, but he never took the
trouble to discover that they washed out their
mouths with “ soft-tack.” Lemonade and rasp-
berry is the curse of this country.
# # *
A pretty little pill for the bile it was to
drop into the meeting in the Mayor’s room, Mel-
bourne Town Hall, last week, about the Lady
Loch Fund. The meeting was composed ot ail the
ladies of Toorak, led by Sir Benjamin Benjamin,
and the inevitable Fitzgibbon. Fit* was delighted
to state that £12(10 had been rolled up for Lady
Loch. The Toorak ladies then fluttered like a
covey of partridges. Next question, what shall
we give her beloved Ladyship ? Nobody, suggests
the cash, which Her Ladyship would infinitely
prefer. No, they must needs go carting about
card cases, jewel boxes, diamond rings, pictures or
such other rubbish, over which the £1260 would be
sweated down to goodness knows w h at , in tran-
situ. When Bishop Moorhouse went, £lOO was
raised for him. They had a long ‘ jaw as to whe-
ther to spend it at Mullens, in books, but con
eluded to give him the coin, that he
his library himself. Moorhouse wrote to them an
effusive letter of thanks saying that the money
would just cover his heavy travelling expenses,
but he seemed to forget that he was leaving Me -
bourne with its paltry £2OOO a year, for Mane .
ter, with its £4OOO.
* * *
Earl Kintoro buttered his fellow viee-
regals again last week, when he got upon those
beautiful legs at the Melbourne Agricultural
Show. He told the bucolic as emblage that m
Sir William Robinson they have a man who, tor
17 years, has been daily adding to the debt of
gratitude Australia owes him. Then dipped
a spot or two of grease on Baron Carington,
previous to putting it thick on the new preserve!
of Victoria: Lord Hopetoun,. “a man who wi
prove to be all they can desire in a Governor uho
will devote his whole time, means, and abil ties to
the punctual discharge of his duties (alwajs at
the theatre by 8 sharp on command nights),
while worthily upholding the dignity of the
Crown.” God bless him for looking aftei the
Crown ! And all this suggests that the somewhat
braw and bony Kintoro seems to be president of
the Vice-regal Mutual Admiration bocicty lately
started in these parts with a view to informing the
public that V. 11. is the party from whom all
blessings flow. It is now Carmgton s turn to
anoint his brethren with a pound of the best
fresh.”
* * *
Mr. Arthur Garner writes to the Argus
stating that he has a “permanent special con-
stable’s ” baton which he understands has bet n
in the family for upwards of 100 years. 1° Mr.
Garner’s hereditary regard for the powers that bo
we trace the Triumvirate’s gravellings before yicc-
regality. Every time a “ command '’ comes along
the loyal Garner, we imagine, clutches the ances-
tral staff and murmurs, “The King—-God bless
him !” Doosid affecting.
* # *
Demogorgon writes from Melbourne .
Walking into town this morning, over Prince’s Bridge,
what should I see but a caracolhng hussar. Alter him
comes vice-regal carriage, then another caracolhng hussar.
Inside the carriage was one Lord Kmtore, an Adelaide
gent., beaming in patronising smiles. Oh, we veie iei\
creditable, we were indeed I Superior to London, but not
quite equal to Glen Haggis. This triumphal entry of
Kintore was such a strangely exotic looking thing in
business-like republican Melbourne. One would have
fancied some Prince of Schwammergan-Ammergau bad
dropped from the clouds.
* * *
A flat-sided calamity, with redemption
oozing out of his flabby cheeks, is just now making
a house-to-house visitation round the suburbs or
Melbourne, wanting to know if anyone on the
premises is sick. “If anyone is sick, says this
travelling agent for the Deity, “we wj ll ask the
Loard to cure him free of charge. ~ g
spiritual medicine of that kind ought to be I
hibited in the interests of duly-qualified prac-
titioners. The world will never stand gmnea-a-
visit-fees for medical attendance, if the flat-sided
man flings his prayers through your front door
and curses the patient while you wait. Ihe doctor
ing industry has been a very thriving concern m
Australia, up to date, but it will have to go if
these new people purpose opening a provident
dispensary—no fees, no physic, and the Deity
always at home.
* « *
Mrs. Honeymoon: “ Algernon, dear I
wish you would put on your red necktie for din-
ner.” Mr. Honeymoon : Why, my love.
Mrs. Honeymoon: “Because we are tonave
radishes, tomatoes, strawberries, and claret.
# * *
We shall have to get up and cut those
silken bonds which bind us, &c., if the Melbourne
Herald publishes any more pictures of the Royal
family. No loyalty can hold out against such
ghastly blocks as the Herald alleged to be life-
like representations of Fife andhisLoiuse. Murder,
arson, and embezzlement flash from 1 ife’s wretched
little left eye—his right eye being apparently closed
for alterations. The thought of Louise having
loved that thing all her life (the &.M. Herald has
the fact on unimpeachable authority _ its London
correspondent was there at the time) is revolting,
and we would prefer to see her Royal arms twined
round a Chinaman. Louise’s own face seems to
possess the graceful outline of a ham. Her eye-
lashes have been burnt off and her nose is like
what we used to shy sticks at for cocoanuts. At
this distance from the Court of fet. James it is
hard to say how much the Herald may have
flattered Fife and his pansy-blossom, but the next
time anything of the same kind occurs we sha
climb atop of the kitchen-chimney and proclaim
an Australian Republic and let the Chamber of
Horrors do its worst.
* * *
Subscribers to the Victorian Orchestra
Fund already begin to complain that programmes
are working down to the popular taste, instead ot
hoisting it up to the elevation of a symphony in
25 movements. Waltzes and other frivolous things
have set the orchestral maniacs wringing their
long, bony hands in bitterness of soul. Melan-
choly-eyed females may be seen gathered in knots
on the doorsteps of Collins-street music-sellers,
discussing the awful falling away from grace of
Hamilton Clarke and his expensive fiddlers. Any-
thing which may be construed into a distant sug-
gestion of a tangible air is worse than poison to
the high priests and priestesses of the musical cult,
who would sooner catch the typhoid than a tune—
a nasty, vulgar tune. Meanwhile the financial
managers of the Victorian Orchestra are making
harrowing calculations in figures, all tending to
show that it is urgently necessary to start the
erection of culture on a good, payable foundation.
It is impossible to elevate the masses, or to get the
money to do it with, while they stop outside and
say “ Yah !”
# * *
Advt. iu daily ;
XJOTANY.—Young lady, escorted to pr. •Jefferis
XJ church, Sunday evening, kindly write to J.Y.n.,
P. 0., Parramatta.
Exactly.
# * *
There seems to have been arsenic every-
where in the Maybrick household. There was
arsenic in the arrowroot-jug, there was arsenic
even in the pocket of Mrs. Maybrick s dressmg-
-8° wn - * • *
At a fancy ball. Masher (to Fair Masked
One). “Oh, if I could convince you of the sin-
cerity of my affection. I love you with my whole
heart.” F. M. O. (speaking at last): Well, so
you ought, fur you’ll never get a better aunt as
long as you live.”
A GUSHING YOUNG THING.
Wc know a young lady, a ravishing maid,
(Her photo’s on view at the Royal Arcade),
Who from morning to eve fairly lavishes sighs on
The handsomest man that she ever set eyes on.
.She meets him at matins, the Father we mean,
On whose clerical shoulders she’d willingly can,
And she sighs as the choir sings the Kyne
Eloison,”
“ Ah me, he’s the handsomest man 1 ve set eyes
on. ”
Again, at the draper’s he's sure to be met
The assistant with “ What’s the next thing i can
And she sighs ev’ry Monday, the day that she
buys on,
“ Ah me, he’s the handsomest man 1 ve set eyes
on.”
She sees him at “Hilder’a” when purchasing boots
Those elegant “lace-up’s” that set off her ‘ toots,
And she sighs as the twenty-third sample ho tries
on, T , ,
“ Ah me, he’s the handsomest man i ve set eyes
on,”
She meets him at bicycle-meetings by scores,
This übiquitous perv nage whom she adores ;
She’d bestow, whemer winning or losing, the pro:o
on . . , i
“ Tlie handsom /st man that she ever sat eyes on.
Sh“ meets him at concerts, she meets him at balls,
5),,, H ees him at playhouse adorning the staffs ;
S’i «loves him, though poor, if as wealthy as lyson.
This “ handsomest man that she ever set eyes on.
The end of such passion we often surmise on,
For she loves him, and will till the day that she
dies on,
Till the day Mrs. Kirby’s constituents rise on -
This “ handsomest man that she ever set eyes on.
Thus DAGONET:
They showed him a body of workmen brave
Who all day long for a pittance slave,
Whose lives are dreary and dull ; but when
They Said “ They are all Conservatives, then
“ That’s wonderful 1” said the Shah.
He met a bishop in feeble health,
Whose coffers were gorged with his hoarded v earth,
While he droned to his flock from the Book which told
How you lose your soul if you save your gold.
“ That’s wonderful!” said the Shah.
He went to a Court where the fairest fair
Wore dresses which left their bosoms bare ;
But when he was told it would shock the Queen
If they let but an inch of their legs be seen,
“ That’s wonderful 1” said the Shah.


The American papers assert that Queen
Victoria is about to abdicate in favour of
“ Edward.” Why doesn’t she abdicate in favour
of the nation ?
“Hartley ” Hurley thinks there is a Judas
in the N.B.W. Ereetrade camp. Well, thanks to
Eoreicn trade. Dliiiiesse nine is eliean n.n
Foreign trade, Chinese rope is cheap and plentiful
in the Sydney market.
Gr
Amusements.
A I E T Y THEATRE.
L. Foley
Manager for Miss Putnam
Business Manager ....
Lessee.
Matt. L. Berry.
H. Lestox.
Every Evening! Crowded Houses!
A Positive and Unqualified Success of the ‘Refined and
Accomplished American Comedienne,
Miss Katie Pntnam,
And her excellent Comedy Company, presenting
OLD
Charles Dickens’
CURIOSITY
SHOP.
The Sydney Press Unanimous !
Herald, Sept. 2.—“ Miss Putnam is agile, insinuating,
vivacious, with an appreciation for humour and the capa-
city of infusing her merriment into her auditors.”
Telegraph, Sept. 2. —“ Miss Putnam has the rare faculty
of losing entirely her own identity and entering with a
whole heart into the part she is playing. JSTo better test
of her ability as a character actress could have been chosen,
perhaps, than the portrayal of those two well - known
characters, Little Nell and The Marchioness.”
Star, Sept. 2.—“ Of Miss Putnam we may say that she
is by far the cleverest exponent of her particular branch
of art that has ever come to us. Her humour is rich with-
out one trace of vulgarity. Her wit is spontaneous and
sparkling.”
News, Sept. 2.—“ The parts of Little Nell and The
Marchioness were filled by Miss Putnam, and she found
great favour with her audience.”
Echo, Sept. 2. —“As Little Nell she was plaintively
pathetic, but as The Marchioness she absolutely brimmed
over with fun and frolic.”
Times, Sept. I.—“ A cleverer company never engag-ed a
theatre than that under the management of Miss Katie
Putnam.”
Prices—Orchestra Stalls, 45.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.;
Pit, Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Bignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY,
JULIUS C-aSS A.R!
RIGNOLD as “ MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
N
£
W OPERA HOUSE,
King axd York Streets.
Lessee and Manager Mr. John Solomon.
LAST NINE NIGHTS
OP
MR. JOHN SOLOMON’S ENGLISH AND COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
THE BEGGAR STUDENT.
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR 0 PRICES:
Dress C rcle, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stalls,
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
JOE DAVIS
Business Manager.
CHO O L
O F
ARTS.
—THE SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Popular Prices. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
C f: VIDA y\lm.\a
HAVE YOU SEEN IT?
The Herald says:—“ In no other illusion has ever been
attained such intense realism. The semblance to Nature
is perfect.”
The Bulletin says : “ The very air is in and about it.
The blue mils, the wooded ridges, the peaceful valleys and
fields of golden grain, afford all the pleasure of natural
objects.
All who have seen it say—“ Marvellous beyond belief.”
We say—“ The Greatest Show on Earth /”
Opposite the Railway Station.
Admission, 25.; Children, Is. Open from 10 to 10 daily.
Special.— Sunday Night, 3 to 10 p.m. ; Half-price.
*' sequent Explanatory Lectures. (Lectures at. 12 noon on
Saturdays, specially adapted for children.) Band every
day and evening. ‘
B° N DIAQ U A R I U M.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, Cd. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
LITE
SKATING
RINK.
■ The Manager is pleased to announce to his many Patrons
and the Sydney Public that he has RESUMED BUSINESS
at the CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY York-
*treet, during the Repairing of his ELITE RINK ’ -
SESSIONS ;
Morning Session Ladies and Children, Admission Free *
Skate Checks, Gd. ’
Afternoon -Ladies and Children, Admission Gd - Skates
Free. Gentlemen, Admission Gd ; Skates Gd ’ ’
Evening Admission, Skaters, Is.; Skates Free Sueo-
i Waters,-Gd.-- • - F
Monday and Thursday Evenings:—Admission, Ladies Is. •
Skates, Free. Gentlemen, 2s. ; Skates, Free Spec-
tators, Is. ‘ - *.
Saturday Afternoon : Prices as usual.
The Rink.will be OPEN for Special Afternoon Session
from 1 till 2 p.m. Admission 6d.; Skates, Free
The NAVAL ARTILLER\ BAND in attendance ever l
Evening and Saturday Afternoon.
Objectionable persons will not be admitted.
K. A. SKINNER, Proprietor and Manager.
Amusements.
CRITERION THE A~ TR E.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
General Manager .... Mr. Mayne.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
of
Oliver Goldsmith’s Masterpiece,
She Stoops to Conquer.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
On SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 7,
TIHIIE SILVER SHIELD,
An Original Comedy in 3 Acts, by Sydney Grundy, Esq.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
558 Georgf.-Strbet, Sydney,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Mb. F RANK M. CLARK’S
Latest Sensation,
Engaged by him during his recent tour round the
world from P. T. Barnum.
LAST TWO DAYS OF
Jo-Jo,
THE RUSSIAN DOG-EACED BOY.
A Human with a Canine Head.
The Regal Ruler of Recreative Research. The
August Autocrat of Mankind’s Marvels.
JO-JO HOLDS RECEPTIONS DAILY
from 11 a.in, to 10 p.m.
From the Crystal Palace, London.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Mnsgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Last Two Nights of Gilbert and Sullivan’s favourite Opera,
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE,
And Stephenson and Cellier’s Operetta,
CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
jyjETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK
Harris Street, Ultimo.
iISU Nearest Rink to Redfern Raikcay Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony.
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.—Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, 6d., Skates,
(id.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, 6d.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is. j Skates, 6d.
LO O K OU T
FOE
Future IST oveltiea.
FLOORAGE FREE,
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Bosses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
Business Announcements.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Tea Merchants anil Importers,
Beg to announce to their many friends and cus-
tomers and the general public that they have just
Opened another Branch of their business at
141 —KING STREET, SYDNEY—I4I
(Nearly opposite the Theatre Royal),
under the name of
The tiOONGr SHAN TEA HOUSE,
where, in addition to their famed Loong Shan
Tea (new season’s just arrived), they intend to sell
FINEST SUGAR. BEST COFFEE,
CHOICE COCOAS, &c..
All of Best Quality and at Cheapest Rates,
Q.T. & Co. beg also to intimate that until the
completion of adjoining premises (which are tube
fitted-up with all modern improvements and con-
venience regardless of expense), customers may
procure at the New Branch the usual Cup of
delicious lea and Light Refreshments as supplied
at their other Tea-rooms.
Shipping.
TJ n ION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
. of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postinasters-Qeneral of New
South Wales and:, New Zealand, the steamers of this line
am appointed,to,leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Franfcigco every four weeks, sailimr as under •_
Steamer.
Mariposa
Zealandia
a uui.y quaimea surgeon,
i, These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with,
Refngcrating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring
plentiful supply of ice throughout the Voyage S
1 assengem are booked to San Francis™ or through «
Emopean destinations and have at San Francisco choicer,
sti“ ntl( !i St ,? am9hi P Lines of the Cimaaid
Inman, AVhite Star, and other companies.
.4 11 Apt-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of Wrap
to San I ranciscoandi 2501 h “ Overland ” free of char™
THROUGH I'ARF, TO LIVERPOOL h
FIRST-CLASS
■- - - — % '' £63 to £66*
Time-cards, railway maps, and guide books, showing ai
application" - ' point,n the Unitert States, may be had. oi
Hnn°an«iv s „?in pa^ age and > height and all other inlorma
tion appl y at the Company’s Offices, is Bridge-street,
P> HOUGHTON, Acting Manager,,
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
BATHO'S BAKING POWDERS,
Extract of Soap,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
SERVICE TO ENGLAND,
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
uare
H’inegar, Blacking,
&c., &c., &0.
——o
Steam Works and Brewery
Shipping.
Steamers.
Ballaarat
Parramatta
Rosetta
Massilia
Oceana
Carthage ..
Commander.
4748 E. Ashdown
4771 R. G. Murray
3525 G. W. Brady
4918 C. Fraser ..
6362 P. S. Tomlin
5013 C. B. Baker
. Sep. 14 Sep. 20
JSep. 28 |Oct. 4
• | Oct. 12 | Oct. 18
, [Oct. 26 {Nov. 1
Nov. 9 {Nov. 15
Sep 23
Oct. 7
Oct 21
Nov. 4
NovlB
. INov. 23 !Nov. 29 Dec. 2
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
SIOMPAGNIE DBS MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-'
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
ď
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company ’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL,
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS '
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
coiswecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
wiiM toe despatched as follows (if practicable):—
d
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
ana friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street,
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer. Bulletin Office.
N E
Furniture, &c,
WT ON AN I)
L A M B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREH OUSEM EN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EAS\ CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW T 0 N an n LAM B,
Furniture Warehonsemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Wash stand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ď
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
UPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS
GxB,B x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting' "chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, Gs. 6d.; 8 x 8,
95.; 9x 8,9 s. 6d.; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.; 12 xB, 12s. Gd.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
ii
MERIC AN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
——
NEWTON and LAMB.
đ
£JANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connelt. S t beets.•_
r AWN and PARK SEATS, Oft. long. Rustic
I i Cast-iron Standards,- 14s. Gd. each. Newton
and Lamb, j • ■ '
i i ARDEN SEATS, lite. Verandah Chairs,
VI Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and L AMB.
T> ATTAN VE H ANI) A H LOUNGES, from
■l l 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets. _
BEDSTEADS, alf sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWTON AND LAMB-
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


For Nervous DcblUty
USE hoesford’s acid phosphate.
Dr W. Wilson, L.K.Q.C.P., 80 Broad-street, Pendleton,
Manchester, Eng., says; “I have found it advantageous
in cases of nervous debility.”
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
'' THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE O' TH» WORLD “
] aoODAUi’S I
[YORKSHIRE RELISH
€EiEB
6,000,000 Bottles
sold annually.
Enriches Sot
Joints, Stews,
See.
Delicious to Chops,,
Steaks, Fist, Sec.
With, soup It is'
charming.
Agrees with the
most delicate
person.
Makes cold meat
a luxury.
Makes the plain-
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A groat addition
to Cheese.
Spieures pro-
nounce it. tho
best Sauce.
Fears no com-
petition. A mar-
■ vol of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to tho
invalid’s oup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
able imitations.
Sold Everywhere
by all Dealer*.
wholesale ;
nLLOCK * CO..
QEORqg ST., RTDN'ET w
A YOUNG LADY, tall and fair, good looking,
is desirous of corresponding with tall
gentleman in good position. Photos exchanged.
“Genuine,” Bulletin office.
FOR SALE.— Second-hand (Juad-Demy
Folder, by Haiuuld ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing- Machine.
PYSTORA LISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. BEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT
Manufacturers and Importers of Super)
TO ALL USERS O F M A CHINERT.
J. C. LUDOWICI <& SO IST,
„ Oak Tanned Leather Belting, and every description o£ Leather Goods used for Machine and Engineering Purposes.
H
u
■ *=
A
Full Stocks of
Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
HAW HIDE BELTING,
COTTON BELTING,
Raw Hide Laces, Lace Hides,
TANG YE PUMP LEATHERS,
HYDRAULIC LEATHERS.
All Goods bearing the above
Trade Mark are warranted to
give entire satisfaction, or may be
returned at the Maker’s expense.
Highest Awards
ADELAIDE JUBILEE
Exhibition, 1887-8.
Melbourne International
Exhibition, 1888-9.
INDIAN & COLONIAL
Exhibition, London, 1886.
Sydney.
1869, 1870, 1872, 1877, 1878,
1879, 1884, 1885,
x
X
■«!Tift t v
; ■
m
I .
X'
~,
eg
lex
iiV
M' -i
■f
is
to ° !
!Nl
BbJ
»n
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence Street, between King and Market Streets, Sydney.
Contractors to tho Now South Wales Government. Prices and Catalogues posted Free on Application. No Agents.
Maud Buffinton.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I s uprose my passion for Maud Buffinton was
what you would term calf-love. We were young.
There is one indelible scene in my recollection —as
in everybody else’s. Mine is of an arbor hung
over with cloth-of-gold roses after a refreshing
shower. I can shut my eyes and imagine myself
again sniffing the scent of the place.
Maud was a blonde, with a yard of rope down
her back and dreamy eyes suggestive of a fair
haven, while her voice was a sweet, low-toned,
oooing One —you can realise how far gone I was.
Well, a long stroll among the roses, gladioli,
magnolias, rhodendendrons, azaleas, orchids, ferns,
and fronds, led to an absurd proposal on my part,
and an equally absurd blushing consent on hers.
Rut first I had to go and make my fortune, at
Callao, or somewhere.
The scene of the declaration was in Gloucester-
shire, and my Callao was Melbourne, where I came
all by myself, in a big ship-load.
Let the drop-curtain come down for three years.
I made money in Melbourne, and took ray passage
by the Marco Polo for London. My misgivings
were great, because my correspondence with Maud
had entirely ceased for 18 months. That is to say
she had not written.
That awful Black Thursday came round, and
the Marco Polo was to go that very day. The
atmosphere was all a fog, with the thick, white
smoko of bush-fires. The postman handed me an
English letter. It was from my father and ran
thus :
“My dear Herbert,—l write to inform you that I have
contracted a most important engagement, and, indeed, I
am married. Braving the sarcasms of the world, I have
married a young lady 21 years my junior, and I fancy you
have some slight knowledge of her, Maud Buffinton,
who used to he at Miss Philipeau’s school. I cannot find
that she was ever engaged to, or, so to speak, innocently
compromised with anyone else, and so I have the pleasure
of presenting you with a new mother ■”
Thus far I only read, and never read a line more
of that letter, or knew what became of it. With
the lettvr in my hand I rushed away to the ti-tree
scrub, which then bounded the Yarra. What my
intentions were I know not-none —merely to get
away somewhere alone. A sunstroke .prostrated
me. I was picked up by the park-ranger, on his
rounds, and taken to his residence, a little white
house, then the only one in the forest which
covered Richmond Hill, near Melbourne.
The Marco Polo went without me, and, indeed,
I hovered ’twixt life and death. Recovering, I
abjured England, my father, and Maud for ever.
I went to Ballarat, then opening up, and began a
new career.
Yet correspondence from England would trickle
now and again. I bring down the drop-curtain
again for ID years. Of course I did not spend
this time in a Rip Van Winkle sleep, but my life
was not of much account.
My father had died. My stepmother, Maud,
had died, too, but she left a daughter, now 18
years old, her name Maud also, and the surname
the same as mine. So she was Maud Reeves.
Well, do you know, this new Maud insisted on
coming to Australia, and coming to me. You
may conceive the resentment that possessed me at
first, but it soon changed to an eager desire to wel-
come my young half-sister.
She came, and the excitement of the afternoon
in the Gloucestershire arbor was quite outdone by
that of the afternoon when I went to meet her in
Hobson’s Bay. She came by the steamer Nor-
thumberland.
I stood on the Railway Pier, Sandridge, and
watched the Northumberland come in sight. When
she was three miles off I jumped into Bill Seggie’s
boat and made for her.
As we rounded under the big stern and read,
“Northumberland, London,” in white letters,
what were my emotions! Many people were
looking over the side, but none like Maud.
Up the ladder I went, and stood on deck. Bless
you ! There was Maud sitting on an Indian chair
near the deckhouse, with a blue veil thrown back
from her face over her straw hat, her beautiful
blonde hair all fuzzy in front. Indeed, she was
a standing image of her mother, as if from the
grave !
Our recognition was mutual. Maud’s voice
sounded again in my ears, the very same Maud.
Yet there was a difference. I could perceive at
once that this Maud was infinitely superior to the
other, who, in fact, was only a doll.
The new Maud snuggled close to me at once and
said, “ Oh, Herbert, my brother ! I knew I should
like you !”
Since then this sister Maud has been the light
and delight of my home. I sit down and pen this
on her wedding day. Yes, she must go ! Darling
IVlaud! But, in the words of the ditty, just
altered a bit —
She has promised she never will leave me,
No, never alone.
The experiences in Sydney of the saved
Chinese brother who wears “flock-coat all-a-samee
Bishop Bally ” are not so gratifying as a European
might imagine. The other Chows regard the Rev.
Hoo Ki Lah, or whatever his celestial reverence is
pleased to call himself, much in the same light
that the foxes regarded the Reynard who had lost
his tail, and even should a batch in whose hearts
the word has taken root promise to visit chapel
next Sunday, the fascinations of a quiet game at
fan tan, while the police are chivvying the Sunday-
trading publicans, will prove too much, and so the
Rev. Hoo Ki Lah will sit alone in his empty
meeting-house until other places of worship are
in full swing; when he will sally forth to round
up enough to make a congregation. He knows
the lair of the yellow-skin and may soon collect
half-a-dozen-,, but the unwilling worshippers are as
slippery as eels, and, as a rule, the disconsolate
preacher is delivered of his “Joss chin chin in
the presence of only one or two wearied-lookmg
fellow-countrymen. A proposal is made to move
the meeting-house from its present location, near
the Rocks, to the Haymarket, and the lower
George - street fan - tan shopkeepers cunning
fellows —are eagerly subscribing to the cost of
erecting a “more far Joss-house.” They hope by
this Mephistophelian policy to _ get rid of the
proselytising Sunday morning visitations of the
Rev. Hoo Ki Lah.
The genial medical expert again ! The
doctors, after examining the corpus delicti of the
Ringwood (Vic.) murder, wherein Sherlock, a sur-
veyor, was the victim, jauntily told the jury that
a blunt instrument, such as a billet of wood, did
the deed. But, mirahile dictu , the common detec-
tive has for once risen superior to his customary
dunderheadedness and has confounded the medicos
by finding evidence that the cause of death was
a gunshot, such evidence being the discovery
of a good peppering of shot inside the dead
man’s skull. The Bulletin leaves the doctors
and the detectives to haggle out the dispute bullet
v. billet, merely suggesting that, after all, the
sawbones may be right, inasmuch as surveyors
have been known to carry round shot in their
heads to help them in thinking out trigonometrical
problems.
Mr. Andrew Scott, a worthy and pious
squatter, has, in plain terms, as Shakespeare says,
gone to heaven. He lived in Melbourne, also
somewhere in N.S.W'., amid his flocks and herds.
He preferred Melbourne, not for its opera, not
for its Cup ; oh, no, friends, not for the Cup of
Devils, but for its blessed privileges in the Pres-
byterian Assembly, the Kurruk, and the Daily
Telegraph. A year or two ago Speaker Davies,
Scott, Balfour, and other godly men, laid then-
heads together—nut to make money, oh no I but to
advance that mysterious thing known as the
Cawse. They passed a unanimous resolution that
the Argus was Mephistophelean, and the Age
was —well, in the lowest deep, a lower deep, as
Milton says. The Daily Telegraph was
in the market. They decided to purchase it
for the glory of — not Mammon. Out came
the Southern Cross and Spectator with
gloomy paragraphs. Yea, the religious Indepen-
dent and Baptist Freeman joined in congratula-
tion. At last Melbourne was to have a religious
daily paper ! Macartney, Langley, Bevan, Chap-
man, Webb, all the Evangelical clergy, went cir-
culating this beautiful news. They all agreed
that the glorified and celestial Daily Telegraph
would not contain a word of reference to the turf
or the drama, the two great bugbears. But,
friends, there was a grievous disappointment.
The D.T., under the new Goshen of proprietor-
ship, became even more enthusiastic than before
in its dramatic and turf reports. The clergy
groaned, but all the sop they got was an occa-
sional leading article thrown in, writing up the
churches in an absurdly, over-strained way, or
writing down Darwin with equal hollowness. For
servingGodand Mammon theD.T. bangsBanagher.


Medical.
Good Health
Is the greatest blessing vouchsafed to mankind. Without
health, wealth is useless, happiness improbable, content-
ment impossible. Many people who do not enjoy good
health, suffer simply on account of their disregard of
nature’s unwritten but potent laws. Any departure from
the natural course of life is sure and certain to result in
physical disturbance, and to induce symptoms of disease.
These symptoms are warnings from the nervous system
that the vital processes are not being properly performed.
The blood forms all parts of the body ; it is the foundation
of all muscle, bone, tissue, and secretions, and is the
mainspring of the physical system, besides being the
source from which all functions and faculties arise ; there-
fore it is absolutely necessary that it should be rich in its
essential chemical elements to properly perform its office.
If the blood becomes weak and enervated by reduction of
its vital constituents, it cannot possibly repair the
loss throughout the system caused by destructive
METABOLISM, or the wear and tear of everyday life ;
consequently some organ becomes debilitated and diset se
attacks it, or the system gets so low in vitality generally
that they contract some serious affection, disease, or com-
plaint which may last a lifetime, or perhaps quickly have
a fatal termination. In the enervating climates of
Australasia it is positively essential (and we cannot impress
this too strongly upon you) that everybody, young and
old, should occasionally fortify the blood with its natural
mineral elements. This is a fact, and we do not put it
before you as a specious argument, for Aiuemia, or poor-
ness of blood, is admittedly the besetting disease of
Australia, and is the commencement of almost every
serious complaint we hear of. Keep up the blood to its
normal condition, avoid excesses in either eating', drink-
ing, &0., and disease cannot and will not attack you. For
years Clements’ Tonic has been before the public of
Australia as a scientific chemical food ; it is not a quack
medicine, but a natural combination of nutrient chemical
material, which is essentially requisite to the blood.
Clements’ Tonic has been prescribed by medical men,
eulogised by scientific chemists, patronised by clergymen,
barristers, "solicitors, journalists, newspaper proprietors,
and others, all of whom speak of it in the highest terms of
praise. It has cured hundreds of serious cases, never has
failed, and never will fail. If you are suffering from any
disease due to general enervation of the system, anaemia,
or poorness of blood, loss of nerve power or general nervous
weakness, and have tried doctor after doctor and remedy
after remedy without avail, give Clements’ Tonic a
trial, and if there is no real organic or structural disease,
we can confidently guarantee immediate relief, and
perseverance will effect a sure and permanent cure. We
know this to be a fact. The originator and inventor of
Clements’ Tonic is a qualified man, with a rational
remedy which can, will, and must do good and effect cure,
even when the best physicians and most potent drugs of
the materia medica have failed; the testimonials and
endorsements received from all quarters prove this. We
shall be glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown, Sydney,
personally or by post.
“ Very glad he used Clements’ Tonic.”
19, Elizabeth-st., Sydney, August 15, 18S9.
Dear Sir,—For many months sleep, appetite and nerve
power had almost deserted me, and, at times, I suffered
such severe nervous and neuralgic headaches that life was
almost unbearable.
After trying many “ safe and sure cures,” without relief,
I was persuaded to' give Clements' Tonic a trial, and
am very glad that 1 did so, for now I am quite tree from
pain, can sleep well, and do my business with a degree of
pleasure that I have not experienced for some months. It
will give me great pleasure to recommend Clements’
Tonic to all my friends and customers on the roads that
I travel, and, wishing the remedy every success, I remain,
yours faithfully, J. T. BOUNDS.
“His Life almost a Burden.”
The Fort, Dawes Point, Sydney, August 12th, 1889.
Sir.- I have been a great sufferer from langour, loss of
appetite, and depressed spirits, which made my life almost
a burden. I had no inclination to eat or drink even the
most palatable delicacies which make a modern table
agreeable; and to such an extent did the indisposition
affect my general health, that it was impossible for me to
properly attend to my business.
I was - recommended to try Clements’ Tonic, which
I did with little hope of relief; but, after taking a few
doses, I felt a decided change, and by the time I had
finished a bottle, I could sleep the night through, and
awake next morning refreshed and with an appetite for
breakfast, I now eat and drink anything that comes in
my way, and by the use of an occasional dose of your valu-
able Tonic, lam enabled to enjoy life thoroughly.—l re-
main yours faithfully, F. DAVIS.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —I have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
Taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feci myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to lie. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALT,ACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
“ Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —Kindly send ms two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limits, and quite unrefreshed. 1 had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; I increased in
flesh, 1 lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear test mony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAI-lAM.
“ Feels like a New Man altogether.”
Richmond, October 5, 1888.
Dear Sir, —It is with feelings of great pleasure that I
pen these few lines. 1 have been a sufferer from GENERAL
DEBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
have tried almost every known remedy without the
slightest benefit. I had given up all hope of being cured,
when by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
Windsor Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
third dose the change was remarkable. 1 took three
bottles, and now feel like a new man altogether.
WILLIAM JAMES MARKES.
You have here convincing proof and most conclusive
evidence of the truth of the proprietor’s assertions. These
people have used Clements’ Tonic, are people of
repute, honor and ability, and are competent to judge
of the merits of Clements’ Tonic : when they speak so
truthful and emphatically they must convince the most
sceptical. Clements’ Tonic is sold everywhere at
2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. per bottle, or packed free and forwarded
on receipt of P. 0.0. by
F. M. CLEMENTS. NEWTOWN.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, CG Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you hake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Notaßene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 Georgc-slreet, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for t heir superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
' CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A-
DARLING HARBOUR,
wool* BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, <tr.
ATJCTIOITEEES.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
':;S;
.to
'V.
ti.i
<e 'V/CTu Oft**
TO YOXTSOTG- ax 3E3 3XT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
f "P HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
* found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicine* will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure. Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liv er and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over "25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will he forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
ELECTRIC PHOTOENC. CO . 8 CRIDCE'ST . SYDNEY-
"JL'Ixe Oxford Hotel, lECiiig’ Street, Byclixcy.
H. THORPE ... ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JTJST LAITDIITG.
Parleigrli, HXFettlieim, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYD3XTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( x ) • -
ALSO Importers nf ■Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEA IIKRS, &<*. ; and of the following Si'kitai, Lines: Peerless fi'wss Safin Polish, Nubian
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. |*r Indents Executed on Favourable lemu
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOMS
LTI
CONS
3
i
r-‘: :
AR
Iffiii'Uikiiii
:
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensat ion. Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Od. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary cxpenca. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general intona-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE BOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Shoo'd you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letlo’, wr'te yon. promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. It: yon do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but s xpfr.ee ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a 1 st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never proscribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carcful’y per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by fire,
and patient s may rest assured that (heir cases
wall remain a secret between tin doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
S Y D N- E Y.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION PEEK
A SUFFICTENT REASON.
Mr. O’GRARIGLE: “Yis, Dinnis made up his moind this very morrnin’ that held not go on another
Drunk for a year.”
Mrs. HOOLEYMAC: “Praised be to goodness for the same. An’how did it come about?”
Mr. O’GARRIGLE: “Well, yez sec, the judge sint him up to Blackwill’s Oiland for twelve months.”
-American.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
3\Tew Warehouse.
ML
in
OTTR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
•' Oh, I feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
Ut her breakfast table on the Monday morning'. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions.
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
t rouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow' a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wufe’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how' ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, w r e have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assured I"
accomplished. The demon of the washing clay is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
W'ould be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and wo prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the w'ashing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows ;
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is wmrked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water' into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the w’ater, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
W’orn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon w’ashing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, how’over careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
alw’ays sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Sc 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
\Ve have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and, finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
Or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, 'and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing iVlachine, upon easy time-payment, j
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
Miscellaneous.
- H. HILD E Ft,
BOOT UPPER MAN U FACT UK E H
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Wel», Crlndery, «Ve.,
"Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Pish Consumers in Town & Country,
O
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Fish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 801 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for its. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
, perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Order for the Amount.
All orders to he sent to the Works—
Kensington. St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Ha van milt Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Bonita ”
Brand of Cigars and “Umpire Cigarettes.”
PIPES.
S
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
2:51 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHRINO",
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO {
MELACHRINO 1
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
Have the Largest Sale in the World! —
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
WARREN & ROW3XT.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette ... 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
„ No. 8 „ .... 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carnage,
will receive prompt attention.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING^
22 JSz CLARESKTCE STREET 1 , SYOMET
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION
SUGQIES, mmi BniXBDAASS,
PONY CARTS, Arc., Ac.
Express k Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
i
' -v’
ONLY
■
m
■:
» <SL, f *4. ,
*
<**
C
Qi
m' a
■ ;«jhf
Sl 1®
- */J
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crcps by F. W. Saywkll, of 6
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought) every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, am obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Reta 1 from
W + Saywell & Co M
0 Park Street,
SYDFTET.
SM3IA
iVVjOO^OH^j
d
1
m
'C
d
jb« w '
(A^ 5
KOU %S
%
'Pp,
H,
So
ORICINES
OlfiES
ss. islands.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial €o. t Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Month's .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
Bv order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY,
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUEISLEB’S CAPE
160, 162, 164 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
JE. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gnnsler’s Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J, V. Gunsler, TOO, 102, and 104 Pitt-
street.
J. F. Gunsler .. General Manager.
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
lO years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES 1 £lO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotments* Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens* Title.
City Allotments froin £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
Ihe Intercolonial Investment to,, Limited,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
U.A
ows
R
®E
f Lv-T'
- 7? "]■ m
SOLD
c\ EVERYWHERE
m
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street.
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHIEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
oils,C6 loU * s 4 Paints
WALLPAPERS mw&Kak
PA I
529 George Si^BathurstSt
—— Brickfield Hill.


Horse.
Bookmakers.
Totalisator.
Ahiiti •• ... ... ...
Chemist. ... ■■■ ...
Orangeman
Torrent.
Irish King
Presto ... ••• ...
Daddy Longlegs
AVaitangi
Monteagle ... •••
Panic .. ... ... •"
Orient
n to 1
5* „ 1
5 „ 1
6 ,, 1
7 „ 1
7 „ 1
10 „ 1
10 „ 1
10 „ 1
10 „ 1
12 „ 1
3l-3rd to 1
8 „ 1
3 4-5ths,, 1
17 3-5t,hs „ 1
i 4-5ths „ 1
17 3-5 ths „ 1
17 l-3rd „ 1
12 l-3rd „ 1
9 3-5 ths „ 1
25 3-5 ths „ 1
37 l-3rd „ 1
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 27th August, 1889.
NOTICE.—INJURIES TO FENCES.
IT is hereby notified, for public information,
that whosoever maliciously cuts, breaks,
throws down, or in anywise destroys any Rabbit-
proof Fence or Gate is liable to a penalty not
exceeding five pounds (and costs), in addition to
the value of property destroyed, and for any
subsequent offence a sum not exceeding twenty
pounds above such value or amount of damage
done ; and it is further notified that a reward of
Ten Pounds will be paid for such information as
will eid to the conviction of any person or persons
guilty of any of the acts mentioned in regard to
rabbit-proof fencing or gates erected by the
Government of this Colony.
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th August, 188!).
REWARD FOR EXTERMINATION OF
RABBITS.
WITH reference to the notice issued by the
Department of Mines, dated 31st August,
1887, to the effect that the Government of New
South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000 to
any person or persons who will make known or
demonstrate any method or process, not previously
known in the Colony, for the effectual extermina-
tion of rabbits. It is hereby notified, for general
information, that no scheme for the destruction of
rabbits submitted after the 30th September, 1889,
will be considered in connection therewith.
1 JAMES N, BRUNKER.
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
September 3, 1889.
CNDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Supply and Erection of Fencing,
Prospect Reservoir (fresh ten-
ders)
Erection of Shed on Wharf at
Mouth of Mangrove Creek,
Hawkesbury River
Roofing at Hospital for the In-
sane, Parramatta (fresh tenders)
Closing Shed, &c. Cowper Wharf,
Woolloomooloo Bay
Construction of Concrete and
StonewarePipe Sewers, Boroughs
of Alexandria, Waterloo, and
Redfern. (Contract 52, Sydney
Sewerage)
Harbour and Rivers Annual Con-
tracts, Supplies, &c., 1890 (£5
deposit required with tender)
Anchors and Chains
Awnings, Sails, Tents, &c.
Brushes, Brooms, &c.
Castings
Cement
Copper and Lead Pipe
Engineers’ Stores, No. 1
Engineers’ Stores, No. 2
Hardwood, Colonial Pine, &o.
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Kauri Pine
Leather Belting, Hose, &c.
Oils, Paints, &c.
Plate, Bar Iron, &c. Wednesday,
Rope, &e., September 11,
Ironmongery, &c. at 11 o’clock
Steel
Ship Chandlery
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Ma-
terials
Wrought Iron Angle Bucket Links
Wrought Iron, manufactured
New South Wales
Wrought Scrap Iron Forgings
Supply of Coal at Sydney
Supply of Coal at Wollongong
Supply of Coal at Lake Macquarie
Conveyance of Coal from Newcastle
to Clarence River
Ditto ditto ditto Macleay River
Ditto ditto ditto Hastings River
Ditto ditto ditto Richmond River
Ditto ditto ditto Bellinger River
Ditto ditto ditto Manning River
Ditto ditto ditto Tweed River
Ditto ditto ditto Nambucca River
Ditto ditto ditto Cape Hawke
Ditto ditto ditto Camden Haven
Ditto ditto ditto Lake Macquarie
Ditto ditto Wollongong to Shoal-
haven
Ditto ditto ditto Moruya
Bridge over Monk’s Creek, Road
Grafton and Copmanhurst to
Apple Tree Flat
Bridge, Deep Creek, Road Casino
to Sandy Creek
Tar Paving, &c., Courthouse, Dar-
linghurst
Bridge over Yarranan Creek, road
Coonabarabran to Wergeden
Bridge over Deep Gully, road
Grafton to Cross Roads, towards
Casino
Bridge, in approach to Tulladunna
Bridge, near Wee Waa
Repairs, &c., N.S.S. Yernon (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Court House, Single-
ton
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino (time extended.)
Bridge Brown’s Creek, Road Tino-
nee to Port Macquarie
Bridge Broughton Creek, north of
Broughton Village, Main South
Coast Road
Construction of Hand Punt for
Unaira Ferry, Murrumbidgee
River
Bridge, Doctor’s Gully, at Merriwa
Additions, Wollongong Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Concrete Lining Stone Pitching of
Potts Hill Reservoir
Hains Bridge, road Morpeth to
Largo
Wednesday,
September 25,
at 11 o'clock.
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
Office
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quean -
beyan
Supply of Gas, &o., Public Build-
ing, Bathurst
A dditions Pol ice Officers’ Quarters,
Goulburn
Repairs, &c., Courthouse and
Lockup, Nimitybelle
Drainage, &c., Technological Mu-
seum
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Tam
worth
Bridge Cox’s Creek, road Coolah
to Mulally
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Bingera
Bridge, Camden Haven, road Port
Macquarie to Tinonee
Bridge, Cooper’s Creek, road Bex
hill to Numulgi
Bridge, Bombala River at Bibben-
luke
Wednesday,
October 9,
at 11 o’clock.
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56) .
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
The Referee
“If investors in the Honest Injun Novelty
Consultation on the Melbourne Cup would kindly
refrain from sticking' the postage-stamp so firmly
on the return envelope they would confer a great
favour on the promoter.”— Imaginary Advertise-
ment.
# * *
Coin should be made by taking a few smart
“ Walers ” to the Transvaal. The Johannesburg
Turf Club had a three days’ winter meeting last
month, the added money at which was close on
£4OOO. South Africa would also seem to bo the
coming bonanza of fighters. At the recent mill
at Johannesburg, between Wolff Beudoff, who
was lately in Melbourne, and Coupar, for the
South African championship, and which the latter
won, there were 500 spectators present at £5 a head.
Members of Parliament were on the committee, of
which Barney Barnato, the Diamond King, was
chairman.
* *
The totalisator ran rings round the book-
makers at last Adelaide Racing Club meeting. A
rank outsider beat a field of nine horses for the
Selling Race, and the machine returned a dividend
of £45 12s. on eacii £1 investment !
* * *
Over £300,000 went through the totalisator
in N.Z. last year. Here is a comparison made by
a N. Z. turf-writer between odds laid by the book-
makers and the machine respectively at last N.Z.
Grand National Steeplechase
Now, gentle public, do you see why it pays the
Australian bookmakers to subsidise prosecutions
against the totalisator men ?
* * *
The first prize in Adam Bede’s Benevolent
on the Spring Handicap went to the Mining
Exchange, Sydney; the second to a hardware
merchant in Auckland, N.Z.; and the third to a
Gulgong resident.
* * *
The best gentleman rider in N.Z. is
“ Teddy ” O’Rorke, son of Sir Maurice of that ilk,
Speaker of the House of Representatives. Teddy
rides like a “Galway blazer,” and does credit to
his Connaught ancestry.
# * *
An alleged Sydney sporting print pub-
lished the tips of three prophets, the other day.
They named three horses each for five races and
succeeded in naming, between them, one placed
horse! * * *
Mr. T. D. McKay, of 32 Montgomery-
street, San Erancisco, so well known to Australians
as the Great Railway Man, is one of sculler
O’Connor’s principal backers, and concludes a long
letter by advising The Bulletin to “ put its shirt
on the Canadian -which advice we don’t mean
to follow. We’ll keep our shirt on our own poor
Cild rheumaticky back,
* # *
That grand cricketer, Midwinter, now the
burly lessee of a Melbourne pub., lost his wife the
other day.
* * *
“ Pendragon,” who is regarded at “ home ”
as a practical authority upon Australian racing
matters, says that “ the totalisator is to be found
at all antipodean meetings.” This is, of course, a
mis-statement born of that little knowledge which
is so dangerous. But “ Pendragon ”is quite right
when he goes on to say: “My good friends, the
brothers J. and B. Thompson, of Melbourne and
Sydney, could enlighten us as to the merits 01 the
reverse of the machine.” They could, indeed.
We should like to hear Joe Thompson cursing the
totalisator for 10 minutes.
# * *
Bookmaker Austin Saqui—he owned a
Melbourne Cup winner years ago—will no more
hang his money-sack in front of him at Randwick
and Flemington, and stuff and cram the notes.
His funeral’s not to-morrow, but was last week
So they do die sometimes, but with wonderful
rarity. For a man to have been a bookmaker is a
sort of pickle preserve to keep him on this planet.
Say you want to back hanythink, and Joe
Thompson will pop up, or else Barney, or
else Jack, or any one of the old Tattersall s men
of 23 years ago. Take up Lasoelles’ portrait-
gallery, and isn’t it wonderful how few are gone?
A tidal wave will come. They will go down like
a row of bricks or bottles. Of course plenty
more will arise, but they will all go at once,
and come at once. All of a sudden we’ll find the
great bookmakers are Lazarus, Simeon, Judah,
Mephibosheth, Ezra, Nehemiah, Mordecai,
Hainan, You haven’t heard of ■’them ? But you
will. The other names are all used up, unless
Thompson goes back to Solomon.
* * ” *
A pamphlet having a large and pious cir-
culation in London states that half the city clerks
are ruined by sweeps on the University boat-race.
The writer must imagine that two clerks put all
they are worth into one hat and a couple of tickets
into another, and take it in turns to draw the
losing ticket and go bung. The number of goody-
goody liars who deserve to be boiled is increasing
every year.
# * *
No fight is likely to come off between
Slavin and Jem Smith. The Britisher has been
bookmaking all the season, and weighs 18st.
Although Smith may not mean fighting, anyhow,
it is evident that he couldn’t toe the scratch inside
of the »ix months he talks about
At the India Docks.
A .MEMORY OF AUGUST, 1883.
IThe spectacle of the life of the London Dock labom eis
is one of the most terrible examples of the logical outcome
of the present social system. In the six great metio-
politan docks over 100,000 men are employed, the great
bulk of whom are married and have families. Ly tne
elaborate system of sub-contracts their wages have been
driven down to 4d., 3d., and even 2d. for the few hours
they are employed, making the average weekly earnings
of ii man amount to 7,0, and even 5 shillings a week .
Hundreds and hundreds of lives arc lost or ruined every
year by the perilous nature of the work, and absolutely
without compensation. Yet so fieioeisthe competition
that men are not unfrequently maimed or even killed m
the desperate struggles at the gates tor the tickets of em-
ployment, guaranteeing a “pay” which often does not
amount to more than a few pence ! . The streets and
houses inhabited by this unfortunate class are ot the
lowest kind—haunts of vice, disease, and death, and the
monopolistic companies are thus directly able to profit by
their wholesale demoralisation by ruthlessly crushing out,
through the contractors, all efforts at organisation on
the part of the men. To see these immense docks
the home of that more immense machine, British
Commerce, crowded with huge and stately ships,
steamers and sailors the first in the world, and
to watch with intelligent eyes by what means the
colossal work of loading and unloading them is camed
out; this is to face a sacrifical orgy of human life—child-
hood, youth, manhood, womanhood and age,_ with every-
thing that makes them beautiful and ennobling, and nob
merely a misery and a curse —far more appalling than any
Juggernaut progress or the human haulocausts that were
offered up to Moloch. ]
I stood in the ghastly-gleaming night by the
swollen, sullen flow
Of the dreadful river that rolls her tides through
the City of Wealth and Woe ;
And mine eyes were heavy with sleepless hours,
and dry with desperate grief,
And my brain was throbbing and aching, and mine
anguish had no relief.
For never a moment —no ; not one—through all
the dreary day,
And thro’ all the weary night forlorn, would the
pitiless pulses stay
Of the thundering great Machinery that such in-
sistence had,
As it crashed out human hearts and souls, that it
slowly drove me mad.
And there, in the dank and foetid mist, as I, silent
and tearless, stood, _ _
And the river’s exhalations, sweating forth their
muddy blood,
Breathed full on my face and poisoned me, like
the slow, putrescent drain
That carries away from the shambles the refuse of
flesh and brain —
There rose up slowly before me, in the dome of the
city’s light,
A vast "and shadowy Substance, with shafts and
wheels of might,
Tremendous, ruthless, fatal; and I knew the visible
shape .
Of that thundering great Machinery from which
there was no escape.
It stood there high in the heavens, fronting the
face of God,
And the spray it sprinkled had blasted the green
and flowery sod
All round where, through stony precincts, its
Cyclopean pillars fell
To its adamantine foundations that were fixed in
the womb of hell.
And the birds that, wild and whirling, and moth-
like, flew to its glare
Were struck by the flying wheel-spokes, and
maimed and murdered there;
And the dust that swept about its black panoply
overhead,
And the din of it seemed to shatter and scatter
the sheeted dead.
But mine eyes were fixed on the people that sought
this horrible den,
And they mounted in thronged battalions, children
and women and men,
Right out from the low horizons, more far than the
eye could see,
From the nortli and the south and the east and
the west, they came perpetually—
Some silent, some raving, some sobbing, some
laughing, some cursing, some crying,
Some alone, some with others, some struggling,
some dragging the dead and the dying
Up to-the central Wheel enormous with its wild
devouring breath
That winnowed the livid smoke-clouds and the
sickening fume of death.
Then suddenly, as I watched it all, a keen wind
blew amain,
And the air grew clearer and purer, and I could
see it plain—
How under the central Wheel a black stone Altar
stood, . .....
And a great, gold Idol upon it was gleaming like
fiery blood.
And there, in front of the Altar, was a huge, round,
lurid Pit,
And the thronged battalions were marching to the
yawning mouth of it
In the clangour of the Machinery and the Wheel s
devouring breath
That winnowed the livid smoke-clouds and the
sickening fume of death.
And once again as I gazed there, and the keen
wind still blew on,
I saw the shape of the Idol like a king turned
carrion,
Yet crowned and more terrific thus for his human
fleshly loss,
And with one clenched hand he brandished a lash,
with the other held up a cross !
And all around the Altar were seated, joyous and
free,
In garments riohly-colonred and choice, a goodly
company, .
Eating and drinking and wantoning, like gods
that scorned to know
Of the thundering great Machinery and the crowds
and the Pit below.
Ah, Christ ! the sights and the sounds there that
every hour befell
Would wring the heart of the devils spinning ropes
of sand in hell, . .
But not the insolent Revellers in their old lascivious
ease — .
Children hollow-eyed, starving, consumed alive
with disease ; ‘
Boys and men tortured to fiends and branded with
shuddering fire;
Girls and women shrieking caught, and whored,
and trampled to death in the mire ;
Babyhood, youth, and manhood and womanhood
that might have been,
Kneaded, a bloody pulp, to feed the gold-grinding
murderous Machine I
And still, with aching eyeballs, I stared at that
hateful sight,
At the long dense lines of the people and the
shafts and wheels of might,
When slowly, slowly emerging, I saw a great Globe
ms,
Blood-red on the dim horizon, and it swam up into
the skies.
But whether indeed it were the sun or the moon, 1
could not say, ...
For I knew not now in my watching if it were
night or day.
But when that Great Globe steadied above the
central Wheel,
The thronged battalions wavered and paused, and
an awful silence fell.
Then (I know not how, but so it was) in a moment
—the flash of an eye —
A murmur ran and rose to a voice, and the voice
to a terrible cry :
■“Enough, enough! It has had enough! We
will march no more till we drop
In the furnace Pit. Give us food ! Give us rest !
Though the accursed Machinery stop !”
1 And then, with a shout of angry fear, the Revellers
sprang to their feet,
And the call was for cannon and cavalry, for rifle
and bayonet.
And one rose up, a leader of them, lifting a
threatening rod,
And “Stop the Machinery!” he yelled, “you
might as well stop God !”
But the terrible thunder-cry replied: “If this
indeed must be,
It is you should be cast to the furnace Pit to feed
the Machine—not we !”
And the central Wheel enormous slowed down in
groaning plight,
And all the serial movement ceased of the shafts
and wheels of might,
And a superhuman clamour leaped madly to where
overhead
The great Globe swung in the gathering gloom,
portentous, huge, blood-red !
But my brain whirled round and my blinded eyes
no more could see or know,
Till I struggling seemed to awake at last by the
swollen, sullen flow
Of the dreadful river that rolls tier tides through
the City of Wealth and Woe !
Francis Adams.
-London FIGARO.
This is the face of one, Jubilee Juggins,
Who is-what he looks -a most marvellous
Muggins.
During Benzon’s trip in Australia and
New Zealand, while still a minor, he lost £05,000,
including a sum of £25,000 (at cards) at Mel-
bourne in one sitting. One well-known Melbourne
“sport” advanced him £l5OO, for which lie de-
manded £lO.OOO in repayment, finally accepting,
however, £5OOO. Another usurer to whom he was
indebted demanded £30,000 as his pound of_ flesh,
but finally was satisfied with a cheque for £5OO.
Paris Exhibition, 1889. Gold medal awarded
“Sunlight Soap” as being a pure and perfect
soap. Largest sale in the world.
At a special meeting of the Sydney Wharf
Labourers’ Union, a resolution was carried voting
the amount of £5OO from the funds of the union to
the men on strike at the London Docks. It was
decided to cable the money through the proprietors
of Reynolds’ Newspaper ; also, that a letter of
sympathy be sent by mail to the strikers. Rey-
nolds’, by the way, is, after all, the only widely-
circulated really democratic paper in England.
It is a paper which truckles to no one and never
minces its words.
We read that 30 pairs of men’s corsets are
made during a year by one London maker. They
are not the mere plain wrappage you see in the
windows of wooden legs. They are delicate satin-
and-whalebone things, trimmed with expensive
lace, and a large proportion are sold at six guineas
each. This must indeed be true luxury and de-
lightful lolling in the soft lap of luxury, to pay
six guineas for an article which nobody sees, and
which might easily bethought for a third of the
money - barring the lace, &c., of course. Catch a
woman wearing six-guinea corsets ! She buys so
as to display the fact to the world that she has
spent six guineas, and everybody is bound to
notice it.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - - - £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australasia).
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch ... Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest —viz.,
6-per cent, to 10 per cent, per annum.
For building or otherwise improving freehold land
the Company offers special facilities.
Progress advances made upon buildings in course
of erection, upon architect’s certificate.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months
Six „
Twelve ~
6 per cent.
7
8
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1| per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
BUSSELL MARSHALL
Manager.
Lhe .Anglo-(Australian investment,
finance & Land ( Company, (Ltd.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £loo,Of
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office:
24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
liOimlou Office .. 31 Lombard Street, E.
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
rpHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
1 result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
|3i f= Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES
Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office:
301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving ol
?rold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply —
W. B. FLETCHER.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Y'' _
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Tire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
& CO).
Reserve Capital Account .... .... .... £250,000
Reserve Fund .... .... .... 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities .... .... .... 311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices
N.S. W.; Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
Victoria: Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits* over £3O :
7 h per cent, for ? Years
7 ~ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 3
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
«jT. S. p. Cowell,
6 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Manager.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
M
Bourke S t
ELBOIME
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
nr
PALACE HOTEL
3
o
M®VB
■■ r : ■
m
-
”
J.A.WILSON
1 PROPRIETOR
C.W.CLARE
i*r »*"««•- |
The PALACE HOTEL, BOITRKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, wliich has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three ECixiiciredl M!a,gn.ificeii.t Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
M" Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
two ipjvssiEitsra-iHiie, otis lifts.
)-(
Ladies 1 Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms.
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Beciroom, S2s. per USrig'lx-fc.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
o Q~ -
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical.
S3MC3Z-X-S3:, XT.O.^V.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVEEMACHES’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC EELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «5c SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and. Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FEFtR. E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST &. ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation :
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S YD KTB Y.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers©! allk nds<T Tins for Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited,.
F. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 639, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Si c., Made to Order.
—AUSTRALIAN—
goIIer ||lour and drain J|toreA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE Rta
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow wiute Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market. »
White v. Black.
Here is a statement, by an American lawyer, of
the U.S. negro question as it stands to-day. Had
Australia not agreed to bar out the Chinaman,
Bomi Australian speaker might twenty years
from now have made a similar speech with respect
to the approaching dominance of the yellow
skin :
While the blood of our comrades has brought freedom
to the slave, let us examine the question and see if it has
purchased any corresponding blessings for the heroes who
shed it or the* Caucasian race which inhabits the late slave
States. In three, at least, of these States the negroes
outnumber and outvote the whites. If the ballot is free
and the count is fair, and if blood is thicker than water,
then the negroes will outvote the whites and fill all places
of honour and profit in State, and will put the whites
in subjection. The whites own nearly all the property
and possess nearly all the intelligence. Race prejudice,
however, is superior to the influence of both property and
intelligence. Under this unrestrained domination of the
coloured race, the property of the white men would pass
away from him to the dominant class.
A little attention to statistics will show the wonderful
fecundity of the negro race, and will give us a timely
warning of the dangers of the Ethiopian fetich.
From the first colonization of this country on down to
the date of the abolition of the slave-trade, only about
three hundred thousand negroes were imported, and none
have been brought to our shores since. They increase in
a geometrical ratio. Population, in obedience to this law,
attains vast proportions within a single century.
The condition of slavery was not so favourable to the
rapid propagation of the negro race as tne condition of
freedom has proven to he. There are those who believe
that the negro in a state of freedom and self-dependence
would share the fate of the Indian. Like the Indian, it
was thought that lie would gradually disappear from the
face of the country as the whites multiplied. The reverse
has proven to be the case, and t ie grave question con-
fronts us : Will the white man disappear from the face of
the country as the negro multiplies? In the sum-
mer of 1020 a Dutch man-of-war sailed up the
James River to the plantations and sold twenty
Africans at auction to the wealthier planters. Tney
were made slaves for life, and -thus the institution
of-slavery took its start in this country, although slavery
was not established in the colonies un'ii about a half-
century afterward. Tie total number of negroes in the
United States in the year 1790 was 097,000. Tne census of
one century later, which will be taken next year, in 1890,
will show a negro population in this country i f about ten
millions. There were 6,580,000 in 1880. Under the more
favourable conditions of freedom, the negro population
doubles itself about every 20 years. Under the impulse of
a heavy foreign immigration, the white race only doubles
itself in this country about every 35 years. When we con-
sider the increased ratio of propagation among the negroes
over the wiiites, the results are positively startling. The
20 negroes whom the Dutch landed on the Janies River
have increased now to about ten millions. Fifty
hence, this country will contain sixty millions of negroes.
The census of 1830 gave Mississippi a w.iite population of
479,000, and a negro population of 650,000. It g'ave South
Carolina a white population of 391,000, and a negro popu-
lation of 604,000, or anout two to one. It gave Louisiana
454,000 white population, and 483,000 negro population.
The census of 1890 will probably snow that the negro
population outnumbers the whites in Alabama, Georgia,
and Florida. Ten years later, or the year 1900, will find
Virginia, Arkansas, and North Carolina with a negro
population which outnumbers the whites. Thus, in ten
years hence, upon a free ballot and a fair count, we will
find nine States of this Union ruled by its ex-slaves, its
unlettered property-holders, while its intelligent property-
holders will be in a hopeless minority.
The white element of the South is almost exclusively
Anglo-American. The mother country encouraged and
fostered slavery in her colonies, and the English colonists
became slave-holders. The Teutonic and other elements
did not settle in the slave States because they would not
compete with slave labour. All forms of immigration of
the white races South is deterred by negro competition.
The Anglo-American race is not prolific. It increased by
births in 10 years from 1870 to 1880 only eight and one-
thi-rd per cent. The black population of the country in-
creased within the same period 35 and two-fifths per cent.
The descendants of our revolutionary sires w'ho founded
this government, will have practically changed places
with their ex-slaves, unless these results are prevented by
means that are unlawful, or unless existing laws are
changed.
One class of politicians would disfranchise the negro
altogether, while another would let his rights stand as
now fixed by the Constitution. The better and more
practical policy now’ lies between these extremes. Limita-
tions should be placed on his exercise of the right of suf-
frage. The limitation on the right of suffrage should be
of such a character as to remove the fear or apprehension
of negro supremacy. Ttie limitations should be so ad
justed as to secure a responsible class of coloured voters,
whose character and standing will afford a guarantee that
they will not conspire with the irresponsible and lawless
white elements to seize on political power. The negro
should be undisturbed in his equality before the law, and
he should possess a sufficient hold on the right of suffrage
to insure the protection of the interests of his race. His
present mode of discharging his duties of an uncrowned
king and ruler has degraded rather than elevated him
The right of suffrage has proved a curse to him rather
than a blessing. Any modification of his rights should
be of such a character as to impress him with
the dignity and honour of American citizenship.
The right should be so limited and adjusted as
to leave the white race dominant in every State
in the Union. These results would be attained by
limiting the right to vote among the negroes, and by
making the office of voter or suffragist among them an
elective office —an office that he holds, say, for four years,
by election of the whole body of the people, or by election
of the coloured people alone, if this course seems prefer-
able. Thus no property or educational test or qualification
is required. The end indicated could be attained by so
adjusting and limiting his vote that it shall not exceed,
say, five or ten per cent, of the white vote on any given
question or issue.
The fifteenth amendment to the Constitution of the
United States should be so modified as to admit of this
limitation on negro suffrage. This limitation will produce
a class of coloured voters of a high order, who are directly
accountable to their constituency for the manner in which
they have discharged their trust. It will produce a class
of voters who could not readily be bought by money or
beverage ; voters who have respect for the institution of
marriage ; voters who have a local habitation and a name,
by which they could be identified at the polls ; voters w'ho
would not habitually ask alms or take tips ; voters who
would feel the disgrace of a conviction for crime ; voters
so self-respecting ‘ that they w’ould not take the pauper’s
oath in a court of justice for the mere purpose of evading
the payment of the costs of litigation. By this limitation
on suffrage the coloured race will be relieved of the incu-
bus of a power which at present it has not the ability to
exercise. This limitation will furnish the race with a
rallying point for instruction ; with prizes for merit; with
object lessons for its elevation ; with goals to be won by
honest endeavour scattered in profusion all along the
humble pathway of its evolution. . . . Moreover, the
two races can never mix and become one ; one or the other
must rule. Under the enforced conditions of slavery the
black race was constantly becoming whiter., Under free
conditions the black race continually becomes blacker,
and race prejudice deepens with the colour of the skin. It
expands with the development of the intellect and
strengthens with the increments of his political power.
That man is colour-blind who can see no race controversy.
There is an irrepressible conflict between white suffrage
and negro suffrage. All dreams of dividing the coloured
vote are utopian. This vote is now, and always will be, a
race vote. The negro never can attain to that position of
superiority which will permit his vote to ever become any-
thing but a race vote. The enactment of negro suffrage
was the great crime of the age and self-abnegation.
The fairest portion of this land is now being taken from
the white man and turned over to the enfranchised slave.
It is being turned over to the negro race which has fur-
nished no just claims to it and given no assurance of its
ability to govern it or even to till the soil. Within the
last half-century Florida has passed through the hands of
the white man from Seminole to Senegambian. Four of
the original thirteen States are about to pass from the
dominion of the descendants of the founders of this
Government into the dominion of their ex-slaves. . . _.
Lands have thus been ruined and abandoned, sufficient in
area under careful husbandry to feed and clothe the entire
population of the ex-slave States. So extensive has the
destruction of the old plantations become, that the wolf
even, that was banished from our soil a century ago, now
returns to howl over the desolations of its tillage.
The history of race conflict, coupled with a white man’s
perfidy, will repeat itself in the ex-slave States. When
the Conservative white leaders, around whose standards
the negroes now rally, shall have passed away, and when
their white allies shall be bound to them by the mutuality
of fellowship and not by the patronage of philanthropy as
they now are, then we will descend to a condition of
anarchy that on the one side will possess no culture or
creed to mitigate its barbarity.
Race prejudice, ambition, and revenge will do their
perfect work. . . . Comrades, you face not now a line
of glistening bayonets. You confront an impending
destiny. Jonah-like you are looking into the open mouth
of the Ethiopian fetich. Without a constitutional amend-
ment and upon a fair ballot and a fair count, nine sove-
reign States within ten years, freighted with all the hopes
and fears of our race, will be drawn into the belly of the
fetich. Let us see to it that the “ Lost Cause ” was not
the cause of white supremacy, or of civilisation, or of
Christianity itself. Let us see to it that no cause has been
lost but the cause of human slavery and , the right of
secession. With these questions once settled on just and
sure foundations, our surviving comrades can glide hope-
fully down the stream of time to their rest, while our com-
rades who sleep in the graves where America has laid
them, can peacefully sleep on until the dawning of the
morning of the resurrection.
Two Calico Masks:
THE SHOOTING OF COMMISSIONER GRENFELL.
A wool wash near Walgett, N.S.W. Time, 6.30
p.m. Date, 7th December, 1886. The supper has
been “dished up” by the “slushy,” the men on
the green have rolled up their last sheet, the pot-
stiokers are limping up from the river, Scotty the
Wrinkler is dousing his fire, the boss has washed
his hands and is dropping lotion into his eyes, and
it is just 20 years to a minute since one of us,
Charlie Stuart, was engaged in a very different
business. Let him tell it in his own words. I,
the writer, can vouch for their truth.
AT M'CLTNCHY’S CHRISTENING.
Mr. CASEY: “Ach, begorra! If that ain’t th’ divil’s own mane
thrick! They've started th’ fistivities, Nora, widhout waitin'
fer us; an’ me as was goin’ to act as a godfather, too!”
—LIFE.
“ Now, lads, I’ll tell you what I was doing this
day, 20 years ago. I was driving a coach, a
shanghai, from Bourke to Dubbo, part of the way.
On this very day of the year, just at sundown, my
box passenger, Mr. Grenfell, was chaffing me about
bushrangers, and asked me what I would do if
bailed up. I told him that I was unarmed and
young and not tired of life, and that I should
give them the mails. Just, JUST then I said,
“ There they are ! ” On our left were two men on
horseback, masked and armed. One was mounted
on a bay, the other on a black, both splendid
horses. They bailed us up. But Mr. Grenfell
said, ‘ Drive on, Charlie, drive ! ’ This brought a
shot or two, I don’t know which, and when they
saw the commissioner feeling for his revolver they
fired more. One bullet cut my coat under the
arm. Another just grazed Jim ,my only
other passenger, a ghost of a fellow, who was
going home sick. Jim fell down off the back flat
on his face, and the coach moved on a hundred
yards. Mr. Grenfell, who was badly wounded in
the groin, got out and staggered three or four
paces and fell on his side. The bushrangers had
withdrawn about 150 yards, either afraid of the
wounded man’s revolver or to re-load. I could
barely check the horses for I had ‘ Wild Jack ’ on
the near side, and Mr. G. told me to drive on to
Narramine and save the mails. This I could not
conscientiously do, so I called, ‘ Are you dead,
Jim ? ’ He was far from dead, not even wounded.
He got up, and we were going to lift our helpless
man into the coach, but he refused to let Jim
touch him, and I got him up. Then he told me to
drive on as fast as I could. Our greatest danger
was to come. We were only a mile from Narra-
mine, but at the half-mile at the bottom of a hill
there was a gateway and slip-rails. If the latter
were up I knew I could not stop, but I could wheel
to the left, into the Macquarie. Strange, the bush-
rangers did not follow up, and better still, the
rails were down. I don’t think I ever drove a
mail-coach at that pace before or since. Mr. Gren-
fell died early next morning. Jim is, I
believe, alive, and so am I. But let me tell you
about the masks. They were calico bags, pulled
over the head and stuffed into the collar. The
eye-holes were encircled by an outer ring of ink,
and that gave them an awful appearance. I’ll
make one after a bit and show you.
“These two men have never been caught. They
were not ordinary outlaws. I believe there are
people alive now who could tell you a thing or two
about them. They had grand horses.”
Slipper ! lads !
HIRAM ABIFF.
Sweetness and light.—Underweight sugar.
The good die young. This is particularly
true of chickens.
From an official report it would appear
that a large proportion of the infanticide in
Sydney is due to the numerous local private lying-
in establishments. For further particulars see
evening newspaper advts.
We have received the first number of a
nicely-printed Sydney trade journal, The Store-
keeper. We regret to say that it gives no hints
as to fresh and economic methods of mixing sand
with sugar, or doctoring up white spirit so as to
swindle the revenue and poison the population.
This is a serious omission, which will, perhaps,
not be rectified later on.
A “noble point,” according to legal gentle-
men interested, was decided in Melbourne Supreme
Court the other day. There were five folios
of interrogatories and 31 words over, to be answered
by one of the parties, list price for such luxuries
being £1 per folio. The interrogated party, how-
ever, declined to answer unless the odd 31 words
were paid for, and after a few hours’ discussion
the learned Judge decided that the other party
must duly “ante-up” for the balance. The
nobility of this point consisted in the fact that it
involved the payment of a “ bob ” or so, and cost
a few guineas in lawyers’ expenses.
After quoting at length in the National
Reformer Judge Windeyer’s deliverance from the
N.S.W. Supreme Court bench in the “Law of
Population ” prosecution of W. W. Collins, Mrs.
Annie Besant goes on to speak of Judge Windeyer
as “the highest judge in Australia.” You are
wrong here, Annie. Besides, he’s not half so
“high” as a lot of people who have come before
him.
“A Prisoner” writes: —“If prison life
has its hardships, it has its humorous incidents as
well. On my first visit to the prison chapel, the
first hymn that was given out was one beginning—
“ This is the house of prayer
Where we, Thy servants, meet;
And Thou, O Lord, art here,
Thy chosen hand to greet.
We were all there—thieves, burglars, two mur-
derers, and scoundrels of all descriptions.”
Ballina, Richmond River, N.S.W., was
lately the scene of a scare. Saturday, 17th August,
had been fixed upon by the weather prophets in
Sydney and Brisbane as the date of a big flood.
Forewarned is forearmed, so arrangements were
concluded with the.captain of the Tomki to trade
along Norton and River streets, picking up pas-
sengers from each chimney-stack en route. Goods
and children were packed and labelled, and the
more respectable class of cows were provided with
life-buoys. All was now going well ; the only
thing wanting to make the flood a great success
was the wet, which didn’t arrive. Public confi-
dence in science is down to zero. Not two men in
the township now place any reliance in the Atomio
theory, or the Nebular hypothesis, or factorial n.
And down at Manly Beach the other Sunday ex-
tensive preparations were made by the residents
in view of the predicted tidal-wave. “I think,”
said a local pastor, “that I’ll say early service and
take a run up towards the mountains.” And he
did. Divine Providence lives in the mountains
when a tidal-wave comes along, on the flat in case
of earthquakes.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The But.lktin, the Premier Australian Literarj
Journal, is the only paper which has a con*
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Mein hero.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics,
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
Of general human interest. The Bulletin was
Started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal w r hich, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its iuception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege —the direct cause of
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
wliich has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected W r ith any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
ntelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact—easily ascertainable from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public. '
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


I>eaf For - ty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
KL
ei
,N
T
/Agents .
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
Barack Street.
g E
“They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
k Corsets I have tried."
I (Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Gold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
J£EEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADDLE
Company, Limited,
Factory and Office : 227 Gas tier eagh-st., Sydney.
(Late 245.)
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
pgr” The Company is now prepared to manufacture all
kinds of Saddles. Any infringement of the patent will be
prosecuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
For SALE.—A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) m case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
MedicaL
:
r -.\
wu
-o
F
I
. r«w^.
v’ f i*
'■v-
msz?
K- ""3
& a
'S
- M
>5
'<% o ~
-K
***
•**-6
I X
\\ €Z
A
£-6
The most distressing forms of itching and inflam-
matory diseases of the skin and scalp are instantly
relieved and permanently cured by the Cuticura
Remedies, when all others fail.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOKS,
47 Grove Street, Providence, R. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
entirely cured me. F. E. PERRY, Rome, N. T.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
jggy-Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PiaaPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
lIV'l oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema* I
cannot tell you what I suffered. I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw, Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticura
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Cuti-
cura and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY, Leavertown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D.D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for the
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticuka Rem-
edies cured me of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. S.
The Cuticuka Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when all
other remedies had failed. For nine months my
head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
of^dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I w»»
a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
USftSRC Soft, white, and free from chaps and
ilnilUu redness, by using Cuticuka Soap.
Address; R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.-
... j JiiLitilJJßJilliiX Uj l .!, i lIIIHIMIIMIi i IH Hlli ill 111 I'll HIM Imi mill Min Mil Willi I H 1 Finn !■ I 111 I 1 1 II --A-***'--, imf
Send for Illustrated Catalogue
—OF—
GDA-fATES APFAEA7US and SUPPLIES used in making SAMI® BEVERAGES,
Instruction and Syrup Book TREE.
Finest
flavours,
tth e
ttsm
'"S.
vv
Pure
Fruit
Juices*
THE MATTHEWS TUMBLER-WASHER.
%
Marble Apparatus, Draught Columns, Humbler Holders, Coolers, Block Tin-lined Steel
Fountains Generators, Gas Washers, Bottling Setts, Snowflake Marble Dust, Bottle
Boxes and Shipping Oases,
Manufactured by THE FIRM OF JOHN MATTHEWS, New York, U.S.A.
I. B. MILLNEE, Agent, 82 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
d
Acknowledged
The Best
Cook and Shearer.
A “BULLETIN” PASTORAL IDYLL.
The Waimakiriri River in Canterbury province, N.Z.,
is big enough not to need any geographical apology
for its existence in the pages of a paper like The Bul-
letin. As to the story, it is as true as they make ’em.
By the wide Waimakiriri,
In the province of the plains,
In a region, black and dreary
When sou’-westers bring the rains,
But when seen in sunlit glamour
From its circling peaks of snow,
The most glorious panorama
That all Maoriland can show,
Lived the lady of this idyll,
Far remote from giddy towns—
Station-cook with “ Jockey ” Rydal,
M.H.R., of Horsley Downs ;
Figure, face, and eyes peculiar—
Mouth and teeth of splendour vast,
Had this culinary J alia—■
Julia Murphy Prendergast.
Julia’s passion for potatoes
Was a standing station joke,
Her digestive apparatus
Quite astonished common folk ;
And, though slow of wit, and slacker
Than most maidens with her tongue,
Every man who dared “chyack ” her
Found how well her arms were hung.
Many a shepherd and a shearer
Stood on J ulia’s spoony list,
But her waist no man got nearer
Than the radius of her fist.
Till all owned, in consternation,
Juliet’s pet ideal he.au
Had yet never struck that station—
The true roaming Romeo.
Nov/ the truth was that this Joolyer
Could not let herself be kissed
By a man unfit to rule her—
Who was weaker in the wrist—
And when each shearing season came,
And cooking cares allowed,
She’d take the “ snips ” and put to shame
The “ ringer ” of the crowd.
So she waited for some glutton
From Australia or the moon,
Who could best her shearing mutton
Through a summer’s afternoon ;
One day the right man came along—
He almost always will—
A sun-tanned cornstalk, lithe and strong,
Named “ Murrumbidgee Bill.”
He saw the maid and heard the tale,
And smiled a curious smile,
And spanned her wrist and felt her fist,
And praised her build and style —
Says he, “ My name is Willyum Long,
I’ll be quite fair and squar—
A shearer from the Billabong
That never cried for ‘Tar.’ #
“ Well they know me on the Murray
When the ‘ tally boards ’ are full
With the ‘chummies,’ hurry-scurry
To their eyes in sweat and wool;
Well they know me on the Bar won,
In the far New England towns ;
And the blazing West of Queensland,
On the sheds on Darling Downs.
“ Did you feel I was a-comin’ ?
Did you dream of your disgrace ?
For, ’tis certain, little woman,
As the mouth upon your face,
For I’m bound to be the ringer
Who will knock you out, fair Miss,
Let the stakes be our engagement,
And the for/eit, say—a kiss ! ”
She just nodded acquiescence,
And the willing shears are plied,
But she lost her mental presence,
And she felt her fingers tied,
While Bill kept on, quite unappalled,
“ Click-clicking ” like the wind,
Till Julia stood, when time was called,
A sheep or so behind.
She fairly paid the promised cost,
She paid it o’er and o’er,
And vowed she ne’er a match had lost,
Or met a man before.
Now in marital relation
Bill, and Julia of the mouth
Live in clover on a station,
Somewhere very far down South.
* “Tar, tar” is the well-known cry in every woolshed
when a shearer takes a slice out of the skin of his sheep.
Obviously, the better the artist, other things being equal,
the less frequent would be his demand for the tar-pot.
The debate in London between Henry
George and Socalist Hyndman seems to have been
very interesting. Both men are practised de-
baters, but it was evident that the majority
of the audience were favourable to Hyndman’s
views of the social question. As he pointed
out, under the Single-tax system the land-
lord, the impecunious Single-tax collector, would
have still immense political power, which would
soon become intolerable to his tenants. Moreover,
every day some unfortunate landlord would be
compelled to ease himself of his land burden
through the Bankruptcy Court, and thus would
the land become gradually oommunised, and some
socialistic form of control be made necessary. The
“opening” of the land will by no means kill
usury, for the poor holder must have tools, and
the man who supplied the tools would have a lien
over his labour, just as the landlord has now. The
difference would be only in kind, by no means in
degree. But as Reynolds points out, the wrang-
ling between reformers like George and Hyndman
about minor differences, is ridiculous, while the
entrenchments of the common enemy—vested
rights— yet loom up largely.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.8.-—Only two hours from Melbourne.
High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
Dear Bulletin, — May I say a few words
in re your severe but just article “ Trial by Judge
v. Trial by Jury ?” I think a change is not only
possible and urgently necessary, as the present
system of dispensing law is fruitful with disgracful
anomalies. In one case a man, who has defrauded
the Customs of some thousands of pounds, is
ordered to pay a paltry fine; in another, a poor
devil (perhaps hungry) is sentenced to three years
“hard” for stealing twenty-four shillings. To
cap all, a learned Victorian judge moralises thus :
“The fault is not in the judge, who has only to
administer the law as he finds it, but with the
legislators who make the law.” Sometime ago
one of your correspondents suggested that the
judge and the jury should change places, but we
would still be leaving in the hands of one
man, a power which the people alone should
possess. My suggestion is, that in place of a
judge, we substitute a second jury, selected in the
same way as the first (and sitting as a bench of
magistrates), and, if necessary, like the first,
retiring to consider what sentence should be
passed. We have something similar to this in
civil cases, and there is no reason why it should
not work well in criminal matters. Faults it has,
and doubtless injustice would sometimes still be
I done, but nevertheless it would be a decided im-
provement. Possessing all the advantages of the
nominee system, as well as being an enlargement
j of the elective form, should its day ever come,
| sir, I feel sure there will not then be one law for
t the rich and another for the poor, and the name of
justice will no longer stink in our nostrils as it does
at present. — I am, etc., Tommy, Melbourne. [Don’t
you think one jury would be enough? Must not
a body of men sufficiently intelligent to decide as
to whether the prisoner is guilty or not, also
be capable of deciding in the former case, the pro-
portionate weight of punishment?— Ed. B.]
Anything that Dingman’s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
| their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
Jamec Inglia & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Misc ellaneous.
THE WONDERFUL
VICTORIA” ORGANETTE,
The Most Marvellous Musical Instrument in
the World.
A £3 Instrument for Only £1 15s.
„ n . re . Sole Proprietors of this WONDEUFUL and
FIRST CLASS ORGANETTE . It is a Reed Instrument and is
eonstructed on the same principle as an Organ with Bellows,
and .bull Sized Reeds. The music consists of perforated sheets,
winch are put into the Organette. furnishing either Finished
?t° i e ™ rmance 1 a Rich Accompaniment to the Voice, or
Valuable Orchestra,! Effects. They are marvels of Musical
Mention, and combine in themselves all the principles upon
which automatic Organs, Organettes, <fec., are now being made,
requiring no skill in the performer. Any child old enough to
use its hands intelli gently can play, and the Range of Music is
Absolutely Unlimited.
We wish to introduce one of these Organettes in every town
and parish throughout the Australian Colonies, and in order to
do so speedily have concluded to sell a Limited Number to the
readers of this paper at ONLY £1 15s. each, but your order must
be received on or before November Ist, as we shall place the
Organette at £3 each after that date. We will positively not
sell more than ONE ORGANETTE to any one person at this
reduced price, as we only make this unprecedented, offer to
introduce this First-Class Organette throughout the world,
r J oWin B‘ that after one is received in a neighbourhood we
will sell several at Our Regular Price.
Solc Proprietors of THE WONDERFUL
VICTORIA ORGANETTE and you must order direct from
us. or through our Authorised Agents. Remember, the Won-
derful ‘ Victoria” Organettes are Large and Powerful
Instruments, built in the most durable style, highly polished
and decorated in Gold ; the Reeds being so powerful that they
produce sufficient volume of music for the Chapel, Parlour,
Lodge. Ball Room or Picnic Party. There is nothing about
them to get out of order; in fact, they produce a richer and
sweeter sound after having been used a few years. For Home
Entertainments they are Unsurpassed.
The Illustration will give you but a faint idea of Size
ana Finish of this beautiful instrument, but we will return the
money and pay carriage to any one who is not perfectly satisfied
after receiving it. It Sings its Own Praises. With each
Organette we enclose a selection of popular tunes Free, and pack
all in a strong box. If you are in Melbourne at any time, call
on us, or if you have friends living here, you can request them
to call and purchase for yon. If you wish to act as an agent
for us. send AT ONCE and secure the agency for your section.
You Can Easily Sell the Instruments at £3 to £4 Each,
Hundreds of Testimonials Received. Send money by Registered
Letter, Money Order, Draft, or Postal Note.
®35” COUPON.— This Coupon will entitle the holder to
one of the Wonderful "VICTORIA” ORGANETTES,
Srorided it is sent with £1 16s. and order, not later than
ovemher Ist, 1889. No order will he accepted without
this Coupon, unless full price, £3, is sent. £llss. Includes
all charges for carriage hy railway, steamboat, coach,
or carrier, all over Australia.
(Signed) The Victoria Manufacturing and Importing Co.
Address or call on the Victoria Manufacturing
and Importing Co., 256 Collins St., Melbourne.
THOMAS M'CREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All Communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W. *-
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &e., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
SATIN
n
XADIES'
t
?HiunfieNj
TRUNKSE-CEC
, artuHiMU K. <
/2Jn7rcWwJ Co
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOE-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 I Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 1 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers. v,
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’ga
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. —A Quantity of Second-hand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. Eor
particulars apply to the Printer. Bulletin office.
Business Announcements.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK & STATIOU AGENTS,
HAVING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally Rood
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Mann,
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it
we are prepared to
SZHZHIP UIirCES LIBEEAL CASH ACVAITGE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain"
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homehush and Corporation Yards.
iSP" Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Blacktown, and
Dubeo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all furthe r
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
TJS3E3
liebig COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
8
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY'BEWA'INEO IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY
[JAwsons
’
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mkr-
• CHANTS, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
What is Home without a Picture ?’
X.. BEBISTASOOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
A Gentle Remonstrance.
Soft you now ! where is the reason
In this weary iteration,
Bellowed in and out of season,
“ Nought but George or deep damnation !”
Tyrants can be made disgorge
Qnly by the aid of George ?
Wealth must own the earth for ever—
Rule the roast in lordly style—hence.
Bearing chains it cannot sever,
Labour sweats in sullen silence—
While the landlords take the pay,
And, like Christians, “watch and prey?”
Can we rise against “ our betters ?”
Can we stay the landlords’ plunder.
Can the world shake off its fetters—
. Burst its iron bonds asunder ?
Only by accepting wares
Peddled by these doctrinaires !
George is great, we grant you, Percy;
He has found the truth and sent it
Whirling broadcast, pleading mercy—•
But he did not quite invent it.
Minus George the world’s forlorn ?
How if George had not been born ?
W.T.G.
A Richmond (Melb.) parson has, from th
ealm elevation of the rostrum in his little tabe
nacle, been firing off blessed terewth at the loca
Council, an undisciplined crowd addicted to earr
ing on something dreadful. 'f he burden of tl
reverend individual’s discourse was that men a
required in the Council —real, live, honest, se
viceable men. Mortals answering to that descri
tion are badly needed everywhere, and to snea
half-a-dozen of them into the alleged Christia
pulpit _ is the dream of The Bulletin’s lif
Meantime,_ we can only recommend the disgustec
child of Light to keep on praying for his Mayo
and Corporation, and if he (the parson) is anywa;
serviceable an improved system of drainage wi
follow in due course.
Dear Bulletin, —The so-called mine
owners on Croydon—mostly brokers and so on
who act for a few Southern scrip-holders—hav
attempted to reduce the rate of miners’ wages. S
far they have not succeeded, although they hav
played their best card in inducing the warden t
grant exemption to nearly all the claims on th
field, thus trying to starve the miners into sub
mission. They have ignominiously failed in a
attempt to imprison miners because the latte
wanted to spend their money where they pleasec
I see it is stated in some of the Southern paper
that board here is 17s. per week. That is an im
pudent falsehood ; it is not, and never has been
so low. These agents, not content with sendin
lying telegrams to the Press, tell strangers tha
men are working in many claims for reducec
wages. Please warn miners against coming here
Wages are very precarious. About six months ou
of 12 are spent in idleness. The warm weather i
just setting in, and for the next six months thi
place will be as hot as Sheol.—-Yours, Hard Graft
Croydon, August 2.
A good story is in circulation anent th
recent marriage of J. W. Parkhurst, of the Bank
of California, and Emelie Tracy Y. Swett, who i
known more or less by newspaper readers of botl
prose and verse. The Chinese cook of the Sweti
mansion is a familiar sort of an individual, know
ing a good deal of the English language, and take
many liberties that the average heathen does not
He made a gorgeous wedding cake for the recently
celebrated occasion, and lettered it, “My bes
Wishes, ” to the great delight of everybody con
cerned. But, large as was the cake, it disappearec
in a few days, and the bride asked him to make
another one. This he did, and much was the
delight and laughter when it was found to be
lettered simply and expressively, “P. S.” It wa
simply a shout that went up when they though
of the Chinaman’s rather feminine humour in
labelling the second cake “Postscript.” But the
laughter died away in due and rigid solemnity
when, on being interviewed the Chinaman said
“ Postscript ? Me no sabby. P. ? Parkhurst. S.
Swett. You sabbee?” And Oriental Humour is
still an unknown quality.—S.E. Paper.
Some persons of depraved tastes and a low
tone of religious morality played off Theodore
Hook’s old joke on a Wesleyan parson in a Mel
bourne suburb one day last week. The Eev. S
W. Knight is the text-twister in question ; he is a
small, mild man, wearing an excruciating shave
and, being of a saintly convivial turn, he invited t
number of members of his Bible-class over to his
house, to worry buns, and give way to weak tea,
and sev ral of his flock, who harbor a passion for
muffins, ’ .it were not invited to the scramble, felt
kicked, and trodden on, and otherwise mangled in
their feelings, in consequence, and they resurrected:
an aggravating old hoax to burst up the show, anc
throw sorrow over the muffins and the buns, and
sow the parson’s soul with the thistles of bitterness.
They wrote to all the tradesmen in and about the
suburb to be at the Rev. Knight’s manse on the
hour, day, and date specified for the bun-worry,
and to bring along cart-loads of groceries, and
large hunks of mutton and beef and pork and
baskets of sausages, and tons of coal, and furniture-
vans, and hundredweights of potatoes, and other
domestic commodities unnecessary to mention.
The tradespeople arrived, and so did the guests—
they chipped and for two hours the
maddest cleric in Christendom was to be found in
Brunswick (Vic.), charging round with wind-
flriyen hair and furious gesticulation, interviewing
excited shop-keepers who wanted to dump seven
hundred bags of potatoes down on his premises,
and bury him in coal, and fill his peaceful home
with hams, and soap, and polonies, and green-
groceries and bottled beer enough to victual an
orphan asylum for ten months ; and when he ran
distracted and shrieked from a top-story window
that he wasn’t going to open an emporium, that
the callers were laboring under a delusion and a
snare, and that he was a presecuted preacher of
the Gospel, fat butchers invited him down to fight,
and wood-merchants generously offered to take it
out of his hide. At last the rev. gentleman
retired down the cellar and barricaded the door,
and towards midnight the howls of vanmen who
wished to shift him, the basso profanity of plumbers
who called to mend the sink, and the ireful pro-
testations of promiscuous dealers faded away,
and the cats came out on the house-tops and sang
again, and Brunswick regained its normal tone.
The bun-and-muffin tournament was not a success,
and even into this day the air is thick with threats
and legal difficulties.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
%
5?
EUREK
|ELECTR!CBELTi^
A'
my.
Ms
%
S
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0-and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused" by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for : the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength*
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P, 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston <f; Elizabeth StsJ,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Oases Guaranteed.
iST' All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Pee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
.express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases.
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
’THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
M and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. it will be found very bene
fleial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whos
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highl
recommended by the leading Oculists.
n+i nn f The Public are requested to notice th
WCt Li wiUJLL ! words, Rose s Celebrated Ew
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blu
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing th
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water pahuei
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading th
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
J*L.,
Dispensing and
10.0 SIE3
Manufacturing Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
| Established\lSA&. ... By Post Ss. 6d.
WOT Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT am
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
N
ERV O U S
DEBILITY,
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr RaSs-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. (id. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
. “I have tested a sample of the ‘Maoic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, after a most careful examination, that I have
peen unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr- H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:— “l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. Bs. ; 141 b. ss. fid. ; sfilb., 18
6d. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railwa
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS.
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
-
Q)
PATENT
PILLS
si
$
Medical.
—-
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the .stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief j
in twenty minutes. E' ery
siiflerer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ayes these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring-about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefit's which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human niachfne. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restpre the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually bv members of -all. classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Maine Conoid Pills..
O O
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
AID’ tions, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkoua.m s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in; a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Eucalypte 011-Sa.
Victory Ointment^
(;OLEMane B ,sohs
«
THE TREE OF LIFE.
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. ' First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumpiipn, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the ( hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
A dvice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
®t
OORE & rIOGG
H-
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases (Sf the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.BULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bullet in will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
-“•*—*— i i •»—t-
£2o BUCZBOAED BUGGIES £2O
BEST IS THE WOULD
for £3O.
X
No. 45— -Tcrnoot Seat-—£3s.
The Largest. Coach-
Works In Australia.
COPE <sc NEWMAN
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
PS.ea.c3. ! Ps.eac3L ! Eead !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
□Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
“Victoria; A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“Tor Framing a Picture Heat end Well,”
w x :x
D BERNARDS Picture and Moui ding
• Store, 399 George-;-t.’, Sydney .(Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. J-hotos., Engravit gs.
See,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges. ,
. peeial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
d
MAHUTAfiTUrttRS
& !&»PORT£aS OF
HATSIAPSIt
438 CHORGE 8 r
3YDN EY %
0/ypo3ife JLaastiurc
I:
A
J-
(578 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET. BRISBANE.
ď
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
-■- 4
%
r: V
w
m
&*
/IUCH
INC
-~
*A
*/
PO
lUFACTURED 6V
■>JJM£S CWNHO/i/ SariovrS* *<T
iSelet lr%/ alt S'lecs-ijA I
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
i
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the ■
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London;'
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents: '' "A
BALCHIN JOHNSTON Sc GO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTION.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed cff
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrate rs of the
frauds.
A Liberal Jteward will he given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
ASK FOR RUBBER'S elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
U. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, YATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c„ &c
« Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney. -
Hotels.
otli
oENj;
BO*
mm
UK
BOWDENS
HQ U
“3
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
J«ll* c BOWDEV Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne,
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
WESTERKT HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
I’equirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. £3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
tSi'" livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thoa.
(Dock & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
X
*2T Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Ijondon Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
d
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyere Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER AND SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. B. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
WI3JES, x SPIRIT S, x BEE 12/ S 3 x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Martble’s and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
jig l- The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anil jingle Battle Departments, anfl €(eorge«st., §>yflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
msf "CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM k LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OPPICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
ZKTES’W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
WALLAGH BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season, 1888*89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
k J -
mHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
J- Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company tor sale, whether from large or small clips.
J3P"” Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Salks of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regulable.
pw Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
gr* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. JgP" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. '
Genuine Swedish made
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. .A.. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOB AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
■
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherch.6
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de JFldte at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkk to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mira. HULMUNTSTER, Clarention Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T ONG’S IMPEKIAL HOTEL,
' XJ TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - • Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
M
V
Com
XfO
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin: is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling of! or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
m mm
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, . p«~ Toilet Powder in Three
Tints— White, Rose, and Cbeam. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS' Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
TANGYES, LIMITED,
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
Ito 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
cminm pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Lathes.
SHILLING Maim.
&C., &o.
Hafc
.
WINDING ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FIDIMLL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
MilnMar Boilers.
( OMISH BOILERS.
&0., &o.
12 8,
131,
jry of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write lor particulars ana prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors! whether buyers dr net, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
y t ■■■ TL/r /V TO TKT” TT! -r P
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for iiarticulars and prict **■
rwa nrknfVu»« Vinvnra rtf* n it. arfl fllwaVS WgIcOHIG to IIISPGCt tllG (ll
133
Jlr. X 3 5 3E3C jBl»
STREEST, ,3EC-A- "STIMC -A. 3FtDECES TC,
SYDNE Y.
