

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIUST AWARD for their Hew Non-Magnetic Watches.
■P The following Report is hy the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended ; —
“WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. —Non-Magnetic Watches.-— Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetic watches of this
exhibit, I have now the honour to report further upon it. Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palliard’s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion of an expert,
who examined one of the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches, as well as one of Rotheram’s Watches with Palliard’s non-magnetic balance. This expert (Mr. Kalian) reports as follows ‘ I have received
from Messrs. Robert Beeston and Co., agents for the Waltham Watch Company, a non-magnetic watch, for the purpose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
and Co.’s. I have examined watch No. 3,292,923, lever escapement, keyless (Riverside). The balance (bi-metallic compensated), hair-spring (Breguet), lever, pallets, and ruby roller, are made of such
metals that are not liable to become magnetised, and consequently these watches are well adapted for the purpose for which they are made. The balance and hairspring are not identical with those
known as Palliard’s.’
“ The exhibitors have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department. This
report is a - follows ‘At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant, the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos.
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, 1 sing. I then regulated it so as to bring it to a gaining rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days, the watch was again used in the
dynamo-room, and without affecting the rate. I have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact with dynamos at work, having a magnetic field which I think would have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day.’ _
“ I have also a report of a series of careful experiments with one of these watches Bom Mr. R. C. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, tfte result of which shows that these watches,
after bring laid on the poles of the large dynamos at work for one or tivo minutes, and afterwards regulated and then exposed again for twenty or twenty-five minutes, did not appreciably alter their rates. Mr.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery.
“In consideration of these reports in connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company be given a FIRST AWARD for their NSW
NON-MAGNETIC WATCH.
R. C. J. ELLERY, E.R.S., Chairman.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions :
MMFHIA, 1576, Four Prise Medals; MIS, 1575,501 d Medal; STEM, ISOS, Sold Medal, with Two-Special and Tour First Frizes; MEW, ISSI, Two Sold Medals;
if mm, 1555, Five Prise Medals; INVENTUS EXpiOJ, MON, 1053, Sold Medal; MELBOURNE OSNTfNNUI EXHIBITION, 15SS-S, First Award, Non-Mapeticf atclies
• Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology.
Extract from the London Hoeological Journal, July, 1889: —“The Great Northern Railway Company have.ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express.” /
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.—GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
7 TENDERS having been called for the supply of WATCHES for use upon the New South Wales' Government Railways for the ensuing year, the preference was' given to the celebrated
RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH. COMPANY. This is the Ninth Consecutive Year during which the WALTHAM WATCHES have been
ehosen by the New South Wales Government as the best and most reliable timekeepers for railway purposes. WALTHAM WATCHES are used by the Government Railway Officials in New
South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways.
WALTHAM WATCH' COMPANY,
Sole Australian Agency: WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Orclinary, Modified. Tontine and Mortuary OivitJenti Systems.
BONUS YEAR.—Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federated. Squatters
-Ami-
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIECULAE Q,TJ-A_’Y’ ; , SYDNEY.
WOOL and PEODUGE BEOKEES, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Deceived at Current Dates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL &
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
ICOU.I K SKATES (any make) with BKASS or WOOIWES WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Established
1845.
Established
1845.
NEW TORK LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Conducted under the Official Supervision of the Insurance Department of the Government of the State of New York. Reports deposited annually with the Board of Trade in Great Britain,
in accordance with “The Life Assurance Companies Act, 1870.”
Life Assurance Only. Purely Mutual.
All Profits belong to Policy-holders, and Apportionments are made annually.
£19,234,606
£2,777,777
£5,226,601
CLAIMS are Payable in the Colonies at nearest Branch Office, in sterling, anl all Dispute! Claims (in case any should arise) in Australia are to lie decided by Australian Courts,
STATEMENT fob YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1888:
ACCUMULATED FUNDS
SURPLUS over Liabilities by the New York State Standard of Valuation (4 per cent. Actuaries’)
INCOME FOR YEAR ...
The "Wonforfeiting Free Tontine Policy includes the advantages of the Tontine principle, of accumulations (securing valuable investment features m combination with insurance at
low cost) guaranteed options at end of Tontine periods, and perfect freedom after two years as to residence, travel and occupation (except service m war). In case of death by reason of en-
gaging in military or naval service in time of war, the reserve value of the policy will be paid. Eor full particulars apply to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOFTID STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, October 26, 1889.


TOBACCO
m
m
m
UiX>.
a
■am:
S 3
O
X
☆:
V
SIR ROGER
50
■v
0:
liOi
DIX
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS ABD INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“GANT B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New 1
The £3 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Companion! Ha
containing the following:
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
lib. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t - B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacoo
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IBS Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case _
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Kedfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its piace. All can be ac oommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
T> RITTENBERG & CO.
-*-*• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture , Mirrors , Oleographs , and Mouldings.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAXT DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
.A.TKixisrsoisr’s
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Ofdtt Dealer) and of the Manufacturer)—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” frith Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, J unr. ,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia,
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Sold Medals.
StTP'WRTnR to 0,11 OTHERS!
(Yide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
X X
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd.
o
me
o
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
acsaoa
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Kefrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers intending
to deceive the public' and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry An Refngerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Kefrigerator.
A/HITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, IGE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
_ —— m—m M m wrn -wrr% ex Jt-r *-• Xr. C -
LEMOISff SQUEEZERS
l£cL
IBros- Sz IBig'g',
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated By “ The Bulletin’s "well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price
ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin Office.
Agents Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No. 508.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1889.
Pricey Gd.
% m
Dr, Matiden.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ®
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* ‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But toe
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. OCTOBER 26, 1889.
Federation and Freetrade.
Treasurer McMillan of New South Wales
cannot be regarded as a fool, when the
general balance of his mind is considered.
< )n the contrary, it must be allowed that he
is a man of shrewdness somewhat above the
average where his own interests are con-
cerned, and endowed with good abilities
even outside that range of subjects. But
Mr. M‘Millan is decidedly a perky person-
age, and his idea of his own capacity mon-
strously exceeds the reality. It was probably
this overweening vanity which tempted him,
Avhen addressing a meeting called in the
Foreign-import interest, at Paddington, to
venture a reference to the subject of Inter-
colonial Federation. It is so easy to appre-
ciate that the relation between the realisa-
tion of federation of the Australian colonies
and their fiscal policies is one of the most
powerful trumps in the hand of the Protec-
tionists of New South Wales, that exponents
of the Foreign-trade cause have been careful
to avoid reference to the subject as much as
possible. They have either omitted it from
their contentions altogether, or have skipped
by it with the gingerly dexterity of an acro-
bat dancing amidst eggs. Mr. M‘Millan,
however, evidently judged that what others
of the cult might wisely leave untouched,
might be safely tackled by a man of his sur-
passing dexterity. The result might be con-
templated Avith some compassion, were it
not that the unfortunate performer cut his
capers Avith so aggressive an assumption of
superior skill, and with so much pomp of
demeanour.
, * * *
“ It was their duty,” said Mr. M‘Millan,
with a flourish, “ to look to the broader lines
for the national life of the country.” This
not merely sounds splendid and true, but it
is splendid and true. But, unluckily, it is
just the invitation Avhich a Foreign-trader,
whose mind is unobscured by vanity, would
be particularly careful not to offer. Poor
Mr. M‘Millan, however, Avent headlong to
his doom. “There Avas no doubt,” he pur-
sued, wfith reckless candour, “ that the one
great question they should ask themselves
was, which would be the best fiscal policy,
and Avould secure the soundest basis for the
future nationality of Australia.” This is a
proposition which every Protectionist would
fain see written in letters of gold and em-
blazoned on the front of every hall where
public meetings are held throughout the
land. Mr. M ‘Millan proceeded to amplify
his theme, but further quotation is not
necessary to the consideration of his
main argument. We regard his state-
ment of the case as unexceptionable—
we write it with a blush of modesty,
inasmuch as Mr. M‘Millan had obviously
borrowed his thoughts, so far, and almost his
language from the leading columns of 1 he
Bulletin. In tine he made the dangerous
admission that “ upon the fiscal policy of
New South Wales would depend the whole
national life of Australia!” “The only
means of bringing about that complete union
which the Federatists desired, would be to
adopt a uniform tariff.” Up to this stage
the Foreign-trade Treasurer made his mean-
ing as clear as his most ardent fiscal op-
ponent could desire. But thenceforth, and
until he reached the end of his argument
and shewed himself in his true colours, he
lapsed into the most marvellous obscurity.
From that predicament it will be our present
business to extricate him.
* # *
“The only means of bringing about that
complete union which the federalists desired,
would be to adopt a uniform tariff,” quoth
Mr. M‘Millan the logician. “But,” added
Mr. M‘Millan the fatuous, “ he did not
th ink it could be based upon protective lines. ’
This sentence affords, we opine, the most
effective illustration of Pope’s meaning when
he wrote of “Some unmeaning thing they
call a thought.” The remainder of Mr.
M‘Millan’s address yields no vestige of any
reasonings upon which it might even be
conjectured that that marvellous “ think ”
of his was founded. We have ranged the
report with greedy appetite for an alleged
argument or two to swoop upon and tear
into shreds. The only “things” which it
can even be imagined that the speaker put
forth with the impression that they were
arguments are two feeble, halting, conten-
tions, which would not make a meal for an
intellectual crow. One of these hobbling
cripples is an ecstatic affirmation that “ New
South Wales, at the present time, because
of her fiscal policy, stood as the one state in
Australasia capable of laying down the law
as to what should be the true basis for federal
union. ” The other is equally amazing. It
is that “we can now afford to say to the
other colonies we are the colony which by
nature is adapted to be the foremost of colonies
in the group. Our resources are increasing
to such an enormous extent that in a few
years, both in population and in wealth, we
shall far exceed the other colonies.” We
have simply to address those two explosions
of insolent bumptiousness to the parties they
are calculated to affront most deeply—the
other colonies —and to accompany them with
a condescending intimation that we are will-
ing, notwithstanding our superiority in in-
telligence, as exemplified by our choice of
the fiscal policy which renders us “capable
of laying down the law” and by our “natural
adaptation to be foremost,” we are actually
willing, of our own mere grace, “to federate
to-morrow on fair and reasonable terms.”
* * *
We are at a loss which most to admire,
the colossal self-esteem or the abysmal in-
fatuation which these expressions expose.
New South Wales is in a position to lay
down “ the law ” as to the basis of Federa-
tion ! In the name of the Prophet —figs !
What is to prevent Victoria from laying
down the law, too? Or Queensland, or
South Australia, or Tasmania ? For the
matter of that, what is to prevent King
Kalakaua or Garden Honey from laying
down the law on the subject ? Will prate of
the sort indulged in by Mr. M‘Millan bring
Federation one jot nearer to accomplishment ?
What is the use of blather about laying down
the law, unless you can enforce recognition
of it and carry it into execution ? Since
N.S. Wales is capable of laying down the fiscal
law controlling Federation, and M‘Millan
is member of a Ministry which is internally
at unison on fiscal questions, it is reason-
able to ask whether “ the law” has been laid
down, and if so, whether the other colonies
are going to obey it this week or next? But
it is useless wasting time over such frantic
mid-summer madness as is expressed in
ravings such as these about laying down a
law, apparently in the moon —for it certainly
has no place in any conceivable code on the
earth. We need expend little pains, we take
it, in holding up to the light the flimsy tex-
ture of Mr. M‘Millan’s other “ reason.” It
will suffice to invite Freetrade readers to
worry out the problem, in what degree the
prospect of Imperial Federation is cleared,
or to what extent the realisation of the
national aspiration is brought nearer to
accomplishment by Mr. M‘Millan’s masterly
plan of informing the sister colonies that
New South Wales is richer and handsomer
and wiser than they, and that while they
are comparatively standing still she is so
outgrowing them that presently she shall
“far exceed” them all, and then consoling
them by stating that “we” don’t mind
federating even with “our” inferiors.
Before passing to other aspects of the case,
we may pause for a moment to imagine
the amused derision with which poor Mr.
M‘Millan’s “blow” about “our” surpass-
ing wealth must be received by Victorian
statesmen when they contrast the recurring
surpluses which overflow their Treasury with
the unremoved deficit which embarrasses
New South Wales finance and burdens the
province’s revenue by anticipation for a score
of yeai’s to come. We can conceive the
Treasurer of Victoria retorting upon the
bragging little man of New South Wales,
that if matters continue as they have been
in both provinces, the easiest way to accom-
plish Federation would be for Victoria to
employ its surpluses to buy the older colony.
* * *
It is comforting to emerge to daylight after
following Mr. M‘Mtllan, with our lantern,
through the fog into which he ventured.
After all, putting aside the foolish incon-
sequentiality of his attempt at ratiocination,
the essence of his remarks is that, even
under a Foreign-trade Administration, New
South Wales would be willing to make fair
terms with Protectionist Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania, in the
matter of . Federation. It becomes, there-
fore, essential to ascertain what are regarded
as “fair terms” by Mr. M‘Millan in his
role of an advocate of Federation. Luckily,
there is no obscurity about that. Mr.
McMillan, who declares that Freetrade in
New South Wales is a great help to Federa-
tion, sees no incompatibility in declaring
that the only terms upon which Federation is
possible are that all the other Australias shall
surrender their preferences and their fiscal
system. They have merely to concede all
that stands in the way of Federation, says
Mr. M‘Millan, the solver of difficulties, and
there will be nothing to prevent Federation.
This is precisely as though Smith were to say
that, provided Jones will come right up to
Smith’s house, he (Smith) will have no
objection to meet him half-way. Or it is as
though a general, confronted by three allied
armies, were to offer as a negotiation sure to
be acceptable, that all differences should be
accommodated by the simple expedient of
their laying down their arms and surrender-
ing at discretion. There can be no reason-
able objection to that, according to General
M‘Millan. On the whole, however, we
are inclined to think that no sane nation
would be disposed to entrust a campaign or
a negotiation to a commander or to a states-
man who propounded a scheme of operations
so much above ordinary comprehension.
* # *
We have but one further illustration of
Mr. M‘Millan’s confusion of mind on this
subject of Federation, and we can throw 7 the
husk of him aside. “It would be impos-
sible,” he said, towards the close of his ad-
dress, “ for any system of Federation to be
carried out on true principles unless there
were a uniformity in the tariffs and Free-
trade between all the colonies, and this must
mean Freetrade between the nations of the
world” The report in the S.M. Hekald
inserts “applause” after this amazing sen-
tence. The world might be challenged to
produce a more ludicrous example of a non-
sequitur. The sentence is one which con-
tains inconsequence so obtrusive that no
examiner would think it worth inserting as
an example for detection in an under-
graduate’s paper on Logic. Why, in the name
of sanity, Freetrade between the Federated
States of Australia must involve Freetrade
between the nations of the world, Tom
o’ Bedlam, may know, but we don’t. If
the people who applauded that crowning
absurdity had paused for one moment to
reflect, they must surely have perceived
that Freetrade between the Federated States
of America does not “mean Freetrade be-
tween the nations of the world.” Of course we
acquit Mr. M‘Millan of the full absurdity of
the language literally read, and allow that
he meant and probably said “ with the
nations.” There needs no chance advantage
in dealing with the poor man. He rushed
upon his fate. In future he will perhaps be
wiser and emulate the sagacity of his fellow
Foreign-traders in leaving the question of
Federation in the background as much as
possible. It can do his cause little good to
deliver an address on this national aspira-
tion, of which the preamble is an assurance
that the Freetrade policy of New South
Wales is the greatest engine in existence to
secure Federation ; of which the argument
is confusion and jargon ; and of which the
conclusion is that the Freetrade policy of
New South Wales is the only serious obstruc-
tion to Federation. If Mr. M‘Millan is
satisfied with having shown a whole hall full
of Freetraders, of whom a considerable pro-
portion may be even more earnest for
Federation than for Freetrade, that there is
nothing to prevent all the colonies, except
New South Wales, federating to-morrow,
and that it is her Freetrade tariff alone
which precludes New South Wales from
joining, we envy him his capacity for happi-
ness. It is too much, we suppose, to hope
that he will give currency to his Paddington
address, in pamphlet form, but we conceive
that if he were to apply to the National
Protection Association they would undertake
the distribution and not waste a copy on a
single Protectionist.
Drinking- One of the Fine Arts.
During the year 1888 the population of Victoria
consumed, according to the official returns,
1,257,835 gallons of spirits, 1,166,959 gallons of
wine, and 19,202,080 gallons of beer, containing
4,360,000 gallons of proof alcohol. Before going
further into the maze of figures, it would be just
as well to see what this bald statement means.
The number of males in Victoria over 16 was
360,000, of whom, say, 240,000 take their liquor
regularly. We are doing no injustice to the women
of Victoria in estimating the number who drink
more or less at 30,000. Thus 270,000 persons con
sumed all the liquor disposed of during the year.
It is presumed that the cubic contents of the
stomach of an average Victorian is much the same
as that of other people, and may, therefore, be set
down at about three-quarters of a gallon, so that
the 270,000 persons alluded to could hold at the
same moment 200,000 gallons. A little sum in
arithmetic brings out the fact that every Victorian
who drinks could have filled himself up nearly 22
times during the year with proof-spirit, the alco-
holic basis of the spirits, wine and beer. Proof-
spirit, however, was not drunk in Victoria. Like
other sensible men, Victorians water their liquor*
and vary it with beer and wine, so that as an
actual fact the average drinker of whom we have
spoken filled himself 90 times with beer, 12 times
with whisky-and-water, and six times with wine—
that is to say, 114 times in all, or about once every
third day. This is a most creditable record and
beats that of all the other Australias very com-
fortably. The South Australian fills his pro-
gramme twice in nine days, and the Queenslander
and New South Welshman once in five days. This
calculation, however, we are afraid, fails altogether
to take into account the activity of the private-
still and white-spirit-doctoring industry in the
mother colony of the Australias. If it does not
fail in this respect, to what cause may we attribute
the Victorian’s love of liquor and the Cornstalk’s
apparent relative abstinence therefrom?
* * #
Most people who drink have a vague notion that
they are obliging their stomach ; but, as a matter
of fact, it is their blood which receives the alcohol.
The stomach does not digest alcohol—it cannot
Into the blood direct goes the balmy fluid all in its
native richness, and some scientist has demon-
strated that one part of pure alcohol in every thou-
sand parts of the blood produces intoxication.
Roughly speaking, one part of the pure is equal to
two parts of alcohol technically known as proof •
we may therefore say when a man has one-five-
hundredth part of his blood alcoholized he is drunk.
Now, an ordinary man has about ten pints of blood
in his body, so that to make him drunk he requires
to absorb one-fiftieth of a pint of pure alcohol.
This is certainly a very moderate quantum, not
more than one-third of an ordinary “ nip.” Now
most people who have been drunk — even some Bul-
letin readers have, doubtless, been that way—know
that it takes usually 20 times the amount stated
to make them feel “ nice and comfortable.” How,
then, can Science be reconciled with practice?
Very simply. Science affirms that if there be put
into a man’s blood one-third of an ordinary hotel
“ nip ” he is drunk, but this proportion must be
there at one time. The stomach, though it cannot
assimilate it, has a great fondness for whisky, and
with much reluctance does it give up to the blood
the liquor it receives. Before sufficient alcohol is
absorbed there will be in the stomach ten times
the quantity required to complete inebriation.
The process of absorption goes on gradually and the
subject is continuously drunk until the proportion
in the blood falls below one-five-hundredth. Thus
the testimony of practical experience is reconciled
with the discoveries of modern science.
* * *
The application of these remarks is not tar to
seek. Whatever may be said to the contrary,
most persons drink for the sake of being stimu-
lated —in other words, of being sent on the road
to drunkenness —and a very fair proportion do so
for the sake of getting beastly drunk. Dealing only
with the spirit contained in theliquors drunk during
1888, the average consumption in Victoria reached
four and one-tenth gallons per head, or, excluding
non-drinkers, 18| gallons of alcohol, or 148 pints.
As we have seen, modern research shows that one
fiftieth of a pint if present in the blood will pro-
duce intoxication ; hence by the rule of three we
discover that the potentiality of the liquor drunk
in Victoria is able to produce intoxication 7400
times in each year to every person who takes his
glass. Seven thousand four hundred times a year
mean 20 times a day—three times during every
two hours that a man is outside his house. Here
we come to the end of our statistics and leave the
sure ground of science for the uncertain guide of
speculation, but we will endeavour to keep well
within the mark in our deductions from the pre-
mises just laid down.
* # *
How often Victorians get drunk statistics do
not say; how often they would like to do so we
can venture to surmise thus Persons who would
make a practice of getting drunk—
Once a year 20,000 equal 20,000 intoxications
Once a quarter 50,000 ~ 200,000 ~
Once a month 50,000 ~ 000,000 „
Once a week 100,000 ~ 5,200,000 ~
Ten times a day 50,000 ~ 182,500,000 ~
188,520,000
And extra drinks for Sydney
visitors .. .. .. 1,480,000
100,000,000
We have already seen how one-fiftieth of a pint
will do the business effectually for most people, so
that to accomplish 190 million inebriations would
require the introduction of 3,800,000 pints or
475.000 gallons of alcohol into the blood of the
Victorian population, in quantities which any
school-boy can readily compute from the foregoing
figures. We do not suppose there were absolutely
190 million cases of intoxication, but there would
certainly be this number if the liquor were avail-
able. Now, Victoria consumed, as we have seen,
the equivalent of 4,300,000 gallons of alcohol
during 1888, which produced less effect than
475.000 gallons taken direct into the blood would
have done, so we may rightly conclude that
3.885.000 gallons were wasted. This waste is
enormous, and at retail rates would fall little short
of five millions sterling.
* * *
We have never tried the plan of introducing
alcohol direct into the arteries, but we see nothing
whatever to prevent the practice being generally
followed, in lieu of the ancient and wasteful pro-
cess of absorbing it by way of the stomach, which
now obtains. The monetary saving, we have
seen, will be enormous, but on this we lay no par-
ticular stress, it being a somewhat sordid view to
take of so absorbing a social question. Our chief
recommendation of the system lies in the gain
which would be reaped by the community in the
increased bodily health of its members. No
longer will men complain at 40 that the lining of
the stomach is destroyed, no longer will the rose-
blush of alcohol suffuse the nose and cheeks of
any man, the tottering gait will not betray his
weakness, nor the foetid breath his strength. In
short, every member of the community may keep


In's money, his mucous membrane and his reputa-
tion, and yet get all the wholesome fun he now
receives from drinking.
* ' * *
It may indeed be objected that when the new
patent Bulletin form of liquor-taking comes in,
all the poetry will be banished from conviviality.
No greater mistake could be made. There is
no poetry in the maudlin stages which precede
inebriation. But, gentle reader, what glory must
there bo in store for humanity, when the day
comes that the prick of a needle and the injection
of a little warm fluid transforms the dull work-a-
day world of the navvy or the pressman into the
elysium of complete intoxication ! Somewhere or
other in his metaphysics Sir Willi am Hamilton de-
bates the question whether the cobbler who nightly
dreams for twelve hours that he is a king, and
wakes to put in the rest of the day at his trade,
is in better or worse condition than the king who
dreams for twelve hours that he is a cobbler. The
lot of a king is as nothing to that of one who
can ensure to himself any degree of glory he
desires. A week of experiment will show any
man the measure of intoxication he can best
enjoy, and with mathematical certitude he can
ensure his being able to reach that state. Hirst
he will weigh himself, and one-thirteenth of the
weight will be the amount of blood in his body,
and one-five-hundredth of this quantity will be
the alcohol needful to ensure the operator being
completely dead to the world. Nor is this all.
Under the present system no man can regulate
the state of intoxication into which he will fall;
under the new system anyone can say to himself,
“ I shall have 10 per cent, this time, 89Jj per cent,
between one and two o’clock, and to-night 50 over
proof.” By a system of exact measurements,
absorption—as it may be called, for drinking will
be no more, can be reduced to a fine art. Every
man who is so minded may have an ebriometer,
which will have two graduated scales; on one side
there will be decimal divisions of the total re-
quired to complete intoxication, on the other the
effect produced on the subject at each grade.
Thus 5 per cent, may produce a gentle rippling on
the surface of the mind, 10 per cent, the exhilara-
tion of large ideas, 50 per cent, the determination
to submit no longer to the sordid restraints of
poverty, 70 per cent, may induce the calm con-
sciousness of inward worth and the conviction
that virtue is its own reward. With 90 per cent,
there may come a larger view of life with its
infinite possibilities, with 100 per cent, inebriation
and reckless desire, and with 150 per cent, or
more may come Nirvana, the profound rest, the
deep oblivion, when
The tumult of the time disconsolate
To inarticulate murmurs dies away,
While the eternal ages watch and wait.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The New Economist—Bismarck !
Bismarck has taken the working-classes in hand.
For generations economists lectured them on
. their incorrigible improvidence. Books, pam-
phlets and newspapers were scattered broadcast,
proving the virtue and showing the advantages
of habits of thrift. The working-classes, however,
in vast numbers, continued to spend their money
as they earned it. Savings-banks were built in
every town, with gold letters on the windows and
big brass knobs on the doors, and the word “ Push”
written across every entrance. {Still they passed
by. They ignored the invitation to open an account
with the white-cuffed clerk behind the mahogany
counter. John Smith was known to have eighteen
pence in his pocket, after paying for food, rent and
clothing for himself and his family for the week.
Instead of taking that eighteen pence to the
savings-bank, where it would have made nearly
a penny in interest for him in the year, he laid
out sixpence of it in buying a wooden horse for his
eldest boy Tommy, expended threepence in beer
and tobacco, and gave the remaining ninepence
to his wife to buy articles of personal adornment.
* # *
John Smith was not alone in such scandalous
improvidence. The vicious trait is conspicuous in
the workman all over the world. Carl Schneider
earned from Bs. 6d. to 18s. Gd. per week. lor
him also banks were built, and neat little pass-
books provided, and he was pressingly invited to
push in the glass door and lay by for old age. But
Carl, whether he earned Bs. Gd. or 18s. 6d., found
that after paying his weekly debts he had
only a few pence to the good and objected to hand
these up to the bank, to be paid back to him when
his teeth fell out. He consequently passed the
bank by and squandered his wealth on the fleeting
pleasures of the bier-garten or the concert-halle.
Jacques Bouvier was equally incorrigible. He
had sevenpence over all debts, dues, and obliga-
tions. He had been told all about the advantages
of thrift and the satisfaction it would be to him
when bald and almost blind and able to walk only
with the aid of a stick, to draw upon that seven-
pence and the interest it had earned. But still he
passed the bank. He had worked hard during the
week. The gardens would be crowded on Sunday,
and there would be some fine music, with excellent
dancing, and a little wine. If he put his seven-
pence in the bank for the time when he would be
old and feeble he would have to sit at home now
and be as miserable as if he were old and feeble
or resident in Melbourne under the thraldom of
the Kirk. Jacques had made no profound study
of the science of living, but it struck him forcibly
that a bird in the hand was worth two up a tree,
and that as a little fun was now within reach lie
should go straight for it. So he prodigally knocked
down his sevenpence in wax for his moustache, oil
for his hair, perfume for his handkerchief, a few
cigars, and the etceteras of enjoyment.
# * *
That is how the great mass of the working
classes have persisted in going on. Some were
more improvident still. And what has been the
consequence? Why, when Smith and Schneider
and Bouvier and their like met with misfortune
or grew too old for work they had actually to be
supported by the rest of the public! “In un-
civilised countries,” says the S.M. Herald, plain-
tively, “ the feeble and the old have been allowed
to perish where they have not been absolutely
1 killed off as an encumbrance oh the face of the
earth. But in Christian nations,” it says, still
more plaintively, “that cannot be done.” No, not
very well!. “No sanction,” it continues, is
given to any other theory than that life is sacred
—that the helpless members of the community not
only must be allowed to live, but must be helped
to exist in more or less of comfort.” But this is
simply saying that if Smith and Schneider and
Bouvier keep on squandering their substance
despite the exhortations ,pf economists, tne rest of
the community must, also keep on, providing hos-
pitals, benevolent asylums, poor-houses, and out-
door relief for them. Such an outlook must be con-
fessed to be gloomy, and economists, feeling that
they had worked long and hard, were beginning to
show that they regarded the working-classes as an
unsatisfactory sort O' 'material to spend industry and
ability on. “It was here Bismarck strode in.
The Czar’s engineers once wrangled for months
over the best way -to connect two towns in the
Russian Empire by railway. Some were for
taking one course and some another, and the
arguments in favour of each were interminable.
At last the Czar, taking up a pencil, drew a
straight line on the map from one place to the
other, and said curtly ; “ Let the railway take
that course.” That settled the matter, and the
train runs there now. Similarly at the end of
reiterated disquisitions on the value of thrift and
soul-stirring entreaties to the working-classes to
cultivate the virtue, Bismarck steps in and says ;
“ I’ll make them thrifty !” Bismarck’s project is
to compel the toilers to hand over to the State a
fixed proportion of their wages each week. The
aggregated sums will, it is arranged, constitute_ a
fund out of which workmen and workwomen will
be able to draw a pension when they reach 70
years. The project affects both sexes, but does
not touch any other class. It covers those whose
wages range from 6s. Bd. to 18s. 6d. per week,
and provides for a pension of from £5 10s. to £2O
a year to the contributors. It is estimated that
11,000,000 of workers will be thus affected. In-
stead, as heretofore, Carl being invited and ex-
horted to bank the residuum of Ins wages he will,
from the beginning of 1891, be compelled to
bank it. There will be no room to doubt
the efficacy of the compulsion, for Carl’s em-
ployer will be ordered to deduct the contribution
on wages-day and pay it over to the proper
officer with his own hands. That, is the new
method for disseminating habits of thrift. If it
succeeds it is certain to be copied in other coun-
tries, and thus the unthrifty Smith and Schneider
and llouvier will become persons of the past. Even
before Bismarck got his scheme in swing, a measure
on its lines was introduced in the New Zealand
Parliament, but the representatives of that colony
threw the Bill out, on the ground that it unduly
interfered with the liberty of the subject. But it
is now in vogue in the Civil Service of New South
Wales, having been introduced by the Stuart
Government a few years ago.
* * *
The “ liberty of the subject ” is a vague phrase,
but some of the objections to Bismarck’s project
of economical reform have substance. In the first
place, if there be any virtue in thrift, and for
generations it has been contended that there is,
Bismarck’s scheme banishes it. The contribu-
tors will be simply fined for being industrious
on low wages. Again, if wages in Germany
barely enable the workman to pay his weekly
debts, the deprivation of the deducted sum will be,
as far as the present is concerned, equivalent to a
fall in wages. Hitherto the working classes lived
up to their wages—a not very lofty eminence of
living, by the way—and when they fell sick or
grew old the great bulk of them were aided to
subsist by taxes raised from the general com-
munity. If, while they work, they are put
under obligation of supporting themselves now
and providing for the future, they _ will, it is
true, relieve the general community in one way,
but will have to seek an increase in wages to
.meet the deficit caused by the new responsi-
bility. But, on the merits of the case, why
are the working-classes earning between 6s. Bd.
and 18s. 6d. made the sole objects of the
scheme? Why not include all who are de-
pendent upon the work of their hands for
support? It is in seeking an answer to this that
we are likely to find the real object which Bismarck
has in mind. On one side he sees kingcraft
buttressed with vested interests. He sees Imperial
power surrounded with the fruits of plunder. He
sees a nobility founded on rapine, a landocracy
founded on violence and robbery. On the other,
he sees the black-browed myriads of Labour
marching forward in silent battalions. He knows
that they dispute the title of king and emperor to
the goods they claim of noble and landocrat to
the profits of ancient rapine and robbery. If the
march goes on, he sees collision, death-grapple,
murder ; and over the ruins of a dynasty of which
he was the prop, the banner of the new civilisation
—Socialism—flying. By an inspiration of gemus
he seizes upon those eleven million of his people.
He drags them out of the marching myriads. He
gives these, too, vested interests. They and kings
and landlords and the descendants of the privileged
robbers of old will all have stakes in the con-
tinuance of existing order. In five or ten years he
will threaten them with forfeiture of pension if
they lift their faces against the throne. He will
screw the remnants of their wages from them now
and whip them into obedience while they live with
the fear that they will never be paid back. Im-
perial power, ducal power, landlord power, the
vested power of army, navy, and well-to-do trade,
girt about with the eleven millions thus newly
created, will stand a better chance against the
shock that is impending. That is, we take it, the
full reading of this new economist’s latest scheme
for the consolidation of his despotic empire.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Royalty v. Democracy.
o
and other lackeys, “ special packet ” service,
official sinecure salaries drawn by Royal person-
ages, and civil list pensions, &c., &c. The descen-
dants of all the Royal bastards since James VI.
are also quartered on the people, and, in addition,
the noble brigands who cluster round the throne
are rewarded for their devotion by pensions,
salaries and sinecures amounting to £700,000
annually. It is scarcely necessary to state that
the annual pension vote of seven and a hail
millions is chiefly absorbed by the royal and am-
tocratic upas-treo, whilo tho costly St<ito cliuicn
also an offshot of the monarchical institution.
But considered apart altogether from cost, the in-
stitution of Monarchy is inequitable, immoral,
and unjust. It is debasing to the persons lifted
up, debasing to those over whom they are lifted,
that it so long survives is chiefly owing to the fact
that most minds dread change, and are content to
walk in the deep ruts worn by the hob-nails of
their illiterate and servile predecessors.
Speech, and Silence.
The way in which Robert Landells went to his
death in Melbourne Gaol affords ground for some
psychological speculation. At his trial he ad-
mitted having shot Sherlock, at Kingwood, but
asserted that the shooting was accidental, and
that his appropriation of the dead man’s money
and valuables afterwards was the consequence of
avaricious desire. There was nothing inherently
impossible in this account, and yet from the time
sentence was passed on him he appears to have re-
pressed all reference to it. The clergyman who
attended him says that he frequently ex-
horted him to confess, but did not elicit any
admission one way or another. When it is
remembered that Landells had a wife alive,
whose untiring efforts oh his behalf proved the
depth and warmth of her affection, this repression
of his original plea would appear to be tantamount
to a confession of guilt. The argument it supplies
is that, if the shooting had really been accidental,
he would have asserted and re-asserted that fact, for
his brave and loving-wife’s sake, if for no other. Itis
conceivable that a man with a strong will, wrong-
fully convicted of a terrible crime, might go to the
grave with sealed lips, if no one but himself were
concerned. When, however, persons near and
dear to him are left behind to writhe in the shame
and pain of the imputed guilt, it is natural to
expect that he would, if innocent, protest that inno-
cence to the last. In that way Landells’ silence
may be interpreted against him. On the other hand,
if, aided by that interpretation, it be accepted as
absolutely certain that he intentionally murdered
Sherlock, the murder constituted a crime of such
enormity as to induce a belief that the perpetrator
would not stick at a lie, both in hope of obtaining
a reprieve and with the view of consoling his wife.
Landells did not take any new hold of religion in
his last days. The nearness of death cannot be
supposed to have frightened him froni a lie, for if
it had that power it would have frightened him
into contradicting his plea of innocence. And he
seems to have been an affectionate man. His
last recorded words were, “I don’t want
anything more done with me or mine.
Under this aspect, his positive refusal to
assert his innocence goes against the interpreta-
tion just given to his silence. A due con-
sideration of both views rather leads to the
conclusion that confinement in prison, with death
imminent, affects the reason of some persons, and
they speak or are silent in forgetfulness of conse-
quences. Montgomery, sub-inspector of police,
who killed Glass, the bank-clerk, in the North of
Ireland many years ago, confessed his guilt when
a verdict was given against him at the end of the
third trial. Had he held his tongue, as the London
Times pointed out, there was an absolute certainty
that his sentence would have been commuted, both
on the ground of two juries having failed to agree
and of the evidence being purely circumstantial.
Montgomery had not the slightest desire to help
justice. From his standpoint the confession was
totally uncalled-for. Every word of it was a nail
in his coffin, yet he went on under the spell of
some charm visible only to himself. That which
impelled Montgomery to speech could impel Lan-
dells to silence. Montgomery gave no thought to
the effect of his words either on his own fate or on
the minds of those who heard them; Landells
was similarly oblivious of the effect of his silence.
A Touch of Nature.
In the course of the libel action brought by Police-
magistrate Cleeve against the Nepean (N.S.W.)
Times it was shown that the spirit of benevolence
was not, in the hamlet of Penrith at all events,
straitwaistcoated by law. When the care of the
poor was taken over by the State individuals were
directed to abstain from immediate and personal
exercises of benevolence. The Poorhouse was
built for the poor, and it was argued that the man
who gave a penny to a vagrant in _ the street not
alone gave away substance which he should
have entrusted to the State to give, but gave
it away under the sanction not of official but
of private judgment. The act .was accord-
ingly set down as reprehensible. This view
was by no means wrong, looked at it in the abstract.
The State should be able to discriminate more
wisely and administer charity with better results
than' the individual—but only when it knows as
much about each particular case as the individual
does. Its power is bounded by this knowledge.
When, then, individuals hand over to the State
the responsibility of the aged and poor their
obligations do not come to an end. _ It is their
duty to help or make the State help in cases re-
quiring immediate and special offices. The case
brought before the court by Mr. Cleeve was that
of an old foreigner, seventy-five years of age, who,
sick in mind and body, and without money or
friends, tried to travel across the country in the
late bad weather. The old fellow got into an
outbuilding at Penrith and appears to have
lost both the power of motion and of thinking.
Some ladies paid a little attention to him, but it
became plain that he required more than casual
assistance, and the law was appealed to. It was
at this stage the law showed its incompetence.
The police-magistrate, as police-magistrate, felt he
could take cognisance of the man only as a
vagrant. The State had hospitals m various
places, but the police-magistrate professed to have
the keys of gaols only. He accordingly sentenced
the man, against whose character not one word
was said, to two months’ imprisonment in Parra-
matta Gaol. The local,police also knew that the
State had provided hospitals, but they, too, ap-
peared to consider that a gaol served the require-
ments. A medical man, after a two or three
minutes’ examination, testified that the patient
could be removed to Parramatta. The old man
was removed, and died at the end of the journey.
Was this proceeding satisfactory ? Was the State
idea of benevolence carried out ? Was it right
that that old man, whose character was in no way
stained with crime, should die with a two months
sentence of imprisonment recorded against him ?
We do not blame any one of the officials con-
nected with the case. The sentence may have
been a euphemism, as Mr. Cleeve says it was,
and neither he nor the police may have had power
to treat the moneyless man otherwise than as a
criminal, and the doctor may have given the case
sufficient study ; but the point is : Has the State
is this case shown that its official management of
benevolences is so complete that individuals are
absolved from interfering? We think not. If the
Penrith people did not interfere in this case, their
acquiescence in legal decisions would be at the
expense of their humanity.
♦
Archbishop Carr’s circular, to assist the annua
inflow of “Peter’s pence,” has been read in the
Roman Catholic churches of Victoria, and appears
to be rather rough on la Idle France. Asa samph
of inspired logic, however, the document is de-
cidedly shaky. Among other harmless puffs for
the Pontiff, the Archbishop mentions that; —
“While France sustained the rights of the Holy
See she was a great and prosperous nation. -No
sooner did she withdraw her protection, at the
instance of Italian statesmen, than disaster after
disaster befell her arms. Just now, by a merited
retribution, the chief danger of France comes from
the very nation which she helped to aggrandise by
the spoliation of the Papal States.” The Arch-
bishop evidently holds military ideas on the sub-
ject of greatness, and considers that national
prosperity is inseparable from successful cam-
paigns and plenty of ’em. The Holy Church, no
matter what its particular denomination, has ever
affected to believe that the Supreme Being is,
above aught else, the God of Battles. But
although it may please Dr. Caer to think that
the French disasters of 1870 were ordained by
Heaven on behalf of the Vatican, he musn’t blink
the fact that these last 19 years of peace have left
France in a more prosperous condition than ever.
The present Paris Exhibition is a very straight
answer to the Archbishop’s circular insinuations.
Let that pass. Where the good man gets most
hopelessly bogged is in his attempts to show that
righteous retribution has come upon F ranee at
the hands of Italy, because, from a Papal point of
view, the rival Powers are symbolised by the pot
and the kettle, both of them being iniquitously
black. The circular right through is a tissue of
contradictions, proving nothing save that the
Pope is an impossible personage to hold a brief
for, temporally. One minute Dr. Caer exults
over the everlasting vigour of the old gentleman’s
anathema ; next minute he requests his friends to
pray for the Pontiff’s deliverance from prison
walls and double chains, if needs be. One is
naturally impelled to question the awfulness of
the Curse of Rome, if it can be chained up like
this. Finally, there are not the slightest grounds
for supposing that anyone intends to put the Pope
in irons. The thought shocks even The Bulletin,
which respects him as a kind, virtuous, learned,
abstemious divine, addicted to starting his daily
prayers at about four o’clock in the morning.
♦
Dear Bulletin,— With pleasure the writer read your
latest leader on “ One Man One Vote.” But, in addition
to your sound premises, why not set forth that the man
who chooses to have a few pounds’ worth of property in
each of several electoral districts, say, for the purpose of
voting-advantages, counts for more than the honest
citizen who owns £200,000 worth of city property in one
lump?—Yours, T.
The Bulletin has already pointed this out, and
has much pleasure in pointing it out again. Ihe
fact is that the present system of plural voting
on the basis of allotments is as absurd and illogi-
cal from a capitalistic as from a democratic
point of view. A man is the absolute and unen-
cumbered owner of, say, a splendid city block
worth a hundred and fifty thousand pounds. For
that he has one vote, and one vote only. He
has in his employ a groom, who owns four allot-
ments (worth £IOO each, but, perhaps, mortgaged
up to the last cent, in four different suburban con-
stituencies, and that groom is entitled to a parlia-
mentary vote in each constituency ! As one vote
will turn an election, the groom may return three
members to Parliament on his own account, and, at
the same time, with his other vote nullify his wealthy
master’s vote in the latter’s own electorate. Hie
investment of a man’s £150,000 in one constituency
in a country should surely not carry with it an
electoral penalty, any more than the spreading of
£4OO, or even £I4OO, over four or fourteen con-
stituencies should involve an electoral advantage.
If men are to vote, then let the allotment be
stopped from voting. If allotments are to vote,
how are we to appraise the relative political value
of a man and an allotment? Voting on a property
basis is impossible in a real democracy. The
public of New South Wales apparently don’t
know this yet.
At the London farewell banquet to the Earl of
Hopetoun, the brilliant Knutsford argued that
the new infant Victorian Governor was admirably
fitted, chiefly on account of his youth and inex-
perience to govern— i.e., to clutch £IO,OOO a year
and perks, from the colony of Victoria. The
Bulletin cordially agrees with the noble lord.
Intellectuality in such a position is out of place.
Anyone, that is any noble person, would grace the
position just as admirably as any other ; for when
puppets are exalted the approval of the multi-
tude is a mere matter of gilding and theatrical
thunder : Jack Gardiner, L. L. Smith, aye, or
Fitzgibbon, if sufficiently ennobled, are as
admirably adapted to act as Queen Victoria’s
representatives as Lord Tomnoddy himself.
Colonial Secretary Knutsford furthermore re-
marked that he was delighted to see that Caring-
ton, Onslow, and Kintore were acquiring ex-
perience in the colonies which would be invaluable
to the Empire when they assumed the political
position to which it entitled them on their return
to Great Britain. This is amusing. _ Before
Carington arrived here, judging his ability by
extracts from a few of his English speeches, some
Australians thought there was something in him.
But he must have changed his “ghost ” on leaving
England, a country where sub-editors are much
more concerned about the literary reputation of
lordlings than in New South Wales, for never
since he has been in Australia has he uttered
in public anything but the baldest and most
prosaic commonplaces. The fact is that Eng-
lish lords who would retain the good opinion of
Australians ought to keep away from our country
altogether, and as no amount of experience can
fertilise a barren mind, it may be as well for those
now here to court obscurity on their return home.
The Bulletin hails with joy the arrival of Lords
;Fitz-Noodle, Vapid Swell, and Sir Roderick
MacDendron on these shores. Every Windsor
uniform, every twaddling sentence, every inane
smile, every vacuous laugh serves to bring the
gubernatorial office into disrepute and cracks
another strand in the silken bonds which bind us
to the effete institutions of a country “where
everybody is looking up to somebody and every-
body is looking down on somebody.”


American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, October 23, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
On viewing “Henry V.” at Her Majesty’s I was some’
what surprised to see that George doesn’t annex all the
limelight himself, but dedicates a burner or two to Mrs.
R., who, as a rather husky chorus, doesn’t quite succeed
in drowning the busy scene-shifter, The staging is
lavish, of course, especially the “ triumphant entry into
London ” when the snow-white charger up to 18st. is
curbed to rearing-point behind the foot-lights while people
glance covertly to espy the red-haired girl.
And I am here somehow reminded that there is another
woe the less for the flabby, ponderous portion of society
who dine out with their napkins knotted round their
throats because their laps are an unknown quantity. 1
mean the new “ napkin-clip ” by which the most pin-
cushiony of womankind can firmly secure the shelter of
her serviette over that precious front breadth and be calm
even in the presence of spilt gravy. It’s a welcome idea.
Many a time has my arm ached with repeatedly returning
a slippery serviette to a fat woman whose porpoise,
like plunges in search of it only resulted in over-turned
dishes and ignominy.
The ladies of the N.S.W Art Society gave a conversa-
zione at the rooms, Pitt-street, on 15th inst., when a mob
resulted. Mrs. Julian Ashton in cream lace and draperies
of cream silk was presiding priestess. The entertainment,
belying its name, proved to be a kind of musical evening
with recitations, and save that acoustics were simply
awful, a pleasant evening was spent, though owing to the
Liedertafel concert a few of the guests were tardy. Some
of the frocking can only be described by horrified exclama-
tion-points, but a black moire gown with sleeves slashed
with white, white roses on the corsage and in the hair,
was subduedly chic; and a strawberry blonde showed her
shrewdness by sporting a scarlet sash to her white gown.
Miss Iloffnung wore pale mustard silk and a yellow fan.
A lawyer’s wife came out in a tea-gown of brown plush
ornate with bands of apricot silk, and the Pitf-street
preacher blessed the show with his presence and grace-
fully indicated favorite pictures with his index finger.
The same evening, 15th, was the first “ bankers’ ni dit ”
at Sydney Criterion, when dozens of clerks from the
Associated banks descended upon the gallery w here they
played tin-whistles to the joy of everyone. Indeed they
rais-d dimply a hubbub at the conclusion, when a wcll-
fiimcd cabbage was fired at Blifil, and a knotted handker-
chief at “Sophia” (Emma Temple) with cries of “ open
it!” to which she paid no heed. This was unwise, for it
might have contained duplicate keys of the safe, thrown
by an adoring suburban accountant.
Speaking of “bankers’ night,” which will in future rank
for general noisiness with “undergrads’ night”—few of
the “ dudes ” of the service had a voice in the boisterous
proceedings. One languid managab, with a curled
moustache and an air-pillow necktie, was interviewed by
a promoter of the idea and asked if he would join. “ I
don’t know, weally,” he languidly replied—“-whereabouts
in the house would a fellah have to sit?” “ Qh, anywhefe,
in the gallery, probably,” was the brisk rejoinder. The
perfumed banker shrank in his Chair. “Dear boy,’
he said, faintly, “ you weally mustn’t rely on me. Good
morning.”., , , , , . . ,
The arrival of Gov. Looh in Sydney on 17th inst., per
/ealandia, was a source Of disappointment to the uniniated
sightseers, who were scouring about all day in the utmost
uncertainty, the final canter being from Farm Cove round
to Margaret-street. But that exasperating-person merely
stepped on to the wharf and boarded the Government
launch; and was wafted back again to Farm Cove, where
he was welcomed by a few people who were “in the
know,” a guard of honour, and a salute. At 9 p.m. the
vice-regal family party continued their journey, when,
owing to the wet weather, they had a wretched trip over-
land.
I presume that the talented Jennie Lee “Jo” is for-
ever debarred from jamming a No. 2 foot into a No! 1
boot in her leisure moments', for the harrowing urchin
whom she so realistically impersonates comes out with
bare and grimy feet, and a presumably never-other-than-
bootless Jo, with an array of corn-plasters or a bunion
wouldn’t be a bit realistic, somehow. As it is, strong
men cough dolorously and peer under their chairs during
pathetic passages, ostensibly looking for their hats, while
one portion of the audience blubbers openly in spite of
red noses and channels in the complexion. I like Bur-
uett’s Inspector. He is easy and natural as a man in his
own drawing-room—easier than a Jot of men I could men-
tion are in that sacred apartment, but I didn’t like Ada
Ward’s gowning. In a play where the rest of the company
are dressed according to Cruickshank, a “ Lady Dcdlock ”
in a modern gown of pink velvet with a court-train from
the shoulders—skirt of pink crystal tulle with pink moire
sash and fashionably ddcollette bodice, with her hair in
the latest style, too, quite spoils the “eternal fitness” and
gives rise to the sad reflection that some actresses would
rather serpentine through the part in a long-tailed frock
and banged wig than create Lady D. with their hair in a
net and a crinoline.
Mrs. Todd’s scheme is already bearing fruit, as witness
the following advt.: —
A DVERTISER, shortly proceeding to Englard with
J - i - view of interesting domestic servants in Aus-
tralian emigration, would like to hear from those
willing to engage their services. Apply, first instance,
Box 1116, G.P.O.
But it’s worse than useless. In a month the imported
help would be as independent as the O’Toole, and the
mistress—who, of course, would have to engage her for a
rived period—would either he forced to put up with burnt
chops and smashed crockery, or go to the I rouble of can-
lolling agreements Besides. it's not m if the English
Mary Ann, as she stands, is a kind of area-angel. A glance
at the dolorous letters to London papers signed by mis-
tresses show that “ panem et ciroes ” is her war-cry, too.
I predict that the imported English servant, when she
arrives, will wash the watercress in the hath, just as Miss
O’Toole does.
Speaking of servants, the writer of an article on Utopian
housekeeping even advocates the extreme policy of a
general kitchen—or rather so many houses built round a
square, each square having a large kitchen and laundry
worked by a staff of servants who become merely “ the
factory-hands of a domestic firm.” Truly Utopian, and
then there would be the additional advantage of no pretty
individual cook for Augustus to skirmish with behind the
dresser. Saucy “ tu quoques” would be “ reported at head
office,” too, and impudent “ warnings” would be aimed
at a cold and emotionless secretary, which would destroy
half the fun, of course. The idea is too lovely for any-
thing.
Soon the knots in society’s spine will he again a
shrouded mystery, for the interesting see-more bodice
has at ’ last been abandoned “ at home” by every
decent person except Her Gracious, and people are
being advised by the fashion-papers “how to heighten
evening dresses.” “ A puff of tulle . . is often placed
across the shoulders of bodices originally cut low and
round. A ruffle of lace or doubled tulle set into the low-
cut neck, and drawn to the shape with a silk cord or
ribbon run into it near the top edge with a coarse needle
is a fashionable method for heightening an evening bodice
of last season’s style.” Of course, ruffles of tulle aren’t
much to hang one’s hopes on, but they’re a step in the
right direction. The scissors has had along, long innings.
But though I admire bodices high on the shoulders, I
shrink from a startling design in front of Sydney Theatre
Royal d. 0., the other night.* It w r as in black and it met
across the collar-bones and fastened with a brooch. From
thence it spread out gradually—fan-shaped—till it reached
the last possibility in feminine self-display—probably only
stopping there for legal reasons. But this gradual widen-
ing out to display the “ no thoroughfares ” of a personality
looked ever so much more trickily immodest than an all-
round low' bodice.
At the Anglican Church, Waverley, on 16th inst., Miss
Laura Roberts, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. A.
Roberts, took for better or w'orse Mr. Craig, of Melbourne.
The bride looked blooming in merveilleux and moire and
the bridesmaids wore green and white silk. After the
honeymoon the newly-wedded pair will reside in Victoria.
Apropos of,gowns at Flemington, this from a Melbourne
weekly;—
“ J.W.W.” (Sydney)—Many thanks indeed for the de
scription of your dresses. As you are coming to the Cup
I will use them then. I should .’imagine the Empire one
to be a superb gown.
Elaborate detailings beforehand lest her unusual magnifi-
cence should bo outshone or unnoticed on that day ! But
fancy letting a woman describe her own wardrobe. I didn’t
(thinkthere were(enough notes of admiration and super-
lative adjectives in the language.
It was dampish for Rosehill race-meeting, on the 19th.
Promenading was a delusion in the teeth of the gale that
raged all day; but the train arrangements and the
luncheon were very soothing. I hope better weather will
attend the Club’s next meeting.
Sydney will soon have to welcome Sir Henry Wylie
Norman. He and Lady Norman-are expected to be pre-
sent at the opening of the “Centennial Hall,” which in.
. teresting municipal event has been definitely fixed for
November.
Apropos of Brisbane. A young. Queensland lady re-
cent’y visiting in- Sydney has given her parents a surprise.
Before she left Bananaland she was engaged,-with the full
consent of parents and guardians, to a promising'ybung
man in a bank. But before the awful words of farewell
for a whole month were sobbed between them he and she
slipped out to a registrar’s and Were married sub rosa, the
lady returning home and the youth to the offlce-stodl.
Afraid to tell parents, the bride was shipped in her
maiden name, by which she was also known in Sydney,
but now she has retiirnecl. every thing is discovered. No
reason is assigned for such, sudden and,secret measures.
Perhaps Augustus mistrusted the fatal fascinations of
Potts Point. . . . , ;
From the 5.M.11. : :
mO COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS.—I tall young
-*- man, just left College,' J whshestbleacn The drapery
business. J. W. Pustrofficty-iVaverley.
What next? -“University, man aso apprentice to the
butchering” or “Bow-legged youth” seeks emplny-
-nient,”eh? • ' , • - -
An imposing invitation crowd : swarmed- into Sydney
Theatre Royal,' on the afternoon of 19th 'inst., to witness
the annual evolutions,.of -Mrs.' WarskilPs dancing-class.
Nineteen items filled the .bill, which was carried out in
costume, and some of the kicking woiild have turned Letty
Lind green with ( envy. Perhaps ; the prettiest numbers
were the “ Snow, ballet,”, where..the dancers Wore white
cloaks and hoods edged' with swAnsdown, and gyrated
amidst falling paper, and the. “Gipsy revels,”
with ad lib. .tambourines ; but Sappfio must rise
to protest against girls of fifteen or so, not training for
coryphees, careering before the public in short wired
skirts, nonchalantly aiming six-feet leaps at the stalls;
also against growing girls revolving on one leg with the
other at half-mast to slow music in front of a gaping
house. The dancing itself was excellent, and the air was
darkened with vegetables from an enthusiastic house,
including the three little Carington girls, who occupied a
box and enjoyed the show immensely. Mrs. Warskitt is
their dancing instructress, by the by.
Some very fashionable “ hop ” functions are to happen
by the Yarra during November. The Victorian Naval and
Military Club start the ball a-rolling on Nov. 1 with a ball
in the Town Hall. Par parenlhise, “ naval and military ”
dances are good fun, because the wet and dry heroes are
so fond of one another I The red-coats especially would
rather die than be outwaltzed by a blue ! The Australian
Club follow's with a ball on the 4th, the night before the
Cup, and Lady Clarke’s long-discussed costume ball is to -
be on the Bth.
Speaking of the costume ball, the feature, as you know',
will be a minuet danced in costume with powder and
patches. But I doubt if the stately measure will go off
without a hitch. The ladies have one teacher, the gentle-
men another, and after months of patient practice it has
just been discovered that their preceptors’ ideas of how it
is danced in France “don’t accord”! How awful! As
Miss De Toorak curtseys low Mr. de Malvern is just
rising, and the result is “pumpkins.” But the Watteau
costumes will be all there.
How’s this for a Sydney D.T. simply personal advt. ?
TA/'IDOWER (36), no encumbrance, highly con-
»» nected in England, with large real. property
also in Australia, wishes meeting Young Lady or , !
Widow with means. They would reside partly in
Europe and sometimes in Australia. Address, Sey-
mour, P. 0., William-street.
The politely misleading “ view matrimony ” advt. is used
up evidently, and the gay Lothario now doesn’t even con-
descend to hint. But even “ widower” isn’t so frank as
an English gentleman who advertised in an English paper
that he “wishes to meet a lady willing to accompany him
abroad! ”
Melbourne Cup is fixed for the sth prox,, and already
the whirr of many sewing-maohihes can bo heard faintly
seres* ths Murray. At Caulfield rich tetturei and
traight, simple lines were the order of the day, and
Caulfield, as you know, is the millinery skirmish which
shows what section of the rag army on Flemington lawn
will win the day with the frock reporters. At Caulfield
matrons wore silk, velvet and cloth ; maids, flowering
delaines and Liberty silks. Cup parasols will be wide and
flat and mostly white, though the best-dressed woman
will be shaded by something that matches her gown. I’ll
wager Henley shirts will only be worn by the rankest out-
siders, and russet or tan hoots are indispensable with a
white gown.
All Sydney, sassiety and otherwise, is coughing behind
its handkerchief at the awfully sudden departure from Mel-
bourne of Lady Robinson, who took herself off to Bowral
(whereever that may be) the day before dear Lady Looh was
due. What makes this disappearance more obviously dread-
ful is the fact that the male Robinson returned to receive
the Lochs, just after his wife had left. Of course, there
is nothing in the British Constitution or the “ stattoots”
to compel Lady Robinson and Lady Loch to meet, hut
people do think it very funny, and all that sort of thing.
Not to put too delicate a point upon it, this particular
violation of ancient customs and rules of courtesy is, if
not exactly scandalous, at least very startling. Lady
Robinson will reside at Bowral, while her husband takes a
little trip to England and gets definite instructions con-
cerning his new billet. In the case of public personages
so high up in the social scale an affectionate public leave-
taking should surely be regarded as en regie. However,
perhaps they parted affectionately in private.
Have you met Hamilton Clarke, who came over to con-
duct the Victorian Orchestra? I understand that his wife
is a rather “fetching” little lady, with a nice voice and a
burning ambition to appear on the concert platform. By
the way, I understand that Miss Achurch is hardly the
success anticipated in Melbourne. She has brought over
some new things in the wardrobe way, though. Clara
saw her doing your “ Block” in a dull apple-green gown,
which suited her complexion about as well as a sea when
one is a bad sailor.
The second night of “The Pickpocket,” at Sydney
Criterion, was remarkable for a scintillating dress-circle
girl who evidently prides herself on her resemblance to Lilian
Secoombe essaying, the Seccombe F.-sharp chirrup with
lamentable results during the intervals, and a very large
lady wore lavender gloves and a sky-blue costume. On
the stage there are two gowns, a brown and pale-grey
quarter-acre check with lace straw toque filled with scarlet
poppies, worn by Emma Temple in Act 1; and an Irish-
green the long loose fronts turned back with
white silk, Paid Jones, hat. ornate- field flowers and white
1 gauze, worn, minus the hat at times, by Miss Seccombe
right through.
Somebody tells me how two amiable creatures in a
western N.S.W. township lately spoilt a local festivity to
which they had not been bidden. They visited the house
of people whom they knew had been invited-and managed
to see the stationery on- which the magic permits were
traced. Then they posted off to town and procured
similar paper, and on the morning of the entertainment
almost all the intending male guests were politely informed
by note that owing to Mrs. Blank’s sudden indisposition,
&0,, &c. The consequence was , that bevies of forlorn
maidens turned up, hut, excepting one. or two unknown
youths from a great distance, not a single dress-coat threw
its halo over the limp proceedings. The hostess took to
her couch in tears, and pairs of sulky ladies danced
together, considering the while whether, after all, it would
not he well to draw upon the rouseabouts for the lancers.
The mystery was soon explained. Handwritings were
recognised—and now the amiable forgers are in a Coventry
froth which they will return no more.
Apropos of Melbourne, people who attend the mystic
rites of the Cup mustn’t forget to enthuse over the nice
Flemingtonian additions. Everything has been polished
up and improved, and, Clara tells- me, the impending
floralities for the. Governor’s room would turn the Manly
people green with envy. Masses of flannel-flower, wara-
tahs, and rook-lilies have already been ordered from
Sydney, and some of the tulips and peonies are to come
from Adelaide. Sir Henry Loch (who arrives in Sydney
on 17th irtst. and. goes overland to Melbourne) has bidden
all the other Governors to the festival, so unless the smell
of fresh paint doesn’t poison them, Cup week ought to
be a paralyser. By the way, Cabbage Plot Jereihiahs are
all agreed that the Spring festivities are going to be
extremely lively in Smellbourne.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Varley says that you cannot drink and get
a-liead. This is very wrong of Varley; there’s
no surer way of getting one.
The charitable are being quietly can-
vassed for subscriptions on behalf of the widow
of “ Honest John ” Sutherland. The name is
sufficient monument for its departed bearer, but it
would bo a disgrace to NiS. Wales should the
brave helper of one who for years fought the
battles of democracy be deprived of the necessaries
of life on his demise.
The Jenkyns of a Sydney morning paper
chronicles thus wise :—“ Sir Henry Parkes visited
the Assembly (Brisbane) and had some refresh-
ments with the Speaker.” Of course he did. Re-
freshments in Brisbane are an intermittent neces-
sity with but comparatively short intervals. In
fact, the time between drinks there is shorter than
in any other part of Her Gracious’ dominions out-
side Rockhampton. But it’s neither a prudent
nor a square game to hand the G.O.H. over to the
scathing mercies of Evangelist Varley for the
small matter of a drink or two in a droughty
climate. ,
Insanitary Smellbourne proposes to spend
£50,000 in the destruction by fire of the odoriferous
bouquet which so endears her to the memory of
the passing stranger. The hand of the despotic
“Fitz” and other “loyalists” is visible in this.
Hopetoun, with both barrels loaded to the muzzle,
is about to bombard the city with his extended
Naval Defence “fake.” In a clearer and purer
atmosphere the shower of imperial honours which
are all ready for distribution to those who assist
in tightening the bonds, &c., will be less likely to
go astray. Moreover, the success of Hopetoun s
mission must not be imperilled by passing waves
of common stink.
The Editor, Bulletin. Sir, —In the last issue '
of The Bulletin, in commenting upon the verdicts ob-
tained against delinquent subscribers by the Picturesque
Atlas Publishing Co., Limited, you state “The Atlas Com-
pany were successful in obtaining verdicts in most cases.”
We beg to point out that we obtained a verdict in each
and every case. While on this subject, permit us to say
that we fail to see any connection between the Picturesque
Atlas Publishing Co. of Sydney and “Yankee” vendors
of wooden nutmegs, wooden hams, ect., especially as 740
of the 750 shares of the Company are in the hands of well-
known citizens of Sydney and Melbourne, only ten shares
being held by the much-abused “Yankee.” Referring
to your remarks in regard to book agents; It is the
opinion of those best qualified to judge that they are a
class of honest, intelligent and hard working men, who
would scorn to attempt to evade the payment of an honest
debt by practices which have unfortunately been resorted
to by some of our subscribers. Trusting that in common
fairness to all concerned, you will give this letter space in
the columns of your valuable journal.—We are, yours
respectfully, The Picturesque Atlas Publishing Company,
Limited
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Jack-in-the-Box
Her Majesty's “ Held by the Enemy ”
Criterion “Our Boys” and “ Kerry -
Opera House London Pavilion Co J ‘
School ok Arts Snazelle.
Cycloram a Battle of Gettysburg
Darlinghurst Hall Baby Show. B ‘
Palace Museum Reality and Illusion.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ The Royal Guard.”
Princess “ Little Lord Fauntlerov ”
Theatre Royal Shakespearian Season v ’
Alexandra “The Beggar Student ”
St. George’s Hall Professor Kennedy
Waxworks Building Royal Museum of Wonders
“ The Pickpocket ” has made its third
appearance at Sydney Criterion, but only f or a
six-nights’run. Judging by the attendance it
might have picked the public pocket for a much
longer period with good financial results. The
feminine parts are not so strongly sustained as on
prior occasions, but as most of its success depends
on the efforts of Messrs. Boucicault, Anson
Titheradge, and Ward, the declension is not
strongly marked. In Andrew, the waiter, a part
differing in every particular from his Squire
Western, 1). Boucicault gives further evidence if
it be required, of his extraordinary versatility and
his ability to disassociate himself entirely from
his own personality. The robust and testy in-
valid Grumbledon, first played here by Harwood
is now pourtrayed by G. W. Anson, whose per-
formance throughout is superior in point of make
up and in other respects fully equal to that of his
predecessor. Some of his “gags,” however, were
remarkably feeble, and we should certainly recom-
mend him to “take something” for their eradica-
tion. Neither Titheradge nor Cecil Ward so well
placed as in “Sophia,” and of the two the latter is
perhaps the least successful. As the mild lunatic
Johnson, H. Holman is hardly so taking as was
Haygarth, and G. L. Gordon makes the most of a
small opportunity as the Doctor. The piece is
admirably staged and makes way this Saturday
evening for “ Our Boys ” and “ Kerry,”- a one-act
and one-part play first produced here about 15
years ago by the Williamsons.
** * %
The stall attendance at Her Majesty’s,
during the week, has been good, but the condition
of other parts of the house has protested against
the exhumation of “Harry of England.” The
acting of Athena Claudius, as the Princess
Katherine, is a creditable performance, and her
French pronunciation is much superior to the
ordinary stage article. Harry Jewett having been
called away to Melbourne (where he offered to
Ctesarise a tyrannical policeman—fine, 205.), Mr.
Hazlitt has been enabled to give us a very faithful
imitation of his performance. The great “ George
K.” ceases this evening to bask his kingly features
in the rays of the lime-light, when W. li. Gillette’s
(the author of several successful American plays
and adaptations) “ Held by the Enemy ’“ will be
reproduced. Concerning this play says the N.Y.
Mxkkok : “It is a whole generation ahead of
‘ Captain Swift ’in literary value and veracity. It
opens a new field. It makes an entirely new
situation. It covers with romance tho strife of
revolution, as the sun turns a cloud of dust into
iridescent glory.” Whew !
& * sfc *
Nothing can be added in praise of Jennie
Lee’s performance in that most pessimistic of plays,
“Jo,” at Sydney Royal, to what has already been
said. She depicts a state of gloomy misery scarcely
lit up by one ray of sunshine, and when the curtain
falls most people feel aggrieved that stage justice
has not been evoked for the punishment of the
autlrrof the sufferings in which they have been
forced by genius to participate. “ Society,” that
impalpable concatenation of formulas and vested
interests, has no body to be kicked, no soul to be
damned, and as in the case of the insurgents at
Peterloo, who revolted against their misery and
yet knew not who was responsible for it, so in the
case of the world’s “Jo’s ” no one can be condemned
simply because “conditions’’and not individuals are
to blame. Snagsby is fairly well played, and Guppy,
barring an over burlesque of the strut, is most
creditable. On the last legal evening of the week
for theatrical representation “Jack-in-the-box,”
an amusing piece from the collaborated pens of
Geo. R. Sims and Clement Scott, pops up for a
fortnight.
** * *
The refined, humourous, picturesque, and
otherwise entertaining performance of Mr. Snazelle
continues to draw good houses at Sydney School
of Arts, the only poorly-filled seats being the back
ones. Probably, as has before occurred in Sydney,
the people who ought to fill those seats will not
become aware of the excellence of this show until
it is too late. The programme is changed entirely
every week, and new features are introduced every
evening.
** * *
On Tuesday evening las* - -, “Johnny”
Solomon’s Sydney Temple of Amusement, an en-
tertainment on the lines of the American Dime
Museum, was thrown open to an awe-struck apd
enchanted public. Spencer’s Polytechnic, a very
old Sydney show, was the only precursor of this
sort of thing, and as this is infinitely more
gorgeous, it may be expected to hum from the
very start. In addition to antiquities, an electric
orchestra, freaks of nature, mechanical marvels,
wonderful illusions, and a good band of music,
Professor Jensen, the magician, has been engaged.
Tire price of admission will be one shilling for
adults, and sixpence for children.
m* * *
Over 2000 entries including one of
triplets, there were no competitors in this
class in Melbourne were received and only
one-fourth accepted for the Darlinghurst Baby
Show. Many unprepared ladies also petitioned
for a brief postponement, while some persons
about to commit matrimony were curious to know
the exact date of next year’s show. This is en-
couraging—it shows that all native industries are
not languishing for want of fiscal fostering, and
that Freetrade, which does not tax baby-foods, -is
thereby a direct encourager of infantile adiposity.
As we have not recovered from the shock of wit-
nessing 500 babies and their mammas—we dreamed
last night that we were a Mormon—an extended
notice of the Show is held over until our conflict-
ing ideas gain coherence.
* -* * »
In spite of a wilted foreground and a
thereby'impaired illusion the Cyclorama continues
to be highly popular, especially on Sundays, with
all lovers of the artistically-beautiful.


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND U
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IVI. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates, fir A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including- French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
At Bondi when the sun was low deserted
lay the blooming show, and nought was heard
above, below, but seals who barked oacophonously;
but Bondi showed another sight when Sol was
blazing at his height, the pleasure-grounds were
crammed quite tight, the turnstile sang melo-
diously.
** * m
Driven to their wits’ end to find employ-
ment for a huge crowd of recent importations, all
of whom are drawing salaries with horrible regu-
larity, the triumvirate have called upon William
Shakespeare in their distress. “ Human Nature ”
was hastily hustled off the stage of Melbourne
Royal to make room for the “Merchant of
Venice,” this remarkable change being rung upon
the public last Saturday. Excepting Shylock and
Portia there is scarcely a character in Shakespeare's
comedy which puts any serious strain upon the
actor’s powers, consequently intelligent parties
like Messrs. Sass, Flemming, Ireland and Buck-
law made a new departure with satisfactory
results. • James Stevenson got into an inexplicable
muddle with Gobbo, and Wilmott Eyre courted
Jessica after a fashion miserable and mechanical.
Winsome Aggie Kelton played Jessica as though
the Jew’s daughter thought it was a comic opera,
but the Nerissa of Miss Maud Williamson was to
be objected to only on the ground that no sensible
single lady would have such a delicious creature
for her confidential maid. This generally efficient
support was required to hold up Miss Achurch
and Mr. Charrington in the “star” parts. The
lady, as explained in previous notices, lacks charm
of manner and voice. She appears to have no
suspicion of humour in her composition. As for
Mr. Charrington, his conception of Shylock is
evidently founded on dim—very dim—recollections
of Irving. Charrington’sShylock is ridicu-
lously young, and must be regarded as a joke
under the circumstances, for “Merchant of
Venice” is excellently put upon the stage in a
scenic way. Whether it will last for more than a
week, or be succeeded by other Shakesperian re-
vivals, are matters open to question at time of
writing.
** * *
A peaceful success of a pleasing nature was
made by “ Little Lord Fauntleroy,” at Melbourne
Princess’s. From the democrat’s point of view
there is nothing very elevating about the spectacle
of a golden-haired kid in a velvet suit softening
the heart of a pig-headed old earl and asserting
his infant claim to sit in the House of Peers when
his useless grandpa shall cease to figure among an
earthly aristocracy. They, who haunt the Prin-
cess’s dress-circle, however, will like this play all
the better for being the sickly production of a
snobbish mind, while the general public will like
it because it is undeniably “pretty” on the sur-
face. Miss Olive Berkly, the little girl who comes
from America (both in fact and fiction) to play the
all-important part, is a clever and picturesque
representative of stage childhood, alleged to be
actually under eleven. To the sceptical eye Miss
Olive shows subtle symptoms of having got a bit
further into the vale of years, but this is a matter
of no real importance anyhow. The veteran, Mr.
Henry Edwards, made his re-appearance in Aus-
tralia, after a quarter of a century’s absence,
amidst many demonstrations of friendship from
young people who were sucking milk from a bottle
when he went away. Mr. Edwards scored well as
the aged grandpa. Other strangers were well
received, and will be commented upon in these
columns at another opportunity. In the absence
of vigorous opposition “Little Lord Fauntleroy ”
is probably destined to be a genteel boom.
*- * * *
There is more sword-play than sense about
“ The Royal Guard,” in which Mr. Edwin Thorne
has let himself loose at the Opera House. The
plot and sundry bits of dialogue have been taken
from Dumas’ old-fashioned romance, “ The Three
Musketeers,” but the show in its entirety may be
described as a melo-dramatic comedy spiced with
pantomime. Our old friend D’Artagnan has de-
generated into a buffoon, whose trusty swotd is
continually flashed about under the despicable
name of ‘ ‘ Bobby. ’ It is a strange name for a
Gascon adventurer, attached to the Court of Louis
XIII., to bestow upon his weapon, and seems to
have no significance outside the States. The idea
that D’Artagnan’s sword is called “Bobby’’be-
cause it runs in people for insulting behaviour
cannot be seriously accepted in a story of
mediaeval interest, and if the irrepressible side-
arm were christened Billy it might be more
acceptable to Australian audiences. In the course
of this cheerful but insane entertainment several
strange events transpire at sea. A lady, under-
stood to be effecting her departure from the
schooner True,Briton in the captain’s gig, visibly
made tracks across the bosom of the deep on
Saturday night. She was in a hurry, the captain’s
gig wasn’t ready perhaps, so she just tripped over
the billows as though they were the “ Block.” If
any of her disciples were at the wings they must
have been sore afraid. After the lady had trodden
down the briny ocean in this contemptuous
tashion it leaked out that she had lifted .some
diamond-studs belonging to the Duke of Buck-
ingham. The whole drama was hanging on to
those bits jewellery because they formed part
of Louis XIII, ’s presentation to Lady Loch,
or something of that sort. So the gallant
D’Artagnan clutched hold of “Bobby” and
jumped clean through a cardboard - window
into the water in order to buy more studs.
The paper-window lifted up on its hinges to let
the Gascon pass, and he disappeared for all the
world like a clown leaping into the butcher’s to
sneak a wooden leg of mutton. In sundry courtly
and historical situations “The Royal Guard” is
not uninteresting, however. Mr. J. F. Cathcart
gave a reverent sketch of Richelieu, and Mr. J.
B. Atholwood admirably made up as Louis XIII.
Greenaway’s Duke of Buckingham was a sump-
tuous personage; Messrs. Douglas and Hodson
did all they could for Athos and Portos, and a
few other young men want boiling down. Miss
Nita Steele spoke some lines in first-class style
previous to walking herself off on the waves. Miss
-Kate Douglas impersonated a queen for quite as
much as such things are worth, and the lively
Sophie Harris was nice as usual, or rather more so.
Mr. Edwin Thome cannot be seriously regarded
m the character of D’Artagnan, which he has
knocked out of all understandable shape to suit
American tastes. With an imposing stage ap-
pearance he combines an eccentric comedy method
m this piece. As a funny man his gallant bearing
is against him, and as a hero of romance his high-
Pitched voice is a grave difficulty. Mr. Thorne’s
humour seemed to catch on, though, and when the
curtain fell he expressed his gratitude in a spache.
** * «
• S l6 rev * Vft l ‘ ‘ Pygmalion and Galatea ”
m Melbourne evokes memories of the original cast
there in 1872. Coppin was the Chrysos. .At that
tlD “ e there was a keen rivalry between Lena Carey
and Hattie Shapparde, who both appeared in the
piece. Lena Carey proved her supremacy by her
remarkable performances of Galatea and the New
Magdalen. This was some time after the sensa-
tion caused in Sydney by her mysterious dis-
appearance while engaged in Walter Montgomery’s
company. She is married and in America. Hattie
Shepparde, long since dead, was wrongly reported
to be Sir Redmond Barry’s daughter.
** * *
“Beggar Student” is going on forever at
the Alexandra, the Mesmerist chucks his spell
over crowded audiences at St. George’s Hall, the
Exhibition thrives exceedingly, and half-a-dozen
other shows are catering for the stone-broke backer
—who badly wants cheering up just now —with
success.
** * *
Minnie Palmer has been engaged to play
Cinderella in the pantomime at Her Majesty’s
Theatre, and Violet Cameron will play the
Prince—the good old pantomime Prince. We
suppose Lord Lonsdale and “ Yours-merrily ”
Rogers will play gnomes or look after the fire, so
that they may be right there in case Minnie and
Violet get quarrelling over the division of the
*****
“ Jimmy Allison ” writes to The Bulletin
from San Francisco, under date 9th September :
I landed here safely on 31st Aug., after a rough passage.
Since my arrival I have undergone an operation by
Dr. Terrill, and I am myself again. I go on to Chicago
next week to pick up other novelties, and finally arrange
with Gaylord. M‘Kay, of the Burlington Route, has
treated me more like a brother than otherwise. The
theatres here are all doing good business—every amuse-
ment hall is filled nightly; the performances on the
boards are, however, not first-class. I will have many
novelties and plays for production in Australia next year,
one or two things I have struck are really Al. ' One
earthquake-shock and a big fire have happened here since
my advent (James like’s a cheap ad. —Ed. B.), but such
matters have not affected my equilibrium. With kind
regard to all friends. Yours truly, J. Allison.
** * *
In connection with Victorian legislation
against the employment of children on the stage, it
is worth noticing that “small and early ” talent
is almost entirely confined to girls. Without
going back to the case of Mrs. Siddons, living
LORD HOPETOUN, THE LATEST IMPERIAL DRUMMER.
examples in Mrs. Kendal, Ellen Terry, and Mrs.
Bancroft may be quoted to show that the theatre
is the best of all nurseries for great actresses. The
phenomenal ’boys, few and far between, never
appear to train on. Master Betty’s fortune was
earned in childhood, and he couldn’t get £5 a week
after he was full-grown. When he soared aloft at
the age of 90 odd, Betty had been out of the pur-
fesh for 70 years. Percy Roselle, the brother of
Amy Roselle, was the brightest boy who has ap-
peared since the “Sixties,” several’of the Drury
Lane pantomimes being written for, and almost
entirely held up by, that precocious kid. In the
tragic line his performance of Prince Arthur was
perhaps the most realistic of modern times. But
when Percy lost his last remnant of childish fresh-
ness he was as dead, dramatically speaking, as a
door-nail.
*» « »
Theatre-goers’ faith in the juvenility of
“infant prodigies” was violently shaken last
week when H. H. Vincent stated that out of 71
children engaged at Melbourne Royal, only little
Baby Nicholls is under ten years of ago. The
stage kid was ever a venerable delusion and a de-
crepit sham. As often as not the public are be-
guiled into applauding the gambols of a pigmy
grandfather, under an impression that the creature
is “ very clever for its age.”
At Poverty Point.
QeOßge Rignold gave away by lotttery among his audi-
ence the two white bulls which he has been using on the
stage in “ Julius Caesar,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. These
animals on being handed over to their winners at once
became white elephants, and were quickly returned for
the eighty white “ bulls,” their commercial equivalent.
Frank Lincoln has done splendid biz. at Auckland City
Hall, and having concluded his season will visit Dunedin
during Exhibition in accordance with special arrangements
made by Lohr with the Commissioners.
Fred. Maccabe opens at Auckland Opera House, 22nd
Oct., and is stilt assisted by Mdlle. Minnie and the Magic
Statue.
It seems that our old friend George Fawcett Rowe was
married to Adelaide Arthur, who was to have played Mrs.
Micawber in the American tour, to have opened at
Toronto m September, that was ended ere it began by his
death. His first wife, Kate Girard, died in ’B5. ‘‘He
left nothing but his plays, some jewellery and 20 dollars.”
Annie Mayor has made a great hit at Proctor’s Theatre,
New York, m “The Great Metropolis,” a new melodrama
dealing with a shipwreck and the use of life-saving ap-
paratus. The Mirror says; “As Gertrude Savernak,
Miss Mayor proved herself to be an emotional actress of
great power-, rare intelligence, and ample artistic re-
source ; her unexpected skill justifies predictions of great
things. The Nkw York Herald declares that “an Aus-
tralian actress, whose very name was hardly known to us
at 9 o clock last night, one bound has won herself
a place beside the two or three foremost actresses on the
New York stage.”
Mrs. Brown-Potter has scratched all her American
dates.
A serio-comic singer, Jennie Hill (“ The Vital Spark ”)
recently, received £2OO for her share of a week’s receipts
at Birmingham Gaiety.
An American paper advises the theatrical managers
who protect their hoardings with “ Stick no bills,” that
they should also “Bill no sticks.”
Willie Edouin contradicts the report that his wife, Alice
Atherton, is demented.
• m °tt le r of Lady Bilton Dunlo plays a maiden aunt
in The Diamond Queen,” a farcical comedy, at St. George’s
Hall, London.
A Yankee comp., setting up the line—“ Miss Blank has
some very noticeable fads,” read the last word as “ pads.”
It is not generally known that Modjeska unsuccessfully
produced Ibsen’s “Doll’s House” some years ago under
another title.
Louise Beaudet, who was here with Bandmann, is playing
in the comic opera “Paola,” by the composers of “Er-
mime,” at New York Fifth Avenue.
Another paralytic stroke has sent Max Strakosch, the
entrepreneur, to the New York Home for Incurables.
An unemployed actor advertises in the Stage “ Dis-
engaged. Disengaged. Mr. , Comedy, Character,
Old Man, or good Responsible. Wire offers, street,
Manchester. Managers who start tours with sixty pence
(estimated) capital, a pocket-book (good old ‘pocket-
book’), and a blacklead-pencil, please save stamps.”
Albery’s self-written and prophetic epitaph
“ He revelled ’neath the moon,
He slept beneath the sun ;
He lived a life of going to do,
And died with nothing done.”
Edward Laiiion Blanchard, the well-known dramatic
critic just dead, and son of a once-popular comedian,
made his first hit as a stage-write rover 40 years ago. He
was for years critic to London I).T„ and edited Era’s
correspondence. He enjoyed life, was in his sixty-ninth
year, and some years ago wrote that—
Many a man, both young and old,
Has gone to his sarcophagus
Through pouring water icy cold
Adown his own oesophagus.”
The Americans want to know if “ Hans Across the Sea ’’
is a prolongation of “ Hans the Boatman.”
We have been favoured with a view of J. H. Clyndes’
English and American press notices and trust soon to see
him favoured with a part affording him a chance of dis-
playing his acknowledged ability.
N.Z. amateurs have received a severe blow in not being
allowed by the Triumvirate to perform any more of Gil-
bert and Sullivan’s operas. The general public are rapidly
progressing towards convalescence.
Frank Lincoln opened at Auckland Opera House on 4th
October, after having been very ill when in the southern
part of New Zealand.
As a matter of fact the cabal in London against G. W.
Anson was confined to a small section of the audience
present on the first night of “ Rank and Riches ” and did
not extend beyond them. After his faux pas he played
for two years and a half in London making an extra-
ordinary hit as Dr. Cheneri in “Called Back,” “Gibson
the Tailor,” in “ The Private Secetary,” and played seasons
at the Court, Olympic and other theatres, He was not
driven” to Australia.
Clarence Holt was with the late Geo. Leybourne’s
variety company in 1875, and when at Cambridge, Clarence
went on the stage and addressed the audience, mainly
composed of students. Said he, “ I have come to en-
lighten you concerning Shakespeare”—then there was an
indignant yell from the students who pelted Holt with
various coin and he had to make a hurried exit.
Adelaide Quiz is originally responsible for the following:
—Among the other privileges of Australian Governors is
that of free _ entrance to public amusements. On the
occasion of Dion Boucicault’s benefit, two Saturdays ago,
it is said Lord Kintore took a party of twenty on the
“ never,” and seats which had been booked days before
had to be given up for the Government House crowd.
This was rather rough on D. 8., jun., and he can’t have a
very high opinion of Hinglish lords, for in Sydney not
long ago Baron Carington took twenty-five people to the
< 'lilerion and never ante’d up a cent, though the bouquet
provided for Lady Carington had cost Brough and Bouci-
cault five guineas.
CORRESPONDENCE
A Subscriber ” : Mosquito yam is a venerable
chestnut.Blendy Lyre”; Haven’t seen paper.
Callaghan’s pig ” stolen from a London paper.. . “ I'rec-
the-wing” ; “ To the Roses” would- likely suit the Echo
or any paper addicted to weak tea and Beriin-wool work...
Raster” ; \arley is quite right, even the razor requires
a rest, but what about the “pore” subscription plate? It’s
always on the move. And can’t Varley give us a rest?....
Eight-hour Advocate”: You surely don’t expect an
attorney to sympathise with Labour.... “E. W. Storey”:
Thanks. Too lengthy “His Last Race”; Death-bed
scenes and stock-riders’ graves are a glut on the emotional
market.... “ A Native ” : Think you are a mistaken about
the favouritism shown to Germans. Of one thing there
can be little doubt—their system of technical education is
the finest in the world. Their discipline is also thorough ;
that, of course, may lead to servility “W. M‘C.” :
Aes, he has “James G ” (Shepparton): Buy Rey-
nolds’s Newspaper. Address Proprietor, London, send-
ing P. 0.0. for Bs. 8d “George M'Kinlay ” (Queens-
land) : Is it a joke ? We won’t rob you of the copywright,
anyhow.. Mark Worland”: N.S.W. has now, or will
have, in a month or two, four Supreme Court Judges
on pension, at a cost to the province of £B,BOO
a year— “ .South Sydney ”: The suppression during
the John Davies debate of the facts, stated in Mr. Cape's
letter was a rascally political act. But it's too late now
to do anything in the matter. ..“Sarah Ann Walker’
(Surry Hills): A bad disguise, dear sir. Try again....
“ T. J. Pender”: We are inclined to doubt the absolute
efficacy of your diphtheria specific—glycerine saturated
with tannin and applied to the throat with a camel-hair
brush—but we publish it pro h'oiHJpuhlieo.. “’Nettie FT” :
You don’t send us any MS. with your note C. Top-
ham”: Yes, we believe them to be thoroughly reliable..
“Ballarat Boy”: Glad to hear from you. Don’t they
teach spelling in your institution ? “P. F. Wheatly
Enthusiasm is essential to the propagation of advanced
ideas; this explains and excuses the over-sanguiue-
ness of George. In Australia Protection, in The
Bulletin’s opinion, must precede national consoli-
dation ; that accomplished, if the Single-tax pro-
vides revenue and sustenance for all, Protection must
fade away before it. But the Single-tax will no doubt be
strongly attacked by the reformer of another century 7 as
an interference with liberty and a burden on Labour, as
landlordism is now “Temor”; See “Plain English.”
For further information vide Financial Reform and
Whitaker's Almanacs, also “ Why I am a Republican.”...
“ E. Hoskison ” ; The average rowdy member would do
better by standing up and frankly admitting that he had
been more or less drunk, adding, at the same time, that
he meant to keep sober in .future. “ Mister Speaker,
when I said so-and-so I was drunk. I am now a teetotaller
and as I can’t be moderate in my drinking, I have
sworn off permanently. All the same, what I said was
true. The matter of my speech was virtuous, the manner
only was vicious.” “ Johnson R.” (Q.) : Thanks for
your letter....“ John 11. R.” (Roma): Have forwarded
copy of your letter to person interested “J.S.L.”
(Hobart) : Have not read it ; have not seen it, in fact,,..
“ Aroz” : The cat-idea is old and played 0ut.... “ Edward
W.S.” (Paddington): Thanks, but too diffuse “E. M.
Tyson”: As originally printed in The Bulletin (for
which paper Kendall’s “In Memoriam of Marcus Clarke ”
was written) the verse began, “ Their pure bright beauty-
shines a space ” —not “ apace.”, .. “ Prospector ” (Dingo
Tank) : Tell your mate not to have anything' to do with
anyone who advertises thus. Will gladly give him
a letter to a good man in Sydney or Melbourne./..
“ 0.0. C.” : You might as well say that because on Eight-
Hour day the processionists cheered Governor Carington,
but maintained an “ominous silence” when passing
Parkes, that the Sydney 7 Trades and Labour Council are
clearly subsidised by the Vatican “ (J. A.P.” (Molong):
You’ll have to pay-. You may be sure that the contract-
form signed by you when you undertook to take the book
was very carefully overhauled b.v smart lawyers before
being issued “ Walter Elliott ” (S. Melb.): Since the
formal interdiction of sweeps.by the authorities The Bul-
letin has washed its hands of all connection with them.
The sweep you name, however, is thoroughly square up
to date. The promoter paid , his Caulfield liabilities in-
stantly, and is, as we have often stated and still have every
reason to believe, a thoroughly honest, straightforward
responsible man,...“ J. Morconi”: We don’t know Mr.
Walter Graham, the sweep-promoter, and we don’t know
anybody who does. Drop your sovereign into the sea,
and then somebody will get it some time -before or after
the Day of Judgment "A l.uckv One”: We haven’t
got your card.... “ Old lloss” :We can only tell von that
the Sydney Jockey Turf Club’s consultation is as doubtful
as the character of Judas Iscariot .. “G. R.F.” and “W.”
(Cunnamulla, O.): No. Abigail is not a three-hat man,
but his name has been wickedly mentioned in con-
nection with the three balls of Lombardy ... “ Robert
Rees”: Mill deal with It pictorially next week;...
“E.W.”: It won’t, do, at any price “A. L. 0.” : Yon
needn't be afraid of that. Columns and columns are
appearing in the British Press about “ starvation in. the
colonies.C.R.W.”: Will print as soon as possible.
You ;see it relates to no particular time.... “ Muridic
Miner” (Georgetown): Thanks. Have handed to artist...
“ D. and L.” (Donaldson, Q.); We can’t publish what
relates to a matter which is purely private, and may well
remain so “James Munro” .(Melb.): Thanks for sug-
gestion, which will he acted 0n....“ A.C.G.” : -Of coiiisc
the N.S.W. unemployed have disappeared. The Davies’
Vote did the business “A.E.”: We’re sick and tired of
Dr. Goode’s libel actions “ Wiremu ”: A charming-
idea, but. the verses are so rough that they need to he
entirely re-written, and this we will endeavour to do. Try
again.. “ F.J.M.” (Orange); Will forward when published
“W.M.S.” (S. Melb.): Have kept your letter for com-
ment. The subject is an eternal one... “Bourgeois”: As
the sweeps are run' in the dark, so far as the general public
are concerned, it is no wonder that people feel uncertain
regarding them. The pharisaism.of the law in this matter
affords a cloak to the dishonest promoter “ Qui tacet
consentit ”: A paper with a small circulation can afford to
open each copy and fasten it through the middle. The
Bulletin can’t. Thanks, all the same “Hkaa”: He
didn’t make himself, and is not an ill-natured-looking
man.


WOLFJR’S SO H,l JLPJPfcI,
, —A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
tfee Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Prankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION AWARDED
SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Invite your friends and neighbours to see you wash
clothes with Sunlight soap. Let them see you soap the
clothes well, then roll them up in a tight roll, and put
under the water and left for half an hour, then taken out
and rinsed. It will he quite a curiosity for them to see a
wash done without the necessity of scalding or boiling a
single piece, no matter how dirty or soiled.
Some Special Uses of the “Sunlight Soap.”— Used in
the Dairy it will keep churns, cheese vats, and milk pans
beautifully bright and clean. Used in the Sick Doom it
acts as a Disinfectant. Used in the Stable it will keep
manes and tails clean and silky, and seal sores ana
scratches. Use it for washing prize dogs and poultry, and
it will improve them as no other soap can. Use it foi
taking out grease spots, and for keeping linoleums and
oilcloths clean and bright. Use it everywhere where soap
can be used and it will always give satisfaction. If you
prefer to boil the clothes, remember, this soap will give
better results than any other.
Deaf Forty Ifears.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ stanuing has just been effected
will be sent free to anyone who applies to * -
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
Papper
and
Salt
Clipped from the Argus of October 15 :
44 Members of Legislative Council and Assembly
—Gentleman, highly educated and recommended,
would act as secretary, &c. ; can digest 4 Hansard,
Bluebooks, &o. ; also offers first class tuition.” —
The Earl of Galloway’s family motto is
41 Virtue when wounded flourishes.” That’s all
right for the noble lord, because he’s acquitted'
without a stain on his character. But how about
the girl who charged him with assault ?
“ The charge preferred against the Earl of Galloway of
criminally assaulting a young woman was heard yester-
day. Lord Galloway, who is married to a sister of the
Marquis of Salisbury, Premier of Great Britain, was ac-
companied to the dock by his brother, the Hon. Randolph
Stewart. Sir James Fergusson, Under-Secretary for
Foreign Affairs, was also present in court during the trial
as a friend of the accused. The hearing resulted in a
unanimous acquittal.”— Australian Daily Newspaper.
The unco guid, who are shrieking
aloud (according to cable) for the 44 purifica-
tion ” of London music-halls, ought to follow the
example of Mr. Richard Roberts, a member of the
new County Council. The granting of music-hall
licenses devolves now upon the aforesaid Council,
so Richard, who “had-never been in a hall until
lately,” felt it his duty to do the rounds in order
that he might pass an expert opinion upon the
alleged necessity for handing such places over to
the Harmy- Richard went, saw, and was con-
quered. In the company of a crowd of other
councillors, baldheaded like himself, he stated that
he found very little that was objectionable in
these halls. The music and the singing were cer-
tainly abominable, but the dancing—here Richard
closed his eyes and sighed softly— ivas a revelation.
TWO SIDES TO A QUESTION.
POET: “WHY DIDN’T YOU PUBLISH THE CONTRIBUTION I SENT YOU?”
EDITOR : “DID YOU WRITE ON ONE SIDE OF THE PAPER ONLY?”
POET: “CERTAINLY.”
EDITOR: “THEN I MUST HAVE PUBLISHED THE OTHER SIDE.”
A fair sample of the trash which passes
for humour “ at home ” is London Punch’s funny
paragraph on the publication of Benzon’s reminis-
cences. Read this and weep :“ A book has been
recently published showing how a quarter of a
million was lost in two years. This seems like a
misprint. Surely it should be 4 with two ears
ò
o
o
A FRIEND IN NEED.
Now, all you haughty M.L.C.’s,
And naughty M.L.A.’s,
Flop down upon your knubbly knees
And sing a song of praise.
Your reading, like your 44 fist,” is bad;
Your grammar’s—O demnition !
And lo ! the hero of this 44 ad.”
Asserts he will be very glad
To offer your tuition.
We call him hero, in so far
That, knowing very well
The kind of gentlemen you are,
He’ll teach you how to spell
Work little sums by rule of three,
And do compound addition;
A gallant hero must he bo
Who takes in hand an M.L.0.,
And offers him tuition.
O ! senators who serve the State,
And are its wisdom’s font,
This party was ordained by Fate
To fill a long-felt want;
We knew that 44 common sense ” unique
Upheld each politician;
Although we blushed to hear you speak,
We didn’t dare, for want of 44 cheek,”
To offer you tuition.
But now this learned friend has come,
Please try him, we beseech !
And let the Legislature hum
With pleasant parts of speech;
He comes to help the Government,
Likewise the Opposition.
His pupils he may e’en prevent
From saying things they never meant
(We hope he’ll go to Tommy Bent
And offer him tuition.)
Your language has been very mix’t,
Your accent most absurd,
You mostly got confused betwixt
The “ persons ” —first and third.
Great Scott! when Gillies wrote to Parkes
About the Exhibition,
’Twas clearly shown by those remarks,
Which were his own and not a clerk’s,
He needed some tuition.
Knock off the whisky and cigars,
Pour sodas down your neck,
And learn the proper way to parse
From this here private Sec.,
Engage him ere it is to late;
For men in your position
’Twere best to form a syndicate.
Then on the lot at once he’ll wait
And offer you tuition.
We sing about a belted earl
Who’s greatly to be pitied,
He got in trouble with a girl—
Thank God ! he was acquitted.
When first they heard about the charge
Friends said he was half-witted,
And shouldn’t be allowed at large—
He’s sane, now he’s acquitted.
With former rumours of assault
The noble lord was twitted ;
But had they tried to prove the fault
He must have been acquitted.
His case was heard the other day ;
When facts were all submitted
The learned Bench remarked : 44 Hooray!
His lordship is acquitted.”
Conspiracy to get black-mail
This was, the Bench admitted ;
They didn’t send the girl to jail
Although the man’s acquitted.
A well-dressed crowd of high degree
Like flies around him flitted,
The gilded host came there to see
Dear Galloway acquitted.
The “pleecemen” at complainant glared,
Their brows in anger knitted :
Such prisoners, the foorce declared,
Deserve to be acquitted.
A damsel of plebeian birth,
Against a 4 ’ toff ” when pitted
Has little chance to score on earth—
Of course he was acquitted.
To make Old England’s blessed laws
There’s no one better fitted
Than whitewashed Galloway, because,
You see, he was acquitted.
RICHARD ROVERTS'S REVELATION.
Dick Roberts was a careful chap,
The staidest of old boys,
He didn’t care a single rap
For youth’s unhallowed joys;
But going to a hall one night
In search of information
Regarding what is wrong or right,
He met a revelation.
No Music Hall he’d tried before,
He thought ’em haunts of sin :
He paid his money at the door
And shyly walked within.
At first he. wore a solemn smile
Of doubt and deprecation.
But gracious ! in a little while
There was a revelation.
The nigger jokes he couldn't bear,
The-orchestra was bad,
And never played a classic air
To make his spirit glad ;
He. listened to a comic song
With snorts of indignation,
But when the ballet came along
It was a revelation.
He saw a lot of fairies turn
And twist upon their toes —
It made the old ’un’s pulses burn
To see their pretty hose ;
o
The neck of Robert Landells
Was parted by the rope,
A i though the flesh were candles,
Or a bar of yellow soap ;
What made it cut asunder
The doctor can’t decide ;
The life he’d lived, we wonder?
Maybe the death he died.
No gushing daily journal
For cleaner job could « ish—
llis drop to life eternal
Was followed by a “swish
The blood of Landells .spattered
The floor with spots of red
His veins were torn and tattered
And all of him was dead.
The hangman was so clever,
So skilful at his work,
A body thus to sever
Just by a simple jerk ;
As neatly as on Landells
He’ll e’er perform, we hope !
It saves a lot of scandals
To out ’em up like soap.
Of yore there were some tussles,
And bodies used to kick,
But now through skin and muscles
The little rope goes slick ;
His guilt and his repentance
R. Landells left in doubt—
’Tis certain that Iris sentence .
Was nicely carried out.


“HOG'S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
F. B. WHEELER, & GO.,
265 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
softcn.i &.|ytcAf\v-cA
C\iAc<> Jb.oic.-a a nS>
c>uxc&4).
(U?
Cl&no Ifu
Sgyt fuf'Uamt
tfcr'V jCi.’xKeb
of,
F. B. WHEELER k CO.,
‘405 Clarence street, SVi»VLV=
Personal Items.
The infantile Hopetoun arrives in Victoria
too late for entry at the baby-show.
How curious that so many of the editors
of R.O, newspapers in Australasia should be
’verts!
Henry George will leave America for
Australia on 24th January, and will stay here two
months or more.
Pritchard Morgan is crushing more than
an ounce to the ton at his Welsh gold-mines. We
can’t do this in Australia.
Edison is engaged on the refractory gold-
ore question and hopes soon to solve it. He
smokes 20 cigars a day, and the more he works
the more he smokes.
Prophet Egeson, of Sydney Observatory,
who has no honour in his own country, sticks to
his guns and tells those interested to prepare for
the drought. It’s good advice, anyway.
Judge Quinlan, accused of an undue lean-
ing towards co-religionists in his Melbourne County
Court decisions, is about to apply, under medical
advice, for an extended leave of absence.
Frederick Villiers, the artist and war-
correspondent, who was here some years ago,
threatens a lecturing trip in Australia and New
Zealand. The Bulletin advises him to carefully
stay away.
According to a London paper Bonnor has
outgrown his love for cricket. He said that he
had not practised this year, and that if he felt
certain of making 200 runs next day, he should not
care to play.
Agnostic Symes spells “ God ” in his paper
with a small “ g,” and “Judas Iscariot” with a
capital “J” and “I.” We wonder what Joseph
would do were he compelled by literary reasons to
commence a sentence with the shorter word ?
There are two Anglican parsons in Bris-
bane with fearful and wonderful double-barrelled
names, to wit—Rev. Stone-Wigg and Rev. Curzon-
Siggers. Rev. Manley-Power is also a potent
oushion-welting force in the Northern capital.
A Melbourne paper considers it curious
that the first Jew elected to the Victorian Legisla-
tive Council should have been introduced by Ham.
Had it not been for the forbearance of the Jews,
all the hams would long ago have been eaten off
the face of the earth.
Believing whisky to be the ruin of his
countrymen, Patrick Ford, of the Irish World
(N.Y.), has never admitted a “liquor advertise-
ment ” into his paper. This is the man, by the
way, who has alwas been described as an unprin-
cipled cut-throat ruffian by the Australian dailies.
In Australia sport and literature have
sometimes been closely allied. For instance,
Marcus Clarke and Donald Wallace were chums,
jackeroos on a West Viet rian station ; while Tom
Hales and Adam Lindsay Gordon were at the
same time in the employment of an S. A. squatter.
The brutal John L. Sullivan declares his
intention of standing for Congress in his native
place, Boston. Should he be elected the advocates
of monarchy Avill doubtless cackle, forgetting, or
ignorant of,' the fact that Gully, the prize-fighter
and gaming-house keeper, sat in the Commons
early in the century.
The Prince of Wales, it is stated, “ sutlers
from uric acid in the blood and the effect of
smoking, and especially of smoking to excess as
Albert Edward does, is, under these circumstances,
most harmful; it is quite useless for him to
deluge the intestines with mineral waters, if he
allows the fell and fatal spirit of the Goddess
Niootina to move upon the face of these waters.
Robert Louis Stevenson was last heard
of from the Gilbert Islands, in the South Seas, on
board his schooner Equator. He has picked up
not only his health, but much good material for a
book. He announces his intention of visiting the
Ellis group of islands, where the natives are still
addicted to cannibalism. He is safe ; there is not
enough on his bones for one square meal.
The legal husband of the “Jersey Lily”
is at present devoting himself to the joys of agri-
culture on the Isle of Anglesey, where he leads a
bucolic life. He is a big, muscular, good-natured-
looking fellow of 42, though he looks younger;
and, except for an occasional run over to Holy-
head, seems quite contented with his pigs, his
cows, and his sheep.
Mr. Gilbert Mux-ray, son of a former
N.S.W. Speaker, and younger brother of Mr.
Hubert Murray, the muscular and learned youth
who thumped “the Soldier” in Sydney, some
years ago, and who has since married well in Eng-
land, is going to wed the eldest daughter of the
Earl of Carlisle. Mr. Gilbert Murray is Pro-
fessor of Greek at Glasgow University, and, like
his brother, is Australian-born.
Viscount Hinton, who will one day be
Earl Poulett, is getting fined in London for play-
ing a hand-organ which he grinds while his wife
collects the money. The nobility are going down,
down, down —there are now so many of them that
they must go down. By and by we shall have a
real Marquis not grinding an organ but starring as
monkey, and getting abused because he hasu t
sense enough to dance properly.
Edison lately said in Paris In a few
years the world will be just like one big ear; it
will be unsafe to speak in a house until one has
examined the walls and furniture for concealed
phonographs.” Such a literal interpretation of
the proverb, “Walls have ears,” would set the
whole world at loggerheads, and create such an
atmosphere of mutual enmity, ill-feeling, and dis-
trust that the very possession of a phonograph
would speedily be declared a criminal offence.
On leaving Liverpool for her place of in-
carceration, Mrs. Maybrick, in a uniform of grey
stuff, marked with the broad arrow, a grey cape
hood bonnet and prison shoes, walked with a firm
step. Recognising a gentleman as she crossed the
platform, she greeted him with a smile, which,
however, was not returned; and again, as the
carriage-door was being closed, she vainly en-
deavoured to obtain a sign of recognition from her
former acquaintance.
Said John Burns to a Pall Mall Gazette
interviewer :
Three years ago when the first shindy was on in Tra-
falgar-square, I was run in by an Inspector from Scotland
Yard. He arrested me, and I was then put on my trial at
the Old Bailey as an incendiary and dangerous criminal.
Well, the other day whom should I meet but this identical
officer, who noticed that I was very hoarse with speaking.
What was my surprise to see him come up to me, pro-
ducing from his pocket a packet of voice-lozenges, and
say to me, “ Here, Mr. Burns, you had better take some,
they will do your voice good ! ’ Just fancy that ! when
you have chief inspectors from Scotland Yard taking care
of the throat of John Burns ! And the parsons are just
the same ”
Madame Rachel, the “ beautiful-for-ever ’
humbug, carried her ability to cajole weak women
into prison with her. On one prison-official
answering “ Pretty well, thank you,” to an in-
quiry as to how she was that morning, Madame
Rachel said with unction, “ Pretty I know you
are, well lam glad to hear.” To another gaol-
matron, whom she was anxious to conciliate, she
discoursed upon her process of enamelling, and
the large sums she had made by it, “ But, there,”
she concluded, “your splendid complexion, Miss
, will never require enamelling. Gold cannot
purchase anything like that. ”
Says Jubilee Juggins Benzon, the youth
who spent £250,000 in two years.
“ To give you some idea of the amount of conceit I must
have had in me although I. think even my enemies will
do me the justice to sav that it was not obtrusive—l
THE NEW ZEALAND SCHOOL-STRIKE.
Wullington New Z Oct the 10.
Dere BULLETIN
I send you my slate what I drawed a picteur on of our great strike hear. Did you
here of it? was in the paperes about the Skhule Childern striking for abolution of home work
and more Krikit. If you look cairfly at the picteur on my slait it shows how the strike
ended. Its me and the teacher. I drawed it standin’ up as I caint sit down were he hit me
that bad. By ’xposin’ the abouve you will confer a Boone to yours & etc Philup Parsons.
P.S. He called me a ringleader is’t that lyblus? P.P.
actually went and took on the champion, Roberts, at
pyramids. I should think no man in the world could
have been so superior at his profession as John Roberts,
and I don’t suppose one could have selected a man so
far above others in his own calling to have attacked.
Nothing loth, Roberts at once accepted my challenge.
He began by owing me five pyramid halls, which really
any good amateur could easily have done, only I thought
I was a tremendously good player. We played many
games, he gradually increasing the points given me, on
account of the money he was winning from me, and ended
by giving me every ball on the table except one, and play-
in'' behind his back. He wound up by owing me 13 and
aving me 100 to 1. In one game I was eight to his
nothing, and I laid him £lOO to £1 that 1 would win the
o-ame. I ‘ ran in ’ twice ; and, curious to relate, off a fluke
I took two balls and won the game, and did win the
sovereign. This little experience cost me about £BOO,
which, however, I did not grudge, as I think perhaps it
made me more chary of doing ridiculous things.
Dear Bulletin,-- Jacky-Jacky was work-
ing at one of the bores now being sunk on the
Western plains. He watched the proceedings
with great interest, and manifested much anxiety
as length after length of piping disappeared down-
wards. One day water was struck, and as the
limpid liquid spirited upwards Jaoky grunted out :
“ My word, all gammon. That parson phella long
town. Him mine tell me long time biraeby, bad
phella go down long there burnt up hell flames,
bimeby. My word, fine place down there, plenty
budgery water, no hell flames at all.” Since this
practical experiment in subterranean investiga-
tions Jacky’s theology has been upset—J.
Bak-blox.
POLITICAL POINTS
Mr. Burdett Smith has been put into the
cemetery—we mean the N.S.W. Upper House.
The Trades Union Congress of Dundee
sent ten pounds to help the London dock labouxers.
The latest convert to Protection is the
pawky and keen-witted Hon. Jas. Service, perhaps
the cleverest Treasurer Victoria ever had.
According to the cable, Lord Brassey says
Australia “will eventually become a commanding
power in. the Pacific and also in the defence of
India,” Yes, we will command the Pacific, but
defend India—never.
The London dock-directors are, it is cabled,
now offering dock-labourers permanent employ-
ment at £1 per week. We presume this means
sd. an hour for eight hours a day. Ihe offer
throws a strong light on what steady employment
means in England.
>ropos of the statement that there is no
conflict between the interests of town and country,
a Melican man lately remarked at a board of
agriculture meeting that—“ There is no conflict
between the Chinaman at the hen-roost and the
owner in bed, because the latter is asleep.”
A chair and a table will next session be
placed on the floor of the House of Lords for the
accommodation of the representative of Hansard’s
Debates, a concession to brutal democracy that
should make the bones of their lordships’ pre-
decessors rattle in their graves—says Reynolds.
Radicalism is now becoming quite respec-
table in England, and the bourgeois intellect of
the Tory journals now makes the term Socialism
their stalking-horse for inveighing against pro-
gression. A hundred years hence Socialism will
be respectable and Anarchy will occupy its place
in the vocabulary of lagging intellects.
Ared-whiskered iconoclast in the strangers’
gallery of the Victorian Assembly put his thumb
to his nose and oscillated his fingers at a learned
member who was addressing the honourable
House the other night. He was fired out. It is
understood that the privilege of making exhibi-
tions of that kind is confined to members.
England is exiling the Zulu chiefs, Dini-
zulu and Undabuko, to St. Helena for 12 and 16
years respectively, for the part they took in the
rebellion last year against British rule. Arabi is
rotting in exile in Ceylon, and, almost seventy
years after Napoleon’s death, the brave, uncon-
querable Zulu chiefs are to succeed him in his
ocean prison.
The Royal Commission on gold-mining is
making things rather lively for heads of Mel-
bourne Government Departments. One man
examined is said to have remarked with a huge
sigh of relief on coming out: “ Thank Heaven,
that’s over. I’d rather sib on the pinnacle of
Hades and pump thunder and lightning at three-
ha’pence an hour than go through it again.
Creer, M.P., of N.S.W., has told his
Northumberland constituents that he will not
handle his salary as member for his own uses, but
will devote it to helping workmen in distress.
Joseph will thus get credit twice over for the same
sum, firstly, for refusing to take it, secondly, for
expending it charitably, 'This is unfair to the
democratic principle of payment of members.
Here is a nut for the cracking of the
Camerons and Melvilles who enter Parliament to
fight the battle of labour and accepting office are
no more heard of. Broadhurst’s re-election as
secretary of the Parliamentary Committee will
be opposed by the Radicals. They object to the
working-man being tied to the coat-tails of any
political party, or his back being used as a ladder for
adventurous working-men politicians to climb into
office.
A London writer clearly points out that
unproductive capital has no right to tax labour in
order that it may be made productive. The East
and West India Dock Stock, at one time worth
£l2O, is now worth only £2O, chiefly in consequence
of their amalgamation with other docks whose
situation precludes their ever being made payable.
He also states that the various wastes account for
about 6,000,000 of dead capital, and that compe-
tent judges aver that of the existing capital —over
17,000,000 —at least half should be cancelled, as
London could be provided with better dock ac-
commodation for less than half the amalgamated
capitals. The net earning last half-year would
pay fully 5 per cent, upon a fair capital.
Here are a few items from the British
judicial pension list: —Lord Selborn, £5,000; Baron
Halsbury, £5,000; Baron Ashbome, and Messrs.
Ball and Nash, each £3,692 ; Baron Brain well, Sir
H. S. Keating, Sir J. Mel lor, Sir R. Bagally,
Baron Penzance, and Sir Montague Smith, each
£3,500 ; and Messrs. Gifford, Christian, and Sir G.
Dpas, each £2,500. Old Law-Court officials are
not left unprovided for, since D. D. Heath takes
£3,100; R. Appaoh, £2,003; E, W. V. Harcourt,
£2,008; and Messrs. Hold ship, Gatty, Milne,
Capes, Clarkson, Tibbs, Jennings, Crosse, and
Roberts take considerably over £l,OOO a year each.
N.S. Wales, which has now on pension four
judges who will probably prove immortal, has
made a more than respectable start in a similar
direction.
John James M‘Guire, says Geelong Ad-
vertiser, escaped from the local hospital. A
lunacy warrant was issued for him ; he was
arrested by Constable Fitzgibbon, who found him
at a brewery, where he had taken refuge. Does
the Advertiser mean to say that a man who
takes refuge in a brewery has anything of the
lunatic about him ? If it does, its staff must be
sadly changed since we knew them. We remem-
ber when it was an article of faith with them that
good pressmen when they died went to breweries.
Here is the latest giddy society game.
Half-a-dozen young ladies of the party stand in a
group, while an onion is passed round. All handle
it, but only one bites. Then the young men, who
have been temporarily banished to the staircase,
or the front-door mat, are admitted, and their
duty is to guess who bit the onion. This, of
course, gives large opportunities for some most
delightful propinquities, and, after a general stiff
round, the man who successfully scents out the
fair vegetarian is allowed to kiss her. What joy !
We hope he likes it.
The abolition of capital punishment is ad-
vocated by Mr. B. Paul Neuman in the Fort-
nightly Review. Mr. Neuman tries the punish-
ment of death by seven tests, and finds that it is
not capable of certainty in application, that it is
not susceptible of graduation, that it is not re-
vocable, that it is not of a reformatory character,
that it shocks the moral sense of the community,
that it destroys sources of evidence, and that it is
not an efficient deterrent. Therefore, he pro-
nounces against it. He deals with the last point
with convincing force.
From the (London) Guardian’s— the An-
glican Church organ—report of their Congress :
The Bishop of London : “ According to the strict letter,
if the clergyman was not sent for to a person who is sick,
how did he know that the person was sick ?” The Bishop
of Exeter cited the instance of a clergyman whom he
knew who had a passion for cock-fighting, and who went
all over the country to attend cock-fights. He (his lord-
ship) made inquiries but could not bring him within the
case of “ inadequate performance of duty ” as prescribed
by the act. The parish was in a sad state. It could not
be said that he did not visit the sick when sent for ; but
the fact was that people, knowing that he was never at
home, did not send for him when they were sick. The
President: “ I hope that that is a rare case.”
Evangelist Yarley and the Social Impurity
Society will be pleased to learn that there is at
least one prominent officer of the Smellbourne
Customs who has had a ' g say in the suppression
of alleged “indecent pvblioations,” who is also
prepared to say some more whenever the same
question arises with “ the secret of England s
greatness” or the works of “the Immortal Wil-
liam.” He has a keen scent for indecency of any
sort, and is prepared to maintain that filth is filth
whether in the pages of Zola or the books of
the Pentateuch or in Pericles Prince of Tyre.
The great army of everyday sinners would be apt
to see some poetical justice in the spectacle of the
Puritanical petty tyrants Smellbourne hoist with
their own petard.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday First Lady: ‘ ‘ That’s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason?” Second Lady ; “ Don’t you know? it’s
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual. ”


C'e/Zecf/ng
/// ou Coot /efa cto t /fits forty Co
SincCtki/~ ayd Oyt> of q.
as out! exfiit fie to/-
as fnfietfo ' /fofo jfoJ,
/ ado/ttf-dfey Coy / v 7>^.'' / '
txT£
jtt
"■ S> '
j.
l H</
v y
po'JN/ 5
5 " ‘V r y,< -
for I4<j-pnc K r y« /
teir 71l
' /I
J &**
fpr&d I"
X (y
, 0
.>#
/joiovw
joy//? /
// ///<tfa f /sy .ff- 5
. bt-cifobe s/orpctaf '6y i
-.-. ; ,f ; r/s/ro?- - £ u //?*<*& *? r fa. yr/>*-'<* ? W
. "w vyfa o^'2i
c u r of vy //*"' I
2farmed a. puss'/ 0* fa * c ? ' r
7i»/, M
?; olo\ l
■4o^
/>///?vTfr ///■’/
A Baby-Show Nightmare


o
■■i
o
The Dislionored Prophet: Frightening away an Eclipse.
AN ANCIENT CHINESE CUSTOM. RECENTLY ADOPTED IN NEW SOUTH WALES.


The
Marvellous
18s, 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading’ and
most celebrated manufacturers of M atches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months' guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. tor 19s. Gd. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Even body says—and what, everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile’
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Xj jA. IST 33 QEOTTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-pago Lint Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c.,
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o>
Printed List businesses for Sale issued lially.
All Lists posted Free on application.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
AYE Jr st Opened a Magnificent Lot of UXTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Estey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms,
Society
A Sydney lady kept a boarding-house.
She had a sick baby, a musical husband, and a
musical lady lodger. The husband played the
piano while the baby was ill. She told him to
stop—and he stopped. Husbands generally do.
Then (so she says) she told the lady lodger to stop
on the sick baby’s account, but the lady lodger
wouldn’t. Ladies generally won’t stop. Then,
after further parley, Mrs. Cohen (for that was the
affectionate mother’s name) “ went for” the musi-
cal boarder, who “was only playing low chords
which the baby couldn’t hear.” Mrs. Cohen’s
chief weapons were her claws and a stair-rod —
(happy thought! we didn’t think of rooting up a
stair-rod when that burglar was in the house) —
and with it she did damage to the fair musician’s
anatomy which was last week assessed by Sydney
District Court at £6O. Infuriate a mother and
she becomes a tigress—if she’s Worth a row of pins.
Who that has suffered from the boarding-house-
piano curse has_ not wished that it were possible to
poison pianos in the same way as you can poison
yelping dogs!
* * #
The recent gaol-breaking at Geelong has
caused the long-sentence men to be sent from there
to Pentridge prison. One of the batqh transferred
last week was the murderer of Thos. Finlayson,
secretary of the old Hobson’s Bay Railway Co.
The murder was perpetrated so long ago that it has
almost dropped out of recollection. The convict
has about 15 years more to serve of his commuted
death penalty. In transference from Geelong to
Pentridge, by train, the prisoners all wore the
clothes they had on when their sentences were
passed. Finlayson’s slayer wore a black dress suit
at his trial He had on the same one last week in
his journey from Geelong to Melbourne. It is
getting a little out of fashion, but has been carefully
preserved in lavender by the prison authorities.
Here is a text for one of the great French realists
—the man who has served 20 years for an offence
committed in the heat of passion, and has just been
let out, for an hour, in his old-time clothes ! He is
a Rip Van Winkle returned to the world. After
a burst of the joy of liberty, he sighs again for
home. He was a clerk, in good position, at the
Melbourne railway sheds, Flinders-street. He
shot Finlayson in an oyster-shop, on the railway-
station. He was then a middle-aged man, and
will be venerable when he emerges.
* * #
When, the other day, squatter Hutchison
proceeded to sell up the small belongings of
Editor Ash, of the Narracoorte (S.A.) Herald,
in pursuance of a Supreme -Court libel-jndg-
raent (£2OO damages and £2OOO costs) which
a vast majority of the South Australian
people and press consider to have been
gained on purely technical grounds and in utter
defiance of the merits of the case, the
editor, who has temporarily lost his paste-pot,
addressed the two hundred people in at-
tendance to the effect that as the Insolvency
Court had only just let him loose with nothing in
his pocket, he could not buy back the furniture
which a short time before he had paid for at full
prices, but his wife had received a few pounds and
if they were willing he was going to buy them
back for her. The crowd at once took the hint
with the result that the lady re-acquired the
furniture for n -xt to nothing.
# # *
For some years a paralysed woman and
her blind husband, too independent to go into the
Benevolent Asylum, have got a living by selling
papers at the corner of King and Elizabeth streets,
Sydney, and now the police have told them to
“move on.” Much astonishment has been ex-
pressed at this inhuman and unnecessary piece of
officialism —the secret whereof will probably be
found in the rival interests of certain other people
who sell newspapers. The Colonial Secretary will
be appealed to in the matter —and we are sure it
will not be in vain.
* * #
Norfolk Island, under the shade of whose
pines was born a certain parson, whose eccentri-
cities have caused some consternation and con-
siderable pecuniary loss to his parishioners in
Brisbane, was for many years looked upon as
“ the purest spot on earth ” —vice, even in its
mildest forms, being positively unknown among
its simple people about a quarter century ago.
The swarthy natives of Norfolk Island are chiefly
remarkable for their bad teeth, the unusual quan-
tity of lime with which the water is impregnated
having often the effect of entirely destroying the
teeth before adult age is reached.
* # »
The champion Melbourne baby weighed
421 b., while the last defunct infant at Batt’s
Woollahra baby farm, Sydney, only pulled down
570 z. The one was entered at birth for the beef-
steaks and the other for the coffin-plate.
A desperate endeavour to make the new
clock at Melbourne General Post-office different
to any other clock in creation has resulted in
hideous failure thus far. The original scheme of
this bloated timepiece was decidedly novel. There
was to be no night illumination of the face of the
dial (not a face, but a skeleton, by the way) after
the old humdrum fashion which pleased our an-
cestors. The inventor struck an idea of repre-
senting the hours by 12 balls of electric light, and
setting up a couple of flaming daggers for the
“hands” of the clock. The hands and hour balls
(plain globes of light, devoid of superfluous num-
bers) were to stand out against the midnight sky
with such splendour that the whole population
for miles around couldn’t help knowing the time
after dark, unless they went into the coal-
cellar and refused to find out. ’Twas a very
good notion on paper, and it seems to work
all right so long as you stick close to the G.P.O.
The man who gets upon the nearest house-top can
tell the Post-office time first-rate, if he is quite
sober. But for dwellers afar off, say a modest
quarter of a mile, the new clock is merely a blurred
blaze of glory, conveying an impression that the
whole affair has caught fire. No sense can be
made out of it, because the hours run together,
and the flaming daggers don’t seem to be sticking
at anything in particular. We begin to fear that
the Melbourne G.P.O. will have to fall back on
the common or garden clock, with a white face by
day and a candle placed behind it by night.
# # *
A lady who arrived at Hobart the other
day by one of the N. Z. Shipping Co. ’s boats,
brought among her luggage a quantity of beads
and other things with which she “intended to get
into the good graces of the natives.”
* * «
Messrs. Chatfield and Rogers, the missing
officials of the Sydney Education office, and their
companion, Mr. Taylor, will probably be heard of
no more till the sea gives up its dead. It now
appears that the eighteen-foot boat in which they
embarked for Broken Bay in something between a
A PRIVATE VIEW.
strong breeze and a howling gale, was overloaded
and badly trimmed and bore a colossal sail which
hung out feet over the stern. Mr. Chatfield, to
whom the boat belonged, was a reckless spirit and
an especially fine specimen of manhood.
# # #
Clipped from the ‘Bloemfontein (South
Africa) Express :
I, Johanna Petronella Katrina Magdalena Susanna
Maria Jansen van Rensberg, wife of Johannes Jansen van
Rensberg, of the farm Kalkfontein, district Boshof, ac-
knowledge hereby that I cannot verify my words as to
what I said concerning C. J. Badenhorst and N. J.
Saaiman, and of Mrs. C. J. Saaiman and Miss H. A.
Oosthuzen, and I declare before witnesses that I am a
liar, and that I know nothing respecting those people, but
that they are respectable, and that I am a liar.
Johanna, to be continued in our next, is an honest
and conscientious liar. Most females are dis-
honest or unconscious fibsters. That’s the
difference.
# * *
A London swell telegraphed from Edin-
burgh to a Rothesay hotel one day lately, asking
if he could be taken in, prepaying the reply. After
some time the answer came, “No accommodation
for dogs.” His original telegram was produced.
It ran :—“Secure rooms for wife and self. Five
days.”
We read that a major who distinguished
himself in the Indian Mutiny, and who now drives
a hansom in London, lately had the “ pleasure” of
driving his own divorced wife to Berkeley Square,
where the cabman and “fare” only recognised
each other as the shilling—which was afterwards
thrown on to the pavement—was being handed up
by an astonished footman.
# # *
A Sydney Social Purist has just been
fined for keeping an unclean backyard. Clean
liness is next to godliness. Next door, you know,
* * *
Some few evenings ago a subdued wave of
excitement passed over the Victorian Parliament.
The press reporters dropped their pencils in
amaze, and the stoical Hansard men permitted
themselves a gesture of surprise. What was the
cause of all this commotion ? Merely a woman in
the press gallery! She was ushered out by the
messenger in time to prevent an utter paralysis of
parliamentary work, but not before she had asked
her attendant in a stage whisper, “When Dr.
Maloney was going to perform. ” This is the first
instance on record of a woman ever having been
in the press gallery in Victoria.
* * *
The following clipping will interest The
Bulletin’s ginger-headed subscribers :
“ There is one great detriment to a girl with red hair ;
she is seldom without a temper as fiery as her locks, and
the redder the hair the hotter the temper. There are two
varieties of red-headed girls, the carroty red, whose com-
plexion invariably freckles, and the Titians, reds and
auburns, whose complexions are of dazzling whiteness.
“ Helen of Troy, Lady Godiva, and Queen Elizabeth
were all celebrated red-headed women, and no one will
gainsay their cleverness, though it lay in different
directions. I remember in my graduating class, the
brightest scholar had red hair. She was a great beauty,
too. Asa rule, blondes are cleverer than brunettes, and
the nearer the hair approaches red, the cleverer they
arc. There are, of course, many exceptions to this rule
but they on 1 3- prove the rule. I have seldom known a
woman with red hair who could not compose poetry of
greater or lesser excellence.
“ Said a friend : ‘ When I enter a shop and desire to be
served quickly and well, I select a girl or man with red
hair, if there is one, and I carry out the same plan when I
enter a hotel dining-room.’ [Perhaps the smartest waiter
who ever lived was a red-headed Rockhampton man.] The
best cooks I ever had were red-headed, and the most
efficient dressmakers.
“ Most red-headed women are buoyant in spirits, their
natures are as bright as their hair, and most of them are
fond of bright colours. True, they would look best in
white or black—(No. Sage-green with yellow trimmings)
yet I have never known but one red-headed woman who
liked to wear black dresses, even though they were richly-
trimmed silks. They not oidy like bright colours, but
odd, peculiar shapes or conceits for their gowns. They
are seldom prim ; in fact, while cleanly, they are not often
orderh'.
“ Red-headed women are usually good mathematicians.
A woman with red hair who is good is very, very good,
like the little girl with the curls: and when they are bad,
they are unusually horrid. In both cases they are positive
natures; which doubtless accounts for the fact that they
are very good or very bad—there is no half way with
them. _ Whenever I am introduced to man or woman with
red hair I stop and study them. Shall I make of you
friend or foe ? for certain it is that, if I know them at all,
they will become either the one or the other—there is no
middle course to be taken with them. Once a friend
always a friend, is their characteristic.
“ I am particularly fond of red-haired women ; to me
they are always beautiful if they be pretty at all. Either
the reddish gold or the auburn locks are my favourites.
The carroty hair I have no affection for, though the
possessors are active servants. A man once told me he
never hired a redheaded clerk, ‘because,’said he, ‘though
they are bright, they are so crafty’—that is, the carroty
variety. Charles Dickens thought so, too, and gave the
world that red-headed embodiment of craft, ‘ Uriah Keep.’
“Red-headed girls as wives are a success if you catch a
mild one. They make their home a happy, bright place ;
thejr are thrifty, they are the veriest optimists, and they
are the most warm-hearted, affectionate, and demon-
strative girls in the world. Poor men ! I am sorry the
supply is not greater.
“It is said that only one woman out of twenty in civilised
countries has red hair, so it will be seen that they are
really a rarity. Some set the number at far less. A
Spaniard with red hair is very rare, but is considered a
prize, and if it be a woman, she is considered a great
beauty. A Hebrew with red hair is not so uncommon as
as one might think. Wherever red-headed women are
found, they are looked up to, sometimes obeyed, be the
place they occupy a throne or the head of a humble
home.”
The residing superintendent of that fine
old well-crusted monopoly the Australian Agricul-
tural Company, Mr. Jesse Gregson, regrets his
present inability to announce the intention of the
directors regarding the granting of relief to the
widows and relatives of the starved-to-death and
smothered miners in the Glebe mine disaster.
We aren’t surprised. The chief business of the
directors of the A. A, Co. is to extract coal and pay
dividends, not to worry about the financial circum-
stances_ of the widows of the foolish people who
have given up the most valuable part of their
birthright—the coal-fields of N.S.W.—to work for
day-wages in order that a set of potentates who
wish to Heaven they could replace white labour
by tractable niggers may pay 20 percent dividends
and spend the coin in London.
* # #
The quiet unassuming inhabitants of Pub-
liehouse Gully—a gold-mining township situated
in a belt of ironbark scrub of the southern por-
tion of S.A., are at present in convulsions owing
to the singular doings of their fire-and-brimstone
parson. Every Sunday, after holding service in
his hungry-look-ing chapel and pocketing the col-
lection, he marches about the town with the Sal-
vation Army singing Hallelujah, and holding
forth for the benefit of the few drunks stretched
here and there who have escaped the observation
of the police, taking his share of their (the
Army’s) collection also. He has a bazaar or a
concert on every occasion there is a race-meetiim
or a dog-fight, or some other matter of suffT-
oient importance to draw a few people to
the Gully. At the rev. gentleman’s last bazaar
a novelty was introduced in the shape of a fairy
fish-pond ; this latter was a canvas structure with
a slit in the side. A maiden of tender years pre-
sided on a three-legged stool and, on receipt of
sixpence, poked her fishing-rod into the slit, with-
drawing it after the effluxion of a few seconds—
generally with a doll or a portrait of his reverence
seated between two blackfellows attached. One
young lady, getting hold of the latter “ glubber,”
innocently asked his reference’s daughter—placing
her finger on the facsimile of an Australian
aboriginal—“ Is this the Rev. Mr. Graball?”
with the result that they pull one another’s
hair now every time they meet. On the
third night of the bazaar the fairy fish-pond was
brought to an ignoble and timely end. An exas-
perated stock-agent, who had invested ss. and
whose combined winnings would not be exchanged
for a sardine, planted his No. 13 in the canvas
wall and brought the whole affair down. The
picture revealed by the catastrophe will long d xve]
in the memories of the more profane of the inhabi-
tants of Public-house Gully. It displayed the
rev. gentleman seated beside a table well stocked
with trinkets of various kinds, baiting with his
own fair hands the fishing-hook with a threepenny.
* * #
According to the latest pod-mortcm, a
leading item in the dietary of a Sydney baby-
farmed infant was “ a quantity of insoluble matter
which, examined microscopically, was found to
contain coaldust, sand, fragments of hair, cotton,
and dirt,’
# * *
A Melbourne paper is publishing portraits
and biographies of the local detectives. Ear
better publish the portraits and biographies of the
thieves —if this can be done without incon-
veniencing any of the subscribers.
* * *
Sydney Evening News, which evidently
has an affection for the old N.S.W. party—the
cabbage-tree-hat mob, in fact—for some years has
worked hard in its own little way to spoil the Mel-
bourne Cup. This year its trump-card is the
typhoid-scar e.
* * *
Mr. Honey man and Miss Sweetie were
married in Ballarat (Yic.) one day last week.
Linked sweetness.
* # *
Charming Lilian Gilmore was married at
Melbourne last week, and is now Mrs, Walker.
We hope that she is not “Walker,” profession-
ally speaking.
* # *
“ Dagonet ” says that the moral of Jubilee
Juggins Benzon’s history is that the family lawyer
is the worst shark of all,
* * *
Bridget hits back per advt. ;
AN AUSTRALIAN SLAVEY.—This is to remind
Mr. and Mrs. Todd to advocate the formation of
a society in England to undertake the supply of
a superior class of masters and mistresses to Australia,
as there is already enough atrocious nigger-drivers
and good servant-spoilers.—MlSS CLARK.
* # *
Until Lady Loch’s imported presentation
raised a rumpus the Gillies Government was
prepared to let the vice-regal splendour come in
duty-free. Nobody anticipated this fearful storm
in a five-o’clock-tea cup.
* * *
“Ye Brush Clubbe,” a number of artists,
chiefly amateur, held their quarterly symposium at
their rooms, Oxford-street, Sydney, lately. Sing-
ing, recitation, lightning sketches, and the display
of the work of the past three months contributed
to the passing of a very pleasant evening.
* * #
A Sydney policeman has been fined and
dismissed the force for having assaulted two re-
porters. They, it would appear, were going home
quietly at one or two o’clock in the morning after
work when the constable, who was in plain clothes
and off duty—and drunk —“went for” them
spontaneously and without preliminaries of any
kind. Each of those reporters was a lucky man.
What if there had been two policemen and only
one reporter present instead of two reporters ana
only one policeman!


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Si DISCOUNT BANK,
90-KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9i per cent.
6 Months
3 Months per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, lias been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
12 Months
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd,,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The “ dull sickening thud” is losing its
grip. Melbourne Herald rang in “an awful
despairing gasp ” and a “ horrible swish ” over the
hanging of Landells.
A Melbourne constable found a Chinaman
chained to a stump, in a cabbage-garden at
Brighton the other day, in which position he had
been for seventy-six hours. These heathens have
their good points. We know white men who have
remained on the stump that long without a chain.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. JONSON, Pitman's Certificated Teaciicr.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
BE RTS ON’S WHISKY.
£2OO PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIE
as follows:
16 of 45 each, 25 42, and 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, i\.3hhjT
JSx CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
There is no doubt that the medical pro"
fession are beginning to think seriously of Brown,
Sequard’s so-called life-elixir. Dr. Crevelli, o 1
Melbourne (son-in-law, by the way, of the well’
known local French physician, Dr. Duret) claims
to have effected a marvellous improvement in the
condition of some very debilitated patients by
injecting into their veins guinea-pig juice d la
Brown-Sequard. It only remains for Dr. Crevelli
to let us know in how many cases, if any, he has
failed, so that we may form an idea of whether
he has been monkeying with that wide-spread
hypochondriacal class whoc'an be temporarily cured
or permanently poisoned by the administration of a
bread-pill. It’s likely enough that the ultimate
residuals of the virility of a guinea-pig may when
injected into the veins of a human being prove a
strong stimulant, just as it is certain that there
are many other things which, when hypodermi-
cally applied, are strong stimulants or narcotics as
the case may be. Pending further developments,
however, most people will be inclined to regard
the matter cynically from the standpoint of the
New Yoke Sun: —
A Melbourne publican was fined last week
for providing a customer named Lyon with drinks
on a Sunday—in fact, he beered the Lyon in his
den.
Trenwith, M.P. for Richmond (Vic.), fell
into the Yarra the other day, and a local paper
says he was quite out of wind when he reached
the bank. Out of wind, eh ? then Billy was out of
his element.
Now that Landells has been hanged for
the shoooting of Sherlock, attention may be drawn
to a circumstance attending his arrest which may
have escaped notice at the time. After the two
detectives had made up their minds to arrest the
suspected man, they seem to have hesitated when
face to face with him until a neat little dodge
saved them any further Said one to the
other, as if in casual conversation ; “ And yet it
may have been an accident. ” Landells jumped
at the chance. “I congratulate you on your
astuteness, sergeant, it teas an accident,” said he.
And then the detectives started out to prove that
it was not an accident.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—ln ancient times, if
one man unjustly deprived another of his liberty he was
considered worthy of death, but in these days of boasted
liberty and civilisation a policeman can not only arrest an
innocent man, defame his character, injure his prospects,
and neglect to look after his property while he is incar-
cerated—but, after all, be protected in such a manner
that it is questionable whether his victim has any re-
dress 01* not. My case is a striking illustration of this.
I was arrested on suspicion of being identical with
a person, who some jjtime ago, at Tamworth and
Armidale, sold spurious gold. I was taken to Tamworth
in leg-irons (although I asked the P.M., Mr. Lawson, to
allow me to travel without irons as I was an innocent
man) ; not identified there, I was taken to Armidale and
then discharged, for I bore not the slightest resemblance
to the man required. On my way back to Bingera, I was
i - e-arrested on suspicion of being another person wanted
in Queensland, and was remanded for seven days to Tam-
worth gaol till the Queensland police came, when it was
found that I was the wrong man. Now, sir, the public
are not so gullible as to believe that I resemble every
criminal that is is wanted. And I think it is high time
for the power of the police to be curtailed, and that the
police were in some measure made responsible for false
arrests. Are there no philanthopists on the Press to take
up my case? When I returned to Bingera I found that
my mining-tools had been stolen—that the bread had
been taken out of my mouth. My credit was lost and I
was looked upon with suspicion by the Bingera people.
I had to leave there, and the first station I applied to for
work it was refused me on the grounds that I was a sus-
picious person and had been in the hands of the police.
This is how criminals are manufactured. My brother
committed suicide : it is enough to make me do the same.
And this has been brought about by the mistake of a
police-sergeant. A double arrest. I ask again have Ino
redress?—Yours truly, William Binshett, Inverell Post-
office.
TO A CELEBRATED PHYSIOLOGIST
ò
The New South Wales Art Society’s
Exhibition.
Art in Australia is slowly settling down to
Australian art. It is gradually being discovered
by the artists resident in Australia that competi-
tion against European artists in a semi-European
community—in which all the art-sentiment is
purely associative in the European section and
almost nil in the native—is hopeless. The ipse
dixit of local Fashion, maugre other considera-
tions, will always veer in the direction of work
produced by English and continental artists of
assured standing rather than in the direction of
work treating similar subjects by Australian
artists of unknown though possible merit. The
trustees of the N.S.W. National Gallery, when
purchasing works of local men, will naturally
endeavour to procure something illustrative of
national history and local development. Hence
Australian artists, who are just beginning to re-
cognise this fact, force themselves to the treat-
ment of Australian subjects, seeing that any
other course would mean a supply to an over-
stocked market. Unfortunately, however, the
attempt to fulfil the imposed conditions does
not always spring con amove Rom the_ artist’s
own nature, nor from his national aspirations,
hence the historical picture of the day is of a per-
functory and official character, and not of a
genuinely national one. This is well seen in Mr.
Arthur Collingridge’s “ Discovery of the Hawkes-
bury River by Captain Hunter, A.D., 1789” —
(which is certainly more of a landscape than an
BEASTLY AWKWAED.
MASHER (abstractedly) : “CONFOUND IT ! I CAN’T, FOR THE LIFE OF ME,
RECOLLECT WHETHER I WAS TO MEET MARGARET IN ELIZABETH-
STREET OR ELIZABETH IN MARGARET-STREET.”
historical picture)—in which the “history is
purely a matter of costume and depends absolutely
upon the red coat of a marine standing in the
bows of an old-time boat and the cooked-hats of
sundry naval officers of a past age. Suppress the
details of official uniform and the historical preg-
nancy of the picture is nil. The deeds of Aus-
tralia’s heroes, her pioneers and explorers, her
Kennedys and her Flinderses, are unknown to the
art of Australia of to-day,
# * *
Roughly and generally speaking, the ex-
hibition of this year is a tremendous step forward.
Specifically speaking, this year’s exhibition con-
tains, so far as typical Australian art is concerned,
no single picture of the merit of Frank Mahony’s
“ Chaff-cutting ” of the last exhibition. The
only attempt at vivid representation of Australian
life, the same artist’s picture of “ Rounding up a
Straggler,” is disappointing. It contains elements
of strength and greatness, undoubtedly, but it
does not suggest the force and vim we are justified
in expecting*. Rather is the sweat and dust and
smiting glare of the sun discounted and amelior-
ated to the gentle susceptibilities of the drawing-
room and the vigour and rush of nomadic life at-
tuned to the dilettante appreciation of the city-
bred man of fashion. The rough naturalness of
Mr. Mahony’s work seems to have been subjected
to the softening influences of afternoon artistic
tea and to have been breathed, upon by the deli-
cate culture of aesthetic symposia.
The first picture of this year’s exhibition is,
however, not a picture of Australian pioneer life.
It is a portrait by an artist of his mother. In the
daily press of the past week we have been told
time and again that Mr. Rignold is the very UP®
of what we can conceive as the head and front of
sovereignty and majestic regality. To anybody
who believes this, the remark that Mr. Waltons
portrait of his mother is a splendid conception of
calm grandeur and serene majesty, will be incom-
prehensible. But, natheless, his picture is one
that would hang, by virtue of its own strength
and beauty, side by side with any of the great,
productions of any of the artists of Europe.
For ambitiousness in attempt and truth in con-
ception, Mr. Geo. R. Ashton’s “ Toil and I rouble
—(already noticed by The Bulletin as an exhibit
at the recent Melbourne Art Exhibition) takes a
first place in the present collection. He may not
have achieved all, or even a tithe, of what he at-
tempted, but there is more merit in failing nobly
than in succeeding meanly; and, after all, Mr.
Geo. Ashton has not failed.
One artist has painted a picture, vivid in its
intense realism, of an Australian landscape.
Mr. G. A. Thomas’s “Overlooking Port Hack-
ing River, National Park,” is one of the strongest
Australian landscapes exhibited. Despite the
unnaturalness of some details of colour, it has
all the brightness, all the harshness, all the
spectral unfeelingness of a sun-smitten ridge
scorched by the lucid fierceness _ of an Aus-
tralian summer sky. The vegetation, the rock
forms, the tone of blinding gray and glare belongs
only to one land on the earth, and that land is
ours. Mr. Thomas has achieved a veritable
Australian landscape, the strength and realism of
which atone for its oruedites.
Mr. Julian Ashton has contributed some ex-
panses of canvas which are rather studies in form
and colour than expressions of ideas. The most
meritorious of his large pictures is a portrait of
Sir Henry Parkes, in which the old man is faith-
fully limned—so faithfully that Sir Henry’s best
friends or worst enemies could wish no worse. In
his picture Mr. Ashton has represented Sir Henry
as he is, and not as he is generally and ideally
represented. This picture is graphically represen-
tative of the old fox looking from his hole at the
passing huntsmen. Sir Henry’s life will be illumin-
ated to the posterity that preserves his picture.
“ Spring,” by the same artist, is a piece of idealism
of a sylph-like young lady in aesthetic tints, with
an absence of bustle, so bountifully compensated in
another direction by an abundance of fleecy bust-
decoration that a strong suggestion of transfer is
made. This artist’s “Prospector” represents, in a
life-sized study, a studio-digger in a studio pose,
looking amateurishly for something more or less
problematical in a gold-dish. In this picture Mr.
J, Ashton has taken a special case and treated it
as though it were typical; now, as a matter of
fact, a man is not necessarily short-sighted because
he is a gold-prospector, nor does he squint ghoul-
ishly at tin-dishes because he wears leather-
gaiters.
Mr. Nerli is best represented by a fine, dashing
study of a girl’s head, distinguished as No. 80.
The same artist’s picture of “ The Sitting ” has n</
earthly interest to anybody but an artist con
cerned with questions of technique. _ It is simplj
an elaborate piece of work representing a noting
in colour as exemplified in the treatment of
textures. “ Coogee Bay,” also by Mr. Nerli, is
not the Coogee Bay of actuality so much as an
artistic vision of how Coogee Bay would look were
it transferred to Southern Italy. “Study of a
Head,” by Miss Mabel Jones, Signor Nerli’s pupil,
proclaims eloquently that this artist’s mode of
teaching seems to inspire so much genuine enthu-
siasm that his minutest characteristics appear to
be caught and echoed with a fidelity which is sim-
ply marvellous.
Mr. Lionel Cowen paints one picture of merit,
the “ London Soup-kitchen.” It is solid, care-
ful work; just such work as a man would
paint who had dined comfortably and then
looked out on hunger through a loop-hole in the
wall of a happy life. Mr. Cowen has another
picture, one of a well-costumed lady taking after-
noon tea in a luxurious southern-clime verandah.
This seems more to his liking. His portraits are
non-sympathetic, and his little studies of Eastern
life—in fact, all his work—display a strong vein of
Orientalism mingled with nineteenth-century
materialism. With the exception of the “ London
Soup-kitchen,” one is oppressed with a “sound-
the-loud-timbrel ” sort of sentiment in his work.
Mr. Julian Ashton has a small “Study” in oil
of a dainty, dreamy little maiden, which is delicate
and poetic, and which, in the writer’s more or less
humble opinion, is worth the “Portrait of Parkes,”
the allegory of “ Spring ” and the “ studiogory ” of
the “ Prospector ” all put together.
Percy F. S. Spence’s “Ploughman homeward
plods his weary way” is badly named. Mr.
Spence’s Ploughman isn’t weary and he doesn’t
plod. Such a man could not possibly have been at
work for the fifteen or sixteen hours of an Austra-
lian ploughman’s working-day. The picture, is,
however, very earnestly and patiently painted, the
sentiment is local, the horses are real live horses,
the tone subduedly pensive and harmonious.
Mr. Eullwood should not give his best picture a
couplet by way of name. It would be better
simply to call it No. 84 than to pluck this from
Kendall: —
And daylight droops with dying head
Beyond the western dingle.
Besides this picture, Mr. Eullwood essays Aus-
tralian depictment with a study of “Sheoaks,” or
beef-wood trees —the cypress of the bush—and a
“ Farmer’s Homestead but Mr. Eullwood is not
yet an Australian.
Mr. W. C. Piguenit contributes some fine, care-
ful, conscientious work: “Among the Western
Islands of Tasmania,” “The Upper Nepean,”
“ Lane Cove River,” and “ The Huon, Tasmania.”
All these are uniformly excellent —too uniformly
excellent, perhaps. Mr. Piguenit is, mayhap, too
careful, and the minuteness with which he works
on the crest of a mammoth ridge or a giant pro-
montory produce the feeling of steel-plate
engraving. Nevertheless, his care is a virtue all
too rare, even if it be a virtue in excess.
Mr. Hunt’s ambitious “ Australian Idyll, A.D.
3000,” is not Australian, and the mock-luscious-
looking “Lorelei” of Mrs. Mary Stoddard is
admirably drawn and carefully painted.
R. Godfrey Rivers snatches “A Street, Old
Sydney,” from the mutabilities of time. Mr.
Lister Lister has a fine reminiscence of England in
“On the Darenth, Kent.” Mr. A. Steffani, Mr.
A. J. Daplyn, and Mr. R. Atkinson send good
examples to this year’s exhibition of seascapes and
rural scenes, characterised by care and brooding
conscientiousness.
Mr. Arthur Collingridge is not at his best in his
most ambitious pictures. “On the Darling,” a
small, hot picture of a fervid Australian episode,
is worth many Captain Hunters discovering as
many Hawkesburys as there may be in Tophet
and out of it.
Amongst the water-colour exhibitors that bold
colourist, H. S. Hopwood, stands first and supreme.
“Dinner in the Eo’castle,” as a piece of strong
realism, is one of the best things in the entire
exhibition. He contributes a number of sea-life
sketches, all of them smacking right heartily of
salt water, abounding in crispness, clearness, bril-
liancy, strength, and truth to nature.
Mr. Mather, the water-colour sketcher, whose
out-of-door work always speaks loudly of out-of-
door execution, sends “ Kent-Street, Sydney,”
“Breezy Day at Coogee,” “Pinchgut,” “Wat-
son’s Bay,” “Middle Harbour,” “Low Tide,
Coogee,” “Bondi,” “Lagoon, Manly,” “Moss-
man’s Bay,” “ South Head,” “ Bit of Old
Sydney,” and others. There is in all Mr. Mather’s
work a freshness and breadth that make even the
slightest efforts of his brush artistically pleasing
and satisfying. He is an artist in whom the sen-
timent of natural scenery and out-of-door life is
caught and reflected with an added human senti-
ment which is difficult to explain as existing in
mere representations of so-called inanimate nature
—only it’s there ; there is no doubt about that.
On the whole, the Exhibition is a credit to the
country, and the artists are deserving of the sin-
cerest congratulations. The trustees of the
National Gallery;, too, probably by sheer good
luck, possibly with the aid of the indefatigable
Mr. Julian R. Ashton, the President of the Art
Society, and also a National Gallery trustee,
have managed to secure the best examples of this
year’s work.


In advertising a certain pamphlet of his,
which he says is “ a regular eye-opener,” agnostic
Symes says , ■ -
“This is how the Australian Christian World com-
mends my pamphlet: ‘ Surpasses in blasphemy and
obscenity anything we have seen or heard. We could
hardly have imagined it possible for a human being to
sink low enough to write it.’ ”
This is excellent satire.
Amusements.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garber and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS t
of
Miss tJennie Lee
as
“.aro.” “ “jro.”
Admission—ss., Bs., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
|£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Gep. Righold.
HOors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS Op
Henry V. Henry "V.
HENRY V.-RIGNOLH.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P, Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
Every Evening at 8 - MR. SNAZELLE.
“ An Incomparable Performance-” London Times.
MB. SNAZELLE, A TRIUMPH.
Mr. James MacMahon has the honor to announce the
Complete Success of the famous Mr. Snazelle (specially
engaged in Europe, together with the whole of his
entourage, by Mr. F. E. Hiscoke) and who will present
nightly his Unique, beautiful and fascinating entertain-
ment, ■
MUSIC, MIRTH, SONG AND STORY.
Incidental to which will he exhibited a series of marvel-
lous pictures by an entirely new, scientific process,' which
have proved a revelation to the Sydney public. This
department will be under the d rection of Professor
Hnddlestoneand staff, who have accompanied Mr. Snazelle
from England.
PRICES .-is., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co.’s Music Warehouse.
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
CYCLORAMA.
Opposite Redfern Station
CYCLORAMA. ->
Grandest Exhibition ever shown in Sydney.
CYCLORAMA.
Open Daily 10 to 10.
CYCLORAMA. ‘ '
Admission, 25.; Children, Is/
SPECIAL—SUNDAY NEXT.
3to 10. Half-Price.,
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
Q, RAND FAREWELL
TO
Major 30 .A. UNTIE,
The Brilliant Orator, • ■ v
Prior to his departure for Europe to Lecture on Aus-
' ' ' - ' tralasia.
TUESDAY NEXT, 29tii OCTOBER,
Centenary Hall, York-streef, Sydney.
X
When will be given, by request of about 70 leading citizens,
a Lecture, entitled,
“ Impassions of Australia,”
• *sS
Seats may-be reserved for the Area dr. First Gallery, 35.,
and Tickets secured for Second Gallery,'-At, at Messrs.
Paling’s Music Warehouse.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
—THE. MELBOURNE LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Ms rvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
NO END OF LAUGHTERI
Popular Prices. Popular Prices.
JO W N HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being .completer!, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use’ of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly ’illuminated with 100 IG-c.p. . Electric
Lights, which Can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will. - J1 - i '
Terms'Tni application to ’ j
W. IVI. BARKER, ■
Town Clerk.’
Q RITE RI O N THEA T R E.
Sole Proprietor Mr, John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager ... , Mr. Mayne.’
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.5 b. Carriages, 10.40.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
. of . , , ;
THE PICKPOCKET.
The play produced under the personal super-"
vision of Dion Boucicault, Jun. ,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20,
Kerry and Our Boys.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
MR. W. D. WOODHILL is authorised to
canvass and act for The Bulletin News-
paper Co., Limited.
Amusements.
JJ O N D I AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is,; Children, (id. Trams Io Gate—Fare, Id.
BJI HEATRE ROYAL, GRAFTON,
Seating Capacity, (900) Nine Hundred,
OWEN HYNES PROPRIETOR,
Having been renovated throughout,
IS NOW OPEN EOR ENGAGEMENT.
Apply S. LYONS,
Agent, Grafton.
T\ ARLIN GHURST HALL,
- ■ ■ « ■ (Late Skating Rink),
FORBES AND BURTON STREETS,
Important Notice to Australian Mothers!
Mr. John Solomon, the well-known entrepeneur,
has decided to hold a
Grand Australian Baby Show
——o
“The dear old cradle rocked us all.”
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24,
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26,
<£300
,£3OO
Ian. Frizes!
THE CHAMPION PRIZE, £100
Will be decided by the Public, everyone paying
_ for ad mis. ion having a vote.
The other Prizes, awarded as follow, will be
dee ded by a Committee of Medical Gen demen ;—
Class A. —Baby Girls from 3 to-6 months.
Class B. —Baby Girls from 6 to 12 months.
Class C. —Baby Girls from 12 to 18 months.
C ass D. —Baby Girls from 18 to 24 m nths.
Class E. —Baby Boys from 3 to 6 months.
Class F. —Baby Boys from 6 to 12 months.
Class G. —Baby Boys from 12>to 18 month*.
Class H. —Baby Boys from 18 to 24 months.
First Prize in each class, 410.
Second Prize in each class £5.
Third Prize in each class, £310s,
PRIZE OF £25 FOR TWINS.
SPECIAL PRIZE FOR TRIPLETS
SPECIAL AND VALUABLE PRIZES
Have also been generously given by Mf ssrs.
Lasseter and Co., Messrs. Hordern Brothers (Pitt-
st.), Messrs. Beale and Co., Mess.s. Tuttle and
Go. (George-st.), Messrs. Packman and Son, Park
st. ; and other leading firms. These will be
awarded to unsuccessful competitors in the differ-
ent Classes.
o
“A nation’s future lies in the cradles
of its children.”
Admission, Is: Children Half-Price
Parents are especially directed to the fact that
Mr. JOHN SOLOMON promoted and will per-
sonally direct this vast enterprise.
W A
Miscellaneous.
N T E D,
SMART AND ACTIVE
RESIDEKIT A.GE3XTTS
In Country Districts for our
Immensely and World-renowned Publications.
No Capital Required.
£,10 WEEKLY GUARANTEED
To Energetic Agents during Christmas Season.
Apply at once, MANAGER,
P.O. Box 570, Sydney, N.S.W.
R \ iv//
v •' Photographic ,
\ \ WwsM^POFffVMTS
WSMW,' SS.J5UXD5
Henry George’s Visit to Australia.
ALL FRIENDS of the SINGLE-TAX Move-
ment desirous of promoting the success of
the HENRY GEORGE CAMPAIGN through-
out the Colony are requested to Communicate
with the'under,signed, from whom all information
may be obtained.
W. E. JOHNSON, Secretary.
Henry George Campaign Executive,
169 Phillip street, Sydney.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
VV/V^
V
41s CEORCE St
C. T. BURFITT,
Resent
CITY PROPERTIES—Returning over 5 per
cent.
FARMS —On Easy Terms.
SUBDIVISION BLOCKS OF LAND - Some
first-class values.
ALLOTMENTS on Easy Terms of Payment—
from 5s. per month.
Particulars forwarded on receipt of address.
Shipping.
D
IREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
O* T 3
S 3
q; oj
Arcadia . . 6302 W. B. Andrews |Noy; 9 [Nov, IS NovlB
Rome .. 5011 A. W. Adamson Nov. 23 Nov. 29 Deo. 2
Britannia 6257 G. N. Hector ..'Dec. 7 Dec. 13 Dec 16
Carthage ~ 5011 C. E. Baker .. Dec. 21 Deo, 27 Dec 30
Victoria .. '626S J. F. Cates ..Jan. 4 Jan. 10 Jan 13
And henceforth every alternate Week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
terms:
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed. • •>■-- ,
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
traliah and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates.
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accdm-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. —Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London. t
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s. ‘
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES. . . .
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Aoents,
* 5 O’Gonnell-street.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under: —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with' a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisoo or. through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH PARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .'. .. £63 to £O6.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in'the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Furniture, &c.
Jf ewto n an d l a mb'.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MAN 11 FA CTU RER S.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS
T?!ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE-
I BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CllAJßs’
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS’
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
< ELF-AD JUSTING lIA MMOCK Cl! A 11;,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305,; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. fid. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
. Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
o
w
ALNUT TALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles fortheLibrary
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
o
DBA W 1 N ( i-R 00 M
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PI ANOFORTES by R. LIPP and BOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUEELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ò
TJ ED STEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass, Great variety.
Bedding. —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton <fe Lamb.
ó
SP R I N Gr MA T-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring’. '
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13. (id. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27.5. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 40s. ; Wardrobes,, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, . from
10 s. (id. ; Writing .Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
7l ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
VJ Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
p ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
ill 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
(kb. etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
o,’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UP IIOLSTERERS
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :


o
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY
SUB -AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALAS IA
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kildai, Victoria.
Within Fire Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MKS. KONG MUNO ... Proprietress.
m
S
o
c
m
m
i
tftSOAP
10
ARTICLES FOR THE TOILET,
used by refined people, must have a reputation for
purity. Colgate and Co. have won 30 first awards.
If you try Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet Soap you
will understand what for.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND DEALERS
. IN TOILET REQUISITES.
Settling Down in Life.
It would be well for every man who is about to
enter into the holy bonds of matrimony to consider
that happiness in the married, as in every other
state, is largely dependent on conditions and
environments. Thus, the young man who takes a
young wife from a comfortable home to plunge
her into the frowsiness of furnished apartments,
or the squalor of a three-roomed cot, need feel no
surprise should the union prove unfortunate.
Indeed he may consider himself lucky if his
matrimonial jars do not overstep the “cat and
dog ” stage into the precincts of the DIVORCE
GOURi, with its “shocking details ” and its un-
desirable publicity. The reader inclined to jump
at conclusions may imagine that this article is an
elongation of Punch’s immortal and immoral
advice to those about to marry—“ Don’t! ”On the
contrary, its intention is to recommend early
marriages, especially under favorable conditions.
“But,” says the ardent and impecunious lover,
“my earnings are so small that my condition can
never be other than hopeless. It’s no use waiting
for the bettering of fortune; let us marry while
we’re young and life is enjoyable—
True Love Will Smooth Every Obstacle.”
This is sheer foolishness. In the first place, no
LIVE man would WAIT for fortune. The brave,
energetic man goes forth determined to CONQUER
fortune, and rarely fails. It’s only your apathetic
humbug that sits down to wait for good luck’s
corning. Then it is no doubt true that “love
conquers all. ” But the beggar won’t stay to fight
the matter out; he almost invariably takes wing
before the squalor of poverty and the smashing of
M v IRIMONIAL JARS. Therefore, the im-
pecunious lover who would wad early, and, per-
chance, often, must take steps to grapple fortune,
if need be in the very lion’s den. It being admitted
that a comfortable home is essential to the main-
tenance of
Tho Joys of Wedlock,
while the eager but penniless lover admits that he
has not the cash to purchase one, let us show him
how to obtain one by the exercise of a little self-
denial. The system of purchase that exactly
meets his case is clearly that of deferred payments.
The difficulty having been clearly stated, the
writer has now only to explain the means proposed
for its removal. Distance, six miles as the crow
flies from Sydney, in the immediate neighbourhood
of that flourishing suburb, Burwood, and within a
stone’s throw of one of the stations on the about-
to-be-constructed loop-line to Liverpool, lies a
magnificent estate, recently styled
Harcourt.
Two hundred acres of rich, black soil, gently
sloping down towards Cook’s River, high and well
drained naturally, thoroughly cleared of timber,
h ive been cut up into block for sale by a system of
easy, deferred payments. The property has been
intersected by carefully kerbed and metalled roads
of 99ft. and (Jfift. in width, bordered by dry and
wide footpaths and lined on either side by um-
brageous trees of endless variety. The scenery is
varied; the prospect pleasing. All round stand
the mighty trees of the Australian forest, while
the ozone-laden air is as pure as any that may be
breathed on the continent.
For the comparatively-speaking insignificant
sum of one poand seven shillings and sixpence per
month you can, after payment of the first instal-
ment, take Immediate Possession of your pro
party. You can at once proceed to fence, build,
and cultivate. Nor will you, as in all new
suburbs, meet with many inconveniences. More-
over, the ground of this aptly-named Model
Suburb is not only naturally well-drained,
but everything has been done for the carry-
ing away of storm-water that experience could
suggest. Furthermore, in order to stimulate
buyers to early settlement, the sum of £10,090
sterling (ten thousand pounds) will be divided
among the first settlers, apportioned in accordance
with the date of erection and the value of build-
ings. Not only will Building Bonuses be dis-
tributed, but punctual payers will participate in
the sum of Three Thousand Pounds (£3000), which
will be distributed during the first three-and-a-half
years after purchase. Nor is this all. It is in-
tended to furnish the residents with good street-
lighting by means of electricity, thus setting an
example to the neighbouring boroughs of Burwood,
Ashfield, and Croydon, which they would do well
to follow. Here it may be remarked that ttie
scenery in the neighbourhood is beautiful, the
walks many and varied, while good fishing is to be
i ad in the waters of Cook’s River, which borders
the Estate. Then, in purchase by this system, there
need be no fear of forfeiture. For should anything
prevent punctual payment, on application to the
vendors, the owner will be allowed a period of
Three Months Grace in which to regain his
pecuniary equilibrium. From this system the ex-
tortion of interest on balance due has been wholly
eliminated. There are many other advantages
appended to the purchase of Harcourt Estate
hat cannot here be detailed. Intending buyers
will be given Free Railway Inspection Passes,
escriptive pamphlets, tables of terms, plans and
maps, on application at the Company’s offices,
whde the Burwood agent will drive them over the
estate and make everything clear to them. The
address of the Vendors is Phillips & Co., Austral
ankmg and Land Proprietary Co., Carrington
ambers, No. (i Oastlereagh-street, Sydney.
How did I win my fortune? I didn’t. Yet that
sounds queer
Consid’ring I’m worth, I take it, a million or so a
year,
But that bit of horseflesh yonder, in the paddock
thereaway,
Was the means of gaining a trifle to spare for a
rainy day.
He s not much to look at now, sirs, but forty year
r ago
There wasn’t a nag could touch him. Yes, he’s
the great Flyblow—•
Lord love his bony carcase—l had him since he
was a pup,
And one day, all of a sudden, I entered him for
the Cup—
The Melbourne, you understand, sir, where people
near and far
1 lock to amass a fortune, or else for a nasty jar.
Eh? What about Flyblow’s breeding? I Tatter
myself that he’s
By gallant old Window Shutter out of good old
Bread and Cheese.
He just passed under the standard at nineteen
three, that’s true,
And tho’ only a bit of a pony a mile a minute he’d
do.
Without fear of contradiction I’ll wager a five-
pound note
That he was the finest nag, sir, that ever sat in a
boat!
The betting grew fast and furious ; the owner of
Coffee Grounds
Stepped into Tatt. ’s and backed him to win him
some fifteen pounds ;
I’d half a mind to scratch mine, for I didn’t see
the fun
Of taking the odds they offered—a paltry million
to one.
I wanted to win a fortune, for with Flyblow you'll
conceive
Properly saddled and bridled I’d got a hit up my
sleeve.
Well, I took the odds to a fiver —aye, those, were
the times to plunge,
The money flew like water absorbed by a greedy
sponge; "
And my plucky bet of a fiver in Tattersall’s that
night
Elevated old Flyblow to a red-hot favqurite.
The day came near and nearer, we thought we’d
give him a spin
Against our butcher’s pony—when Flyblow won
by a fin !
You think I’m gassing, maybe, sir, but ’pon my
word he did ;
That midnight trial convinced us, and on went
another quid!
Of course they tried to nobble him, they poisoned
him twice it’s true,
They broke his back in three, sir, but stamina
pulled him through,
lire day arrived-poor Flyblow, he looked quite
pale and wan
As he stood at scratch while giving ten yards to
the limit man.
But list I What s that awful whisper heard now
with bated breath ?
1 hey ve trained a Queensland mosquito to sting
my nag to death !
They’re off! The pistol’s fallen ! They're fleeter
than the wind;
Hurra ! Thank goodness, Flyblow is some forty
: lengths behind.
Keep in with the foaming current, clutch well the
bending oar,
He’s rounded the buoy in safety and hugs the.
Southern shore;
Away from the whirling eddies, the backwash, and
the swirl,
He’s got Bill Beach well beaten, now he goes after
Searle.
The bicycles fly like whirlwinds. What means
that roar? Now hark !
It means that Flyblow the half-back has gotten a
little mark.
Great horse ! great nag ! You little think, Oh, you
petty jealous minds,
Tha in a field of fourteen strong he’d kick thirteen
behinds.'
But that is so, the bird is grassed, the prize is
almost won— .. . . . ...
When Flyblow, sir, is on the job it’s best to back
the gun.
Five miles have just been traversed, and husband-
ing his strength,
Swimming a mighty side-stroke he leads by just a
length.
They strive in vain to pass him, they’re weaker
now than laths;
Ha, ha ! He’ll win the Championship of Mr.
Cavill’s baths.
You wicket-keeper wary be, and Turner mind
your twist.
That cannon’s rather difficult and eas’ly might be
missed ;
But Flyblow’s nerves are fine as steel, and icy-cool
his head,
And, cannoning off the marker, then he quietly
pots the red !
But, now again, a thunderous roar ; what means
that mighty shout ?
It means the nobbler’s on the job and let the
’squito out.
The insect pest, with deadly hum, now fastens on
his hide.
Ah, heaven ! the gallant animal now falters in his
stride ;
Will that pestiferous insect for Flyblow prove a
match ?
Ah, heaven ! alas, the maddened horse stops in
the race to scratch !
An anxious, shuddering moment. I hug the
whitened rails;
Six golden sovereigns, six ! Ah, me ! are trembling
in the scales.
But, in a moment, quick as thought, no signs of
coward fear,
I bound upon the course and thwack old Flyblow
in the rear.
A sudden start, a swift recall to Melbourne Cup
and duty,
A mild, reproachful look as if to murmur Et tu
brute,
And, like a whirlwind out at play, he’s almost first,
my man.
What say you? Flyblow in the cart? No, no;
he’s m the van.
The score is level now and stands at ninety-nine,
“love all
The umpire in one minute, sir, the dreaded “time ”
will call.
Hark to the eager populace, that wond’rous yell,
nay, howl,
As the captain stern, unyielding, puts Ferris on to
bowl !
They’re neck and neck, they’re head and head.
Dead heat. He can’t get up.
But the ball breaks into leg ! and that’s how Fly-
blow won the cup.
P.S. —There’s a kind of inward something suggests
r itself to me
That the foregoing isn’t as truthful as anecdotes
should be.
I’m not to blame tho’, am I ? If, significant and
sad,
The man who told the story was—can you guess
it in two times ? —mad !
GEO. LASH GORDON.
HOW FLYBLOW WON THE CUP.
(TO BE TAKEN CUM GRAND SALIS.)
First Dock-Striker: “Well, Bill, we’ve
had some nice holidays.” Second Decker (tighten-
ing his waist) : “ Yes, mate, but I don’t want any
more hollow-days like’em.”
A lady who lately married a widower
candidly stated to a mutual friend over a cup of
tea: “ I married him,” she said, “because I had
rheumatism badly, and this is a dry house.”
We have discovered a paper, the Johanes-
burg Standard, published in a Transvaal mining
town of less than three years’ standing, that
weighs one pound exactly. The Sydney Morning
Herald is fifteen times older and only weighs
three-quarters of a pound.
A Sydney clerical journal thus answers a
correspondent:—
We are afraid that wafer bread suitable for use in the
English Church cannot be obtained in Sydney. You had
better write to the sisterhood, London. Enclose remit-
tance at the rate of sixpence per thousand, and they will
be forwarded per parcels post.
Foreign-trade even in clerical “ properties ” ! Dear
old Hingland !
“ Father,” said the young son of Deacon
Squibbs, “ what is the difference between a man
who dyes wool on lambs and a Susquehanna
editor?” “ Well, now, really, my son,” beaming
benignly on his offspring, “ I am not prepared to
state. What is the difference ? ” “ Why, pa, one
is a lamb dyer and the other a” ““What I
what! my son!” “Susquehanna editor,” con-
tinued the youth, rolling his tongue around in his
cheek.— Oswego Record.
At Buenos Ayres lately a rich Spanish
banker gave a dinner to some friends, and Mr.
Bayless W. Hanna (now U.S. Minister to'the
Argentine Republic) was seated on the right of
the hostess. She inquired as to the health of
Mrs. Hanna, who was not present, and asked
how many children they had. Bayless, not under-
standing Spanish very well, thought she wanted
to know the age of Mrs. Hanna, and said, “ Forty-
eight, madam.” To his surprise the lady threw
up her hands and exclaimed, “ Gracias a Dio, que
yo no tengo esposo Americano !” which, being
translated, is, “ Thank God, I have not an Ameri-
can husband !”
Here, says a writer in an English Tory
paper, is a fact worth many calm discussions.
Next April Miss Joicey will receive two millions
ready money, besides succeeding to a great incolne.
The girl is not to blame for that; but what a
queer social note. Every farthing of that money,
and six other great fortunes besides, were made
out of coal, and coal alone, by one man in less
than forty years. He began as a clerk, and used
his luck. But observe what a chance f r the
Socialists! A coalie jumps from 12 to 16 times
down the yawning hold of a steamer, and that,
let me say, is no slouch of a gymnastic feat; he
shovels like a demon, and he gets one penny for
the lot. Now, how can we wonder if the most
Tory of us laugh when the coal-owners begin to
whine about ruin. Ido not grudge the innocent
girl her two millions, but that 16 jumps a penny
sticks in my gizzard.
( Mr. G-. B. Simpson, the N.S.W. Attorney-
General, was at one time—some 18 years ago— on
the District Court Bench and left it to resume
practice. He was outwitted and lost his first case
after his return to the Bar. It was‘thus. Two
medical practitioners were charged with adminis-
tering noxious drugs, with intent, to a certain
female. The intent succeeded and the regular
practitioner, who was called in to attend the girl,
gave information to the police, who arrested .them.
The two practitioners charged had acted inde-
pendently of each other and both were com-
mitted for trial. Edward Butler defended
one, and the attorney for the other, be-
lieving that a recently-retired District Court
Judge would have great weight with a jury, em-
ployed Mr, Simpson to defend the other. Butler’s
case was called on first, and with that “long
sight ” for which he was famous applied for a
postponement, as he was “ not ready.” No objec-
tion being made, his client was put back and Mr.
Simpson’s man put forward. Result: conviction
and eight years. Next morning Mr. “Ned”
Butler was “quite ready, yer ’Anner.” His
defence was that on the previous day a person who
was proved to have no connection with his client
was convicted of this particular offence, and it
was impossible his client could be guilty. Ver-
dict: acquittal. A neater case of “bluff” never
was heard of in our courts, and Mr. G. B. Simp-
son, Q. 0., admits it and tells the story against
himself.
A NEW REMEDY FOR IRISH DIFFI-
CULTIES.
A leading Dublin paper, having heard so much
said in both the Irish and English press in favour
of a wonderful oil, that they determined to inves-
tigate the matter themselves by personal inter-
view with people who had used it, in order to
learn whether or not one-half that was said of its
magical power was true, or whether it was one of
tho.e gigantic advertising schemes the magnitude
of which in these modern times fairly takes one’s
breath away. Their representative interviewed a
number of people in various parts of Ireland who
had been cured by the.application of the oil, and
in every instance he found that the published
statements were true and correct in every par-
ticular. Everywhere people were enthusiastic in
its praise,
A Captain of the Royal Irish Fusiliers, who
had suffered long from rheumatism and sprained
ankle, said; “The effect after three applications
of St. Jacobs oil was simply marvellous ; the pain
at once departed, and has never returned. ”
A prominent hotel proprietor, after suffering
years from rheumatic gout, said : “It would be
hard to conceive of anything working a cure so
rapidly as St. Jacobs oil did in my case.”
A sergeant of the Royal Irish Constabulary told
of a friend who had been a great sufferer for years
witli rheumatism in the back, suffering great pain ;
using two bottles of St. Jacobs oil the pain en-
tirely disappeared, and never returned.
A young woman in Ca tlebar told the reporter of
the almost miraculous cure which her mother,
aged 70 years, had experienced from using the in-
valuable St. Jacobs oil. She had been almost
helpless for two years from rheumatism, and was
completely cured by using less than one bottle of
the oil.
A prominent surgeon in Tipperary related the
case of a parish priest who had for a long time
suffered the most intense agony from sciatica,
completely cured in three days by rubbing himself
well with St. Jacob’s oil.
A very enthusiastic Irishman in Cort was met
with, shouting “Long live St. Jacob's oil.’’ He
had suffered the most intense rheumatic pains for
years, and was cured by using the contents of on?
bottle of the oil.
A cooper in Reale, County Kerry, Ireland,
related how his knee was twice its natural size,
stiff and painful, and he was unable to stand,
swelling and pain entire'y disappeared after using
St. Jao b’s oil one week.
An old gentleman in Hallow was cured in one
week after having commenced to use St. Jacob's
oil, of severe rheumatism of six years’ standing.
On returning to Dublin, the reporter called on
some of the leading chemists, for the purpose of
learning their views. Messrs. R. Simpson & Co.,
of U) Henry-street, the well-known chemists,
stated that St. Jacob’s oil was the most popular
remedy now being sold ; that it is no uncommon
thing for them to sell 1200 bottles of the oil in a
single week. That then- last order was for 000
dozen, or 1 200 bottles, and you can rest
said Mr. Simpson, the senior partner, that no
medicine would have this enormous sale unless it
possessed actual merit.
VE RY MUCH BETTER.
“ Oh, yes, I assure you, very much better! In
fact a far superior watch to the Waterbury in every
respect! They are of European manufacture,
and are specially made to our order for the Sydney
market. They will stand hard work and rough
usage better than any other cheap watch made,
and are particularly adapted for the bush by reason
of their being fitted with a patent non conducting
percussive backstay on the new dynamic theory of
salvation by results. You can swim a river or
climb a tree, attend one of Varley’s lectures to
men only, or join the new Royal Naval Reserve
under patronage of the Legislative Council for
the preservation of Imperialism with absolute im-
punity. We can highly recommend these watches,
and the-price is ”
“ Young man, spare me ! I have done you no
wrong. Yet this watch was sent up the bush to
me by a friend on the strength of your recommen'- :
dation. Look at it! ‘ Overwound ’ did you say ?
Well, perhaps so. But it resolved itself into the
state of utter disorganisation in which you now
see it, in the dead of night, when the household
was buried in slumber, without any provocation it
went off at half-cock and scattered consternation
through my humble dwelling. The dynamic
theory, you will observe, is an utter failure, as
the works can now be gathered in a teaspoon.
The percussion backstay is a fraud, for the.
wheels are made of tea-chest lead, and were un-
equal to the strain. Take it! Sell it to some
other idiot who wants a cheap Swiss watch to
gladden his home with, and bring me a Water-
bury. You are young ; it is not too late to amend.
Forbear while there is time. You are not com-
pelled to lie for a mere living. Keep the honest,
truthful, trustworthy Waterbury ever before you
as an example and cease to beguile the unwary
with these got-up-to-sell European imitations'.
There is but one low-priced watch which performs
the functions of a timekeeper—-that is, the Water*'
bury. And you know it.


Tobacco, etc.
“DEAD BIRD”
DUNLOP’S MASTERPIECE.
The Latest and Best Brand of American Tobacco
in the Market.
Are yon a Smoker with a weakness for a good
Tobacco and find it hard to get ?
Try “BEAD BIRD.”
Are yon a connoisseur and hard to please ?
What you want Is “ BEAD BIBB.”
You will pronounce it the best.
Then, Brethren, let ns smoke but only Dunlop s
BKST “ The “ BEAD BIRD.”
For it is good and pure.
Be sure and ask for Dunlop’s “ DEAD BIRD.
Manufactured only by
DAVID DUNLOP.
(Successors to D. B. Tennant & Co.)
Wholesale from QRAJG Sc AITKENi
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Wholesale Agents for
T. C. Williams' celebrated ‘‘ Golden Eagle.
“My Sweetheart” Cigarettes.
“Army and Navy” Tobacco and Cigarettes.
“Vulcan” Tobaccos and Pipes.
On Show.- An elaborate display of
“ V-V.” & Vulcan pipes
Fresh from the Paris Exhibition. •
—Manufactured from Dry. Old Briar Root—
ivhich never burns.
SHOPKEEPERS,
Before purchasing your
Silver Motmted Briars
—AND—
meerschaums
For Christmas, please call and inspect our
splendid stock of same specially imported for the
coming Christmas Season, which we are selling at
The Very Lowest Prices.
Hew South Wales Barbers’ Supply House,
The only House in the Trade where you can
obtain every possible requisite for the
HAIRDRESSING BUSINESS
from a Hairpin to an American Chair on the
lowest possible terms.
Estimates given for. Complete Saloon Outfits.
Competent men -engaged for Town
Country, or the adjoining Colonies, who are
thoroughly tried in onr .saloon before sending.
JfaiijcUppßiis Sliarpcnßtl anil Adjust t’U
Razors and Scissors Ground and Set
for the trade.
PRICE-LISTS ON APPLICATION.
Please note the Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barbers’ Supply House,
680 anh 682 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial I n vestment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings &Jp°-, of 410 Qeorge-street,! have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wme Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
" CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
"W OO L BROKE RS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, ckc.
O TIO ZtsTIE IE I=l S.
C3rH.-A-X3Sr SA-XjIE3S3^EIE!3Xr.
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Miargare* Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor Ivas devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality-CHRONIC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges model ate. H. J.
Speed M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and Yoik
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 am.;2 to 4 and 7to 8 pan. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
m
&
i*
°'CTu
TO YOUNG MEN.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
the directions contained in this little treatise will be
J- found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; andl if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nen ous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines willbe required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Clire Him-
self
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life-overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the-
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A \V Kill kin
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage. consultation by LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, a
signed agreement given, which provides that JNO UOoi
he incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
.
} I
%
rtl fcSrf
t :
If I 1
f 7 [I
*
s •»
*
««---=
8 BRIDCE ST I SYDNEY-
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
Ppopbietor.
H. THORPE
JONHS’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, tlie New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just lauding-.
Farlelgh, Nettlielm, & Co.,
TANNERS. AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Solo Agents for the above for NcwuSouth Wales awl Queensland,
(x)
T „ . . Ppnni , it P S for (lie LOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
mPOßTFD ‘leathers &c. ; and of the following Spkcial Likes: Peerless <Hoss. Satin Polish, Nubian
IMPORTED LEAH *Tanners’ Tools and Materials. 83T Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOW^
INC
n
RICHARDS
Drt
mil
r. 1
RATiUKJf
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
oyer FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice t
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind,
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
I BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
i hough you be perfectly well its general inform■
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
-ome poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write yon, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a Lst of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success All
communications should be addresse i
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street. North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE,
LOVE’S YOUNG DREAM.
She : “ When we are married, darling, what pet name shall I call you \
He : “ Call me Birdy, simply Birdy, that is all.” —Life.


Beale & Go’s New Warehouse.
■-
o
i'
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES :
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boyls tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of-all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge. , , ~ „
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem ahy width, make double seams
or fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,,
or carpets *, sew on trimmings -without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; ,you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small herds in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
' Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special word for husbands: When the day s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, 'the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences ? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become 5 - our own, earn-
ing ,or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post. /
Beale & Company,
482 A 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
o
XJS'E
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
M‘Nab’s G-alley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
GALLEY.
JRAMO
FINE OLD HICHLANO
V ' /Hl , S NAß‘' tf
V
F
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“ SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORAL! STS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
3
J
SYDNEY:
318 GEOEGE STKEET.
BRISBANE:
9 ELIZABETH STREET.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
i IMPORTERS
'«r •» Y;
W
t
A?
It®- 1 SEND I'OR" OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED .CATALOGUE *s*
■ • • , —OF— 4l
CAMERAS; LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all-Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
CHEAP AMATEUR OUTFITS.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
SHEET CLASS,
(P
V
O'*
cn
MERCHANTS)
PA/yJ,
n
U
&
€
3#
?0
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
u years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
IF^ESIRm,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
„ it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! £lO
Ten Pounds, Ten Pounds.
large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
. dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment £o., Limited,
'-■% BATHURST - STREET, SYDNEY.
■ W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
mk
9?-
«v
THE TREE OF LIFE.
EII CALYPTE. O ILSa.
Victory Qbnth^ntq
The only pure Eucalypte In the World. ,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubile®
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also; for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. • Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware op Imitations.'
im
o
ò
ò


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED'ONLY <BY
James Inglia & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Plage, SYDNEY.
BOOKS for COUNTRY READERS
—AT—
-208. for TWELVE MONTHS.
40,000 VOLUMES TO CHOOSE FROM.
The large LENDING LIBRARY (40,000 volumes) of the
Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arls
is now available to Residents in Country Towns adjacent
to any Railway Station, to which books can be sent under
Specially Reduced Rate's.
A large Catalogue, of 850 pages, giving titles, authors,
and dates of publication of all the books available, will bo
forwarded to any address, post free, for 21 penny stamps.
Full particulars as to Subscription and method of ex-
changing books,- etc.,- will.be sent on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope, enclosed to the Secretary, Sydney
Mechanics’ School of Arts, 275 Pitt-street, Sydney.
CYRIL HAVILAND, Secretary.
E
I
ci
O
u
Scents .
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
Barrack Street.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 22, 188!).
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be reeei vcd
at this office.
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
seum.
Additions, Court House, Gosford
Wharf, Brushgrove, Clarence River
Pipelaying, No. 64, North Shore
Water-Supply Pott’s-hill to Ryde
Pumping Station
Bridge, Laybury Creek, Wiseman's
Ferry to Singleton’s Mill
Bridge, Doctor’s Gully, at Merriwa
(fresh tenders)
Closing in Shed at South Eastern
Side, Circular Quay
Conveyance of Coal. Wollongong
to Shoal ha ven River; 1890
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to
Nambacora River, 1890
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to
Bellinger River, 1890
Bridge, Crookhaven Creek, road
Jervis Bay to Green will Point
Richmond Bridge, Timber for re-
decking
Colonial Architect: —Annual Con-
tracts, 1890 —(deposit of £lO re-
quired with tender for each ser-
vice) —
Masons’ and Paviors’ Work
Carpenters’ Work
Bricklayers’ Work
Slaters’ Work
Plasterers’ Work
Painters’and Glaziers’Work
Blacksmiths’ Work
Plumbers’ Work
Ironmongery, Supply of
Building Stone, Sydney Gaol
Supply of
Building Stone, Parramatta
Gaol, Supply of
Building Stone, Maitland Gaol,
Supply of
Sweeping Chimneys, Public
Buildings, in Police District
of Sydney
Coffins, Police District of Syd-
ney, &c., Supply of
Winding, &c., Clocks, Public
Buildings, Sydney
Furniture, Supply of
Chairs, Supply of
Carpets, Supply of
Blinds, supply of
Contract 52, Sydney Sewerage
(fresh tenders)
Bridge, Smith’s Rivulet, at Mer-
riwa
Bridge, Sandy Creek, road Booral
to Bulladelah
Harbours and Rivers Annual
Contracts, 1890 (fresh tenders) ;
£5 deposit required for each con-
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
tract —
Supply of Anchors and Chains
Supply of Oils, Paints, &c.
Supply of Shipchandlery
(Hunter River Dist.)
Conveyance of Coal, Wollon-
gong to Shoalhaven
Ditto ditto, Newcastle to Nam-
buccra
Ditto ditto, ditto to Bellinger
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Ditto ditto ditto, Erection, Con-
tract No. 2
Bridge, over Box Creek, Road
Balranald to Ivanhoe
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Warialda
Bridge, Jiggi Creek, road Lismore
to Jiggi
Bridge, Fairfield Creek, road Gun-
daroo to Yass
Concrete Lining, &c., Potts Hill
Reservoir
Bridge, Hunter River at Hills-
borough
Removal of Rock at end of Wharf,
Oundletown, Manning River
Broken-hill Gaol, Erection of
Broken-hill Post and Telegraph
Office, Erection
Court-house, Junee, Erection of
Cqraki Post and Telegraph Office
Bridge, Warrego River at Gum-j
bali,froad Bourke to Wandamig 1
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday
Dec. 4,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
The Referee
Last Saturday’s race at Caulfield has had
no appreciable effect upon the Melbourne Cup
betting except, perhaps, to bring Bravo into
slightly better favour. The Ballarat horse, if he
keeps well, is bound to finish in the first six for
the Cup, but the general form will have to be con-
siderably below last year’s if Bravo is to win
absolutely. He was in prime condition at Caul-
field, had the advantage of a first-class jockey in
the saddle, and yet couldn’t travel fast enough on
the pinch to catch such moderate animals as Boz
and The Charmer. Evidently Bravo, third in two
successive Caulfield Cups, hasn’t improved a
pound during the past 12 months. Man ton, the
handsomest horse in the field on Saturday, ran
very moderately. This may be the “ rod in pickle”
talked about, but he is too muscular at pre-
sent, and can hardly win the Cup a fortnight
hence. Silverton wasn’t backed for the Caulfield
event, but although the dark ’uns-defeat may not
be anything against his Flemington chance, it is
noticeable that he is dropping back in the market
since the turf world has had a fair look at him. It
is hard to believe that Antaeus can be sufficient of
a “nailer ” to win the Melbourne Cup with 7st.
31bs., and we think his position in the betting is
bogus. Tradition’s friends don’t appear to be
supporting the sensational second of last year, but
Benzon is a very genuine candidate. Never-
theless there is no evidence that this black
brother to Plunger is a real first-class horse.
Melos and a whole crowd of horses whose
names have not been so much as whispered at
street corners, ought to be held safe by the great
Carbine. To our way of thinking it is difficult to
pick more than two horses likely to beat the
champion. One of these is Singapore, and if that
steady favourite comes .to the scratch with Pay-
ten’s best polish on him he will administer a severe
cough-drop to the “Ring.” All the indications
are to the effect that this Cup, like last, will be
finally left to the mercy of a handful of horses,
and probably the betting at the start will be 20 to
1 bar six, and 40 to 1 against half the runners,
# # ✓ #
The introduction of the sliding-seat killed
the British sculler. He’s been sliding down hill
ever since.
* # *
A rather good story—a true bill, by the
way—comes from Bananaland. A and B made a
private match to run their two horses for quite a
respectable stake. B “got at” the lad who was
to ride A’s horse, and the B party “ went Nap.”
on the event, taking up about their “ neddy ” all
the money in the market. A, who is a tip-top
horseman, had quietly sweated himself down to
the necessary Aveight, and, upon the eventful day,
Sut his colours on under his ordinary rig-out.
ust before the start A stripped off, and, telling
the jockey he would not require him for the race,
took the mount himself, won in a canter, and —
tableau I
* * *
A rumour that “Adam Bede” had le-
vanted, for which there was no foundation in
fact, was industriously circulated last week by
certain “kind friends*” That any trustworthy
man should be so easily injured by persistent
calumny shows the necessity that exists for legalis-
ing and regulating all such enterprises in which
the public take part. The present legal ignoring
of consultations, sweeps, and totalisators places
the fraud on a level with the square man, and
instead of proving a curb to gambling is merely a
cloak for scoundrelism.
* # *
Mesmerist Kennedy has been unburden-
ing himself to a Melbourne interviewer. Listen
to what Kennedy did. Jack Thompson had laid
heavily against Oranbrook at Randwick. Well,
Kennedy went up to the horse, stroked his nose,
and Oranbrook never won a race. What do Hon.
J, White and Tommy Hales say to that ? Moral;
Whenever you see a mesmeric-looking fellow ap-
proach your horse warn him off. But the accepted
idea of a mesmerist is a ghastly, pale, lean fellow,
all in black, with long black hair to his shoulders —
the mesmerist introduced in Irving’s play of the
“Bells.” Kennedy is not a bit like that. He is
a jolly-looking Scotchman, with blondish hair like
a clothes-brush, who is clad in a proper racing suit
of light tweed with white belltopper. How can
White keep the paws of a man like this off his
horses ? Why, he looks only like an honest book-
maker or a squatter from the back-blocks of the
Murrumbidgee.
* * *
We are curious to know who put up the
money for Bubear in his match with Matterson ?
English professional sculling is so utterly bad,
physically and morally, that no sensible man will
back it for a penny-piece.
# * *
The best three-year-old in N.Z., just now,
is Tirailleur, a son of Musket —Florence McCarthy.
He has fist. 51bs. in the N.Z. Cup, and is voted
soft goods for the event. He is the first colt that
has raced from this dam’s side.
* * * '
Boz played the dickens with backers.
* * *
The English crack, Kibblewhite, has won
a four-mile race in 20min. 50 4-ssec. on a wet grass
course.
* # #
The Fogarty-Hall affair was apparently
“ one of those,” as a boy in the gallery put it.
Fogarty was mud-fat, and Hall'had a clouded and
heavy eye. The latter has the advantage in height,
reach, and pluck; but, both fit and well, he hasn’t
the powder to knock or tire Fogarty out.
* * *
Sing hey for proverbial British fair play.
In days of old, when the mighty American black,
Molineux, was fighting Tom Gribb for the 'English
Championship, the crowd bashed Molineux’s hands
almost to a jelly when the black had’Gribb in
difficulties across the ropes. Later on the British
fair-play crowd rushed the ring, when Heenan had
Saym dead to the universe. And now history
repeats itself with the action of a Britisher throw"
ing a chair at Slavin after his defeat of Goode, not
to speak of an attempt to rush the ring during the
progress of the fight. Goode was but a poor
“ trial horse ” for a big man like Slavin, for what-
ever show a small man may have with a big one
in the prize ring, where a man may go down and
get his half-minute spell on the slightest apology
for a hit, he has no show under Queensberry rules,
where he must take his gruel for three minutes,
unless knocked down, when he only gets 10 seconds
respite.
* * *
With the odds of five to one against him,
Le Blanche beat Dempsey fairly enough, but the
victory was flukey, and the Marine does not seem
anxious for a return match.
As Pendragon points out, the meeting
of two scullers like Searle and O’Connor, each
strongly fancied in his own country, on neutral
ground, afforded a big show of making money
without risk to the business-like operator whose
agents in Canada and America booked the odds
ò
laid on O’Connor, while other agents in Australia
snapped up the odds going about Searle.
* * *
The men on the river—the Parramatta
River—say that Stephenson, the N.Z. sculler, is
likely to be the coming man.
#* * i
“Pendragon ” backed Ringmaster for the
Ebor Handicap when King Monmouth gave him
131 b. and a 71b. beating. He says
When writing earlier on the statement that Ringmaster
was aocounted'a mere third-rater down under, I did not
pass several possibilities. Maybe he has improved greatly
since he was exported. Again, horses that could give him
a stone and a beating out there might not be his equals
after getting here. The voyage and change of climate,
which, perchance, have bettered the one horse, may act
iust as strongly the other way in others. Let us put all
that out of thought, and assume that the Ringmaster who
fought on so gallantly as toTmake G. Barrett declare that
he is one of the gamest of'the game, is about the same
animal'here as in Australia, and would take the same place
with regard to his countrymen if they were racing here.
Accept that situation and, goodness gracious, where shall
we be with our handicaps if a regular Australian invasion
is made oh our turf ? J say if, but the show the Australian
third-rater has made in the old country will practically
cut out ‘ ‘ if;” We are pretty sure now to have a campaign
of the better-class colonial thoroughbreds, who have only
to runup to their form to upset the home stables most
disastrously.
** * '
George Steadman, champion of the world
at Cumberland and Westmoreland wrestling and
who lately challenged the world at three styles, is
47 inches round the chest, weighs 18st. 31b., and
is sft. lOjin. high. He has won fifty-five cups,
twenty belts, and five gold medals and at one tune
was a great quarter-mile runner.
#■ * *
Dear Bulletin,— Why don’t you give the
poor bookmakers a rest ? The public may or may
not win from us, as the case may be, but so far as
the totalisator is concerned they must eventually
lose, as the 10 per cent, would kill any punter even
if he had a bank behind him. I give you my
word that with the present competition most of
the betting fraternity are not getting more than
bread and cheese, and if it were not for appear-
ances, I’d be thankful to run a “tote” with a five
per cent, deduction only, and seal it up before
every race. — Yours, truly, Too Twowon.
# * *
In Yorkshire it is now customary for the
spectators to jibe an unsuccessful cricket team in
the field by derisive]shouts of “how’s that,” at
every ball.
Editor Bulletin. —Dear Sir, —A report having
gained currency that “ Adam Bede” had left Sydney, I
ask you, in justice to that gentleman, to publish the taut
that I received a cheque within two hours of the time 1
posted my winning ticket. Having had the good fortune
to draw the second horse in the Caulfield Cup, I think
the least I can do is to contradict the unfounded reports
circulated by mischief-making busy-bodies.— T. W. Ferris,
Cowper-street, Waverley.
Evangelist Yarley, having declared in a
Sydney lecture that, in consequence of his written
remonstrance, a “ Mr. Currie ” a then trustee
of the People’s Palace, London, had resigned ms
connection with the liquor-trade at a sacrifice of
a quarter-of-a-million of money, “One Who
Knows” immediately wrote to a Sydney daily
pointing out that the individual indicated was Sir
Edmund Hay Currie, a distiller, who, having
married a wealthy woman some time before
the opening of the People’s Palace at
Bethnal Green, soon afterwards retired from
active participation in business, though not
obviously at the loss of a quarter-of-a-milllion.
To tills Mr. Yarley replies in a half-column letter,
in which he does everything but attempt to prove
the truth of his statement that a “Mr. Currie
had resigned the liquor trade in consequence of
his admonition at a loss of £250,000. When he
“distinctly affirms that rather than occupy the
position held by Sir E. H. Currie I would rather
lie in the depths of your goodly harbour with a
millstone about my neck,” the evangelist does not
run any very serious risk of being compelled to
eat his words. Apropos, this reminds us that the
man who retires ostentatiously from the liquor
trade is not always a creditable accession to the
forces of the “ unco guid.” Look at Tawell, who
emptied so many gallons of rum into Sydney har-
bour that he gave the sharks a taste for intoxicants
—which they have never been able to gratify.
Well, he went home afterwards and was honoured
by being the first murderer whose capture and
subsequent execution was due to the electric tele-
graph.
Here is the kind of mail who makes
money, and this is how money is made. “Mr.
Jones,” said the old millionaire. “Yes, sir,”
answered the private secretary. “ Here are fifty
begging letters. Answer them all with a refusal.”
“ Yes, sir.” “ And you will observe, that every
one has a twopenny-stamp inclosed for reply.”
“ Yes, sir,” “Well, answer them on a postal-
card.”
How doth the little busy book
Improve each glowing minute
By laying wagers on the Cup
“ Agin the stiff ’uns ” in it.
How smartly doth the dead-bird flat
Write wagers on his cuff,
To find, when incubation comes,
He’s dropped his bit o’ stuff.
How heavily the upright beak
Sits on the humble “tote,”
Then leaves the bench in haste
To back “ a good thing ” for “ a note.”
How swiftly doth the gifted bard —
Petrarcho Dante Binks —■
Compose this giddy little “ pome ”
Inspired by several drinks.


Business Announcements.
Ym
“ They fit perfectly , and are
far superior to all. the other
Cornets I have tried.’’
j (Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
Y*
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not gplit in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y.& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
piagonal Seam Corset, No. HO,” in ,oval.,
THREE GOLD MEBALS!
Sold by itll Drapers and Ladies 5 Outfitters.
J* LU2 OWICI & SONS,
Manufacturer's and Importers'of
Superior Oak-ranned Belting - ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes -
Hydraulic
Leathers.
o
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
Ail jfoods bearing the above Trade ’lark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may 1)2 returnee! at our expense.
Office and Factory: 16J ■ G'a'.’O'icc-Sfc,, Sydney,
, Between’ King and .Market'Btubkt.s. : -i
surgi, Arrsr.
The Dr't's-i A*i3trg.l:a». r,a i .v T, b-’nnd
S’ ra, T 1 : n , ..-..i .... ■ . .::r o Co.,
i-.-> ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY,-
ISSUES l’<) ,!ib . ; ind euiuifying 1 louseaulders
. against h>- : -,bv CYKtIJbAIIV.
*J fates Low. ■ ii ait Frontj)t.
For cdndftktus and p.nti.-.iiaiu,
\V. J. SMITH,
«. .... Secretary.
AGENTS air I CAN / ASS ]•] H g Wanted.
SI.ZOKK NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
9
PIPES.
THE BEST ITT THE WORLD.
W HOI.KSA T.E A OEN’TS :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
THOMAS ROSS.
TOBACCO &. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havant’ah Cigars, of th«
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor tie Bonito
Brand of Cigars and ■‘ Empire Cigarettes.”
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KBUTT STIOLTTS-Fl T, S 5 "ST 33 3XT DB "ST,
Packed in 12, 20, and 40ib Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per fi).
M
F*
A
v
9
f M
3. V
~H.
, ~'T7'n‘n
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South. Wales.
** No. John; no mom Tea from yon. I bay noar from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
Medical.
V\
*r.
x
r
'"‘ihh.
** „ wnc .'c a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
an 1 pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, hut with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
, Ccticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisto skin beautificr, prepared from
it, externally, arid Cuticura Resolvent, the now
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, ' disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of. the skin, scalp: and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been afflicted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sorc ; for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticura
Remedies. I used one box of Cuticura, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all my own work.
Mrs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Bold everywhere. Price, Cuticitra, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug Aka Cilemigal Co , Boston, Maas.
4SS“ Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
DA DV’ Q Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
DnU I O tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
I have Buffered all ray'life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend-, T used
your valuable Cuticura Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using six bottleo of the Cuticura
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticura, and seven
cakes of Cuticura Soap, and the result was just
what I had been told it wou;d be a complete cure.
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, G.W. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticura Remedies' on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on her head and body, and the hair commenced
to como out. How she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she has only used one box of Cutiguka,
one cake of Cuticura Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticura Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement: -
' GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mieh.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors On my face to which I
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
Mbs. ISAAC PHELPS., Ravenna, O.
PE AfIPLES, blackheads, red, rouch, chapped and
| 11|| oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Address :
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
TayloHßro 8
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
“Hoffal Day.”
The extent to which the starved and poverty-
stricken myriads of London appreciate such help
as Australia has lately sent them may be partly
-guaged by the following account of an incident
witnessed only a few months ago by an Australian
Who has just returned from the city of violent
contrasts. He says “ I saw for myself a sigfet
which nothing but personal observation could
have convinced me was possible. A crowd outside
a large fishmonger’s shop in the early morning
bbstructed;the -footpath, and I enquired from a
bystander the cause of it. ‘Oh! nothin' out o’
tnfi bbttmion,'’ he said'; ‘ it’s on’y hoffal day !’ As
the:crowd grew less dense 1 was, able to get
sufficiently near the door to see—what ? Why
ar-number of. men. and women—human wolves—
get! near auhan who stood by a- cask,,
the contents,- 0.1-w.hich he distributed impartially,
with a tunScodji into tiie’hands Held out to rOeqive
it. White and shapely Hand's, too, some of'them
were, hands of women who had once beeh ladies,
roughly pushed aside in one instance by a grimy-
looking hag with the breath or a sewer and the
voice of a coal-heaver. -Broken-down wrecks of
manhood cursed and pushed their way to the
front 7~and of ten stretched out their foul paws’"TO
intetcept the 'portion for which some miserable
woman or girl had been patiently waiting her
chance, ‘Each took what he or she could
get in scraps_ of paper, pieces of rag, or
in '-the bare hands : joined cup-wise, and hurried
away with it. Lor. half an-hour, at least,
the scene lasted, and I afterwards learned that it
was repeated With but small variation three times
a week. The locality-was within a quarter of a
mile of Bucldngham Palace, where Mrs. Rule,
Britannia was probably yet in bed. The street
was one, of the most important thoroughfares in
West .End, and" the cask contained fish-offal —the
heads, tails, and- entrails -of fish delivered from
Billingsgate Market and cleaned up for the daily-
sales. Bish-offal was what they pushed and
fought and cursed each-other for, and some of
them picked out the tit bits and ate them raw as
they left the door. They were British subjects,
but they were very hungry.” The congregation
will now sing “ God Save the Queen.”
According to an American paper the fol-
lowing sentence has for years stood as the shortest
into which all the letters of the alphabet could be
compressed: “J. Gray: Pack with my box five
dozen quills.”: This was improved on (in point of
brevity) thus: “Quick, glad zephyrs, watt my
Javelin box.” And then came; “E. Badger : Thy
vixen jumps quick at fowl. ” A Sydney lady, how-
ever,. sends us the following which is shorter
still ; “Bad men fight, joke, quiz, vex, pry, scowl.’»
Dear Bulletin, —Let me describe a night
spent by me on the occasion of a recent visit 5 to
a Queensland gold-field. I arrived there, in com-
pany .with half-a-dozen others, very hot, tired,
and dusty, after the day’s drive. The landlord
and landlady, both as drunk as Chloe, and about
,15 or 20 men, all in a similar condition, were
mustered on the verandah to meet us ; one genTe-
man, rejoicing in the name of “ Fishook,” briefly
arrayed in a singlet and wearing a tin-dipper for a
hat, being particularly demonstrative in his wel-
come. The pub. is widely open every day, and
the only distinction made is that on Sunday
there is much more cursing than on other
days. I have seen some rough shanties on
the “Barrier” and the N.T. in the early
days, but this “takes the cake.” After tea, pre-
sided over by the drunken landlady, the dining-
room was cleared for a ball. There were only two
ladies, but that made no difference, and to the
dulcet strains of a badly-played and cracked con-
certina the inhabitants pranced round in all shapes
and forms. Buch a “go-as-you-please ” was never
seen. Children screaming, dogs getting mixed
with the dancers and howling from the kicks they
get, curses more comprehensive and varied than
ever I have heard during my experience of the
bush, which has been pretty extenswe, and the
jerky and discordant tones of the concertina, pro-
duced a scene that can never be forgotten. The
bar is open to all, who help themselves to whisky
when inclined, but forget to pay, and challenges to
fight, the landlady chasing a gentleman who
annoys her with rocks, and other suchlike
playful little games diversified the proceedings.
During a lull in the divarshun a gentleman essayed
to sing “The ship that never returned,” and evi-
dently pleased his audience, for, as he drawled
out in a drunken monotone, they interjected,
“ Good boy, Billy,” “ Good iron, old man,” &c.,
and joined in the chorus after each verse, totally
oblivious of time, tune, or anything but row. On
one occasion the landlord remarks to his wife:
“You are always at the wrong end; why don’t
you do as I do ?” and suiting tire action to the
word, proceeded to show her, but, on the way,
reeled over full length on the floor. Again, at
another period, a gentleman, who was dancing
with the landlady, remarked to her husband :
“ Don’t you get shoving my blank partner or I’ll
knock your blankity head off!” This sort of
thing was kept up till 2 on Monday morning,
and it is superfluous to add that wo left with any-
thing but feelings of regret, hoping that it would
never be our lot to return there. — I am, &c.,
Barrier Ranges.


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony,
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, lor cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s ; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic-a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla’ with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has receded
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &c. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz. .
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. ■ 2s)-18S'doz. ,
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d & Is; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Cartelised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d;6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;os doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is;ss & 8s doz. .
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &IsOd; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz. _
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for 1 lies. -s,
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. -s.
Armstrong's 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronfc indijestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s ft 68a doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink,, for writing on linen, silk, and
niuslin. Is; 8s per doz. ... . . .
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is, 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wide. A most reliable bfam and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz, . ... .
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidhtz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sore*,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots) Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s, & 18s do*.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d; 6s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by h. c. Armstrong. George Street NORTH (Near Circalar Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Large* Stock mS, v
Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN .'MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITA I< - JESOO.OOO.
Sydney Branch ;
Corner of- MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch:
283 COLLINS STREET, F.A'T 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to T years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances up n
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading. Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six ~ 7 „
Twelve ~ ... 8 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1| per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL 'Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue 0f20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
federal reversionary investment
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Hltiee: 301 PITT STREET
, GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
- v immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on 1- ixed
Deposits;—3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 percent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE —
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATE
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CABTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
o
Directors :
James Fletcher. M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown Neutral
Bav • Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ,
T. D. Merton, Cunningar vvor s. Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Ha.nn, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description. .
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
C °These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated. ...
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive an
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 BITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits. .... 10 per cent.
“5 ag :::: SPSS:
3 Months .... 7 ? e " m th.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Bsnewsls of Twelve Months
andorsr.
Uf Mder of the Board. Wnwirur.
Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING ANH LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account
Reserve Fund
Total Assets over Liabilities
Head Office
Melbourne Office
London Office
£250.000
61,431 10 10
311,431 10 10
o — ;
Sydney, N.S.W.
464 Collins Street.
1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Brandi Offices
N.S.W. ; Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
Victoria : Lara.
o
o
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 ~ 3 „
Balance
Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
jT. £S. 3ET". Cowell,
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Manager.
“ What is
Home without a
Picture ?’
T. ~R ~ED lEi InT -A- SO O UsT
(Late L. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Oentie-
men’s Hacks.
Hotels,
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PAS S
EYEfc£FEW minutes
a
LAC £ HOT
PA
-i-.
is®n - ■
M®V
£>£4 (LACS
is
i.A.WILSON
P«OPRi£TOP
CYf.CLARE
Igg MANACtR
The PALACE HOTEL, EOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
T
Three
ims finp Hotel which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
' tottepSiS &n£, Bxotage,, Places of Amusement and Churches. It oontams
Hundred Magixificeixt Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
gs- Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
ZJ ™ Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
ggr- TWO dP-A. SS IE LsT Gr IE IR. OTIS LIFTS.
)-(
Ladies’
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and general Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
g . Single Bedroom, 2a. €5c3L. per Miglit.
( Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
*'"■■■
Fnh particulars as to the Tariff, &0., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne
Medical.
TIR. SMITH, XT.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS?
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours ! ... Prom 11 a.m» till 4 p.m.
PULTEBMACHES'S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, «c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIFHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strkbt West, Mblbooeni.-
Free BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers Imw they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
j. FEHR E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney;
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST 4 ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; %to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University >,
s -X" X 3 OKS "X" -
Business Announcements.
F. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
•730 George Street, 730
haymabket.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, tsc., Made to Order.
-AUSTRALIAN—
Mollcr glour and grain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE SIREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“ Special Recommendation” of the J of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89


HORDERN AND COMPANY, next Royal Arcade, opposite Central Markets, are making a Beautiful Show of SPRING
" NOVELTIES in every Department. . , ■ '
Spring Costumes! spring Millinery! Spring Hosiery
ALL new and fashionable goods. ,
We invite Special Attention to our Millinery, Underclothing and Baby Linen will be
found most replete in every detail. Spring and Bummer Mantles m every style now op ng.
HOEDEIIN and OOMPAHIT, <m% 488, 490 Oeorgfe-stroet, Sydney,
Next Royal Arcade, opposite Central Markets. P 1 *™ ’””±l'
.TERIMQ
(Late Gunsler’a Cafe)
LTD*
ITS Pitt Street,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have
their new cusine a trial.
Sydney,
been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will gt« 9
JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
r
r
Q^tßTs
□
NG
*
NTS
RON
w
■0
'■/
1
n
id a a o
ui§-
OJ Wti
■ill
:
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLES A L E
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracech arch Street, London, E.O.
IMPORTERS OF -
Railway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
' IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchknilders'
v Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortlng’s Gas Engines— The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
o
A Certain and Immediate Relief
in all Cases of
Rheumatism Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Sprains aucl Bruises*
Being used at. Victoria Barracks,
General Post Office, and by the
Sydney Omnibus Co.
Invaluable in the Stable.
Hundreds of Testimonials as to
its"efficacy. Everyone should use
“SHARK OIL.”
Sample Bottle sent Post Free/or
Three (3) J‘<’ " oy Stamps.
Price 25.. at all Chemists, or from the SHARK OIL MANUFACTURING oOMPANY,
rice ’ ’ Pant O'-floe Chambers. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
fire
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid. Annually
since 1873.
gss
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
High Akt Photogkaphy.— Bor artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre*
eminently high, photographers to Ms Excellency
Lord Carington ‘‘By Appointment.”
Wool.
WINCHCOMBE CARSON & CO.
Offices:
Wool Stores : CENTRAL WHARF ; Produce Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY ?
40 aiACQTTARIB STREET KTORXH,
SYDNEY
THE DISCRIMINATING SCISSORS.
The Mayor and the Goat.
[An incident of the Mayoralty of Andy J. Bryant, of
San Francisco.]
His Honor sat in busy state,
When soft the sanctum door
Opened a timid inch, and there
Beneath the knob he saw
A little midget’s dirty face
That tears had veined o’er.
“ Please, sir, I came about my goat \
They’ve got him in the pound.”
“ Get out, you little rascal, you !”
The City said, and frowned.
A big tear from the tiny nose
Fell piteous on the ground.
An hour ticked by ; the civic gaze,
Drawn by a pigmy sigh,
Saw still the pond rous door behind,
That small but steadfast eye
Strained like the shipwrecked sailor’s to
Some distant hope descry.
“ Please, sir, he’s such a little goat,
He slipped our palings through,
He never butts the dogs and girls;
’Deed, sir. he never do.”
And then with sudden wile he said,
“ His name is ‘ Andy,’ too.
Now Bryant plays a double part;
Of all known Mayors, ’tis said,
He carries round the softest heart,
Beneath the hardest head.
He paused—then seized his pen, and soon
The goat’s reprieve was read.
“ Did you put 1 Andy ’in ? Because
As by the pound I came
I saw they had a heap of goats,
And put: ‘ The goat is lame.’”
The Mayor’s eye twinkled; solemnly
He wrote the prisoner’s name.
A wild whoop in the corridor
Gave every ear a twinge,
But in a moment once again
The door creaked on its hinge :
A brown, reluctant paw was seen,
A sleeve with ragged fringe.
“ Here, sir—take this— ‘ fur keeps,’ ”he said,
Half-smiling, half-forlorn—
A huge glass “ alley ” dropped and rolled
The city’s carpet on.
The door shut with a narty snap—
The giver brave was gone.
DERRICK DODD.
The Argus apparently will not defile its
leader columns by any direct mention of Professor
Miller. The solemn old organ stated that the
Victorian Orchestra committee “have only been
able to obtain the use of the Hibernian-hall by the
favor of the person who had already engaged it.”
Professor Miller was the person who so good-
naturedly upset his arrangements to oblige the
fiddlers. He should go round to the - Argus office
and ask what they_ meant by not giving him his
proper name and title. It would be a treat to see
the burly athlete chasing Maokinnon round Ids
managerial sanctum and offering - to throw the
whole staff 365 times within an hour.
What a lot of theatricalism and “show-
off ” the American sportsmen go in for ! When
the baseballers were here they used to caper about
the ground like a lot of school-boys with
their great, ill-shaped legs and huge, squelch-
ing flat feet, trying to impress the spectators with
their wonderful agility ; they shouted and swore
all the time in the field. Similarly, over boat-
racing ; just before the Searle-O’Connor race, a
presentation was made to O’Connor by the
American Consul in England, or some such
functionary. They gave him a flag with
his country’s arms emblazoned on it, and
told him to carry it to a glorious victory,
and they made him a variety of long speeches,
and said that George Washington looked down
from his ancestral cherry-tree and watched the
great impending struggle in which William O’Con-
nor would worthily uphold the honour of his
magnificent country. And O Connor made a
speech about four yards long in reply, and said
that he did not row for the money nor for his own
glory, but for the honour and glory of his native
land. Then everybody cried on everybody _ else’s
peck, and the ceremony came to a magnificent
theatrical conclusion. Now, with our own man,
Searle, there was nothing of this sort at all. No
flag, no demonstration, no consul, no speech.
Simply one of his backers walked in to see him
before the race, and said, “I suppose you can
‘do ’ ’im, ’Arry ?” And ’Arry replied confidently
and calmly, <l I’ll i do ’ him bad. And he did
him bad.
You can go to Melbourne from Sydney and
back by steamer for £‘S, first-class. You can also
go from Sydney to Tasmania and back for £3.
Sydney’s champion poetical bore has been
gradually shunted from one journal to another,
until now the “ pote ” has taken refuge in a pub-
lication which iiobody ever reads or ever sees. He
invariably produces for the inspection of Visitors a
MS volume of verse sixteen inches thick, and it is
currently reported that when he wishes to add
to his already colossal stock of “ typically Austra-
lian verse,” he seeks inspiration by sitting oh a
blaokfellow’s grave.
Slack, the well-known Melbourne book-
maker Of the past, cOuld not read. Little Ward,
equally well-known a humpbacked barber, in
Bourke-street, also dead, used to be his secretary.
Slack put his bets down in hieroglyphics which
nobody else could read. After the day’s business
he read them all out, without a mistake, to Ward,
who duly entered the bets in a ledger. Ward
afterwards took a Swanston-street hotel, with the
inviting title, “Dew Drop Inn —Do Drop In.”
But friends didn’t drop in, and Ward went to the
cemetery. His conversation, during tonsorial
operations, was as racily reminiscent as that of the
artist who suggested to Douglas Jerrold his chatty
articles headed “ The Barber’s Chair,” in Lloyd’s
Weekly. Slack’s wife was very pious, and kept
going a Primitive Methodist Chapel, in Prahran,
which went to pieces after her death.
Lydia Yon Finklestein says she has
“prayed on Mount Olivet, wept in Gethsemane,
and had the waters of Jordan washing over her
head ” :—-
And you really did this, did you ?
How we envy, charming Lydia,
Such experiences as these in which your lifetime
has been spent.
Ah ! how fervently we do wish
Our acquaintance with things Jewish
Plad not been confined to paying ancient Hebrews
cent, per cent. 1
So we freely take for granted
All of which you have descanted
Touching Palestine and Syria and your own
J erusalem.
But if you require a wrinkle
About New South Wales, Mias Finkle-
Stein, or two, we’ll gladly undertake to give you it,
or them.
Touching many an old custom
We have heard your words, and trust ’em
To be solid—we have heard of how they worked
and prayed and dressed,
And if you’ll give us a show, we
Think, by way of quid pro quo, we
Will explain Australian usages, and let you take
a rest.
You have told (with G. H. Reid as
Chairman) several things that we’d as
Soon cut off our ears as use to feed our levity and
mirth,
How the wedded Eastern beauty
Looks upon it as her duty
To attempt to make her husband’s home a Paradise
on earth.
How the handmaid braids her tresses;
How the merchant’s lady dresses;
How the gates are locked at sunset by a rule that
seems severe—
This and more than this you’ve shown us,
How upon us rests the onus
Of explaining to you how we do a lot of things out
here.
We believe we have a slightish
Bulge upon the Israelitish
Citizen, because we go forth and return just as we
choose;
Yes, our laws are more elastic,
Far less socially drastic,
Than were those which closed the gates fcgainst
the night-disturbing Jews.
Here, the lightsome serving-maiden
Goeth forth at eve arrayed in
Just the kind of togs her mistress wears, or even
better still,
Here the banker, as a toff, is
To the youth from the Lands Office
Most exceeding small potatoes, and but few upon
a hill.
Here the bulk of wedded “ beauties ”
Sum in “ shopping ” up their duties,
Running up the towering Bill, or else go making
formal calls
In the interests of fashion,
And for home have little passion,
All their lives being given to vanity and lawn-
tennis and balls!


Business Announcements.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
A IMPORTER OP •
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
"Wholesale and Retail Leather . fMerchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EPP S P 'S
r GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCO A.
jttt
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
X jpfD f TE OOKOMV
a"l
ivc yowr Umbrella Frames
!! e - Cot' riffirfy' a*d your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541,George Street,
BR IC K'F IK I, D Id ILL, -SVDJfKY,
■ .between^
l.icerpool <(■ Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes Repairs neatly done. -
CHUBB & PEAEG-EE, Photographers,
fLate of Regent Street, London,)
; “ Empire Galleries,” 4<S‘i »V 484 George Street,
(over BeaIe's SYDNEY.
TYrE have much pleasure in making reference to the
'' favorable notice of The Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in all
departments, and trust to merit a continuance of the same
good opinions and favours.
%
Note our Moderate Prices:
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visite, Bs. sd. per Dos.
Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &c., a
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
Moderate Charges.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturer-of allk ndsrfTinsforConfectioners
Tea Merchan’s, B scuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, Lor Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
“Tria- Solicited.
MUSICAL.
"pATEXX SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted - Stationers.
Medical.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.;
Pri mft Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
ON’X
FROM
Neuralgia,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting DiseaserDebility, &c., &g.,
When yon can be Cured
BY USING
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED JQ^||Q.
Price, 2s. 6d and 55.; Post, Is
Extra
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KINO- ST., SYDNEY.
For Sole by Mil Chemists.
M. W. * Co.
BOOK of NATURE and ILLUSTRATED
MATRIMONIAL GUIDE.— A full and explicit
explanation of the structure and uses of the organs of life
and generation in man and woman, intended especially
for the married, or those intending to marry, and who
conscientiously and honestly desire to inform themselves
npon the intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to
which is added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon
all diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting
from infection or sexual excesses and abuse, with much
other valuable and highly important information, illustrated
with more than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn,
M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
Works of Rabelais, complete, by post 3s. 6d.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and the Guide to Female
Loveliness, Is. The Fruits of Philosophy, post Is. 2d. Mrs.
Besant’s Law of Population, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful
Song Book, extra large, Is. 6d. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s.
Aristotle, complete, 3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d.,
post Is. 9d. New complete ifiyrtune Teller, 2s. The
Elements of Social Science, 3s. 6d. post 4s.
“The Matron’s Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price fid.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates ; price 7a,
poet 7b. fid. ...
Write for price of any book not advertised that yen
may require.
b-w m .J—fc Ih m jSSk*. JL L 9
Ointrai. Book Daror,
16M PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING-,
2-3: CLAREKTOE! STREET, SYDMEY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
SB, PM, BUSH,
PONY CARTS, &c., &o.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills
Agricultural Machinery.
&
\
V(/f
■> \/
%
I
y
V
LfcS
T C
■w
0^
S
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
hig- h-c las s Aisr & chiita
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package.at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
o
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents; Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS. LONDON.
“BTIG-LE” -A_ Hi IE STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA-XiCHIKT, JOHNSTON & GO., Sydney,
Agents fob Messrs. M. B. Poster & Sons.
Ask for Hupper’a Elberfeld Lagor Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Medical.
jistmrs Dimm.
By Royal Letters Patent. „
The Most Useful Oiatment.in the World
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many
have lately made New South Wales their home* it
may be as well to let them know that there is sunt,
an rticle as JOSEPHSON'S OINTMENT purely
the production of thecolony, composed of ,wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere, ’else the
principal of which' is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson's Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisqnqus
Qualities. No .Artificial Colouring, ’as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,-—I have tried your Jo ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this it you feel
disposed. ■ ’
I remain, yours, etc., -
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office;
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
■STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to’all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hew.ett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows
“That I feel it a duty 1 owe to the publnto
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
How’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure, stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afHctcd as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
COO
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
containing ;
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
43, 46, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
In a Dublin watch-house, the other day,
the searcher found slung from the waist of a
female vagrant a bag containing 281bs. weight of
copper-com, and £768 Is. 6d. in gold, notes, and
silver. Every bustle may be a bank.
The modern idea of making religion rol-
licking and cheerful has been beautifully caught
by a Ballarat bookseller, who advertises, in the
following fashion in one of the local papers : —
Cndiifs;
; , Theirk?> and get a Rible
mjf ■ At Number Six (6) Sturt-strcet,
At Summerscales (the agents),
Where novelties you’ll meet.
This only wants a music-hall and a banjo hoeoirr--'
paniment to become widely popular. Still, it
seems to us—who have never had a reputation for
gluttonous piety in the way of reading—that it is
rather rough on the inspired writers—to speak of
nothing higher—that people have to be induced to
read them by such sorry song-and-dance doggerel
as this. Is it a sign that the inspired writers are
out of _ date ?_ It is almost a pity there are no
detective-stories in the Bible. It would have a
large circulation once more if there were.
In Servia Sabbatarianism of the strictest
kind is being enforced by law, business of every
description is strictly prohibited on Sundays and
holy days of the Orthodox Church ; so that trade
is stagnant on 179 days each year. A man was
recently fined £4 at Belgrade for selling a penny
Worth of rice on a Church holiday. What a very
nice place Servia must be to spend Sunday in !
Almost as agreeable as Melbourne..
The weakness of the average Australian
bush sweet utter want of knowledge
bf k ftinnan nature. Take the following verse-
from a poem, entitled “The Wildfiower’s Sermon
to the Hermit,” published in a Victorian country
paper :■ —
The hermit has nothing to say. Now, what vjould
be the natural reply of a well-regulated Australian
hermit under such circumstances ? Something
like this
Of course. This crowns the verse and makes a
complete poem of it.
Some me'n may seek to sell us books
That tell'of. pleasures here,;
The Bible speaks of joy to come,
And drives away all fear,
Ami Summerscales has thousands
Of Bibles, rich ami rare,
At prices cheap, in binding nf rtjrd.5 :
A stock beyond COmpareA ■
“ Calm and holy is the silence,
Why then sad, oh hermit soul ?
Here no worldling’s empty chatter,
Only nature to condole.”
And the hermit soul made answer,
“ Though your arguments are sound,
You’d be sad if you’d my thirst, and—
Not a pub. for ten miles round.”


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
y
\ I \ EUREKA
ELECTRIC i
m
BELTiVi
X . - X
fi
\
m
H'
A
N
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Tains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COTTPANY
Box 916, G, P. O.f bYDNKY.
Dr, James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.C.P., M.E.C.S., L.S.A., BOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanstontt Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers,
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF_ SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Ci « : AY > f The Public are requested to notice the
Wall wlUli I words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
:E3: o -A_. RO 31SE-
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
fW" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
N
ERV O U S
DEBILITY.
Consult FREE/ personally, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST, A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “ Rosclund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials;
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst
"I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon;— “l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. fid. ; 561 b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. XI. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CiM
0
ip
PATENT
PILLS
V 1
SK
*
$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache,- giddiness, fulness
and swelling after nieals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss, of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief,
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth, a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ifled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbkciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are giv?n with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) Oije Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
OORE &
Hogg
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases tfTthe Qsnlto-Uplnapy Organs,
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2 CORBETTS BUILDINGS, comer of George
and Elizabeth StreeU, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER. |
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
Hotels.
tfJ:
H 2
183
e
ill
owDCNSUMwcnit
HOlfl
HOTEL,
Elizabeth Stbbbt (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN €, HOW DEN .. .. Proprietor.
WJGSXERIXr HOTSL,
Warmamßool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopki i’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. SS’ Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Silvery and Setting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’a Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEOBGE W. CLABE - Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
3rs.ea.c3L ! Jfc-S.esa-ol I Jrtea.c3L
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - <D>rcx&
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland) Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria; A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ Fo? P anting a Fito Neat and Well."
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowJedged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. Photos., Engrayii gs,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edge-.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
ò
1’
£
manufacturers
* IMPORTERS CF^
> *^‘
HATS CAPS k
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEYI
fp/josiCt Ltusetterj
o
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
o
o
o
o
o
Business Announcements.
■JIBE THREE GREAT LIGHTS I
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
iijw Era Portable ffas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. SMITH & CO.,
494 Kent Street South. SYDNEY ;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne. .
, - --tf
Send for Price List and Circular!
AVTWTIC
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOR
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Expending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEW HITE CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP Sc CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT 6. COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
——The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
LIMITED.
Factory and Office: 227 Castlercagh Street,
(Late 245)
S'Y'ZOZN'ZEYT.
New Style of Tree
The Company is now prepared to manufacture all kinds
of Saddles. Any infringement' of the Patent will be pro-
secuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
GROTH
FbR
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,D>lo u * s * Paints.
WALLPAPERS FRom^roll
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C 'CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.
j received and realised in the best markets. Accoun i
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in ac van- e), Six Sh”angs and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
nearOperaHouse, Bourke-st.jKaet, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
In First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
• x
tS" Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
-x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
liondon Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BBOTKBE.S,
LIMITED.
o:
253 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always jn Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
E A R T II E N W ARE.
WIKES. BE BBS -<t SPIRITS,
AND OKXEHAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JO H N AY ALU E R axp SO N S
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh I‘ale Ale.
P. B. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
W I ITT IE S, x SPIRITS, x BEEE S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hbnnessy’s, Martel'l’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.lt.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. jfW" All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
soinlesale anil jingle Bottle 'Departments, anil ?yilney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM k LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinglmrst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
o
o
ZKTIES'W -
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
S,®,o@© Bedsteads,
lEF'ttoxxi. lOs. Os3L. "tea £35.
BROWNS
BKSSK
IBRMwwrs
i V 9 boston
satin!
xrdii*; - 111
TPUNKS»C4C
am
boston
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phil a.. 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers. B . P . BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY. t
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for•their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. ■ ' ur '
chasers should look'to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six 1 enny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ò
CLARENDON HOTEL,. MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
dc Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kil.mixster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
3Vi;z*s. KILMiIKTSTER,, Clarention. Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. Eirst-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Koums.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
4m
§s
ow
Fo*
AIR
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for ICO years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
grow ill ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ODONTO.
A PURE, NON-gritty Tooth Powdkr. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, i air and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE ******
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENITOAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xiatb.es.
DRILLING MACHINES,
&c,, &C.
jum
limited,
Haymarket, Sydney, EHUINE5,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
7LQIMILL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers. ,
Mitukkr Boilers.
IOKMSH ItOILKKS,
&c., &c.
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose,
Visitors, whether buyers or n t
12 9, 131, 13 3 & 13 5
largo or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
tt AV STREET, HAYMARKE T, SYDNEY.
