

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham a
Company obtained the FIRST AWARD for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is hy the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended:
“WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.— Non-Magnetic Watches.— Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetio watches of t is ,
tiiVih T have now the honour to report further upon it Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palliard s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion o a P e ’
tacwn as a iar s forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department. This
ruined an ordinary movement, but its rate about ege watches from Mr. R. 0. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the result of which shows that these watches,
after belaid of the large dynamos at work for one or two minutes, and afterwards regulated-'and then exposed again for twenty or tiventy-five minutes, did not appreciably alter their rates. Mr.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery. r a-iven a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
“In consideration of these reports in connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company he given a FIRST AWARD lor tnexr xnjlw
non-magnetio watch. r n T L'T J/UTJT V U.S.. Chairman.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions ;
nUSBLPBU, 1575, Four Prise Medals; PARIS, IS7S, Soli Medal; SYDNEY, 1530, Soli Medal, with Two Special ani Pour First Prises j MELBOURNE, 1331, Two Soli Medals;
H ORLEANS, 1080, Fire Prise Moialo; INVENTIONS EXHIBITION, LONDON, 1555, Soli Medal; MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL INHIBITION, 1505-3, First Awari, Non-Magnetic Wes
Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology.
Extract from the London Hokological Journal, July, 1889:—“The Great Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express.”
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.—GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
RAILWAY
chosen by the New South Wales Government as the best and mott reliable timekeepers for railway purposes „
South Wales Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Radway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways.
WALTHAM WATCH
AMERICAN
Sole Australian Agency :
WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND
C O-A.3XT~ST,
STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
POLICIES issued under the Ordinary, MoHifieH XontHae and Mortuary mvidend systems.
BONUS YEAR.— Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889. and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
BUREOUGHES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
-x-
All BLequisites for fixe Game.
Also Lawn Tennis, Cricket & Football.
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & DO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, 'Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbrs, Art & Mediastal Metal Workers
KULLEK SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODED WHEELS.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships 5 Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue
OF —
DUMB APPARATUS and SUPPLIES used in making CARBONATED BEVERAGES,
Instruction and Syrup Book FREE.
Finest
Estrada
flavours.
’ .
lift
m
-V\
3 «XI
Pure
Fruit
Juices.
THE MATTHEWS TUMBLER-WASHER.
Apparatus, Draught Columns, Tumbler Holers, Coolers,
Fountains, Generators, Gas Washers, Bottling Setts, Snowflake Marble Dusr, bottle
Boxes and Shipping Cases,
Manufactured by THE FIRM OF JOHN MATTHEWS. New York, U.S.A.
L B. MILLNER, Agent, 82 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OP HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 XSZEKT *37 STREET, SXD3XTEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40ft» Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per lb.
X A
Pi
%
■
'
r'
\k
r
\ i
T
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“ No, John; no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
The Bulletin
Saturday, September 21, 1889.


10
Jt
: isi
111
PSxt.
mm
jvr.
i
irfassi
mE
. .-ViiA
L 'H
ui-i^au
DIX
£
o
o
X
5?
SIR ROGER
O
50
a
o
□IXSONS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper* should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DU. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New 1
Tlie £2 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker's Com pan ion :
containing the following: -
lib. Williams’, |lb. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Caij’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H 8 Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Mecfcro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long' Cut, American
Delivered Free at Red.ern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can he left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! N o-te the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Sydney.
B.
RITTENBEBG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarencsj St,, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPAHNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLAN6
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled tor their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dealert, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark— “ White Rose "ouGolden
Lyra, With Address in full. J,
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
F ruit Mi or chant.
WILLIiLM’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST,
<{ : y
Bread., Tea OaM;es, Pastry, Sz c.,
ARE
—— Light, Wholesome and Digestible——
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA,
=— -
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound,
tTEA & PERRIN S'SAUCE
jTn Consequence of Imitations of THE WORCES ! ERSHIR&
SAIfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label bottle
bears their Signature (hus~~*
without which no bottle of ihc, original WORCESTERSHIRE
'SA UCE is genuine ,,
Ask for LEAandPEB/i/NS’ Sauce, and see Name'on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse end
Blackwell, London, 6re., (src.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wofld,
AIIS
WILLIAM --- CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received
Advances Made ..
Total Income
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
£180,425
61,680
93,581
123,248
200,106
Year ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,600
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
■(-
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Year ending
Oct., 1888.
. £580,600
251.015
. 1,123,949
025,826
. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
ipgp'
m
3
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is- P er
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders 111
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £2S Is. 91, towards which sum they had con.
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 y earS '
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYT ■T. J .
Profusely liriistrn/fcedL by The Bulletin’s ” well-known Artists 5
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
n
Price
ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May he had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office. |
Ao-ents—Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian ; Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10- No, 501.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1889.
Pd.ce, 6d.
o
"A Rale Gintleman": Sir Bryen O’Loghlen.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Eewspapor.
“ Australia for the Australians.’ 3
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly ••• 012 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
*•' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 icords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bidletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending d irect to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling--which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
(or a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
io interfere.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1889,
Sectarianism in Excelsis.
Saturn was represented by the ancients as
an old man, with such an affection for his
offspring that he devoured them as they were
born. Assuming legislative enactments to
be the children of the men who at one time
fathered them, there would appear to be a
certain resemblance between the old-world
deity and the present Premier of New South
Wales—so far, at least, as a desire to destroy
their progeny is concerned. For there is
scarcely a faith Sir Henry Parses har-
boured when he was young, or a public
measure he advocated when in his prime,
that in his old age he has not denied or
endeavoured to squelch. The parallel might
be pursued further. As one of the old
divinity’s sons escaped the voracity of his
unnatural parent, and grew to be the most
potent of the Olympians, so the Education
Act has, so far, escaped the attentions of its
putative father, and bids fair to become a
powerful influence for the suppression of
those religious animosities that too long have
divided communities into hostile camps. To
come to plain facts, it will be within the
remembrance of all that a fortnight ago the
Premier avowed his conversion to a change in
the working of the measure just named which
will go far to vitiate its secular or non-sectarian
provisions. This change consists in demand-
ing from teachers a profession of faith in
order that no undue proportion may exist
between the religions of masters and of
pupils—or, in other words, in order that too
many instructors of a particular creed may
not be employed. The proposed innovation,
although fraught with such potential evil,
has caused so little apparent interest among
the easy-going people of New South Wales,
and has been so lightly touched upon by the
daily journals, that a brief statement of the
case requires no apology.
* * *
In England and her colonies the educa-
tion of the masses — i.e., the adoption of
a scheme for not only bringing but posi-
tively forcing the light of knowledge
into every cabin in the land is but
an affair of yesterday. Against it the
propertied classes fought with a bitterness
that might almost be called savage. True to
their instincts, the great landholders derided
a system that would enable the peasants they
had robbed to discern the methods by which
the pillage was consummated ; while church-
men who taught lowliness on ten thousand a
year anathematised a plan that might end in
enabling the pauper to draw awkward com-
parisons between the incomes of the Apostles
and of their modern representatives. Both
bishop and landlord saw in the multiplication-
table and in pot-hooks-and-hangers the keys
that might admit poachers into their well-
preserved demesnes. It was long before
patrician and priest were bundled bodily out
of the primary school, and longer still before
they were cleared out of the door-w r ay where
their clamour caused constant disturbance.
Even when fairlypushed outside, theyl oitered
round the building shaking their fists and
making faces through the windows. Once
let a child master the alphabet and there was
nothing to prevent his learning how he and
his kind were taxed to support the spawn of
French strumpets : how his free commons
were enclosed by greedy magnates, and how,
at a time not so very distant, plausible
churchmen became spiritual peers by carry-
ing well-lined purses up the back-stairs lead-
ing to the boudoirs of royal courtesans.
When purely secular education was first pro-
posed it was met by an aristocratic shriek,
and by what might be called a shower of
sacerdotal mud. The whole history of this
movement for the education of the masses is
such a black record, if not against Chris-
tianity itself, at least against its professors,
that an honest man’s blood surges with in-
dignation at the reading. But space will not
now permit us to more than allude to it. It is
with the system of elementary education ob-
taining in New South Wales that we are
chiefly concerned.
* * *
Up to 1866 that system, such as it was,
was purely denominational. The priest had
free access to the schools, and the scholars
suffered in consequence. A change became
necessary—a change to which one Mr.
Henry Parkes was strongly opposed. But
when the alteration appeared inevitable, he
became persuaded of its reasonableness by
degrees, and ultimately not only joined the
now overwhelming body of the reformers,
but astutely claimed the credit of the
reform. In politics and in war this
faculty for perceiving the precise time
when to modify one’s opinions or to appear
upon the scene is a gift of rare value. Louis
XIV. possessed it in such an uncommon degree
that when one of his marshals informed him
that a beleaguered town was about to fall, the
king set out at once and took it, leaving
Pompadour at Versailles to await his return
and congratulate him on his prowess. In
the case of New South Wales the customary
compromise was effected, the denominational
system was allowed a fair amount of time
in which to die decently, and the new method
was inaugurated. The cry was for free,
secular, and compulsory eduction. This
demand was met in every way by the new
Act with the exception that the method
introduced by it was not free, nor entirely
secular, nor compulsory. Under it children
in numbers were still to be found playing in
the gutters and growing up in ignorance ;
the priest had still too great a power of
interference, and when Monday morning
with its collection of school-fees came round,
the children of the poor had still to declare
themselves paupers before an assemblage of
jeering class-mates. Nothing leaves such a
sting in a child’s mindashaving to periodically
proclaim the fact of his poverty. But it
would be too much to expect the New South
Wales leaders to copy the Victorian Act too
closely, so that to this day the plan followed
in the province dominated by the great
opportunist Parkes is lacking in symmetry
and completeness,
* # *
Still there was a great advance in not only
relieving the teacher from any necessity to
give religious instruction, but in absolutely
forbidding him to do so. This at once re-
lieved him from any necessity to proclaim
his faith. For it needs no argument to ex-
pose the absurdity of allowing a person’s
capacity for teaching long division to be
gauged by his belief in one Gon. or three or
none at all. In a university with a chair of
history it would be obviously improper to
have the latter filled by a Protestant when
most of his pupils were Catholics, or vice
versa. There is no doubt that a truly sin-
cere professor of one faith would differ
materially from one of the other regarding
such events as the massacre of the Albi-
genses, the expulsion of the Moriscoes, the
Reformation, the Revocation of the Edict of
Nantes, or the reigns of Phillip, Mary and
Elizabeth. But to ask a great mathemati-
cian to proclaim his belief before permitting
him to lecture on the properties of triangles,
or to demand a profession of faith from a
famous chemist before allowing him to ex-
pound the atomic theory, is, surely, fanatic-
ism run mad. In what does this differ
from demanding a declaration of religious
belief from a teacher who runs the chance of
dismissal through presuming to mention
religion at all? It was reserved for
the Premier of New South Wales to
decree and the fact cannot be too
widely bruited —that in the colony on
whose wind-pipe his grasp is beginning to
relax, the chance of a man's being employed
to teach the peculiarities of adjectives, is to
depend on whether he believes or does not
believe, that the wafer swallowed by him at
communion is the real flesh of Gon. The
circumstance is in entire keeping with the
whole life-record of the person who in
youth marched with or applauded the
Chartists, and in age prevented a famous
astronomer from relating on Sunday night
the marvellous story of the Universe as it
has been revealed by Science to mankind.
* * *
It was about a fortnight ago that the sub-
ject of teachers’ religions was broached in
the Legislative Assembly by Mr. Abigail.
As this law-maker rises in his place and
addresses the House in the language of a
Mrs. Gamp, the long, dreary history of fana-
ticism is at once explained. Under Alva
his zeal would have burnt against the strug-
gling Protestantism of Flanders; under
Cromwell it would have blazed as menacingly
against the wretched Papists of Ireland. We
are far from saying that Mr. Abigail is a bad
man—indeed, he has many attractive traits.
But, if there is one lesson that history teaches
more impressively than another, it is that
power maybe more safely trusted in the hands
of a thoroughly wicked man, than in those
of a narrow-minded one who always thinks
himself in the right. His complaint was that
too many Catholic teachers were employed
in the Cooma Public Schoo l . Thereupon
the Premier, while asserting that the
system was unsectarian, not secular, de-
clared that 4 4 the religious beliefs of teachers
should be known,” and that he was not op-
posed to the employment of Roman Catholics
44 in proper proportion.” The Victorian
schools are admittedly secular. Yet, so far
as the teaching is concerned, they only differ
from those of New South Wales in possessing
no Scripture-lesson series of school books,
and in not permitting the priest to cross the
threshold. In N.S. Wales the clergyman has
still the right of entry during certain hours,
when he may collect those of his flock whose
parents do not object, remove them into an
adjoining apartment out of earshot of the
others, and instruct them in the mysteries
of what some persons call his faith and others
his superstition. So far, however, as the
State teacher is concerned, the system is as
purely secular as that of Victoria. For
he has no more to do with a class under
the clergyman’s instruction, than a captain
with a ship when the pilot is on board.
Nor during the reading of the ordinary
Scriptures lessons is he suffered to make any
comment or afford any information. The
latter lessons consist of extracts from the
Testaments ; but as no comments whatever
are permitted on them it is not improbable
that each pupil adopts a different view as to
their meaning. The teacher, at all events,
whether Protestant, Catholic or Sceptic, has
but to hold his tongue during the reading
and collect the books when it is ended.
As previously stated, the result is that, to
the Public schoolmaster of N.S. Wales, the
system under which he serves is as truly
secular as any. This shows that the question
of his religion is one which, whatever in-
terest it may possess for himself, possesses
none for the State. To employ a person by
virtue of his faith and dismiss him for teach-
ing it, is worthy of the individual who but a
few days ago covered himself with glory by
asserting that for over a century no great
man had been in favour of a protective tariff.
* * *
But the worst remains behind. A religious
test is simply a premium on hypocrisy. It
means that so long as a man believes in his
faith he may be rejected, but that when it
fits him loosely, like an easy glove, his
employment is assured. For example, let us
take Mr. Abigail himself. It is surely not
too much to suppose that, should he
ever relinquish shoe-making for teaching,
and find his entrance into the profes-
sion barred by reason of the number
of his creed already employed, he would look
on the Pope with more kindly eyes, and,
possibly, come round to the opinion that
King William was a much over-rated man.
It is no disparagement to these gentlemen to
suggest such things. In these days the man
who would starve, sooner than express a
doubt concerning Purgatory or concerning
Luther, deserves to go hungry to bed. Thus
the new system will tell not against the
sceptics but against the misguided people who
believe what they were taught. As for the
doubter, he will be fairly in his element. For
he will change with as easy nonchalance as the
Vicar of Bray according as the chances of
Protestantism or of Catholicism lopk up.
From this it would appear as if the turn of
Agnosticism had at last come round. At
present the only methods for discovering a
teacher’s belief are by examining his name
and observing the church he attends. In
future it will be these people’s own faults
if they do not make slight alterations in
their patronymics when necessary and avoid
churches.
* # #
Mr. Abigail announces that he will next
session take an opportunity of pressing to a
division in Parliament, a resolution to the
effect that the religious beliefs of the N.S.
Wales State-school teachers should be known
to the authorities. May we be there to see !
Charity versus Churches.
Is the world growing less charitable? This is the
question the S.M. Herald lately laboured to
discuss. Slowly and with reluctance an affirma-
tive conclusion was arrived at. It was admitted
that the elements of charity, benevolence, and
philanthropy are indestructible, but that new
methods in accord with our tune are required to
call them into full activity. What is this ? Is it
a fact that the world is less charitable to-day than
it was a hundred or fifty years ago ? If so, what
is to keep it from becoming less charitable still ? It
is the indestructible elements of the principle that
create the methods. If these methods have not
been inspired while the old order was undergoing
change till the present time, where is the guarantee
that the inspiration will at any time come ? Where
is the guarantee that we are not on the road
to barbarism ? The world has been toiling upward
for centuries. The fall of an empire was not con-
sidered a loss to humanity. That empire had
simply served its purpose and gave way for the
building of a better one. Nor was the extinction
of a faith a loss to humanity. Stronger faiths
grew from the graves of the dead ones. Has this
upward march, however, reached a pass where the
course bends and keeps downward as far as eyes
can see? Mapommed stated a cardinal truth
when he said that men were made caring for one
another. The progress of centuries, if human life
be not to end in delusion, should show the en-
larging and deepening of this care. To suppose it
to be attenuated, to suppose it to be obliterated as
years go by, is to suppose the race befooled from
its birth.
# * #
We, therefore, demur at the Heeald’s con-
clusion. The indestructible elements of charity
are, we contend, more active to-day than at any
time in the past. Progress has not been great,
but the social history of the past hundred years
proves advance. There has been no standing still,
there has been no going back. Matters which
were left to the judgment and feeling of the ill-
informed or vicious a hundred years ago, are to-day
governed by the wisdom and sense of justice of
the many. Queen Elizabeth’s Poor Rate Tax
announced the opening of a new era in philan-
thropy. It is true that when people talk of
charity they mostly refer to voluntary offerings.
But in the first place it should be borne in mind
that the mere transfer of a sentiment from the
individual mind to the statute-book does not
destroy the individual’s property in the sentiment.
If it was charity before it remains charity after.
That the majority of the day accepted it as law
only shows how strong and wide-spread the senti-
ment was. If then the various methods which the
community collectively employs to do charitable
work be taken into account, it will be found that
the volume of benevolence is many times greater
than was that produced by individual almsgivers.
In the second place, however, we only temporarily
admit the right to distinguish between the charity
which is called a tax and the charity which is a
voluntary gift. There should not, in our social
system, be such a thing as a voluntary gift. A
man merits our help or he does not. If not, we
are under restraint to keep our help for some one
who does. If he merits, his merit is a claim. It
is owing to the confusion that exists on this point
that the upward progress of Civilisation has been
marked, century by century, by legal enactments
taking the worthy poor more and more out of the
hands of the individual and placing them in the
care of the community.
# * *
Therefore, seeing that much which used to be done
by the individual is done now by the State, we are
able to contemplate the apparent lethargy of the
benevolence of the individual with easier minds.
Were Australia to sink into the England of
a thousand years ago individual benevolence might
be greater in cases, but the volume would be un-
questionably less. If State-supported hospitals,
asylums, and refuges were denationalised and
thrown on the people to-morrow, numerous
displays of marked benevolence would certainly
be witnessed, but the annual result would, on
every reasonable hypothesis, be less satisfactory
than it is. This is the vital principle of Socialism,
and as Civilisation has been justifying it for cen
turies past, it is now almost beyond the reach of
debate. But if this be so, then the future will
show fewer examples of benevolence on the part
of individuals than the present. But this will be
so, not because, as the Herald says, the world is
growing less charitable, but because the community
is recognising more and more that, as it cannot kill
a man for being poor or helpless, it must feed him,.
and will consequently relieve him from being
dependent on the voluntary good offices of others.
# # *
The Herald gives certain cases in which a once
liberal instinct has grown unquestionably torpid.
These cases seem to have obstructed the writer’s
vision while trying to examine the problem before
him. He points out that the English missionary
societies lamented, at their May meeting-', a
serious falling-off in funds, and he contrasts the
enthusiastic pecuniary response of a few decades
ago at Exeter Hall with the meagre offerings of
to-day. It is almost a misuse of terms to refer to
money given in these circumstances as charity.
Some of the people who gave for these purposes
may have had good intentions, but all of
them had weak heads. They were hot religion-
ists, but cold humanitarians. They worked
white children seventeen hours in ill-ventilated
factories, and gave fifty or a hundred pounds to
have an African nigger taught the Thirty-nine
Articles. They never deserved to be classed
among benevolent people at all. If they never
give another penny to the missionaries, the cause
of the world’s charity will not be touched. Pos-
sibly, true charity will gain. The money blown to
the winds in missionary expeditions would have
given decent houses to the poor of London. When
Socialism gets power, the crime or folly of what is
called converting the heathen, will end. The
heathen will be duly brought in, as all will be
brought in ; but the starvation at our doors, and
the disease in our alleys, must be first met out of
the pockets of those who have to spare. We
therefore not alone repudiate the Herald’s con-
clusion, but the grounds on which it is formed.
As far as benevolence under State control is con-
cerned, the world is growing better. As far as
benevolence rising from honest human sympathy,
and revealed spontaneously by the individual is
concerned, the trait is as bright as ever. The
response made in our midst on behalf of the
victims of the London dock strike (to say nothing
of the splendid sums raised for the Ly-ee-moon and
Bulli disasters binds), attests this fully. It is that
which is not benevolence that is dying or dead,
and this is in accord with the inexorable law
which never sleeps and with which is incorporated
the world’s best hopes for its future.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
For the Term of His Natural Life.
When a member of Parliament proves a failure
you can defeat him at next election, and when a
dog makes a howling nuisance of himself you can
shoot him ; but when a judge spreads desolation
over suitors and airs his cranks and incapacity to
the disaster of everything within reach, you must
put up with him till he wafts himself off to
Heaven. There is nothing personal in this reflec-
tion. Australian judges in every jurisdiction are
men of unimpeachable probity, marvellous acumen,
and lustrous reason. They voice perfect judg-
ments, and rule their courts with a quiet dignity
and sublime moderation. But it is the duty of
journalists to peer with the telescope of discern-
ment through the haze of the future, and, in ful-
filment of this task, we are able to discover that, if
the present system is continued, there will, in years
to come, be wrong-headed ignoramuses and vehe-
ment fanatics wearing the wigs of judges and
causing loss and discontent by their foolishness
and violence. And as nothing short of corruption
accomplished is now held to be sufficient cause for
the removal of a judge, these Daniels, if ever
appointed, will be fixed for life in positions which
they will not be able to hold with honour to them-
selves and advantage to the community. In view
of such a danger, it becomes a big question whether
the system of giving judges a tenure of office for
the term of their natural lives—second childhood
included —is altogether a good idea. It obtained
vogue when judges were only moderately honest,
and when bribery by kings who were not at all honest


was the chief danger to be apprehended. _ But
State bribery of their Honours has become impos-
sible • the main evils now to be prevented are
those' arising from crassness, incapacity, and un-
conscious bias to the nominees to the Bench. And
these evils are not sufficient to serve as a founda-
tion for the address of both Houses which is the
only means—assassination being improper and
illegal—of removing a judge to some cool place of
obscurity where he can be kept out of mischief. It
is necessary to give judges freedom in the exercise
of their duties, but the present conditions insure
so great an excess of freedom that the judges
could all put on frills of the largest size and most
offensive description if they were so minded. The
possible error of life-appointments is, to a great
extent, contained in the fact that you can’t tell
what sort of a judge a barrister will make
until he gets well set in his position. He
may turn out an angel of legal light, or
an emissary of the Evil One who presides
over the whole profession. He may start badly
and turn out well afterwards, or he may be a bad
performer from the jump. But whatever he is, he
is there, like your wife, for better for worse, and
you can’t get the Parliamentary decree nisi to
divorce him from the Bench unless you catch him
red-handed in the act of corruption. If appoint-
ments were for five or ten years the necessary in-
dependence would be secured, a guarantee of good
conduct would be obtained for the public, and the
country might then, within reasonable time, be
relieved of the sorrowful results of the appoint-
ment of men who had not judicial ability or
humanity enough to enable them to act as referees
at a dog-fight.
*
The Murray Question.
When “orator” Buchanan, M.L.0., indignantly
described his fellow members of the New South
Wales Parliament as “ miserable animalculae ” he
probably based his condemnation on the attitude
which some of them have assumed with regard to
“our river,” the Murray. The preposterous claim
of Sir Henry Parkes that New South Wales
shall exercise a dominion over the Murray waters,
is about as mean as any contention on record.
And yet he has supporters on this question in
the House and probably means to give fu'l
effect to his threats against the Victorians,
who are to be restrained from taking ad-
advantage of their Murray River frontage. How
the restraint is to be imposed is not so clear.
Perhaps a Supreme Court tipstaff will be sent
along to keep the territory intact, or else a bailiff
may be despatched to levy on the cabbages which
have grown weighty at the expense of “our river,”
or else the Sydney Lancers may be dug up and
sent along to keep watch by the Murray. But
whatever expedient is chosen, it does not seem
easy to discover how Victorians can be deprived of
their riparian rights. Even though an Imperial
Statute enacts that New South Wales shall
extend to the south bank of the river, this
could not in any jurisdiction be held to
imply that Victorians should forfeit riparian
rights which in all civilised countries have ever
been held to be inalienable. According to legal
fiction, the Murray is “land covered with water,”
but that ingenious definition is altogether too thin
to support the position which Sir Henry has
assumed. An Imperial or any other statute which
pretends to deprive the possessors of river front-
ages of the use of river waters is ultra vires and
opposed to all natural justice. Such a statute
could not be enforced by any process, especially
when, as in the present case, the other bank
of the river is subject to another jurisdiction,
and any attempt at such enforcement would
be a violation of the liberties of citizens, or
else an act of war, if, as in the present case, the
persons to be restrained are residents of another
jurisdiction. The arrogance of the claim put
forward by Sir Henry Parkes is another proof of
the wretched parochialism which sways the old-
timers on our political stage. The foreign policy
of the Parkes-Robertson school of New South
Wales politicians has ever been included in one
continual kow-tow to England, and a no-less
constant carping at Victoria, and this present
pretension is one of the choicest products of that
policy. The whole contention is too absurd for
serious argument and too mean for notice. The
only explanation of the business will probably be
found in the desire of the Parkesian “Liberal”
party to keep New South Wales and Victoria at
variance, in order to prevent any progress towards
Australian Federation. But that game is just
about played out.
+
“The Poor Ye Have Always With Ye.”
In his article on “Poverty at Bay,” in the
Sydney Daily Telegraph, Mr. David Christie
Murray writes pleasantly of the homes and
haunts of the dock-labourer. Pleasantly is the
right word. Clean-cut literary work, it is interest-
ing to read, and furnishing an unexaggerated
picture of the miserable condition of the London
dock-labourer. But there is no firm suggestion of
a remedy. Mr. Murray is content to indulge in
the vague hopefulness for the future which satisfies
the Pastor Jepferis school under similar circum-
stances. “The poor ye have always with ye ”
that text in which the selfish and oppressive
have found so much comfort, seemed to him also to
be Alpha and Omega on the subject. “Whatever
hope shines far off in the bitter destiny of the poor
at home,” he says, “gleams from some possible
nebulous planet of universal altruism—the gener-
ous self-sacrificing love of men for men
But here, where pastures broad as kingdoms and
cornfields wide as seas, wait the strong arm and
patient heart of labour, there is room for more of
the great over-crowded herd at home than you
have yet found a place for. ” Something may, pos-
sibly, occur sometime to better the condition of
the Poor through the increasing generosity and
self-denial of the Rich; that seems to be Mr.
Murray’s idea, but, in the meantime, let
them be packed off to Australia, out of
the way. It is time than an end were made
of such talk as this. The “herd” is over-
crowded at home, simply because room for other
herds, such as deer, is needed by those who have
the power to insist upon the satisfying of all their
needs. One Huxley, a professor, who has given
much study and investigation to the matter, and
whose reputation is free from any charge of rash
assertion, tells us that England could maintain
twice her present population with being over
crowded. Judging from the squalor and distress
which exist in the large towns of Ireland, one who
did not know how that country has been depopu-
lated of late, would say it was overcrowded. To
glance at Glasgow, where dock-labourers have also
been forced to go on strike for an extra halfpenny
an hour, one who did not know the areas of
country consecrated to grouse might imagine that
over-population was making itself felt there too.
Mr. Murray, elsewhere in his article, opines that
the dense ignorance which formerly afflicted the
English masses is being dissipated too rapidly, and
appears to conclude that safety demands more
gradualness. “Light falling upon eyes too long
accustomed to darkness is apt to be a little
o
her that they would be late for business. He got no
answer. She was dead. They had earned their living, he
continued, by selling shrimps and watercress. Trade had
been bad, and, after paying 2s. a week for rent, there was
not much left. Quoth the coroner, “ Have you ss. a week
to live upon?” “Lord bless you, no, sir,” replied the old
man, “ not when the rent is paid.” He had never asked
for parish relief. “ I thought as how we could struggle
on. There was always a crust of bread, and we didn’t
want much.” The landlady of this poor, quiet couple
said that they always paid their rent, and seemed to be
satisfied with very little. The doctor deposed that the ,
deceased required strengthening food, such as beef-tea,
eggs, and milk. Death was due to the failure of the
heart’s action, accelerated by extreme debility. Verdict
accordingly.
God save the Queen and all the .Royal Family,
Hooray !
♦
On the subject of our rising native generation, a
Melbourne daily says that “ the slightness of build,
as compared with the burly figure of the typical
Englishman, is another marked characteristic of the
race.” How the intelligent foreigner laughs over
that same “typical Englishman,” founded on
Punch’s caricatures of John Bull ! His burly
figure is a national delusion, a strange example of
insular ignorance. True, the British farmer or
alderman is a man of some girth, but not a cir-
cumstance beside his German or Dutch cousin. As
for the cockneys and provincial town-bred men,
they are pretty lean and hungry looking, taken as
a class, and they need go no further than
Canada to find that the old John Bull is an
exploded myth. We have heard a waiter in a
Canadian hotel—good judges of mankind are
waiters —question the Englishness of a visiting
globe-trotter on the ground that he was too plump
and healthy-looking to have issued from the old
country. “The Englishmen who come here are gener-
ally poor, skinny sort of fellows,” said the waiter.
He formed his opinion on such material as came
to hand, looking at it with an unprejudiced eye.
Londoners are firm believers in the typical Eng-
lishman, whom they constantly meet in their local
“ comics ” (even The Bulletin finds it convenient
to use the accepted fraud in cartoons) and on the
the music-hall stage. When beer agrees with a
music-hall vocalist to the extent of unduly swelling
him, he puts on a pair of top-boots, blue coat with
big brass buttons, and devotes his life to yelling
“My name is John Bull.” Very pitiful it is to
see a swarm of puny shop-boys and attenuated
mashers swallowing the monstrous untruth, and
bringing “John Bull” back to shout 26 more
verses. Very natural it is that our Tory Press
should compare this conservative fiction with the
lithe and wiry young Australian, who is hereby
advised to take the measurements of the next ship-
load of spindle-shanked new-ohums. We should
like to hear living Bismarck reckon up traditional
“John Bull.” “ The burly figure of the typical
Englishman,” forsooth ! The “bloated capitalist ”
is a mere figure of speech, although he is certainly
a deal fleshier than the typical dock-labourer, re-
duced to the ghastly necessity of being burly on
eight shillings and one penny per week. And as
there are more British starving dock labourers,
stunted factory-hands, nigger-driven shop-assist-
ants, unemployed mechanics, than there are
British farmers, it is time that a severe change
came o’er the typical John Bull. He must be
represented as a hollow-eyed human scaffolding,
falling to pieces for want of proper food, recrea-
tion, and rest.
Replying to a question during the recent debate
on the Ban Francisco mail service in the New
South Wales Parliament as to whether he had in-
quired of his under-secretary concerning some
point, Postmaster-General O’Connor said, “1
don’t ask my under-secretary ; I tell him. Things
have changed.” They have changed—with a
vengeance ! Just read this business-like minute of
the Secretary to the New South Wales’ Post
Office
I do not think it is possible to take any other course
than at once dismiss . It is not denied that he
opened and destroyed these letters, and if, as the jury
“ found,” he did the deed whilst in a state of insanity, it
is clear that the Department cannot employ insane men as
letter-carriers. If he did it, as some of his witnesses seem
to have affirmed, either whilst drunk or whilst suffering
from the effects of drink, this is, perhaps, a still stronger
reason why he should not be retained ; whilst if, when he
destroyed the letters, he was neither insane nor drunk,
the crime is even a still worse one.
On top of this comes a minute by Postmaster-
General O’Connor
After carefully considering ’s case, I have come to
the conclusion of reducing him to some position in the
head office, at a lower salary. lam fully convinced of the
heinous offence committed by -—, but there was strong
palliating evidence in his favour; moreover, it was the
dying request of the late Honourable Jons Sutherland,
who knew for nearly thirty years, and thought highly
of him, that he should get another chance to retrieve him-
self.
In other words, a man who tears up letters while
insane or drunk is to be kept in the General Post-
office because “moreover” such was the dying
wish of some good natured old billet-getter
now in Heaven ! Mr. Blank, who, it would
appear, is now employed as a letter-sorter,
is indeed a privileged person. The non-
delivery of a letter may mean untold misery;
it may mean anything, from bankruptcy to death.
If this poor crank is considered worthy of mercy,
let him, even if only in justice to his unfortunate
peculiarity, be employed in some less responsible
position right outside the post office wall. And,
by the way, Dan O’Connor also will have to be
given employment outside the post-office wall if he
goes on in this style.
The first mutterings of a coming “home rule”
storm have been heard in Wales since Gladstone
charged the air of that mountainous region with
electricity. The men of Harlech and surrounding
localities don’t pay-up their Church tithes with
promptness and despatch ; neither do they display
a cheerful disposition to cackle the “National
Anthem” in their native tongue. No outsiders
ever did know for certain what these hardy Welsh-
men were saying about the Throne and the Con-
stitution, but of late it has become horribly
apparent that they say something different to what
they did ten years ago, and rumour insinuates that
they are remarking “and n!” which is a word of
93 syllables in those parts. Local minstrel boys
are alleged to warble strange songs of liberty,
many centuries old, while the inhabitants gather
round and join in mediaeval chorus full of indes-
cribable significance. Anyway, Lord Salisbury
seems to have sniffed a spirit of rebellion in the
rarified atmosphere of Wales, and so we read that
the Queen —who seldom wobbles off her beaten
track between Windsor and Balmoral, except for
reasons of State —has gone among the Taffies with
a view to rallying their scattered loyalty. A sight
of our beloved Queen in person is the old Tory
remedy for all disaffections of the social and poli-
tical systems, and Salisbury prescribed a dose of
that gracious lady to be taken immediately. It is
a fact which sticks out from the situation with
startling clearness. The Queen’s many-coloured
countenance is expected to act as an antidote to
Gladstone’s tongue. But as we hear no tales of
overwhelming enthusiasm displayed in celebration
of Victoria's present pilgrimage, the chances are
that the Welshmen have been letting off the word
of 93 syllables worse than ever
The Latest Lecturer.
Mr. David Christie Murray travels as a lecturer
on his reputation as a novelist. If we may
determinejthe number of his readers by thesizeof his
audiences, then even in the latter capacity he does
not appeal to a very largo circle. If we accept
him as an authority, the ordinary novelist is the
product of environments; to this statement Ids
listeners _ will feel constrained to add that the
lecturer is born and not to be artificially produced.
The author of “Joseph’s Coat,” “First Person
Singular,” &c., is proud of his Staffordshire up-
bringing, his Anglo-Saxon descent, and his audi-
ences are constantly reminded of the fact by his pa-
rochial utterances. In his opening sentences the
speaker spoke largely of his want of confidence,
and with such a monitor of his deficiences for
ever ringing in his ears, his statement that, unlike
John Bright, the sound of his own voice does not
banish Ids nervousness, is not calculated to arouse
astonishment. He has undoubtedly a story to
tell; but it is spoilt in the telling, and his insular
sympathies utterly preclude him from strongly
attracting a cosmopolitan audience. Possibly Ids
best effects were his imitations, especially of
Bright, into which a fulness of tone and
force was imported strangely at variance with
his usual indistinct monotones. His attempt
to claim for the English-speaking races a
monopoly of patriotism, valour and heroism,
deservedly failed to arouse the approval of a small
and lukewarm assemblage. As for his “trot up
the avenue,” his shuffling wobble in the footprints
of the departed Parkin, his attempt to galvanise
life into the dry bones of Imperial Federation, it
was such a spavined and broken-winded effort
that it simply evoked pity where it did not arouse
contempt,
Mr. Murray’s assertion that an Anglo-Saxon
confederation would “police the world ” and assure
its peace by saying to “bragging bullies like Russia
‘ lay a finger on that weakling and you die!’” in
face of the fact that Britain is the worst robber
and engulpher of “ weaklings ” that this earth has
ever seen, is mere claptrap, and scarcely calls for
serious notice or studied contradiction. The
Federation for which the citizen of the world, the
philosopher, works, is not that of the Anglo-Saxon,
the German, or the Russ races, but a Federa-
tion of Mankind. This can be best brought out and
initially encouraged by the rejection of outside
interference and the internal development of every
people worthy of the name. Mr. Murray is an
admirer of John Bright’s utterances on the unity
of the United States, an internal unity that pre-
cludes them from warring with outside powers
while content to interchange with them products,
mental and physical. Let him study and take to
heart a deliverance of the departed tribune whom
he so feelingly eulogised. Said he :
I should like to ask the Federation people, looking at the
colonies of this country, Canada and the great Australian
colonies that cluster in the South Pacific, whether they
imagine that these colonies will be willing to undertake
the responsibility of entering- into wars, the seat of which
is 10,000 miles away, and in which they cannot have the
slightest interest, and, when they may not have been in
the least consulted as to the cause of the war which this
country was rushing into ? In my opinion the colonies
will never stand it. If I were a Canadian, Victorian, New
South Wales man, Queenslander, or New Zealander,
I would take good care, as far as I was concerned, that
my voice should never go in favour of the policy of the
Old Country as far as that was concerned. It would he
much better for us and for humanity that these colonies
should be under Governments of their own and inde-
pendent. Not entering into quarrels in which they were
not concerned, but endeavouring to maintain their own
honour, while refusing to take part in the miserable bloody
contests which for a long time past have disfigured the
history of the kingdom in which we live.
We do not ask Mr, Murray to eliminate
parochialism from his enunciation, but we counsel
him to banish it from his utterances. Australian
sympathies are not cribbed and cabined by a nar
row horizon of Rule Brittania-ism, and the man
who attempts to awaken tribal enthusiasm in Aus-
tralia is simply wasting his breath, beating a con-
tracted forehead to pulp before a Humanitarianism
that utterly fails to recognise the limitations im-
posed by old-time creeds, and the antagonism of
racial distinctions.
That Mr. Murray lacks the capacity to fathom
the profundities of the social question, we consider
proven by his platitudinarian statement, delivered
in all seriousness and with studied empressement,
that the tattered poor are of passions like unto
his hearers, arrayed though they be in the broad-
cloth of Respectability. This may tickle the fibres
of British Pharisaism, which, heartily applauding
the cheap and tawdry sentiment, will nevertheless
continue to regard the proletariat with contempt
and disgust; but the bulk of a representative Aus-
tralian audience has sprung from the ranks, has
been educated in the school of adversity, has
triumphed over the billows of poverty, and such
washy humanitarianism not only fails to charm,
but is at once an insult to their intelligence and a
deathblow to the utterer’s chances of winning their
approbation. In conclusion, the lecturer assured
his audience that he considers a three months’ tour
in the colonies will not qualify him for the writing
of a book on Australia. This is comforting.
The Economist suggest the formation of a fund
for providing the incomes of the British Royal
Family, to be obtained by capitalizing the reve-
nues of the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster
and the sale of several useless palaces, &c. In
view of the procreativeness of the Guelphs, such
a fund would not long be sufficient, unless some
line of limitation be clearly marked out, whereby
descendants of Royalty, after so many removes,
are not entitled to public support. The ducal
family of Norfolk, though it now numbers close on
two thousand males alone—has not proved itself
nearly so prolific as the Guelph family ; and, it is
probable, will soon be outstripped by it in numbers.
Will the admirers of Royalty be as eager to pension
off its members when they are numbered by
thousands as now, when they are numbered by
tens ? Numbers ought not to affect the principle,
if it be sound.
+
A benighted soul, one Ford, labouring under
certain serious hallucinations regarding man’s
duty towards man, has again dragged out
the barbaric Judaism—“ Whoso sheddeth man’s
blood by man shall his blood be shed ” —into the
light of civilisation through the medium of the
S.M. Herald. He has been ably answered from
the theological standpoint by Mr. Frederick Lee,
and it only remains for The Bulletin to point out
once more that logical obedience to such a com-
mand—the quotation, properly interpreted, is
a mere aphouism, not a command—would not
end with the execution of Morrison as
the slayer of Sutherland, but would be fol-
lowed by the execution of Nosey Bob as the slayer
of Morrison, and the judge and jury who con-
demned him as particeps criminis, while the legal
murderers of the latter batch would also require to
be judicially slaughtered. This could only end in
the depopulation of the country, and the only
other equivalent—the total disregard of the in-
humane Scriptural injunction—is what The Bulle-
tin has ever struggled to impress on the minds of
Its readers.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Sept. 18, 1889.
Mr Dear Mookamnda •
The opening of the Sydney Hospital Bazaar and Village
Fair on 12th inst. would have been a success had the com-
mittee only deferred it until the last pin-cushion had been
unpacked ; but, as it was, the sight of several unfinished
stalls was depressing, and the sound of one or two indus-
trious hammers hopelessly drowned those precious vice-
regal accents on which we all so lovingly linger. I didn’t
quite grasp the opening ceremony. The Baron marched
on to the platform, which was thronged with the sellers in
their nurses’ garb; Alfred Allen, M.P.—-whose face always
suggests a tinted Parkes on a small scale—called three
times for cheers for the Queen, I believe, and merely got
a whisper back ; then the hammers struck in, after which
everybody scampered off the platform and the show began.
There were twenty stalls, mostly named after hospitals,
perhaps the most gloomily interesting being the “Con-
valescent” stall, where I saw one large and robust cake
displayed, a slice of which would double tip a navvy. There
are no startling novelties on the stalls, which are all
laden with those tinsel odds and ends people unanimously
dedicate to bazaars; though one stall had a goodly display
of children’s pinafores and et oeteras, and the “ bookstall
and post-office ” makes a desperate grasp at utility in the
shape of notepapcr and penny stamps. There are a Theatre
Royal (unfinished on the 12th) innumerable side-shows,
and the everlasting “Maypole” round which the tiny
dancers, dressed as ploughboys and village maidens, came
to such signal confusion on the opening day that this
rustic pastime should be weeded out of the show as
quickly as possible. Also, there are actually no seats any-
where in the building—and the row of fagged femininity
which perched itself along the edge of the platform with a
brass band blaring just at its back, showed how urgently
chairs were needed. The show will keep open till the 24th,
and as it is in aid of a most deserving charity and the
girls look quite too ministering-angely in nurses’ attire
(they all wear dark-blue with white caps and aprons) and
the prices charged are comparatively moderate, the
bazaar ought to result in a considerable “ gate.”
It’s always fine weather for the annual Manly Flower
Show, and if the affair doesn’t invariably come up to the
day, Nature isn’t responsible. Notwithstanding the fact
that dozens of the most fascinating ladies of “Our Village”
had risen at 4 a.ra. for weeks to clamber with a regular
ballet display of gaiter into high spring-carts and go
forth to capture.the wattle weeping o’er the stockman’s
tomb and wrestle with waratahs, the show opened on
the 11th inst. didn’t eclipse its predecessors. There were
eight stalls and a fernery, while a Maypole (extra), the
“feeding” tent, and a brass-band did all they knew to
lighten the festivity, which wanted a little galvanising—
though I did see a venerable cleric insinuate his reverend
arm round a lady’s waist, and another gentleman
effusively kiss a young person in a Directoire coat on the
shady side of the lawn. But, then, they were both his
wife. The show was opened at the impossible hour of
2 p.m. (in the interests of the luncheon-tent, I sup-
pose) by His Excellency, who wore a red and blue
striped tie and didn’t smile, and who got away as
soon as he could, followed by Captain Herbert, laden with
a rather dissipated-looking bouquet, sent by the Show to
Lady Carington, who wasn’t there, her place on the plat-
form being occupied by the Mayoress. There were one or
two nice gets-up, perhaps the most fashionable garb being
a tailor-built, well-cut brown tweed, with low-cut brown
silk vest, white shirt, tie, and cuffs fastened with mannish-
looking solitaires. She spoilt the ensemble , though, by a
rather airy “dress” hat.
After the show I did the Aquarium, where the swim-
ming-baths, to be on the left side of the building, are
going ahead very rapidly. They will be fininished on an
early date in November, when an additional joy will be
lent to a show that comprises octopii, live sea-horses,
monkeys, and a manager with bright blue eyes.
If you go to the “ Cup ” be sure to wear tan boots, for they
are to be very largely sported in Melbourne this summer
by the very best people, my dear, no matter how wide
their feet may be. And did you know that the latest way
to keep long gloves above your elbow is to cut slits in the
kid round the top and thread broad ribbon through,
which you tie in impossing bows-and-ends ? Considering
that our elbows give us away so hopelessly, this fashion
ought to carry all before it. And, apropos of fal-de-rals,
the latest wedding-present is a set of buttons to finish a
Directoire gown, which always has only buttons for
trimming. They are made of coral, pearl, silver or gold,
anything valuable up to diamonds if you can afford them,
and are really handsome and useful. By the by, pearl
buttons are coining in again.
Quite the feature of the Julius Caesar matinee at Her
Majesty’s on the 14th was the goodly array of poor
players in the d.c., which was crowded like the rest of the
house. Helen Kinnaird was there in a pale-grey Directoire
gown lightened with white moire and steel beads, and an
Alsatian bonnet to match; Miss Roraer wore black and
pince-nez; Eyebrows Inman sparked a small woman in
green and moire; Percy Lyndal was appropriated by a Potts
Point lady in a big green hat and a pink skirt—oh, nothing
but Thespians; and the consequence was a far more
sentient and individual d.o. than one often has the
pleasure to sit amongst—the echoing applause sometimes
suggested that someone had come with a touch of resin
on his palms. “ Julius Caesar” went as of yore, and the
sight of those long-coated old Roman coryphees in act
Ist, who kick not, neither do they spin, made me reflect
that there is every reason for supposing that Cassar—who
had only to order what he fancied—was not bald. After
Julius Caesar, I came down the steps behind two who
had been revelling in Shakesb§,con, and said she—*“ But
why did Brutus kill himself?” and her friend replied—
“Oh, because the other gentleman did,” And as they
vanished into the without I heard her voice again raised,
saying—“ And that Et tu Brute— why didn’t Caesar say it
in French ? ”
Mr. David Christie Murray amuses me when he says it
strikes him forcibly that the Australians have as yet
developed no distinctively Australian type. “ You speak
the English tongue with no perceptible accent, and the
Australians are, in their manner and customs, distinctly
British.” He hasn’t yet discovered the historical Aus-
tralian twang, and the reason he considers us so English
is very likely because most of the Melbourne and Sydney
young men he has met turn up their trousers and say
“ haw ” intelligently at long intervals. Perhaps, though,
when the novelist strikes Cow Flat ho may alter his views.
“The whole tendency of the race,” he says, “it would
appear is to ‘ throw back,’ and I fancy that when the Aus-
tralians develope distinctly national characteristics they
will be those of the English at an earlier time.” When
they painted themselves bright blue with woad and held
crude architectural views ? Or later, when everybody
who was anybody negotiated three bottles nightly and
slept where he fell ?
A new “ Gusher ” rose in the S.M.H. last week signing
“ Nora,” and anxious to give her views on “Women and
the Stage.” She commenced by saying that actresses’
successes in tragic parts are due to the fact that there is (?)
“always more of tragedy in a woman’s life than a man’s,’
and just here I must stop to sob that it is so! Base,
butterfly man has no bustle to surreptitiously elevate
every time he gets up ; his flesh doesn’t creep when Mrs.
Next-door comes out in a Spring hat, or arrays her Bobby
in a Fauntleroy suit! Nor does he suffer the agony of the
woman who gives age-particulars to a census friend while
derisive laughter echoes over the dividing-fence. Yes,
our life is darkened with tragedy. I am glad to agree
with “Nora,” who further goes on to remark that “any
woman who wishes to bo successful on the stage should
have, in addition to histrionic talent—genius, if possible—
a cast-iron constitution, a buoyant spirit, and an unlimited
pow'er of study.” “ Genius—if possible” is very neat, if
rather rough on the various stars now attitudinising ad
over the place, but in Nora’s recipe for a great actress
she leaves out three most important items—the diamonds,
the wardrobe, and the unlimited capacity for self-
advertisement, which form the mainspring of theatrical
success nowadays.
Clara sends me an appalling account of the goings-on of
a young married sassiety woman at the Mayor of Mel-
bourne’s ball. The artless thing in question had seven
consecutive dances with one platonic friend, taking a glass
of champagne after each dance. As time went on her
languorous leanings on the arm of Adolphus excited the
alarm of the old gentleman she once swore to love and
obey, so he took possession of her—as much possession as
she ever allows, they do say—and told her, in a fatherly
way, that he thought she was over-fatiguing herself. He
conducted his dear little wife to a cosey nook. She was
quite overcome by her feelings and her head fell gently on
hubby’s shoulder. It was an unexpected evidence of
affection which delighted the old gentleman, until the lady,
whose eyes were closed meanwhile, said, “ I would like
to shtop here for eversh, but I shpose you must take
me to my husband.” Clara writes that she was doing a
quiet spoon hard by, and heard the awful speech. Other
wise the Benjamin Ball seems to have been eminently
proper and magnificent. Gowns mostly rich, but with an
occasional tendency to the florid Gothic style. Lady
Robinson represented the Crown in a cream pompadour
satin, with greeny jet about it. The Mayoress loomed
large in a gold brocade over ivory striped satin, panelled
and jewelled with striking effect, and her eldest daughter
wore a very pale-green silk and velvet. Mrs. Arthur
Garner’s white satin and brocade made a favourable im-
pression, and about a thousand others looked “nice as
usual,” or nicer. One bodice, on the solemn word of my
informant, was three-quarters of a yard of silk and the
remainder flesh.
‘Dorothy” was “Y.R.” on the 12th inst., when the
usual throng hustled up the stairs. A wicked man friend
once told me that he disliked “Y.R.” nights because the
actors cut out such a lot for fear of shocking the suscepti-
bilities of the exalted people whose native city sent us the
Gaiety Company ! If that is the case no wonder “ Y.R.”
nights are so infrequent.
Rather late in the season Brisbane vice-regalities have
seen the foolishness of their ways and “ darncing ” is now
indulged in at the gubernatorial chavoos. Sir Henry
and Lady Norman will summer at Southport (Q.), but
before migrating thencewards, will pay Lord and Lady
Carington a visit, arriving in Sydney in time for the open-
ing of the “ Centennial Hall.” They will then goon to
Melbourne for the Cup, and will probably return to
Bananaland sadder and wiser all round. Speaking of
vice-regalities, the Earl and Countess of Hopetoun are the
most juvenile offenders ever ordered out to Australia.
They have only been married three years “come October, j
and have but one child—a son. Consequently, young,
first-pledge couples are the height of fashion across the
Murray, and the society matron with eleven children
howling in the nursery weeps with her face to the dado.
The Australian Club ball is to eventuate on the 18th
inst., at Need’s rooms. The Union Club hold their annual
hop on the 27th. St. Vincent is billed for the 25th ; and
the Spring Meeting of the A.J.O. commences on 21st, at
Randwick.
The intelligent comp, had some fun at my expense last
week. No lady was so Quixotic as to wear black roses in
her bonnet at the recent reception, and as for the Admiral’s
biliousness arising from a bouquet, I’m sure I wrote
banquet.
Admiral and Mrs. Fairfax left by express for Melbourne
—the first stage of their home journey—on 12th inst., and
several of the very nicest people swarmed the Redfern
station to see the last of them. The ladies showered high-
priced vegetables on Mrs. Fairfax and wept copiously over
her nice bonnet, and generally.behaved as usual, and three
eau-de-cologne-scented cheers went up as the train
started. The Admiral’s parting souvenir from his Sydney
friends was a “ handsomely illuminated menu,” which is
about the most unkind thing to give a person starting on
the overland trip Sappho ever heard of.
In Sydney’s “leading daily” “Arthur, a gentleman
with tenor voice, and a large quantity of latest songs,
offers his services gratuitously at concerts, &c., for chari-
table purposes.” I knew the time would come when the
young man with the devastating top-notes and the wide
feet would have to advertise for victims.
The tickets for “Johnny” Solomon’s matinee ben. at
Sydney Criterion on 13th, went off in shoals, and though
only a well-filled house resulted, all tho seats were really
taken. The second act of “Beggar Student,” “Charity
Begins at Home,” the third act of “She Stoops to
Conquer” and the second of “Fanchon,” with Mes-
merist Kennedy and a grand concert, formed the
very long, strong, undragging bill. Katie Putman
—a small actress with a profile something like
our Nellie’s would be quite too fascinating if
her idea of “make-up” were not so crude; her cheeks
resembled two healthy prickly-pears, and didn’t melt
gradually into the bridge of her nose after the approved
fashion, but ended like the red circles on the Bondi tram-
board. Nevertheless her pathos wrung deep sobs from a
large, spongey man in the gallery. The concert was
remarkable for the extremely haphazard garb of the
singers, Miss Saville and Signor Buzzi only being fittingly
attired for an afternoon performance.
“The Profession” is generally considered as rathe*
superstitious, but perhaps the fact that Manager Solo-
mon’s “ ben.” successfully eventuated on Friday, the
thirteenth day of the ninth month, and was a complete
success, may act as an antidote to the prevailing horror of
spilt salt, ladders, and so on.
During the reorganisation of Melbourne Government
House, Sir William and Lady Robinson will stay at the
Grand Hotel, Melbourne. I hope the other boarders are
musical, for their own sakes. If they’re not, Sappho drops
a silent tear for them in advance.
On dit that the coming Admiral, Lord Charles Scott,
has two relatives in Sydney. One is connected with a big
drapery firm, and the other is the wife of a successful
broker. Which means, that if his lordship will only be
chummy he may get his shirts at wholesale prices and will
have special warnings against salted mines. In a young
country like this it is a great and solemn thing to be re-
lated to a stockbroker.
A Brisbane paper says that Lord Dunlo and Mr. God-
frey Robinson, his tutor, are passengers for Brisbane by
the Lusitania. But Mr. Godfrey Robinson isn’t Lord
Dunlo’s tutor. He is merely a friend travelling with him,
so-’tis said, helping him to bear up against the depressing
effects of a honeymoonless wedding.
“Our leading paper” says, anent the wedding of Fife
and Louise, that “ Her Majesty was in a particularly
cheerful mood. She embraced the bride more than once
at parting, and although she inclined to be emotional, was
not once observed to shed a tear.” Then they must have
had cheap champagne. Under the influence of the usual
brand Her Majesty would never have so far forgotten her-
self ! “Louise’s wedding-cake weighed 1501b5.” The
trail of the serpent is over them all. Even Royalty can-
not dodge dyspepsia when it wrestles with the death-
dealing nuptial bun.
Yours affectionately.
SAPPHO SMITH.
It is truly amazing how rampant and successful
the Melbourne Sabbatarians are, for that city is
by no means pious. We will venture to say that
Melbourne is the most moral, and at the same
time, least pious city in Australia. But a small
and noisy knot of Sabbatarians rides roughshod
over 400,000 people. They terrify the Govern-
ment, even into an attempt to prohibit Volney
from passing the Custom House. They dab their
finger down on every Sunday bit of music, every
Sunday library. When Christmas fell on a Sun-
day they managed to prohibit the performance of
the Messiah at a theatre. The mischief of all this
is that there will be a re-action. Come round to
Melbourne in the next century, and you will find
the grand Sunday night attraction will be the
“ Black Crook,” with a ballet of 200, at the new
National Republic Theatre. Now, this would be
an evil, everyone will admit, but the Melbourne
Sabbatarians carry on just the same game as
Cromwell and his Puritans did, followed by
Charles 11., and the plays of the vicious Ether-
edge and Wycherley. The horse will kick right
smack over the straps. It’s Moral Melbourne
now, but give a few more turns to the screw, and
you’ll have San Francisco and Chicago outdone. At
present it is ruled by the Presbyterian Assembly.
The writer of these lines lately stood on a Sunday
afternoon, at the Melbourne Wharf, beside the
most renowned policeman of the day in getting
Sunday trading convictions, and what did that
policeman say? This : “Look at the people
trooping in and out of all those public-houses.
What is the good of our prosecutions? They are
a downright farce ? The police are disgusted with
the job.” Now the dodge is to send young con-
stables in plain clothes amid the boozers, and thus
entrap the Bonifaces. It is the most degrading
thing that can be put upon the police. No man
with self-respect will descend to it. How can the
Melbourneites expect an efflc’ent force ? Let them
train their policemen to be sneaks and informers,
and burglary and robbery will continue unchecked
as at present. The whole is a desperate attempt
to make water run uphill. Melbourne aspires to
set the globe a pattern in rank stupidity. Yet
more drunken men may be seen in its streets of a
Sunday than on any other day of the week ! There
is su h a pleasing sense of adventure in getting a
di-ink “in the dim religious light of the bar,” as
Gaunson says.
The case of James Shanahan (who with one
Davis was blown up by a gunpowder explosion)
versus the Taranganba Mining Co. for their
“negligence in allowing an iron tamping rod to be
used in blasting rock, when a wooden or copper
one should have been supplied,” tried in the
Supreme Court, Maryborough (Q.), before a jury
of four, has resulted, on appeal, in a verdict by
the Full Court for the defendants. The use of
iron tamping rods is contrary to law, anti it was
clearly proved (as evidenced by the jury’s finding)
that the company “negligently and carelessly,”
in spite of the miners’ protestations, re-
frained from substituting a safe tool for the
dangerous one originally supplied. The jury
had also found it proved that the accident was
attributable solely to the use of this rod, and
not to negligence on part of the plaintiff, or any
other servant; also that the defendants were fully
cognisant of the danger involved by its use. The
Queensland Full Court’s extraordinary decision
can really only be accounted for by the hoary-
headed axiom that there is one law for the rich
and another for the poor : that Property gets the
benefit of the doubt at the hands of the Law
as against Labour, and that laws, severely enforced
when humble members of society infringe them
become wholly imperative before the haughty stare
of vested interests.
At Chelmsford (Eng.) assizes, Lord Chief
Justice Coleridge has denounced the practice of
making prisoners stand during trial.
Melbourne Standard wrote up Francis
Ormond’s funeral the day before. We felt quite
creepy when we read this •“ And it may well be
imagined that when the hymns sung over the
grave and the body rise in the air, ther-e will be
few dry eyes,” &c., &c.
The quarrel in the Queensland Cabinet is
due not to a dispute over the Brisbane Central
Station, but to the Northern faction (led by
Macrossan and supported by Morehead and
Pattison), forming a Freetrade alliance and block-
ing the fulfilment of MTlwraith’s election-pledges.
The alleged quarrel over the Central Station is a
mere preteC.
The firemen of Melbourne, sad to say
are now endeavouring to assert their usefulness by
getting burnt to a cinder. Those poor fellows who
threw away their lives last week, might just as
well have stopped at home for all the good they
did, or had any practical intention of doing.
Their tragedy was as senseless as the farce played
by a couple of volunteers who climbed a-top of a
parapet without hose or purpose, and, after staring
at the flames, came down again like the famous
Duke of York.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Dorothy.”
Her Majesty’s “ Julius Caesar.”
Criterion “The Rocket” & “Barbara’’
Gaiety “ Lena,” &o.
Opera House Professor Jensen.
Academy of Music Ethiopians.
Cyclorama. “ Battle of Gettysburg.'
Crystal Palace Skating Rink York-street.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Alexandra English & Comic Opera Co.
Opera House “Othello.”
Theatre Royal “ Silver Falls.”
Princess’ “A Doll’s House.”
Athenjeum Hall Snazelle.
St. George’s Hall Variety Shows.
“The Silver Shield” at Sydney Criterion,
so far has failed to gain the public support which
smart writing, high-class acting, and unexception-
able staging demand for it. Possibly it is one ot
those, as yet not hall-marked, high-class plays
which appeal neither to the semi-deities on the
deep shell of the dress-circle, nor to the Olympian
divinities throned on high. This may be accounted
for by the fact that the much-exposed bosom of the
d.c. is only to be agitated by a storm of approval
at the hest of fashion, and “The Silver Shield”
being a play that requires close following to be
appreciated, Fashion’s votaries have not yet been
able to spare the time. On the other and upper
hand, the “gods” view the stage through the
medium of an atmosphere permeated with the odours
of colonial beer, onions, rum and sausage, white
spirit, cough-drops, patchouli and pearl-powder,
all simmering in the glare of the gaslight, and
possibly the medium has the blurring effect on a
gentle inflection, or a delicate piece of by-play
that the haze of an open furnace has on the land-
scape beyond. From the stalls as from the pit of
Elia’s day comes your only discriminating note of
play-goers’ criticism, and if their verdict is not
always accepted by the other parts of the house,
so much the worse for the other parts. The
managerial fishing-line at the “ Cri.” is now also
baited with “Hook and Eye,” a comedietta intro-
duced to the Sydney public at Kowalski’s benefit.
The author, Eille Norwood, has been hauled back
from Brisbane to play the lovely lover-artist, but
the honours are still carried off by Mrs. Brough
and George Leopold, though Mr. Chichester makes
the most of a small part. This (Saturday) evening
“The Rocket” by Pinero and “Barbara” by
,T. K. Jerome will be played for the first time in
Australia.
%% % &
“Julius Caesar” having earned the ap-
proval of David Buchanan, little remains to be
said about it. Should “Macbeth” be staged at
Her Majesty’s, it is probable that “Dawvid’s”
communications would become so lengthy as to be
denied insertion, except at the usual advertising
rates. Practice has rubbed off everyone’s corners,
but the Forum scene, with the fine declamation of
Brutus and Marc Antony and the mob’s change of
mood, is, perhaps, the most powerful and popular
portion of the representation. The Great George
benefits on Monday in the presence of many
“ toney ” people.
* » *-
“Dorothy” still draws good houses at
Sydney Royal. Nellie Stewart has lately made
great use of a pursed-up “prunes, prism”
aperture for the emission of “talk,” but has
been so hard worked that she is probably
spelling the corners of her enunciatory appa-
ratus for a brief period. Helen Kinnaird, as
the confiding widow, is more successful than in
anything she has yet attempted, and May Pollard
has at length been afforded an opportunity of air-
ing her for some time chested vocal ability. As a
lumpish lover Mr. Leumane has hitherto held the
bucolic bread and cheese, but since the advent of
Mr. Imano he is completely out-chawbaconed.
The latter singer has a fine, round voice and lacks
little to make him hum except the occasional
application of a hot fire-stick. “Billy” Elton,
the eminent gaggist, makes the folks fairly shriek
every evening. Therefore he is beyond adverse
criticism, and slips down stairs so smoothly that a
further application of “butter” is unnecessary.
“ The Mikado ” is in preparation.
** * »
‘‘Fanchon,” at the Gaiety, might have
been written for Katie Putman ; it fits her all
over, and the compliment is not a stinted one, for
“ The Cricket ” is a pocket edition of all the virtues
attributed to womankind by novel writers and
newspaper men, with here and there a touch of the
devil thrown in, just to leave no doubt of the sex.
To be a French cricket, yet to put all her
troubles into good English, and at the same
time disguise the irrepressible Americanisms
which are “right there” all the time, was a big
thing to do, especially under the additional
provocation of a half-witted Yahoo dressed
in short velvet pants tied up with ribbon, who is a
prospective brother-in-law, and the worst kind of
a fool. His twin brother, who has even more
starch in his aggressive shirt, is rigged by the same
tailor, but has longer hair and only a trifle more
sense, which flashes out at uncertain intervals and
frequently gets him into mischief. He wears the
Cricket’s locket as a love-token for 12 months, and
the same clothes all the time. The parents of
both twins are very proud of them for some
reason which is probably known to themselves, but
is of little consequence to others ; and when pa
and ma quarrel over the matrimonial possibilities
of the elder, the old man gets scorched with a
flat-iron and takes refuge in profanity. That
being the one bright spot in the piece where the
adapter has let himself loose on his own resources,
the fear that this vein of humour may be continued
provokes a feeling of unhappiness which is only
allayed by the evident approach of the finale, the
parental blessing on the heads of the Cricket —
who really deserves something better —and the
imbecile twin, for whom she is as much too good
as are the majority of women for the men they
marry. “Lena” followed “Fanchon” on Wed-
nesday evening, and to-night (Saturday) another
change of programme will probably take place.
** * *
On Monday evening Professor Jensen, a
necromancer and prestidigitator, made his first
appearance at the Sydney Opera House. For
folks who enjoy being bamboozled, having their
minds tickled as it were by dexterous fingers and
clever mechanism, no better entertainment has
been given in Sydney for a very long time. The
first part of the performance is rather dull, but
the “ dark chamber act ” is full of blood-curdling
mystery and disembodied spirits. The suspended
lady “fake”nas been better performed, so far as the
illusion is concerned, but the grace of the attitudes
and rapidity of changes has never been approached.
Annette Ivanova sang in her usual finished style,
and the painting of an “ Impression ” upside down
by Alfred Linton, who also presides at the piano,
was a highly-appreciated novelty.


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls. Evening Parties.
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates, jgsf” A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(NearWynyard Street).
From the persistence with which Mes-
merist Kennedy presses samples of kerosene on
the hypnotised, it is rumoured about town that he
is advance-agent for a new American brand. The
sooner this gentleman gives native industry a
show by pushing the consumption of Eucalyptus
Oil, the better for this great gum-tree growing
country.
* s(f * *
The crank of the Cyclorama turnstile con-
tinues to creak.
The Monday columns of the Sydney dailies
are so loaded with sermons that they have no space
to notice Sunday concerts. The Bulletin doesn’t
print other folks’ sermons, being duly qualified to
perform its own preaching; therefore, we may say
that a crowded house at the Criterion on Sunday
last was a marked compliment to the departing
artistes, Lilian Tree, Flora Graupner, Henry Bracy,
Knight Aston, and the retiring M. Kowalski.
** * *
The haughty waves at Bondi Aquarium
still courteously doff their caps at the feet of the
lovely damsels who quaff ozone in allopathic
doses, and the pay-boxes smile openly at the ap-
proach of sorae-her.
* * m
Miss Von Finkelstein gave her farewell
Sydney lectures in the Centenary Hall, in which,
though it holds 2000 people, there was not a vacant
seat. The hall belongs to the Wesleyans, and
people protend to think they are going to church.
I3ut the daughter of Jerusalem is not yet satisfied.
She yearns to speak in the Centennial Hall; and
if it is finished before she finally leaves for Jericho
without a return ticket, she has promised to do so.
This week she is reviving the Maitland people.
** * *
The Santley tour in Queensland was not a
financial success, and a revolution in the company
is imminent.
** * *
Folks in general have a downward ten-
dency on the slippery floor of the Crystal Palace
Rink, where the ladies’ medal for fancy skating
was won by Miss Hannay. The child skater,
Miss Phoebe Levy, takes a benefit.
* * -&
At the bright little Ultimo Bink “ biz.” is
good, and the All-pine acclivity-declivity in the
centre of the floor is nightly cumbered by the
forms of inexperienced and giddy mountaineers.
** * *
A large and fashionable congregation at-
tended Melbourne Princess’s last Saturday to hear
the English translation of Henrik Ibsen’s cranky
sermon, entitled “A Doll’s House.” The usual
“hearty Australian welcome” was accorded to
Miss Janet Achurch and Mr. Charrington, who
have come a long distance to do this dreadful
thing; and, at the end of the second act, occurred one
of those enthusiastic demonstrations which so often
happen in connection with Triumvirate first-nights.
Towards the close of the dreary service, however,
many free and independent monsters in the upper-
circle, knowing nothing about Ibsen, but forming
their own personal opinion of his play, seemed to
consider that the Norwegian moral philosopher
was fairly having them for two shillings. The
801 l of this ill-fated House is one Nora Helmer,
eight years the petted wife of a sneaking Pharisee
in a frock-coat —a virtuous, bank-managing drivel-
ler, who couldn’t swear if he tried. The respect-
xible beast fires off theories concerning the heredi-
tary contagion of telling lies and not going to
church, and as an object of dramatic interest he
compares favourably with cold rice dumplings.
But Nora is the all-important calamity. Her
premonitory symptoms are a tendency to fool
about with her three children and leap for joy.
The Doll is O ! so wearisomely happy, until sor-
row comes upon her in the form of a bank-clerk,
from whom she once borrowed £3OO in order to
take her husband abroad after he had been more
sick than usual. For this borrowed greed Nora
gave an 1.0. IT. bearing her father’s endorsement,
dated two days after he was dead. In her simple,
dolly way, she understood that papa couldn’t slap
his name at the back of a piece of paper when he
was boxed up, so she forged the departed spirit’s
signature. When the clerk is discharged from the
bank he drops a letter, “telling all,” into the
family letter-box, and the Doll’s inane endeavours
to keep her husband away from the letter-box
where this trumpery secret lies hidden absorb a large
share of the dry-hash. She sets the genteel nincom-
poop strumming a piano while she executes a whirl,
kicking her hysterical heels against the furniture
and banging her head with a tambourine. Some-
times she pauses to mention that she is waiting for
The Miracle, then she cries aloud for maecaroons,
and has more bad attacks. You can buy more
sensible dolls for sixpence each at any toy-shop.
In the third act Nora’s husband gets hold of that
cussed epistle, reads it, and waves his clammy paw
at the miserable woman. Then he discovers that
the bank clerk isn’t going to split, and he desires
to take the Doll back to his respectable bosom,
but she assumes the harsh, unfeeling tones of a
mitmeg-grater, and goes away for ever- She
doesn’t depart as quickly as one could wish.
They talk across the table about psychological
matters, and the old Miracle seems to be mixed
up mit at all. In the course of this cackle Nora
asks of her husband—■“ Does nothing strike you ?”
It is a weird, ghostly sort of inquiry, but the idiot
feebly answers —“No, what should strike me?”
Everybody knows what should strike him. A
turnip—a nice, soft-boiled turnip, should strike
him, and the author, at one fell spludge. Nora
mercifully winds up by stating that she has lived
for eight years with a “strange man”—a perfectly
obvious fact —and clears out. The Doll slopes for
good, and the father of her deserted offspring says
it’s a miracle. He is darned well right. As The
Bulletin representative staggered downstairs he
felt like a bit of a miracle himself.
*■ # *
Looking at the performance of Miss
Achurch in her impossible character, it is difficult
to say whether she is a fine actress or otherwise,
bhe hasn’t sufficient genius to make Ibsen’s dreary
stuff acceptable to any but sham enthusiasts—
Perhaps no English artist is equal to that task.
I’he gaiety of Miss Achurch seems rather stagey,
she hasn’t a voice suitable for whispering in the
moonlight, and in many minor details she falls
short of her apparent ideal, Miss Ellen Terry. It
is quite possible that this particular fat “part”
might be far better played by many another more
experienced lady—Miss Alma Murray, for instance
7-but the thought of any nice girl playing it at all
is too sad to dwell upon. Mr. Charrington har-
monises with his wife to the extent of suggesting
Henry Irving in his younger days, and does fairly
well under the circumstances. Mr. Flemming,
who never goes wrong, fills the clerk’s billet, and
clever Maud Williamson has to glare at the misery
for ten minutes. There is nothing more to say,
except d—a—m.
** * *
“Othello,” at the Opera House, was a
stern reminder that Shakespeare can give Ibsen
300 years’ start in knowledge of human nature,
and lick the Norwegian gentleman in a trot.
Three centuries hence the Doll won’t have a grain
of sawdust left in her false creation, while the
gentle Desdemona will be clinging to her sooty
sweetheart in the good old style—
Mr. Miln’s revival of “ Othello ” is a solid, sump-
tuous work from the opening scene, with its
gondola regatta on visible water, down to that
“ ’orrible murder and sooeroide ” which gladdened
the Venice Noose in the days of the Doges. The
Moor of Mr. Miln must be hastily summed up as
the most genuinely-artistic thing he has done thus
far. The calm nobility of soul apparent in his
address to the Senate holds out until lago, inject-
ing subtle poison of suspicion, causes the black
blood to run riot in his swollen veins. Then the
dog of an infidel shows his teeth and becomes a
consistent savage, until he finally emerges from
the furnace of remorse in a state of purification.
Miln’s nut-brown make-up, bearing, and interpre-
tation of the character are each good. The lago
of Mr. Nat. Douglas also fulfils reasonable re-
quirements, and is brightened by several delicate
touches, notably in a scene with Emilia. That
dutiful female adds considerably to the classic
score of Miss Kate Douglas, while Miss Jordan’s
Desdemona is altogether nice, barring a tendency
to over-intone her lines. “Othello” is bound to
run, and can be further blessed anon.
WHY, THEY RISE UP EVEN NOW!
“If you must go to a theatre, rise up in your seats every time a licentious scene is
introduced. One such protest as that would strike terror into the managers of theatres
for seven years.” —Evangelist Varley.
“Silver Falls,” gorgeously set up at the
Royal on Saturday night, had been previously
played at Adelaide, and expostulated with in these
columns. It is painfully reminiscent of the “Bells
of Haslemere ”in spots. The same young English
“ toff ” is worried away to a far country, attended
by the identical funny man who went with him
before. They meet another kind Irishman, and a
villain dodges in and out the beautiful scenic
effects after the old, old fashion. “Silver Falls”
seems to be cleverly silly, and decidedly slower
than some recent dramas. The last act was, on
Saturday, deafened by the reckless din of a water-
fall, which reduced the situation to dumb-show,
until somebody turned the waterfall down at the
meter. Mr. Sass brought out the evil passions of
a gory Mexican with great success. Miss Edith
Blande likewise revelled in fascinating sinfulness,
and the Misses Cowper and Aggie Kelton cast
sunbeams across the misguided ways of a powerful
company.
** * *
At the Alexandra, venerable Yan Winkle,
who looks like a blood relation of Robinson Crusoe,
is doing his level best to amuse diminishing audi-
ences, Mr. Solomon’s Opera Company comes to
the rescue here next Saturday. The tender in-
fluence of Snazelle is still working for good at the
Athenaeum, but some other shows are a little off at
present, and will be off entirely very soon.
** * *
Messrs, W. G. and M. gave “A Doll’s
House ” clean away by advertising that it was
being produced in Melbourne with the original
lady in the leading part three months after its first
“ enormously successful ” production in London.
It may be all true enough, but the public are a
nasty unbelieving lot.
** * «
Hamilton Clarke’s new Melbourne orches-
tra harps too much on the hackneyed. The lazi-
ness of musicians is proverbial. Italian opera
companies round here keep on the old grind of
“Trovatore,” “Ernani,” “Traviata,” and cannot
be worried to study. So with your ordinary
rasper and rootle-tootler. Cowen was the man to
wake them up. He brought a ijrodigious mass of
new music, and made his team play it. But they
were led off by his reinforcement of 15. Thus was
the public introduced to Wagner’s Rienzi Over-
ture, Tristan und Isolde, Massenet’s Cid Ballet
music, Gound’s Reine de Saba Ballet, and ever so
many other good things, of which Sydney has en-
joyed a whiff. Of course Clarke’s band knows
these, but it has a remarkable force of inertia.
Clarke lias a difficulty in driving them on, Thei
is no trade society so strong and conservative
as that of the musicians, Melbourne demands a
band which shall keep pouring out continual
novelty, like the famous bands of Pasdeloup and
Lamoureux in Paris. Pasdeloup was the first to
start a grand popular band. The assistance he
gave to young composers is incalculable, fetching
out the genius of such as Bizet, Masse, Massenet,
Audran, Planquette, Delibes, and so on, and
familiarizing the populace with Gounod, Halevy,
Boito, Berlioz, and composers of all countries.
Then he went on to Wagner, though it was some-
thing like the saying of the Irishman to the Scotch
piper, “Play us the ‘Boyne Wather’ gintly, and
see how I can stand it.” Pasdeloup educated
Paris up to Wagner’s Ring der Nibelungen,
Parsifal, Meistersinger, and Fliegende Hollander.
** * *
A vandalistic Yandemonian writes thus
irreverently respecting tragedian Miln’s recent
“ boom ” in the Tight Little Island
A great deal of attention has been excited by Miln's
visit here. This >s mainly because Sir Robert and Lady
Hamilton took the show in hand. These vice-
regalities were en evidence four nights out of seven, and
seemed to lap up Shakespeare with a certain Gothic
vim. Miln worked very hard, and his vigorous acting
wakened Hobart up a bit. Indeed, his acting was the only
thing that drew, for nine-tenths of the audience know loss
of Shakespeare than does the present King of Spain of his
father, Alphonso. It was rather amusing to prowl round
between acts and listen to their comments. They took
lago, as played by Nat Douglass, to represent a low
comedy villain, and though hooting, as in melo-
drama, followed the close of the act, they laughed
a great deal at what they were pleased to call
his vermilion-tinted lies; and the “smotherin’ of that
there woman with a piller ” was also the signal for con-
siderable mirth. During the playing of “Hamlet” the
audience failed to grasp all the intricacies of Ophelia’s
character, and one of the horny-handed critics remarked
that “the faymale waz a-gooin’ an loike a loonnytak.”
Miln climbed up Mount Wellington and caught a cold,
and his Romeo on the following night was a tragic com-
mingling of love, murder, suicide, and bronchitis.
* * *
The exiled Arabi Pasha, whom Miss Yon
Finkelstein visited at Colombo, said he was very
sorry that none of his wives could stand the local
climate—they had all gone back to Egypt. This
was a tolerably neat hint and ought to have been
effective, considering that Lydia Mamreoth Yon
F. describes Arabi as “a grand-looking man with
brilliant eyes. ” However, negotiations seem to be
still afoot, as Arabi thusly begins his latest letter
to the stout party from Jericho :
“To her highly-honoured Ladyship, the possessor of
essence of all Chastity, Virtue, and Excellence, our highly
esteemed, beloved and most precious valued friend, the
Lady Lydia Von Finkelstein, whom God had made perfect.
—Peace be upon Her. Like the falling and scent of
odorous drops came unto us your highly-honoured, long-
expected letter of the month of Ayer, which informed us
and we were made happy when we learned from it, with
intense joy and thankfulness of your safe arrival in all
health and safety, at Australia. And may ever all happi-
ness and peace be yours. We are glad to inform you that
we are in good health, and think and speak of you every
moment, and remember the golden hour when you
so kindly graced us with your presence and face of
virtuous beauty. How painful and sad was to us that
parting, and harder after you left, for we had hoped to
behold you again! We sigh because of the great separa-
tion between us, but we look for the happy future to meet
our honored, precious, highly-endowed friend again.
Daily with expectant longing we watch for the fulfilment
of your promise to send us your likeness, and may all
peace and blessing of God rest on you. We pray for the
day when we shall behold you once more. With pure,
everlasting love, servant of your country, Ahmed Arabi.
—ln Husani (the Egyptian).”
After reading Arabi’s letter over twice, we have
concluded it to be one of the best efforts of R. S.
Smythe, who can still give the chappies a lesson
in the art of writing love-letters.
* * *
Apropos. Our eye has just alighted on
the following, written by a correspondent of the
Speculum, tne organ of the Melbourne medical
students (which, by the way, sadly needs a
printer’s reader): —
Arabi Pasha in personal appearance was a disappoint-
ment-a heavy, stupid-looking, fat,bearded Turk.
But perhaps Lydia Von E. admires fat folks.
It is pretty evident that Arabi does. Or, perhaps,
after all, it’s R. S. Smythe.
THE LATE GEORGE FAWCETT ROWE
Great William S., Great William S.,
Thou Bard of Bards sublime!
Thy name shall countless millions bless
Until the end of time ;
Till Judgment Day shall weak mankind
Flaunt oft a “ bit of yellow ”
(The emblem of a jealous mind)
And think as thought Othello.
Let’s mock at idle dreamer’s craze,
Sweet Poet of the years—
It fills the world with mild amaze,
And, dash it! disappears ;
Who would immortal glory win
Must sense from slobber sever,
Here’s “ William and The Bulletin ! *
Immortal both together.
At Poverty Point.
Parachutist Baldwin is said to have made £40,000 in two
years and to have retired from his precarious business.
The marble woman has got a warrant out for her hus-
band for wife-desertion.
Manager Berry complains that he can’t get Australian
audiences to quit. Give them half-a-bar of “ God Save
Her Gracious,” Matt.; no Australian audience will wait
for more.
David Christie Murray styled the Melbourne Town Hall
“a barn of a place.” Should Town Clerk Fitzgibbon in
return call him a “bam stormer,” the insult will be
squared.
Hosea Easton’s “Cullud Canoodlers” open at Sydney
Academy this (Saturday) evening.
“ Paul Jones ” had been running at the Prince of Wales
(London) for over 200 nights when the last mail left, and
“ Doris,” at the Lyric for 100 nights.
What has become of the Triumvirate’s newly-imported
prima donna Miss Clara Merivale ? She has had lots of
time to become acclimatised.
The husband of an ex-ballet girl writes to inform Mr.
Winterbotham, M.P., that many of the Alhambra and
Empire ballet girls have their mothers dancing alongside
of them. I should not be surprised if he said that they
danced alongside of their grandmothers. —Hawk.
Two funny men named O’Connor and Brady (Fenians,
for a fiver) are convulsing London music-hall audiences.
One, a shrivelled pea of a fellow, comes on in a wrinkly,
baggy suit, and the other inflates him to balloon size from
the rear with a bellows. What exquisite humour ! If
England could only see it, the shrivelled creature is the
real John Bull; the ham-fat man of wind is the John Bull
of the Primrose Leagues and newspapers.
“ Lou.” Braham, the well-known tenor, is now once
again at the Cape diamond-fields and doing well.
Colonial “ pros” deny the statement lately made to the
effect that Marc Antony Rignold is more partial to native
talent than other managers. As a matter of fact, he has
little of it in his employ.
A certain colonial theatrical manager, remiss in the
matter of payment of salaries, was thus accosted by an
irate member of his company: “Is there a word in the
English language bad enough to apply to you and make
you put up your hands?” “No, old man, there is not,”
was the imperturbable reply.
The business manager of a variety troupe was lately
induced to run what he thought would be a quarter-of-a-
mile race. They measured a mile for him, and he in his
innocence ran it out—and fainted.
“ Are they married, or is it the usual theatrical ar-
rangement V ” is the epigrammatic enquiry concerning
ostensible matrimony in the Thespian circle.
The habitues of the Point are much exercised in their
minds as to the best field to steer for. Stagnation is on
the face of the land, and country hotel-keepers are hard-
hearted and cynical.
Katie Putnam will return to the States in October. Her
Australian engagement was only for four months, rather a
short period to travel so many miles for.
Mr. “Tom” Jennings, the genial Tasmanian “Dm of
man,” now in Sydney, returns home next week.
Lilian Tree returns to England in February.
The “ pros.” have come to the conclusion that Sydney
“ daily ” theatrical criticism is frequently regulated by the
length of the “ ad.” If an adverse notice appears
in a certain paper, for instance, the show manager goes
crying to the newspaper man, who is conciliated with
another inch. The “ purfesh,” having dropped to this
procedure, despise the notice accordingly.
Fred Gunther is piloting General and Mrs. White to a
successful issue in Ballarat (Vic.)
“Jo” (Jo), Jenny Lee opened in Adelaide last Monday
“Tommy” Hudson did a big season at Broken Hill.
He will soon hie him to the land of Rajahs and punkahs.
David Christie Murray’s last Sydney lecture—“ Novelist’s
Note Book ” —was billed for this Friday (20th inst.)
Snazelle, the monologuist, opens at Sydney School of
Arts early in October. The elegant “Jimmy” M‘Mahon
is running him round.
“ Fun on the Bristol ” drew in £4300 in four weeks at
Melbourne Opera House.
Mrs. Langtry, besides having a polypus in her nose, has
a new play in her eye.
As Phyllis Broughton only gets 2500 guineas breach-of-
promise damages from Lord Dangan it is plain that the
value alike of peers and the ballet is going down.
Morell Mackenzie says that the scarcity of really fine
voices in England is due to the absurdly high concert-
pitch of modern English music. He relates that Herr
Joachim commences to tune his fiddle eight weeks prior
to any visit to England, so that the great strain required
should be gradual, and asks, pertinently enough, if a fiddle
is liable to be strained in interpreting English music, how
much greater risk is incurred for a delicate instrument
like the human throat ?


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Jones’ Tame Kangaroo.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Proceedings are being initiated against a
kangaroo at Warrenheip (Vic.) for “insultin’
behaviour an’ tearin’ me uniform.” _ The kangaroo
is a feature of the district, and is owned by a
man named Jones, who adopted him in his (the
kangaroo’s) youth, and has reared him in iniquity,
to be a scourge to the neighbourhood and an object
of abhorrence to all peaceable and well-disposed
citizens. The kangaroo stands 14 hands high,
has mauve complexion and unequal feet; is called
Jeremiah, after the prophet, and is given over to
wickedness and stuffed with deceit.
* * *
In the light of day Jeremiah is a retiring
and apparently compassionate animal; he refrains
from obtruding on the society of ladies, and dis-
guises his anxiety to interrupt the councils of
lovers and give way to that depraved craving for
sensation which is his chief characteristic by as-
suming an air of diffidence and immersing himself
in business when observed. But he is a ruinous
nuisance at night, when he besets the stranger in
narrow ways, and kicks off most of his clothes,
scrapes the drapery off the widow and the orphan,
and takes running jumps at great, fat men of
parochial importance, and lights with a dull, sicken-
ing rumble on their outlying parts.
* * *
For a considerable time it was believed
that the neighbourhood was haunted by the spirit
of somebody deceased, which disembodied thing
weighed a ton, and dropped on councillors out of
the atmosphere as an effective protest against the
villainous character of the whisky distilled in the
vicinity. Twice, Boniface Brown, J.P., when re-
turning at midnight from the bar-parlour and
other seats of learning, heard an unearthly whiz-
zing amongst the trees, and felt something hit
him amidships and spread him out like a collapsed
hat on the bush-track, and he was taken up later
by admiring friends, and hawked about amongst
the doctors on a hand-barrow. Once an influential
police-official named Burns had a visitation from
the same vehicle of wrath, and was subsequently
discovered in his back-yard, with an indented
chest and an air of wishing to be placed in his
little grave, out of the way of diseases and beyond
the route of falling bodies. Nearly everybody living
within a radius of five thousand acres from the
man Jones encountered a something that was
projected from a distance on the night air, and
knocked them triangular, and departed in a
similar strain, without offering apologies or dis-
playing any signs of contrition whatsoever.
* *
This was always the kangaroo Jeremiah ;
he was not recognised in the heat of the feelings
that resulted from his hasty interviews, and as
twisted ribs, and other bodily ailments, and some
supernatural impressions prohibited the bucolic
population from investigating the disasters with
the celerity and mental acumen that such cases
demanded, the victims were a long time reaching
the true conclusion, and, meantime, they looked
up to their dead relations, and trimmed their
graves, and did all in their power to induce them
to rest where a Briton had laid them, and not go
hurtling through space, injuring the wind and
warping the fixings of temperate and regenerate
men and ladies in a neighbourhood where doctors
came high.
# * *
In his nocturnal escapades this kangaroo be-
trayed an amount of guile unequalled in natural
history: his flights of fancy were very evidently
all premeditated, and not the mere outbreaks of
intuitive malevolence observable occasionally in
partly-domesticated animals when they throw off
the constraints of civilisation and kick the roof of
a man’s head in, or bite some fingers oft the hand
that’s raised to lick them. Jeremiah put in his
nights seeking excitement, and yet he didn’t need
to seek it—he usually had it with him. When he
arrived in company that was previously very dull
he seemed immediately to impart a tone of vivacity
and an aspect of commotion and ignited firework
to the proceedings, and to revel in his own ex-
cesses.
* # *
In and about Warrenheip it is common for
young people of assorted sexes who have an affinity
to go out in couples after tea, and sit in the dark
on logs and things, and cling to each other to pre-
vent mishaps, and discuss questions suitable to the
occasion. Jeremiah took a profane delight in up-
setting these amiable conventions. A young man
would no sooner arrange the object of his affec-
tions at a satisfactory angle against his chest, .and
start depositing kisses amongst her features, than
Jones’s kangaroo would come sailing out of the dim
distance, and squash the agreement by landing
with both feet on somebody and clubbing the
other person with his tail before a protest could
be entered. He would then scratch the handiest
all to rags with his big toenail, which he cultivated
expressly, and depart under cover of the prevailing
excitement to congratulate himself on another suc-
cessful issue, whilst the young people broke for
home, where the youth usually arrived ten minutes
ahead with a story of a devilish visitation and the
most useful portion of his clothes distinctly in-
visible.
* * *
On occasions Jeremiah would steal up behind
the unsuspicious lovers and take the hugging off
the young man’s hands ; he would assume a fore-
most position in the business, and appropriate all
the embracing without consulting the individuals
most deeply interested, and he would squeeze the
young lady, and with his cold, moist nose, glue
an icy kiss on her cheek, and she would take
some hysterics and retain them whilst her boy
visited the distance in order to review the situation
undisturbed and borrow several farm-labourers
and a gun to assist in dislodging the grim visitant.
It got so bad in time that engaged pairs scarcely
dared venture abroad after nightfall to express their
sentiments according to the usages of the country
and the customs of their ancestors. The satisfac-
tion to be derived from the hug and the mug of a
beloved object requires perfect seclusion and men-
tal repose, besides favourable atmospheric influ-
ences, to ensure a supreme consummation. When
a youth is in momentary expectation of the arrival
and intervention of a deceased grand-parent he
cannot throw his whole energies into the business
and do himself credit, and the intrusion of the
cold and clammy nose of a creature unknown and
other irrelevant features into the debate spoils the
harmony and the flow of soul, and makes the
young people weary and anxious to abandon the
argument and dismiss the meeting.
* # *
If Jeremiah depressed the marriage-market he
influenced the medical trade for good, and seven
new doctors came to live in the vicinity and assist
him in encouraging the death-rate. Warrenheip
went distracted and thought of petitioning the
Government to send up a Krupp-gun or some
other engine to lay the perturbed spirit that was
continually dropping heavily on valuable rate-
payers, and ruffling the plumage of ladies of
weight, and setting on to old people and children,
and destroying the reputation of the police; but
the mystery was fathomed at last without a crown
grant. Constable Ryan, who is a policeman with
fatty degenei’ation of the feet, a great red head,
and a general tendency towards embonpoint, was
beset by the destroyer one fine night, and,
though it collided with his official adiposity,
and proceeded to impede him in the execu-
tion of his duty, and tear his raiment and
harrow his feelings with its hind feet, he suc-
ceeded in taking Jeremiah by the tail, and he
hung on with commendable zeal screaming for
help and the benefit of clergy whilst the kangaroo
strained at his tether and endeavoured ineffectually
to jump the country. When assistance came run-
ning with lights and guns, the people saw the pet
of the man Jones anchored to a sixteen-stone
policeman who was a mangled mass and labour-
ing under a conviction that he had arrested
the Devil on a charge of assault with vio-
lence. Jones came along and claimed his kan-
garoo, and the combatants were parted. Next
day a deputation of interested individuals waited
upon Jones, and demanded the head of his pet on
a stake. They insisted that Jeremiah was, a
menace to life and property, and impeached him
for battering the aged and infirm and spreading
out members of the Shire Council, but, as the
kangaroo maintained an ingenuous expression and
other airs of innocence when approached on the
subject, Jones denied them the sacrifice, and so
motions at law have been taken against Jeremiah,
and Warrenheip feels better already.
LIARB.
TAR AND FEATHERS.
Oh, the circus swooped down
On the Narrabri town,
For the Narrabri populace moneyed are;
And the circus-man smiled
At the folk he beguiled
To come all the distance from Gunnedah.
But a juvenile smart,
Who objected to “ part,”
Went in “ on the nod,” and to do it he
Crawled in through a crack
In the tent at the back,
For the boy had no slight ingenuity.
Says he, with a grin,
“ That’s the way to get in,
But I reckon I’d better be quiet, or
They’ll spiflicate me ”
And he chuckled, for he
Had the loan of the circus proprietor.
But the showman astute
On that wily galoot,
Soon dropped, and you’ll say that he leathered him.
Not he ! With a grim
Sort of humorous whim
He took him and tarred him and feathered him.
Says he, “ You can go
As a star with Jo-Jo,
And knock ev’ry Injun and Arab wry,
With your name and your trade
On the posters displayed,
The Feathered What Is It from Narrabri!”
Next day for his freak
By a Narrabri beak
He was jawed with a deal of verbosity.
For his only appeal
Was “ professional zeal ”
“ He wanted another monstrosity.”
Said his worship, “Begob!
You are fined for-r-r-ty bob !
An’ six shillin’s costs to the he says ;
Yet the Narrabri Joy,
Half-bird and half-boy,
Has a “ down ” on himself and on circuses.
BANJO.
Billy the Pickle: Thirty Years Ago.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little “ Billy the Pickle” was the only child of
his mother, and she was an exceptionally well-
favoured black gin, whose laughing face and
glistening rows of white teeth were well-known to
all callers at Kyabra station, on the Lower Darling)
thirty years ago. There was a standing feud
between Maria and her tribe over this boy, whose
colour was so many degrees below “par’s” (and
above “mar’s”) that his extinction must have
followed in due course to satisfy the exigencies
of a tribal law, had she remained to defy it.
Instead of which she sought shelter _ at Kyabra,
enlisted the sympathies of the grey-haired old lady
and her two daughters at the station, and soon
found out how to make herself handy in the kit-
chen and generally useful about the place. Little
Billy’s father was not. In fact, he had never been.
Maria was prepared with a general answer for any
curiosity displayed under that head. “Baal me
bin know ’im that pfella ” fitted all enquiries as
neatly as the “ O Lord, sir !” of Roussillon’s clown.
There was no conventionality about Maria, and
whatever logical deductions may have presented
themselves to the enquirer troubled her not.
Billy was a quaint little mortal of five, or there-
abouts, when I first saw him rolling in the ash-
heap at the back of Kyabra kitchen with a big
kangaroo dog and two collie pups. _ His face was
European, his limbs were aboriginal; a mop of
curly Vandyke-brown hair shadowed a face in
which few native traits were noticeable, but the
very devil of mischief shot out of every glint of
his lustrous eyes. He had no clothes on ; the
girls had got tired of making for him gorgeous
shirts, which he dragged off to tumble about with
the dogs or pet lambs, the calves in the pen, the
little suckers up at the killing-yard, or in chase of
the tame baby emu down the paddock, as soon as
he got out of sight. The mother’s love for this imp
was the mainspring of her existence.
The station hands educated Billy ; he spent the
greater part of his time in the men’s hut, and as
he grew in years some of his accomplishments
astonished even them, although they were a few
old “ other-side ” relics reeking with most > pecu-
liar experiences. At 12 years “ Billy the Pickle ”
could ride everything that was foaled, and ex-
change compliments in the vernacular with any of
his tutors; he had been all but drowned in the
wash-pool, had had his collar-bone and one arm
broken when he was shot head-first over a fence
by a baulky colt; had been thrown out of the
ration-cart on to a stump and picked up with a
hole in his head, had received innumerable thrash-
ings with the double of a stockwhip for being an
incorrigible liar, and. carried the reputation of
being more nearly akin to the enemy of all man-
kind than the worst boys know how to be. His
career at Kyabra was closed by a barefaced rob-
bery from a hawker’s cart, and Billy and his
mother vanished from sight and memory for some
years.
Said Johnnie Benson, manager of Tilparra Lake
Station, between the Murray and the Darling, to
me one evening: “If you’re not in a particular
hurry to go on to-morrow, old man, come out to
the ‘ Twenty-mile ’ with me in the morning. Old
Sam the Lifer, or ‘The Hobart Town Goat,’ as
they call him, sent in word yesterday by the
ration-carrier that the blacks are pretty bad out
there, and Soldier Tom, his mate, says he won’t
stay there to be murdered. He’s one of the best
shepherds I’ve got, too. You’ll come ? All right.
Another day’s spell won’t hurt your horses, and
although I don’t care to sell you the Caliph colt
you can ride him if you like. He’ll carry you like
a bird. I’ll tell the boy to have him up first thing
in the morning; we must get away by daylight.”
We were in the saddle before the sun was up,
and lost very little time on the track to the
Twenty-mile. Emerging from a narrow belt of
boree scrub the hut was visible on the_ rise of a
sandhill across a strip of saltbush plain, when
Benson said :
“ Let’s push on, I’m afraid there’s something
wrong. Old Sam’s an early bird generally and
has his sheep well down the flat by this time. It’s
nearly 8 o’clock. By Jove ! there is, too. Do you
see that ?” pointing to the flock in the top yard
drawing out of the hurdles, getting boxed with
another flock on the fiat, and no sign of a shep-
herd. Sam had seen us though, and came to the
door of the hut stirring up a green-looking mess in
a pannikin.
“ ’Morning, boss, it’s a good job you’ve come
out. Them black devils has got poor old Tom
there. I just a-makin’ a mash-maller poultice for
his leg. There’s the bit of spear I pulled out on
it. I sent you in word as they’d bin pokin’ around
here ever since the cart was out last time. Why
didn’t you send out the shot as I asked for ! They
came up here with firesticks just as we was havin’
supper last night, but I gin one on ’em his gruel
with the old shootin’ iron there, only I hadn’t
nothin’ to put in her but a handful o’ salt out o’
the meat-keg. There’s some on ’em camped down
in the p’int of the scrub there now a-raisin’ Cain
—happen it’s the cove I salted, salt couldn’t kill
him, worse luck. ”
The spear had passed through the.fleshy part of
Soldier Tom’s leg above the knee. However, he
was all right for the present, so we leaped into
the saddle again, and made for the smoke that
curled over the top of the scrub. Not a sound
broke the stillness of the lovely autumn morning
save the monotonous call of the bell-bird as we
rode cautiously along with every sense on the
alert. Just inside the shelter of the scrub under a
bough mia-mia was a gin stooping oyer a prostrate
figure that suddenly raised itself into a sitting
posture and uttered a piercing shriek of agony.
It was “ Little Billy ” and the woman was Maria.
She clutched a fire-stick and turned on us with a
torrent of imprecation—the worst parts of two
languages jumbled into one tempestuous whole,
and, shaking her clenched skinny hand towards
the hut, swore by the gods of two races to
“ altogether kill that one whitefellow what
bin shoot ’im Billy.”
Poor “Billy the Pickle” was pickled at last—
with a charge of coarse salt where his belt would
have buckled if he had worn one.
About a fortnight after that a letter from Benson
told me that Sam’s hut had been set on fire in the
night, the door blocked with hurdles and Sam’s skull
split open with a tomahawk as he tried to get out
of the window. The sheep were all right, and the
blacks had cleared out altogether. A Melbourne
cattle-buyer had offered him a fancy price for the
Caliph colt to train for the sticks —and so on.
MANTIS.
The Ciant of Medicines.
The greatest Medicine on earth, for it cures
WHEN OTHER REMEDIES FAIL.
Why is it elective in so many different diseases ?
Warner’s Safe Cure is not a “ cure all,” but yet
it is a specific medicine for many diseases. _ Why
one remedy can affect so many cases is in this
wise.
The diseases have a common cause, and a remedy
that can affect the cause, permanently cures all
the diseases. Unlike any other organ in the body,
the kidney, when diseased, may itself be free from
pain, and the very fact that it is not painful leads
many people to deny that it is diseased. But
medical authorities agree that it can be far gone
with disease, and yet give forth no pain, because it
has few if any nerves of sensation, and these are
the only means of conveying the sense of pain;
thus unconciously diseased, it effects the entire
system. We do not open a watch to see if it is
going or in good order ; we look at the hands, or
note the accuracy of its time. So we need not
open the kidney to see if it is diseased. We study
the condition of the system. Now then, kidney
disease produces any of the following symptoms
backache, fluttering and pain in the heart, tired
feelings, irregularity and excess in urinating,
especially during night, sour stomach, heartburn,
with dyspepsia, intense pain upon sudden excite-
ment in the small of the back, headache and
neuralgia, loss of memory, rheumatism, chills and
fever and pneumonia, dropsical swellings, red or
white brick-dust, albumen and tube casts in the
ivater, constipation alternating with looseness,
short breath, pleurisy and bronchial affections,
yellowish pale skin, etc.
These are among the chief disorders or symptoms
caused by a diseased condition of the kidneys.
Now then, isn’t it clear to you that the kidneys
being the cause of all these derangements, if they
themselves are restored to health by the great
specific, Warner’s Safe Cure, the majority of the
above ailments will disappear ? There is no
mystery about it. It does cure many bad states
of the system precisely as we have indicated.
When the kidneys are diseased, the albumen, the
life-property of the blood, escapes through their
wall and passes away in the water, while the urea,
the kidney poison, remains, and it is this kidney
poison in the blood that, circulating throughout the
entire body, affects every organ, and produces all
the above symptoms.
Therefore, we say confidently that Warner's
Safe Cure is the most effective medicine ever
discovered for the huran race. It is the common
remedy which, overcoming the common cause, re-
moves the greatest possible member of evil effects from
the system .


For Sleeplessness
USB HORSFORO’S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. Henry Harland, M.R.C.S.. Tunbridge Wells, Eng.,
says: “ 1 have prescribed it in cases of nervous debility
and chronic insomnia with highly beneficial results."
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS, V
LAM’D A.GBMTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List Businesses for Sale Issued Daily.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Essie Jenyns now plays the part of mother
to 44 a bouncing girl.”
Fife and Louise went to evening service at
church on the day after their marriage.
Sir William Stawell, ex-Chief Justice of
Victoria, 44 saw Naples and died !”
Mrs. Langtry 4 ‘ shows a decided tendency
to develop into a fine and imposing matron.”
“ Tommy ” Walker, M.P., having grown
a beard, his foes assert that now there is no visible
end to his 44 jaw,”
De Freycinet, when asked if he considered
Boulanger a great soldier, replied, 44 1 will tell you
the day after Austerlitz.”
The Shah promised a magnificent set of
diamonds to the Princess Louise—and then he
struck a bee-line for Persia.
Archbishop Carr’s (Melb.) favourite tipple
is soda and milk. Ah, had you there. You
thought we were going to say 44 brandy.”
The South African P.R. champion, Couper,
is brother to a man in the N.S.W. pilot-service,
whose name, by the way, is , not Couper.
Judge Windeyer sat in the front at David
Christie Murray’s lecture, and seemed as inter-
ested as anyone else in Murray’s hanging story.
Bishop Ullathorne (lately deceased), of
Birmingham, formerly R.C. Vicar-General of
New Holland, left an estate valued at £270 7s. Bd.
The Charley Stewart who was driving the
coach when Commissioner Grenfell was shot by
bushrangers, now keeps a saw-pit on the Macquarie
at Warren.
“Jos” Symes once silenced a believer
who styled his big audience 44 a menagerie of wild
beasts” by quietly saying, 44 Yes, and you are the
Ornithorhynchus Paradoxus, you know.”
Society in Berlin has been terribly scan-
dalised by the publication of a book which gives
precise details of the intrigue carried on between
the late Archduke Rudolph and his mistress,
Marie Vetsera.
Purves, Q.C., of the Victorian Bar and
A.N.A., has been suffering from a bronchial
affection, which prevented him from speaking. He
could neither insult a witness nor give three cheers
for the Queen.
The speech of Governor Carington, at
Manly Flower Show, was of the hum-ha order.
In parting with Secretary Wallington, H.E. may
be said to have lost not merely his right hand,
but his tongue also.
The leaders in the movement to have
Judge Quinlan’s (Vic.) conduct inquired into are
Wolfe, Fink, Leon, Bryant, and others of the
County Court Bar. Their allegation is that F.
G. Duffy is unduly successful.
A well-known Melbourne barrister recently
went 44 clean off his chump.” When teetotal boss
Munro heard of it, he said ; 44 Ah, James Hennessy
again!” 44 N0,” replied his informant sorrow-
fully, “he was an abstainer from childhood.”
Sir George Bowen’s “Reminiscences” of
his experiences as a colonial Governor will be pub-
lished in London next month. We presume they
won’t contain a full and particular account of all
his adventures in Melbourne Botanical Gardens.
Says David Christie Murray:— 44 1 have
lately read two works which have impre r sed me
deeply: Rolf Boldrewood’s 4 Robbery Under
Arms ’ and Marcus Clarke’s 4 Natural Life.’ The
former work I regard as an especially powerful
one. ”
In cross-examining a hostile witness Salo-
mons, Q.C., has a pleasant little way of interject-
ing at intervals : 44 Ah ! and that accounts for your
confusion !” This is supposed to tell with the
jury and sometimes helps to confuse a previously
cool witness.
The Princess of Wales has a tiny pony, no
higher than a Newfoundland dog, which follows
her about with lamb-like faithfulness, and insists
sometimes on taking up its quarters in a corner of
her bedroom. We have already jested about the
royal 4 4 Neddy.”
In the course of the libel-action —
M 4 Laughlin v. Sydney Evening News— Alfred
Bennett’s stud-bull was mentioned. Alfred will
do good service to his country when, abjuring
newspaper-bulls, he devotes himself energetically
to the cowboy business.
Rumoured that Mr. Macdonald, manager
of the Times, is coming over to fill a long felt want
in a Melbourne Tory newspaper office. They
surely don’t want him to establish a horrible con-
nection between 44 Radicalism and Crime,” and to
publish facsimiles of traitorous letters by Dave
Gaunson ?
Admiral Sir Provo Wallis, who fought in
that famous sea fight between the English Shannon
and the Yankee Chesapeake, off Boston 76 years
ago, is still alive —98 years of age. The captain
of the Shannon, having been wounded, it fell to
Lieutenant Wallis to bring her, with her prize, the
Chesapeake, to England. He went to sea the
year before Trafalgar.
44 Robert Elsmere ” cost Mrs. Humphrey
Ward four years’ incessant labour. It originally
occupied four huge volumes, but her husband, art-
critic to the Times, gradually pruned it down to
one moderate-sized one—thus performing the work
(and a little more) that George Lewes did for
44 George Eliot.” Thus is the feminine literary
reputation very often built up.
James Gatehouse, the lively practical
jokist, is now to be seen occasionally in Collins-
street, pale, comforter round neck, and slow of gait.
No one would now think that this was the lively
youth who used to collect and hide the guests’
umbrellas at a Mayor’s ball, and while chief
magistrate of the city rode home in state at 2.30
one morning on a saveloy-machine.
Mr. G. G. A. Murray, Fellow of New
College, Oxford, and a native of N.S.W., has
been appointed, at the immature age of 23, to the
Glasgow Professorship of Greek —one of the most
coveted of scholastic prizes. At the University he
secured all obtainable honours, and was also Pre-
sident of the Palmerston Club, and one of the
Liberals who signed the address to Mr. Gladstone
in favour of Home Rule.
Old Magistrate Marsden, who died the
other day in Fitzroy (Melb.), after a residence of
forty years in that suburb, used to boast of two
things—that he had never once quarrelled with his
wife and that he’d rather die than buy an orange
on a Sunday. The old man was a curious com-
bination of the puritanical and the humorous,
and used to tell the drollest yarns of old times in
Melbourne before the separation.
The Rev. Mr. Cass once informed the
IPell-known Aschdeacon Stretch, of Victoria, that
the great Napoleon was of Scriptural descent.
Pressed for his reasons he said that 44 Napoleon”
with the initial letter cut off was “Apoleon” or
“Apollyon,” a name prominent in Revelation.
44 Ah,” replied the Archdeacon, “your own name,
4 Cass,’ with the initial letter cut off gives 4 Ass,’
and there’s no revelation in that.” Australia
thus has its Sydney Smith.
The P. M. Gazette points out that the
Christian name of the first of 44 Jack the Ripper’s ”
victims was Emma, and this, with the exception
of but one letter, has reproduced itself throughout
the series in regular rotation :
1. E mma Smith.
2. M artha Tabram.
3. M ary Anne Nichols.
4. A nne Chapman.
5. E lizabeth Stride.
6. M itre-square (Catherine Eddowes).
7. M ary Jane Kelly.
8. A lice M'Kenzie.
You can prove anything by Ignatiusdonnellyism.
Lady Colin Campbell has written a novel,
not yet published, named 44 Darel Blake.” She
has been working hard for five years as a litterateur ,
and has blossomed into a literary critic and sketch-
writer of some ability. She is no typical blue-
stocking, however, for she has heavy dark eyes,
beautiful black hair, and a face moulded in the
softest oval lines. She is nearly six feet in height,
perfectly developed, and without the faintest in-
clination to resembling the celery-stick to which
most tall women are likened.
44 The Vagabond” has been fraternising
with Bethune, the composer, in Samoa, who is
setting to music a composition of his called
44 Tofa ” ;
The maid of the village chiefs daughter is she,
Tofa alii! Tofa alii!
In vain for her favours brave warriors sigh,
Tofa alii! Tofa alii!
I, too, vainly plead—“ Oh ! smile upon me,”
Tofa alii! Tofa alii !
One smile and one kiss, and then “Tofa !” Good-bye !
Tofa alii! Tofa alii!
We hope we have not unwittingly published
naughty swear-words.
Lady Dunlo—wife of the youth who has
been packed off to Australia with a male companion
and without his bride—is not only pretty, but has_a
good heart. Two years ago in London a gigantic
conspiracy to defraud was got up by a gang of
Americans, which ended in two of them getting
eighteen months’ hard labour. A little while ago
Miss Bilton (now Lady Dunlo) was summoned to
A STRATEGIC SURRENDER.
MOUNTED INFANTRYMAN: “SURRENDER, YOU ARE MY PRISONER!”
INFANTRYMAN (speculating on the enemy's canteen): “THAT’S JUST WHAT I
WANTS YOU TO DO FOR ME, OLD FELLER. I WANTS TO GO TO
THAT THERE CANTEEN AND I WON’T GET ANYTHINK THERE
BY MYSELF, YOU KNOW.”
explain why she did not pay certain money which
a creditor alleged he had lent her, and it then
transpired that she had borrowed the money to
enable her to fee counsel to defend one of the cul-
prits.
The Hon. W. Robinson, M.L.C. of N.Z.,
otherwise 4 4 Ready-money Robinson, ” is' dead. He
was reported to be fabulously wealthy, and was
best known throughout Australasia as an owner
of racehorses. Until the importation of Musket
strengthened the Auckland studs he had quite the
strongest string of prads in N.Z. It is related of
him that, together with a number of other wealthy
“Canterbury pilgrims,” he promised to defray a
considerable portion of the cost of erecting the
cathedral at Christchurch, N.Z. Before the build-
ing was started, however, “ Ready-money ” had a
quarrel with “'Black” Rhodes, a millionaire who
had made a big bid for salvation by subscribing
the entire cost of the spire, and, as a consequence
of the vendetta, Robinson withdrew his promise
of a subscription. “ Tell the Bishop and the Dean
and the whole boiling of ’em,” said the irate
Robinson, “that when I get as ugly as Black
Rhodes, I’ll build ’em a brand-new Joss-house on
the other side of the square. ”
A quarter of a century ago a leading
article in the Age caused a “run” upon the
Colonial Bank in Melbourne. Now the colossal
account of the Age is kept at the Colonial Bank.
A man who is impressed with the con-
viction that he is a candidate for Parliament, has
been sent to Kew Lunatic Asylum (Vic.) They
are beginning to get sense down South. The
candidate won’t notice the difference.
“ Let me give a piece of advice to those
who suffer from excessive heat, and who may care
while they are out of town to sacrifice their per-
sonal appearance to comfort. Wear a flannel
shirt, dip it in water first, squeezing the wab r,
out. You will then keep cool all day without any
danger of catching cold. ” —Hawk.
From the Land of Liver-sausage ; —“ An
absent-minded German professor was one day ob-
served walking down the street with one foot con-
tinually in the gutter, the other on the pavement.
A pupil meeting him, saluted him with 4 Good
evening, Herr Professor; how are you ?’ 4 1 was
very well, I thought,’ answered the professor,
4 but now I don’t know what’s the matter with me;
for the last half-hour I have been limping.’ ”
POLITICAL POINTS
The Transvaal Boers have just passed a law
which prechides new-comers from voting for five
years, or from sitting in the Raad for fifteen.
One of the members of the Victorian coal
commission says that the best samples of Victorian
coal always arrive in Melbourne at the same time
as the Sydney boat.
A Mrs. Hazelton has spoken manfully at
Grenfell (N.S.W.) on behalf of Protection, and it is
proposed to bring things to a crisis by matching
her against Mrs. Vivian, the Freetrade cham-
pioness.
It is probable that the Act of Settlement
will be repealed so far as Louise (and Fife) and
her sisters are concerned ; the Edinburghs will
then follow George of Wales in the order of suc-
cession.
Salve for Dr. Creed, M.L.C. Said Admiral
Fairfax at his farewell dinner :—“ It is a curious
anomaly that while all over the empire fortifica-
tions are ready waiting for guns, in N.S.W. alone,
guns are waiting works in which to place them !”
Great difficulty was experienced in supply-
ing all the ships of the mobilised British fleet with
guns and men. It was only by stripping forts
that sufficient cann n were obtained, and the
Admiralty were obliged to go into the highways
and hedges for crews.
Randolph Churchill has warned the Liberal
Unionists that are next election they must be pre-
pared either to merge their individuality in the
ranks of the Tories, or else to be swept out of Par-
liament. For England does not understand three-
cornered arrangements in politics.
Referring to the House of Commons’
debate on the Royal Grants, London Figaro
says ; —“ The issue of Monarchy v. Republic can-
not, in the interests of the Monarchy, bo raised
too soon.” The grim humour of this is calculated
to make the head of the late lamented Charles the
First smile broadly.
In a recent communication to the Free-
traders of Mudgee A. G. Taylor declared that —■
“ Instead of his opinions in favour of Freetrade
and against Protection being weakened by recent
events, they have been intensified and strength-
ened.” This is the very first lime we have heard
from A. G. that he had any fixed opinions on the
subject.
In Queensland Assembly the other evening
“ Billy ” Little, member for Woothakata, fell foul
of Wimble, proprietor of the Cairns Post, in re-
ference to his knowledge of the bush. “Experi-
ence in the North !” said Mr. Little, “what does
he know of the North ? Why the ship that brought
him there has not yet ceased rocking, and he has
not yet washed the pease-soup off his face.”
A labourer hard at work hoeing an orange
orchard in the district of Central Cumberland
(N.S.W.) being asked to subscribe to the men who
only get sd. an hour. “Fivepence an hour,” said
the orchard grubber, “ why, d it, that’s twice
as much as I get, for Mr. R. only pays me 2s. a
day for 10 hours. I could do with a few subscrip-
tions myself, as I have been out of work a long
time before getting this job.”
British trades unionists, by a majority of
three to two, have‘voted against the eight hours’
system. That is to some extent the outcome of
tlie individualistic teachings so broadly scattered
of late years. The British anarchist says in
effect: —“I don’t like the coercion of the
masters, but I don’t intend to submit to the
coercion of my fellows.” Here he is wrong.
Force in this case must be met with force ;
brutality with brutality, as a matter of expediency,
and not of principle.
We read that “the celebrated American
politician, Benjamin Butler, advocates the federa-
tion of the English-speaking peoples of the world
for mutual benefit and support, and as a pre-
liminary step suggests that Canada should join her
gditical fortunes with those of the United States.”
utler evidently has in him a fine vein of cynicism.
If the “English-speaking peoples ” are to federate
on the basis of English interests, then we shall see
the States join with Canada and not Canada with
the States —a very big difference.
A Dublin magistrate has sent Mary Smith
to prison for eating dynamite. Mary found a
brownish-looking compound in a heap of rubbish,
and thinking it was chocolate, consumed half of it
with considerable relish. While vigorously attack-
ing the remaining half, a kind friend informed
her that she was eating part of a dynamite
cartridge. The police sought her out, and Mary
Smith got two months for having dynamite ille-
gally in her possession. The poor are always
searching rubbish-heaps for food; always eating
dynamite, in fact, as Corporate Sweaterdom will
find out some day when it is sent up sky-high.
From the speech made by Baillie Walcot
on presenting the Freedom of Edinburgh to Par-
nell :
“ For, sir, what is Freetrade? It has helped to make
this country prosperous exceedingly, but that is no reason
why it should stand in the way of granting to your cruelly-
oppressed and down-trodden country the right to do as
she pleases. Those who make Freetrade a fetish have
insisted that the adoption of Protection would be injurious
to Ireland. What have they or what have we to do with
that ? If you, sir, think it best that Ireland should have
Protection, with all the consequences of Protection, then,
in the name of all that is good—in your own name, sir
take it. (Cheers.) We recognise your right to deal as you
please with Irish affairs. This is the beginning and the
end of our political creed. We go so far, sir, as to say that
if you, in the name of Ireland, desire to ruin Ireland, you
have a right to do so.” (Cheers.)
Sir Alfred Stephen, who took the chair at
Parkin’s Sydney Protestant Hall lecture, and who
yearly subscribes 425. to the Imperial Federation
League (London), is slobbered over in a late issue
of their official journal thus wise :
After the battle at Salamis each general was invited to
lay upon the altar of Apollo the names of two men who
had deserved best of their country. Each man placed
himself first and Themistocles second ; and so Themis-
tocles received the first prize. If the Australian statesmen
could be polled in the same manner, Sir Alfred Stephen
would by all accounts occupy a similar position.
Nonsense ! In such an Australian plebiscite the
words inscribed by every Australian statesman on
the voting-ticket would be ‘ 4 Me and Parkes. ”
Mr. Haldane, a Scotch M.P,, is a much
misunderstood man, for, having ventured to
olace a comic notice upon the Commons’ busi-
ness paper, ho has been taken seriously by
bis Gladstonian Liberal friends, and abused
right heartily. He is a keen opponent of the
Flogging Bill, and in order to stay its progress
he took counsel with Sir Henry Jaraes and Mr.
Bradlaugh, in order to devise an “instruction to
Committee ” which should best block its path.
This, after much cogitation, they found in a sug-
gestion that the bill should be so broadened as to
re establish for certain offences flogging in the
army, and the effect has been that the measure
may be considered to be dead for this session.
But a further and altogether unexpected result
has been that Mr. Haldane is being (says a London
correspondent) publicly denounced as “ a very
pretty kind of progressive M.P.”
One of the newest “novelties” in the
Paris Exhibition is a “Venus of Milo” in-
chocolate !
The (Victorian-invented) Brennan torpedo,
says a service organ, is an immense success, and
threatens to thrust out the Whitehead altogether.
The Rev. Kinsman, of Prahran (Vic.),
who boasts of having married close on 13,000
people since he set up in the business, is the head
of a sect of his own founding. He preached the
other Sunday on “Reunion in Paradise;” —
A certain vagabond “ nobleman,” with his
musical instrument and his female companion, now
constitutes one of the greatest curiosities of the
streets of London. His piano-organ bears a large
placard stating that he is a Viscount, son of a
certain nobleman whom he does not hesitate to
name, and who, as his placard alleges, disowned
him “ through no fault of his own.” He has con-
sequently taken to street-playing in order to “gain
an honest livelihood.” The lady who accompanies
him, presumably his wife, wears kid gloves and a
sealskin jacket, and although she occasionally
takes a turn at the handle of the musical instru-
ment, makes it her peculiar function to collect the
money. This she does with the charming air of a
wealthy Viscountess begging at a fancy bazaar in
aid of some charity. Her method consists in pre-
senting to her possible contributors, with a con-
descending bow, a card setting forth the painful
position of the “Viscount,” and a bag in which
they may express their indignation against a cruel
and unnatural father by depositing a piece of
silver or even a penny piece and almost everybody
gives. The Viscount (Hinton) frequently smokes
cigarettes whilst at the organ, and comports himself
generally as a lord under the circumstances might
be expected to do.
St. Peter’s stranded by his gate,
The clouds give back his snore ;
His business has been slack of late,
Of strangers not a score
Have passed that track for many days ;
The traffic from the earth
Has tended down to lower ways ;
Of news there is a dearth.
At length comes one, a portly swell,
Who swaggers up and rings,
His airs of conscious worth fortell
An applicant for wings.
“ Come, let me through, St. Pete,” he says,
“ I am expected here.
I’ve been a parson all my days,
And guess I’ve found my sphere.”
‘ ‘ The Rev’rend Kinsman, I believe ?”
Says Peter, with a grin.
“ My orders are, old pard, I grieve,
To never let you in.
You see, ’bout half those folks you wed
.Got grace—were bom anew,
And heaven, sir, may well be said
To be too hot for you.”


7//r /ypppAy . yf P>P , v 7
/ C'/Z-i/PS. /aeA-Arrs
s/p /pap, /f p/c/ci c/apP
'fzP <ojr/o u ?**r\
M^^SyPP' 0 /- Af A^ ars £o/frp $
Wy Px 6#apccs, P//paP a pa/y |J
R %)/JA^f a P *?
\Sn5 £JaP(?/-/\ —— ' Jsk
v I
U
I|N C.C*
If y. ? w r /
mu \* \ V
1/%» \/
\PA}
[Wf/j
s '^ ts . v -•> J
#? P
h**, '.. S UR Puss "
. ~ ~ r/ofhnjcr
/p/ „
. PROPOSE.o ys J'py' /^riANCU op ?y/P/?oy A l’ /vapal- Pi-
iSPpic/T Co/?PS* °r y
PPjf /&/)lD %UCCA//££KS OP P/A/C//6uT
TLo damage dcae by white ar*.3 to the public
school building* of tLie colony Is estimated at
££ooo a year.
y. A
hM///cAs
V/Cf s) *?vv* / u^'c
/tOA//.OJ!T}
u e 7?p/pp£'op} ''
I O /fr V l l'oftALsHov ; \|
M* 1 , |
v* e i a £of %- *
l /OU foljCC Uf /
'mh S/r<
"Hoh! T 'si
At r / at ,
dose KiijU
Ur^SYß^t
Mjt. B. ft, Wise, speaking on Saturday o -at
tke iaauffural meeting of the Quean-
beran branch of the Freetrade and |
Liberal Association, said that-
He believed we were within a
measurable distance of the time when we
should see the end of the old world animosi-
ties that had done so much to embitter public
life, and that we should soon be able to put:
down in this land the estrangements caused by
the orange and the and see a cohesion oil
the adherents of those colors for mutual and]
general benefit.
best , f
fhcLt about is to
, (ohre lnflo.li/H}*'
Tory arTtcles To old. World noaq-
QL'Z./fCS ' o
Things in General.


AN OLD MAN’S D ADDING —SOME FEATURES OF THE ADELAIDE DIVORCE CASE.
I.—He»e you see the plai-stiff laying at tin feet of the respondent his heart and his fortune
As he W'as manager for a gas-works, the fortune must have been considerable ; being rather
advanced in life the heart may have been somewhat tough.
2.—They were married and started off per R.M.S. Britannia for a brid»l trip. The
“ honeymoon,” it would appear, was not a howling success.
3—“ All his approaches to his young bride were repelled
with unconcealed repugnance.”
4.—Nor was this his only trouble, for on board ship he had
to witness the flirtations of his young wife, who, although
unyielding to him. received'in a most affable manner the
advances of young and good-looking men. The first of these
vas a s'at wart cavalry-officer.
s.—ln anoTier vcs cl the elderly and unlucky spouse
C’Ught his wife fining violently with one o tt>e ship's
officers, and several times turprised them in dark places
together
6. —This is the young man
known as “Freddy,’ with
the high collar and military
stare.
9.—This is a son of the
plaintiff who one day dis-
covered a garment on the
™hne which he knew did rot
| Jbelong to the family.
10.—On several occasions he found them sitting in the draw-
ing-room with the gas turned down, and overheard the lieutenant
ask for a kiss, which was softly declined.
11. —When all these things were reported to the plaintiff he
was so exasperated tha*i he slammed the door.
12, “ Strong odour of
ciga'ette smoke.”
13.—Duties of a nurse,
7. —When he even put his hand upon her shoulder
she started —shuddered
B.—While she would submit to ice being put on
on her head by “Fredd/" of tin “ military stare ”
without wincing.
14 —Several clergymen and social purists obtained
admittance to the court-icom, and w r ere promi ent
in their endeavours to get sea f s where they could
catch even a whispered confession in answer to a
counsel’s indiscreet inquiry


“HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
F. B. WHEELER & CO.,
2G5 Clarence Street,
S Y ID ZEST IE
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. JOJfSOJf, Pitman's Certificated Teacher,
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of UXTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, renrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Eluthner, Collard, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos a/b £-4:5 and Elatey Organa. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
A crowd of horror overshadowed the
general phiz of J. Cassius Williamson as he sat in
the vice-regal compartment of Melbourne Princess’
on the first night of “ Jack-in-the-Box.” In the
course of irreverent “ gagging” Walton wanted to
know why Sir William Robinson wore blue braces.
And when the blasphemer went on to explain that
they were intended “to keep his trousers up,” it
seemed for the moment as though the end of poor
Williamson was near. Sweat broke out upon his
managerial brow. He quivered like an aspen leaf
in a strong north wind. Then little by little
J.O.W. got over the attack, and turned his opera-
glasses on Walton to see whether the stage had
swallowed him up for ever. But somehow the
wrath of Heaven hadn’t moved in this matter.
Walton remained alive until the curtain fell, when
his boss staggered wildly out on to the balcony,
and there gazing at the distant lights of Govern-
ment House, he murmured to his perturbed spirit—
“O! what will His Excellency say ?” There is
nothing in the whole world more solemn than the
spectacle of a strong man in agony.
* * *
We notice that the man who lately started
a temperance-drink saloon just below the Sydney
Supreme Court, and announced that he was pre-
pared to “ instantly sober up drunkards,” has
taken down his sign to that effect. We thought
so. The Sydney man doesn’t get drunk to be
made sober. He gets drunk to stay drunk.
* * *
The young ladies at the Manly Flower
Show are, we read, “ instructed not to use undue
persuasion to induce gentlemen to buy flowers.”
By “ undue persuasion ” is, of course, meant per-
sonal violence.
* #
Rev. Dr. M ‘Gregor says that Sydney Har-
bour is the finest in the world. But then Scotch
theologians are not necessarily harbour-connois-
seurs. What does the reverend gentleman think
of Our Beautiful Whisky ?
* * *
The cruellest thing ever said about Francis
Ormond appeared in the Argus notice of his
pompous obsequies. “The burial place is of an
unostentatious and even modest character, and a
simple tombstone announces the fact that three
members of the Ormond family have previously
been interred.” The reporter was evidently
astonished to find that poor Francis hadn’t pro-
vided himself with a golden vault and a jewelled
granite pyramid inscribed with the story of his
charitable gifts. Only a simple tombstone ! The
modest thing won’t stay there, we guess. It will
be oppressed with a sense of its own unworthiness
and slink out of the cemetery as soon as possible.
# * *
Premier Salisbury has made a billet for
broken-down old Henry Chaplin, M.P., as Minister
of Agriculture. He will be a lot of good. Chaplin
made £200,000 twenty-two years ago, by Hermit’s
Derby victory. Lightly come, lightly go. He is
now poor as a rat. They wanted to make him
Governor of South Australia, but the Adelaideans
rose up and howled. They wouldn’t have a
broken-down gambler. So we entered upon the
course of Kintore, Onslow, and Hopetoun. All
the good young men will soon be exhausted. But
we write of a good old one, and our story
has in consequence a somewhat ancient and
fishlike aroma. Chaplin, as befitted a turf
gambler, was a great stickler for Church and
State in Parliament. Strange to say, he is a par-
ticular friend now of Sir Geo. Chetwynd, who
married the widow of the Marquis of Hastings.
This lady, still living, jilted Mr. Chaplin in early
life, under romantic circumstances. She was
Lady Florence Paget, a daughter of Lord
Anglesey. Being engaged to Mr. Chaplin, she
eloped with and married the Marquis of Hastings.
Chaplin had his revenge in the famous Derby,
when Hermit ruined the Marquis of Hastings,
who died not long after. Chaplin remained un-
married, and it was speculated that he might
make up to his old flame, but the arrow had
rankled too deep in his soul. So she married Sir
G. Chetwynd, and he married somebody else.
Chetwynd is not altogether a model husband. You
remember the row there was, in Hyde Park, be-
tween him and Lord Lonsdale, over Mrs. Langtry.
One of these gents, wanted to know what the other
had been doing with “My Lily,” and hit him a
smack with a whip. Afterwards, Lonsdale went
off to Violet Cameron, and the ice-fields of Alaska.
We want some nice little Lords propagated in
the Government Houses of Melbourne, Adelaide,
and Wellington.
* # *
People are talking of the enormous
pecuniary sacrifice made by a Sydney lady to the
money-lenders to get her rake of a husband out of
trouble. Shylock, who seems to be increasingly
rapacious, took, on this occasion, forty ounces of
flesh to the pound.
* * *
A lady’s bustle, large size, was found sus-
f ended from a Brisbane lamp-post the other day.
t was thought that the wearer had slipped down
through it into the pipe.
# * #
Writes a correspondent from—well, we
don’t like to say where :
The other day I saw a certain judge’s p.n. for £l2O, for
discount, at a loan and discount bank. Some time ago
one of the same judge’s p.n.’s was placed in my hands for
discount. I took it to a solicitor who did a little discount
and showed it to him. “Goto ,” he said, “I would
not give you the price of the stamps for it.” And yet this
official sits on the bench, and tries cases between the
public and the usurers!
A London lady writer thus perils her
future bliss :
One of the funniest things I have ever heard of happened
to Harry a few evenings ago at a dance we were at. He is
very tall and boasts a long drooping moustache, and I
noticed him dancing a good deal with a pretty little fair
girl of the artistically untidy type. Her hair was in small
pinned-up curls all over the back of her head, and she was
continually having to hair-pin them again as they refrac-
torily escaped. Harry seemed to hold her in rather a
strange manner - , perhaps because he is so tall, and I
noticed that his moustache frequently swept over her
head. Three or four times she put up her hand to try
and discover what it was. At last, after a little manipu-
lation, she managed with a hair-pin to transfix the restless
curl. Only when she had firmly attached it did she dis-
cover it was the curly end of Harry’s moustache.
* * ' *
That great fall-back officer, Col. French,
of Queensland, has been got at in a quiet way by
THEY NEVER GETS IT OUT.
BOOKMAKER (loq.) “IT’S VERY LIKE OURSELVES, THAT THERE MACHINE.
THEY PUTS IN THEIR LITTLE PENNY AND THEY NEVER GETS
IT OUT.”
a party named Allom. Said Allom undertook to
organise a cadet-corps in Charters Towers, which
a schoolmaster yclept Norris failed to do. Allom’s
efforts were crowned with success ; a splendid body
of cadets (boys over 14 and clear'of schools) includ-
ing an A 1 drum and fife band, was organised,
uniformed, and equipped by public and private
subscriptions, concerts, &c. Then came the tug
of red tape ! Allom was gazetted lieutenant. He
protested. No good ! Then he had recourse to
strategy. He recommended his colour-sergeant
for a lieutenant’s commission. Granted. He next
recommended another deserving hoy for a lieu-
tenancy. Granted. Suddenly Col. French found
himself confronted by the fact that he had three
lieutenants and no captain in the company ; so he
post-haste gazetted Lieut. Allom a captain, dating
his commission back so that he would be a little
bit the senior (he is close up CO) of the boy-lieu-
tenants of his corps.
* * #
When Dr. Brierly, of Melbourne, was be-
fore the City Court, the other day, charged with
assaulting and robbing the man Davidson, a police-
man said that when they searched the Doctor’s
room at the Charing Cross Hotel the white waist-
coat now worn by the Doctor was then lying on
the bed. Whereupon A ttorney Daly stated that
that very morning the Doctor borrowed the vest
which he was then wearing, from Mr. Zox !
* « *
The Edinburgh Radical Leader says :
“ Without experience in administration, without
practice in legislation, without eloquence or per-
sonal force, Lord Hopetoun becomes the head of a
great self-governing colony, and the recipient of a
salary of £lO,OOO per annum. And yet this is a
democratic age ! ” The Radical Leadee knows
nothing at all about this matter. Lord Kintore
says that Victoria is very lucky, most fortunate
indeed, to get such a gem as Hopetoun, and we
take it that Kintore is an expert. He knows a
valuable peer when he sees one. Set an earl to
find an earl, and all that sort of thing, yerunder-
stand.
At nearly every benefit matinee given in
Melbourne a Miss Marion Llewellyn comes for
ward in gorgeous raiment to pipe her little little
song. Miss L. is generally regarded as a melan-
choly infliction upon such humble individuals as
wish to be entertained, and if her friends of the
“ circle ” will kindly accept this intimation it may
prevent the violent heaving of a cabbage at some
future opportunity.
Among the curiosities of Melbourne
obituary notices appears the announcement of the
death of the “eldest daughter of S. Brown, and
stepdaughter of the late J. K. Brown.” Anyone
with a taste for puzzles may spend a quiet hour in
trying to elucidate the above. We can’t.
# # #
W hen Salvation Harmy lasses go wrong
they describe themselves as “black spiders,” which
is the unregenerate term for backsliders.
# * *
De Salis, M.L.C. of N. S. Wales, in a
speech against divorce-extension, said he knew of
an American lady who had married eight times.
# # #
It has transpired that a Sydney scribe, now
on his trial for bigamy, before asking the hand cf
“No, 2” decorated himself with a “ninepenny
pair of dogskin-gloves.” And from what we have
read of women it seems likely enough that they so
far impressed her as to turn the balance of affec-
tion in his favour. Just think of it —a man’s
earthly career made or blasted by nine-penn’orth
of dog-skin !
* * *
A Melbourne paper says : “ If the directors
of the Tramway Company feel themselves pricked
by conscience to concede something to travellers
now (out of 72 per cent, dividend) they might in-
stitute penny sections on all city lines.” The
Company hasn’t a conscience to be pricked. It is
a regular shy lot—we mean Shylock.
* * *
Sic transit gloria Mundi! On Tuesday
week Sculler Searle’s name was the most conspi-
cuous item of the newspaper-placards. On Wed-
nesday he was deposed by “ Jack the Ripper.”
# * *
On 28th August the Argus correspondent
in London wired (or was alleged to have wired):
“The assistance from the public is spasmodic, and
hence it is unlikely that the strike can last long.”
The wish was father to that statement. The
“spasmodic ” assistance immediately settled down
into a steady average of £6OOO per day—not in-
cluding Australian contributions —and the silly
old Argus was left as usual. It seldom sets up a
solid truth —past, present, or to come.
# * #
Dear Bulletin, —Turning over some of
my old files of your paper the other day, I came
across a par. in which you credit a Victorian ser-
geant of police with the invention of the word
“ larrikin.” I think you make a big mistake.
The word larrikin is derived from the two thieves’
patter-words “ leary ” and “ kinchin ” the
former signifying wide-a-wake or “fly ” —the
latter a youngster of either ssx. Years before the
historical sergeant used the word “larkin’’ I
heard a very old Botany “lag” call a young
colonial a “ leary kin,” and when I asked him the
interpretation thereof he said it was “ short for
leary kinchin.” This was in ’52. —Yours, Geev.
back, Q.
A man with a nose 11 inches long is about
to exhibit himself in Melbourne. He must ex-
perience some difficulty in keeping a trunk like
that out of other people’s business.
The Hon. James White and family, and
Mr. Tooth, the big Sydney brewer, and family,
have taken passage for England by an Orient boat
leaving Sydney early next year. The two parties
between them have engaged 54 berths.
* * #
When a man lives from hand to mouth,
he generally has a tumbler in that hand.
# #
A. man charged with having no visible
means of support in a Melbourne suburban court,
one day last week, told the bench that he took
round the plate at the Methodist Church. Case
dismissed.
* * *
The selection of the Grand Hotel, Mel-
bourne, as Governor Robinson’s official resting
place while painters and decorators are in posses-
sion of the big House, is quite a Parliamentary
job. Jimmy Munro leads the Opposition and
bosses the Grand Hotel company.
# * *
A New York woman, according to a virtu-
ously indignant report, actually gave a party in
honour of her pug-dog’s birthday, and found fifty
people “ degraded ” enough to attend the festival
and shake the little beast by the paw. This must
have been the first fashionable birthday party at
which nobody talked scandal about the chief ob-
ject of interest. The women didn’t murmur
“ cat ’’ behind their fans, nor did the men whisper
“ass” as they lounged in the doorways. They
frankly and openly addressed their dumb host as a
“good dog,” and he fawned upon them in all
sincerity. It was a perfectly wholesome celebra-
tion, and we should have felt a pleasure in drink-
ing the pug’s health till all was blue. Every dog
deserves a birthday, and blessed is the man who
has his kennel full of ’em.
THAT DEPUTATION.
Sir ’Enery gracefully sat in the chair,
With more than his usual serious air;
And around him were gathered a godly crew
Who had earnestly sought an interview.
They all were imbued with Ker-ristian lore,
And holiness oozed from their every pore.
They stated that something would have to be done
To check the advance of the Evil One.
They blushed, and Sir ’Enery coloured as well,
At the horrible story they had to tell.
Such a want of regard for the Holy Writ
Was driving us all to the Bottomless Pit.
The passion for betting was growing apace,
And was playing the deuce with the human race.
Our children, ’twas very distressing to see,
Would gamble for pennies with devilish glee.
(To gamble, one’s chance of salvation it mars,
Except at the church or cathedral bazaars.)
Again, what a terrible thing ’tis to think
Of the souls that are damned by the Demon of
Drink !
Ah! to think of the thousands who meet with
Death
With a beery eye and exeiseable breath !
And the youths of the city were much inclined
To indulge in a vice of another kind.
To openly name such a sin wouldn’t do;
But the good Sir ’Enery possibly knew.
They trusted the Premier would soon bring in
A measure to cope with this hideous sin.
Sir ’Enery then, with a watery eye,
In wavering accents commenced his reply :
“You all will observe that I blush when I say
I’ve heard of this sin in a casual way.
“ To check its advance I am drafting a Bill
Which ev’ry requirement should properly fill.
“ I give you its title as near as I can—
A Bill for the utter Extinction of Man.
“ I’m thinking of starting—pray don’t run away—
With jokers who work the Revivalist lay ”
But here they observed they’d forgotten to call
On an intimate friend at the Protestant Hall.
A SYDNEY “ECHO” SONG.
“ ’Twas uttered in Herald and uttered not well,
Yet Echo caught faintly the sound as it fell.”
“ I am the ‘ Echo ’ of my ma;
Ah ha ! Ah ha !
“ The Herald never yet was wrong;
Go ’long, go ’long !
“ Granny couldn’t tell a lie ;
My eye, my eye !
“ Granny wouldn’t even try ;
Oh my, oh my !
“But couldn’t give a reason why;
Say I, say I!
“ But always goes in straight for truth !
Tee-rewth, tee-rewth !
“And never known to make mistake ;
Lord sake, Lord sake.
“ She cracks up land and backs up money;
Sonny, sonny !
‘ ! She backs the party now in power;
One hour, one hour.
“ ‘ Times change, we also !’ Granny’s text;
The next, the next.
‘Yes, Granny’s always in the right;
Good-night, good-night!”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
90-KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
(> Months
3 Months
9i per cent.
8j per cent.
7A per cent.
5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent’, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors. _
Communications from the country will be
nroraptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
scorn
EMULSION
9F PUiE ODD LIVER OIL
Atm HYFOFHOSPHITES
Almost as Palatable as Rfflilk.
So disguised that it cam toe taken,
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
©anmot be tolerated; and by the com-
bination of the oil with the hypophoS-
phitea is much more efficacious.
Remarkable as a flesh producer*
Persons gain rapidly while taking IS*
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged by
Physicians to be the Finest and Best prepay
ration in the world for the relief and cure of
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA,
GENERAL DEBILITY, CASTING
DISEASES, EMACIATION,
GOLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children. Sold hy all Chemists.
ROBERTSON’S \\ r II I!SK Y.
£2OO
FHIZXiS.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of 45 ead*, 35 43. anti 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, AXjXjT &
CO., i-imitad, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
A diabolically dull concern called the
Roval Society, in Melbourne, is to be re-christened
the” Victorian Society, and enter on a career of
usefulness. At present it is a preserve for Smel-
fmisuses and Mundunguses meeting in a big tomb.
Vet there is a chronicle of glory connected with
the expose of poor Burke and Wills’ remains in
the society’s hall. This paradise of scientific bores
is being renovated by the formation of sections for
literature, art, and drama, also a military section,
which will be the most popular.
* * *
“ In consequence of the large amount of
money which is being received from Australia
there is no disposition on the part of the men on
strike to show a conciliatory disposition towards
the dock companies.”— Argus cable. Hallelujah
for that !
The Evening Standard office (Melb.) is
the only Australian newspaper office where the re-
porters’ room is carpeted ! Jimmy Thomson, of
Exhibition fame, has mixed with so many kings
and statesmen in his travels of late years that he
has become inured to luxury. George Collins
Levey’s ideal is becoming a thing of the past.
When, after an absence of years in Europe and
America, George returned and saw the spicy
offices which most of the Melbourne papers had
and then climbed up the steep staircase—without
a bannister—in the old Herald office in Swanston-
street and reached the loft where the composing-
room and literary department were located, he
said it was the only real newspaper office left in
the blooming place !
* * *
There is a clergy crusade in Melbourne
against cigarette photos. Tartuffe goes and looks
at {them in the tobacconists’ windows, and says
“That ain’t a bit like my wife!” If once a
Y.M.C.A. member is informed that the female
race locomote on legs, all is lost. A woman is
stuffid with bran. There is a bit of ankle, but no
leg.—
The Venerable Monsignor the Bight
Reverend Archdeacon O’Dowd, begorra ! has been
for years at Spudopolis, alias Warrnambool, and has
had for housekeeper Miss Bessie Flynn, who, from
her house-savings, wages, visitors’tips, and general
perquisites, managed to scrape together a personal
estate of £2BOO. She died the other day, and last
week Justice a’Beckett was asked to grant
probate to her will. The document was very
short and sweet, and signed with a cross.
It was in the handwriting of the Archdeacon, left
all the coin to himself, and appointed him sole
executor. Monsignor O’D. says that he had
verbal instructions from Bessie as to what he
should do with the cash, and that he himself
wouldn’t benefit a red cent, by the transaction ;
but Justice A’Beckett has summoned everybody
concerned, except the testatrix, to appear before
him and explain the whole business. A stitch in
time saves nine, and if Cleary, the tailor, who
acted as attesting witness, had suggested that the
local attorney should be called in, all this awkward
bother might have been saved. Canon law
and Chancery law are not identical in the
ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Victorian Supreme
Court - *
Governor Kintore, of South Australia, has
got into a row with the Queen through speaking
of the South Australians as “My people !” This
seems to have been a banquet utterance. When
George IV. was crowned they had a prodigious
ceremonial at Westminster Abbey. The Duke of
Wellington, as Champion of England, entered on
a circus horse from Ducrow’s or Astley’s. The
duke, in full armour, had to enter the hall on
horseback, fling down a gauntlet, and challenge
the world. After this the horse was to back out
with him, respectfully, before the face of the great
and glorious George IV., of pious and immortal
memory. The horse had been thoroughly re-
hearsed. The duke rode into the hall and all the
aristocrats applauded. The horse turned right
round, and began to back up to the monarch and
otherwise misbehave himself. The gorgeous robes
used- in the coronation ceremony were bought by
Elliston, the theatrical manager, who held mock
coronation processions at Drury Lane Theatre, with
himself in the character of George IV. One night
he was drunk as a lord, or a monarch, and really
believed himself to be George IV., as he hic-
coughed out “ Bless ye, my people !” But Kintore
ain’t allowed to do it. Onslow and Hopetoun
please note. Salisbury ought to be ashamed of
having put such brats in the saddle.
* * *
Births and berths—these are the things
which people Australia.
* * #
Melbourne perjury. “ Traveller in the
Gippsland district, entering a roadside hotel, and
addressing lugubrious-looking landlord : ‘ Give me
a glass of brandy, please.’ ‘ Got none.’ ‘ Well, a
glass of whisky.’ ‘ Got none.’ ‘ Well, a drop of
rumor gin.’ ‘Ain’t got any.’ ‘Good Lord,
man, what have you got in the house ?’ ‘A bailiff. ’ ”
* * *
The divorce case about which everybody,
even the most virtuous and regular attendant at
choir-practice, is now talking, is simply a repe-
tition of the old Jamiary and May story—a recur-
rence, with an agreeable variation, of the marital
history of Mr. and Mrs. Maybrick. An old man
. JjUt •
j I
uses his money to purchase a beautiful young
woman : she uses his money and her beauty to
buy an equally beautiful young man. The sociolo-
gical student recognises the fact that the inter-
changeableness of commodities is a factor in
matrimony as well as in political economy.
Keep on Subscribing, Brothers!
While our money rolls along
Will the right oppose the wrong,
Hence the reason for our song—
Keep on subscribing, brothers !
If Australia’s kindly hand
■ Helps the weary ones to stand,
Be this echoed through the land —
Keep on subscribing, brothers !
Bor the young, or old and grey,
Growing weaker, day by day,
Sixteen thousand miles away,
Keep on subscribing, brothers.
Bor the women white and worn,
To a life of sorrow born —
Marks for “ higher culchaw’s” scorn—
Keep on subscribing, brothers.
Bor the little kids who cry,
As on beds of straw they lie, _
“ Give us bread or we shall die,*
Keep on subscribing, brothers.
Must a cause so good and just
Ball a-fainting in the dust
Bor the want of e’en a crust ?
Keep on subscribing, brothers.
Keep on subscribing, brothers,
That the weak may fight the strong
Till the right can beat the wrong,
Which shall surely be ere long
Keep on subscribing, brothers.
The human form divine
Is nothing but a fiction,
Good Goshen’s hard, lean kine
Will not bear depiction.
[Oh, that’s the jar !]
ODE TO YARLEY.
Who would disturb a sleeping dog
When one can pass him by ?
’Tis vain a dying ass to flog—
Well, let a He
Although it may infect the air
In process of decay,
Yet very soon, as you’re aware,
’Twill stink itself away.
Melville wants to “ box ” Abigail for the
benefit of the Dock-strikers. Cedar or pine ?
Crawford’s misdoings at Gympie are only
just getting known; more and more crops out a
days go by. It is hardly necessary to say that the
other brokers are greatly scandalised.
We have received the first two copies of
Quiz, a smart new Adelaide weekly. The paper
is a good deal stronger than its name. “ Quiz ”is
a word never used save by well-bred old maids in
Berlin-wool-and-curate’s-slipper circles.
Dear Bulletin, —You point out how Eng-
land strains at a gnat and swallows a camel by
rejecting Zola and retaining Shakespeare, Smol-
lett and Fielding, but perhaps you are not aware
of the following The British Government,
through the Commander-in-Chief in India, issued
a circular memorandum to the commanding offi-
cers that “ in the regimental bazars it is neces-
sary to have a sufficient number of women, to take
care they are sufficiently attractive, and to provide
them with proper houses.” The Bible is the secret
of England’s greatness?—J.W., Sydney.
“Three-Fingered Jack.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There is a spiritual shepherd now living in
Brisbane who has been ‘ ‘ out ” since the later sixties
rounding up the well-shorn members of his flock
all over the thirsty North. He knows Queensland
between the Barcoo and the Burdekin as well as
any black trooper in the service. The breed of
sheep shorn is of no consequence ; he is a priest of
the religion of humanity, and when, of an evening,
the whisky and soda are mantling in the social
cup, he can pitch a good “differ” of the rough-
and-ready life of 20 years agone. Take a sample.
# * *
It was iu thickly-timbered country close to
where Thargomindah slumbers on the ‘‘Never-
Never.” The year was’73. He was riding with
his man, accompanied by two packhorses, and they
were making tracks from the Bulloo to St. George,
when one morning they came upon a man stretched
full length under a peppermint-tree on the wrong
side for shade, for the broiling sun was beating
right down upon his head and shoulders. To
all appearance he was stone dead, but on feel-
ing his pulse they found that there was a
faint stir of life in him. They moistened his
lips with water, bathed his temples, and tried
all the usual means of restoration, but without
effect. Death seemed to have him in its grip.
His clothing consisted of a digger’s shirt and
moleskins, battered straw-hat, and blucher boots
without socks. As the best thing under the cir-
cumstances, the shepherd directed his man to ride
ahead to St. George, which they reckoned was
about half-a-day off, and bring back with him the
sergeant of police, and, if possible, the local doctor.
“ I wish you would listen to my suit, Miss
Belinda.” pleaded young Ferguson, mournfully.
“Well,” replied the beautiful girl, glancing at
the young man’s new plaid clothes, “ they’re
certainly loud enough to demand a hearing.”
About eight hours later saw the servant
back accompanied by the sergeant and a doctor —
so called—who was, in reality, only a bush-
educated practitioner, but of considerable rough-
and-ready skill. Not a movement, not a sign of
life had been shown by the prostrate man all the
time. As soon as the “doctor” had examined
his patient, felt his pulse, &c., he seemed puzzled,
and remarked that if it wasn’t for the absurdity of
such a surmise under the circumstances, he would
say the man was shamming dead. After trying
several means of restoration the doctor at last
produced a bottle of liquid ammonia, and held
it uncorked to the man’s nose. At once a
movement was perceptible, and after another pro-
longed application the patient sat bolt upright,
like a marionette, and opened his eyes.
* * *
The doctor was then standing at his head,
the shepherd at his side, and the police-sergeant at
his feet; so that when he opened his eyes and
looked straight before him the cap and uniform of
the “force” were the first objects to catch
his eye, and, whether he had been shamming
or was awakening from a swoon, his first
words were, “Oh, my God! Trapped at
last!” “ Hold out your left hand !” roared the
sergeant in great excitement. The poor wretch
did so mechanically, when it was seen that the
hand had only three fingers and was also minus
the thumb. It was in this simple way that the
notorious bushranger, “Three-Fingered Jack,”
was taken, after eluding the authorities for two
years, with a big price on his head. He and
a mate (never caught) had stuck up a store on
Peak Downs and shot the storekeeper and his
assistant for interfering in the proceedings. He
was fetched down to Brisbane in due course,
but died in prison before trial, and so
cheated the patent asphyxiator on the Boggo
Road. They found a revolver on him with four
chambers loaded, and he was heard before he died
to utter a tender regret that “ while they were
fooling round him he didn’t up and let fly and
send the whole four’em to the bloomin’” Never-
never droughtland, whither, according to his
simple creed, all of us must arrive at the end of
life’s dusty tramp.
The Press and the Pound?.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The same old yellow dross which ought to
be —but never is —treated with contempt in favour
of treasure laid up in a bank beyond the reach of
land-grabbers and mining syndicates, induced a
simple pressman, many years ago, to strike out in
the direction of Sundown, and buy a Queensland
country newspaper. Like all other country news-
papers it had been started “to fill a long-felt
want; ” and the agent who had it for sale declared
it to be: “A lever sir! A powerful lever with
which to raise that benighted district out of the
bog of stagnation, and acquire a handsome
competence for yourself at the same time ! ”
Said lever having utterly failed in
fulfilling its mission on account of the “whisky
and billiards ” tendencies of its numerous editors
■ —imported from the South as occasion required,
at great expense—one to give up journalism for
horsestealing, one to marry the publican’s daughter
and take to “the bar,” one to be killed in a
drunken “flutter for a fiver” at the Christmas
races, and two to take up selections in the local
boneyard. But the agent was a truthful man—as
most agents are. There was money in the paper.
There were many townships, but no newspaper, to
the west of it, and all the “pound ads.” from an
area of many thousand square miles tumbled into
its columns, according to statutory provision.
Cows, bullocks, horses, sheep, everything that
had legs to stray and did stray, got de-
scribed in it at per inch. The poundkeeper’s
instructions everywhere were:—“Once in the
Government Gazette and once in the nearest
local paper,” and cash with the ad. Always one
column, often two, and sometimes three a week ;
and in the latter case, desolation among subscribers
when they missed the terse and vigorous leading
article abusing the other fellow, and read the
“local” which showed how the leader had to be
held over to make room for the bullocks branded
Jon near hind-quarter. They were good times.
Too good to last— and they didn’t last.
# * *
A scheming bagman, who had once been a
compositor, but had left the case for the counter and
now travelled in ‘ ‘ the ’ardware, ” poked his enquiring
nose, into the business, and told a far-away friend
what a splendid chance there was for a paper fifty
miles to the westward, where a township had been
laid out, a pub. was in full swing, a store in course
of erection, and a blacksmith’s shop open when the
blacksmith was sober; and “no end of pound ads.,
which, being further West, you will cut the other
fellow out of according to the Hact. ’
* # *
But long before the first dray containing
an old “Columbian” and some battered type was
reported above the horizon by the mailman, the
simple pressman whose subsistence was thereby
threatened had shortened his own days in that
arid land, by selling out at a good figure to a local
syndicate, composed of a publican, a butcher, and
a magenta-headed Hebrew of great financial ability,
who was seized with the notion that the editorial
part of the work was his destiny. And it was.
It was also the destiny of the little rag to fade
into nothingness under the combined afflictions.
This plaintive memory of a dead past is recalled
by contemplating the grandeur of larger rags —city
ones—which are wealthy by reason of being able
to hang on to their particular line of ads., either
by force, fraud, strategem, or deceit. Pound ads.
and all sorts of Government ads.—hash-house,
matrimonial, fortune-telling, or baby-farming ads.
are all valuable. They all bring lucre to the lever,
and enable the owner thereof to wear a silk hat
and a gold-mounted church-service, and dine at
Government House, and sometimes go to Heaven.
* # *
Dear reader, whenever you start a paper,
be sure and start it right up alongside the Pound.
The lady-lecturess, Helen Hart, has sent us
a long foolscap letter and two small locks of her
“ silky, glossy, soft hair,” cut, we are afraid, from
a silky soft head.
From N.S.W. Supreme Court: —
His Honor (Judge Stephen); “I suppose I some
common sense. It is as plain as the sun in the sky.
Mr. Salomons: “ The sun is not always in the sky, the
moon is sometimes in the sky.”
Mr. Salomons is quite right. The moon is much
easier to look at than the sun.


Amusements.
Q.AIETYT H E A T R E.
L. Foley ... Lessee.
Manager for Miss Putnam .... Matt. L. Berry.
Business Manager H. Lesion,
An Established and Positive Success >
Of the charming Comedienne,
Miss Katie Putnam,
GEORGE C. BONIFACE, Jr.,
And Miss Putnam’s excellent Comedy, Company,
WEDNESDAY, Sept. 18
THURSDAY, „ 19
FRIDAY, 20
An Entirely New Comedy,
entitled
“LEN A.”
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JJ ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY
JULIUS C J9QS
RIGNOLD AS “ MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
JJLITE SKAT I N G RINK.
The Manager is pleased to announce to his many Patrons
and the Sydney Public that he has RESUMED BUSINESS
at the CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY, York-
street, during the Repairing of his ELITE RINK.
SESSIONS
Morning Session Ladies and Children, Admission Free •
Skate Checks, 6d.
Afternoon Ladies and Children, Admission 6d ; Skates
Free. Gentlemen, Admission 6d ; Skates, 6d.
Evening Admission, Skaters, Is.; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, Gd.
Monday and Thursday Evenings:—Admission, Ladies, Is. ■
Skates, Free. Gentlemen, 2s. ; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, Is.
Saturday Afternoon Prices as usual.
■ The Rink will be OPEN for Special Afternoon Session
from 1 till 2 p.m. Admission 6d. ; Skates, Free.
The NAVAL ARTILLERY BAND in attendance every
Evening and Saturday Afternoon.
Objectionable persons will not be admitted.
K. A. SKINNER, Proprietor and Manager.
I£IHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Tub Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
Evening DOROTHY Evening
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Maskay’s Hotel.
Amusements.
QYCLORAMA. QYCLOBAMA,
What tub People Sat.
(Vox Populi, Vox Dei.)
Sir Henry Parkes: “The most wonderful illusion he had
ever seen. Most marvellously realistie were the details of
American scenery. With regard to the artistic power of
the work he could not say sufficient in its praise. The
good the Oyolorama would do in Sydney could not be too
much dwelt upon. It was not only a means of rational
amusement, but a refining and educational factor.”
Rev. Dr. Jefferis: “ A wonderful scene indeed.”
Rev. W. M. Dill-Mackay: “My second visit. Simply
marvellous. No one should miss it.”
Alderman P. McMahon: “Fully equal if not superior to
those I have seen in Europe and America.”
William Beach, World’s ex-Champion : “The best thing
I have ever seen.”
Mr. Abbott, Bank Manager: “ Well worth 10s.”
Mr. C. P. Welch: “The best 2s. worth in Sydney.”
Open Day and Evening. Admission, 25.; Children, Is.
Baud. Lectures. Sunday Next. Half-price.
QBITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon,
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Overture 8. Curtain 8.5. Carriages 10.20.
BAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
THE SILYEE SHIELD,
BY
SYDNEY GRUNDY, Esq. in Three Acts.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, THE ROCKET.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.rn,
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
gjCHOOL OF ARTS.
—THE SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
NO END OF LAUGHTERI
Popular Prices. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
gONDI AQUARIUM..
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.,
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors-
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d..
Business Announcements.
LARMEE’S
—CELEBRATED—
Health-Giving
AND
Invigorating
THE TOHIO OF THE AGE ! ;
This being one of the best Restoratives yet offered,
to the Public in the form of a Tonic,
Warranted to Build up the Constitution, at (
the same time acts as a Strengthening’ B>esto- j
rative in all eases of
Nervous Debility, Mental Ss Bodily Weakness,!
SICK HEADACHE,
Bilious Complaints, Fever and Ague,
&C., &0.
Bottles at 2s, Gd.. & S S . |
Post, Is Extra..
W. G. CAINS,
King Street, SYDNEY*
in
Tonic.
Shipping.
U NI ON STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited,
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HON«*SULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the ResSStea and the cold
of Cape Horn,
Under Contract with the Boatmak* rs-General of I few
South Wales and New Zealand, the aheamers of this Hn<
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honol uh
Each steamer carries a duly«|naliti<cf surgeon '
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and wit
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insurim
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage
Passengers are booked to Swn Francisco or' through
European destinations and have at San Francitecochoio
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship. Lines of the Cum
Inman, White Star, and other corujpairijes.
All first-class passengers a»re allowed 3501 b. of ba<--m
to San Francisco and 2501 L ” freest char m
first-oYaT™ fa Y "“"“"ft SZ
Time-cards, railway maps, andtgu’de books, showing
routes to any point in the Unitedi States, may be had
application.
For rates of passage and freigjht and all other infon
Don apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street
E. P. lIOUCyVITON, Acting Manager
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
jpricnt Square ijlluc,
Extract of Soap,
Uincgar, Slacking,
&0., &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stems).
Shipping.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DBS MESSAGERIES MART-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates.
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
11. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
jg-ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1886 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (it practicable)
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. A Quantity of Seoond-liand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
Furniture, &c.
N EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BE I) 1)1 NG M ANUFA GTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANDFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by SOTTN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, witl
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes foi
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Eiye pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.-—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O'Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
o
Cl ANYAS FOLDING
J COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed iight, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDST
6x8,8 x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
ô
Austrian bent
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6 x 8, 6 s. 6d.; 8 x 8,
95.; 9x 8, 9 s. 6d.; 10 xB, 10s. 6d.; 12 xB, 12s. 6d.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
o
MERIOAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAME.
A
o
OANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantia l and Light,
Suital 1g for Shipboard and
Verandah,
Pkice Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O'Connell Streets,
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rußtiw
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
/' 4 ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
VT Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d.. etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND
A Reporter’s Hanging Story.
David Christie Murray has, in a lecture,
told a gruesome hanging-story of his old English
reporting days. Here is an Australian reporter’s
story.
* * *
A few years ago I was delegated to attend
an up-country hanging in N.S. W. I spent the even-
ing preceding the execution with the governor
of the gaol, who, from dinner-time until midnight,
entertained me with queer tales of his prison ex-
periences. As I arose.to go, my host, placing his
hand upon my shoulder, said, “ Come and see the
hangman at work.” Then he led me through a
labyrinth of passages until we reached a cell win-
dow through which a dim light struggled. Looking
through it, I saw two alleged human beings
squatted in a froggy attitude on the floor. The
one whose face was directly towards me was an
image with a face like a battered Punch down on
his luck ; the other was a desolate-looking spectre,
with a profile which looked as if it had been
sketched out with a garden-roller and coloured up
when Providence was painting things red. On
either side of them was a tallow candle, and be-
tween them they held a rope, which they were
soaping—with a slow, monotonous rhythm which
suggested that they had got their “ second wind ”
and had been at the work for hours. Their motions
reminded me somehow of a prize lunatic who once
resided in the Yarra Bend—a crank who used to
get up at dawn every morning and turn a grind-
stone all day while he ceaselessly wheezed out the
refrain : “ The one shall be taken ” —as the handle
came up —“ and the other left ” —as the handle
went down again; ‘‘ the one shall be lost; who-oop !
I’m the other ! ” Only, the hangman and his
assistant did not sing, they only smoked short
clay pipes. “Queer pair, ain’t they?” said the
Governor pleasantly, and I assented. They were
the queerest pair I had ever met.
* # *
Truth is stranger than fiction. Since then,
the gaol-governor who brought me at midnight to
see the hangmen has been sentenced to death him-
self —has been a condemned felon with irons on his
ankles in the very cell where that pair of stipen-
diary man-butchers soaped their ropes. After
being for 20 years or more in the prison service he
took to drink, and, while in semi-delirium, shot at
and wounded a fellow-officer. Shooting and
wounding, like about 20 other offences, is a capital
crime in N. S. Wales, and it took the Executive
quite a long while to conclude that after all my
friend the gaol-governor should not be hanged on
his own scaffold but should be merely imprisoned
for life. There was more philosophy ip a
remark made by the condemned governor’s little
daughter in taking leave, it might have been for
ever, of her father, than there is in the Draconian
laws of his country. “ Oh, father,” said the child,
“why don’t they let you out in six months? I’m
quite sure you didn’t mean it any more than Billy
Smith did when he got drunk and fell down in the
road, and then got up and punched Maloney, the
ganger, on the nose ! ”
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
An English Radical cynically observes that
the Shah is “almost immoral enough to sit in the
House of Lords. ”
D. C. Murray declares that Joseph Biggar
was the inventor of House of Commons’ obstruc-
tion. Wrong again. Josephonlyimitated Wharton.
Evangelist Yarley’s advice to young men
is ; “Don’t be afraid of marriage; get the right
half; let home be the happiest place on earth ; and
don’t waste too much money on Sunday outings.”
Quite right. We have often thought that the man
who got out of bed on Sunday morning to pay
half-a-crown for a cab to church and put three-
pence in the plate made a big mistake.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 Georg© Street, Sydney.
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, September 17, 1889.
ENDERS EOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Bridge over Monk’s. Creek, Road
Grafton and Copmanhurst to
Apple Tree Elat
Bridge, Deep Creek, Road Casino
to Sandy Creek
Tar Paving, &c., Courthouse, Dar-
linghurst
Bridge over Yarranan Creek, road
Coonabarabran to Wergeden
Bridge over Deep Gully, road
Grafton to Cross Roads, towards
Casino
Bridge, in approach to Tulladunna
Bridge, near Wee Waa
Repairs, &c., N.S.S. Vernon (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, etc.. Court House, Single-
ton
Additions, &c.,Postand Telegraph
Office, Casino (time extended.)
Bridge Brown’s Creek, Road Tino-
nee to Port Macquarie
Bridge Broughton Creek, north of
Broughton Village, Main South
Coast Road
Construction of Hand Punt for
Unarra Ferry, Murrumbidgee
River
Wednesday,
September 25,
at 11 o’clock.
Bridge, Doctor’s Gully, at Merriwa
Additions, Wo'longong Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Concrete Lining Stone Pitching of
Potts Hill Reservoir
Hains Bridge, road Morpeth to
Largs
Alterations, &c., Bridge, Cook’s ,
River, on Punchbowel-road
Re-decking Richmond Bridge
(ironwork)
Re-decking Richmond Bridge
(timber)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
Office
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quean
beyan
Supply of Gas, &c., Public Build-
ings, Bathurst
Additions Police Officers’ Quarters,
Goulburn i
Repairs, &c., Courthouse and
Lockup, Nimitybelle
Drainage, &c., Technological Mu
seum
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Tam
worth
Bridge Cox’s Creek, road Coolal
to Mulally
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Offic e
Bingera
Bridge Camden Haven, road Por
Macquarie to Tinonee
Bridge, Cooper’s Greek, road Bex
hill to Numulgi
Bridge, Bombala River at Bibben
hike
Station Buildings, St. Leonards
Stoneware Pipe Sewers, Wool
lalira, Waverley, and Randwick
cont. No. 53, Sydney sewerage
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office.
Corowa
Bridge, Rainville Creek, road,
Sidmouth Valley to Tarana
Do. Wallamundra Creek Road,
Condobolin to Wagga Wagga
Approaches, Bridge, Murray Rivei
at Mulwala
Bridge, Yango Creek, road Wol
lombi to Yango
Bridge, Myall River, at Bulleda-
lah (Pier’s Contract, No. 1)
Bridge, Myall River, at Bullede
lah (Erection, Contract No. 2
Bridge, Scot ter’s Creek, road Dun
gog to Weismouth’s
Bridge, Strike-a-Light Creek, road
Cooma to Braid wood
Repau-s, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Booligal
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 50)
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
seum.
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Contract No. 2
1
Wednesday
October ft,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
October 23,
at 11 o’clock,
Wednesday,
Nov. 0,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
BTIIJCE SMITH.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 10th August, 1889.
REWARD FOR EXTERMINATION OF
RABBITS.
WITH reference to the notice issued by the
Department of Mines, dated 31st August,
1887, to the effect that the Government of New
South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000 to
any person or persons who will make known or
demonstrate any method or process, not previously
known in the Colony, for the effectual extermina-
tion of rabbits. It is hereby notified, for general
information, that no scheme for the destruction of
rabbits submitted after the 30th September, 1889,
will be considered in connection therewith.
JAMES N. BKUNKER.
o
JJEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADDLE
Company, Limited.
Factory and Office : 227 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
(Late 245.)
|3F“ The Company is now prepared to manufacture all
kinds of Saddles. Any infringement of the patent will be
prosecuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark
FOR SALE.— Second-hand Quad-Demy
Polder, by Haiuuld ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
A YOUNG LADY, tall and fair, good-looking,
is desirous of corresponding with tall
gentleman in good position. Photos exchanged.
“Genuine,” Bulletin office.
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
GR
To Country Newspaper Ppoprietoes.
EOR SALE,—A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Lunatic ” : To prove your case yon must show
that the purchasing power of money is greater in the
adjoining colony No. It is probable that a
million people have never assembled to witness any race,
or anything else, since the world began....“ Anti
Oackey ”: If a man and his wife agree to separate, and
“sign papers to that effect,” the act amounts to a legal
separation. Any solicitor would draw up such a document
for a couple of guineas.... “P.J.M.”: We have
your verse, which you say you have also sent to the
other papers. We don’t care to anticipate the other
papers “Joseph Court”: When read backwards
your epistle has some lucid intervals “ T.W.’
(11. H.); Glad to receive items of interests, snappily
treated “P.E.Y.”: Open for selection? After
survey, of course “A.J.F.”: Many thanks “Oliver
Twist”: More? “Republican”: (1.) Yes. He is a
brother. (2.) The publication is dead. This office
“ Incognito”: Thanks; will consider the matter “ Will
R. B.” (Vic.): Are the ideas original?... .“Walter
Thorne ”: Here you are—
“ The worthy Hepenstafl,
Judge, jury, gallows, rope, and all.
We nave his prototype “ 8.E.H.” : You are rather
arrogant in talking of “one who does not wish to be con-
vinced.” Have you no suspicion that this is your own-
position ? The atheist’s self-abnegation, purity, and
nobility may equal or eclipse that of the “ saint.” There
have been many saintly saints ; there are, and have been,
many saintly atheists “H.H.”; Locks received. Please
give look-ation “ Blair Athol” : Your friend’s pedigree
received ..“ Old Hand”: (1.) Home Secretary Peel passed
the New Metropolitan Police Act in 1828. (2.) Smith
O’Brien was transported in ’4B, and pardoned in ’56....
“ Charles J. K.” ; Why should we print a letter which is
ostensibly intended as a hint for ourselves to profit by?
By the way, we by no means share your opinion concerning
Mr. Adams’ verses. There are more bad critics than good
poets in Australia “Jas. Young”: Your case is, un-
happily, not a singular one “Wy wy”: The word
“hoot,” as a slang equivalent for money, may possibly,
for all we know, be derived from the Maori “utu.”....
“Pastora”: Your furious lion killed 17 persons, did he ?
It’s almost a pity he didn’t make it evens before you wrote
that story “W. Lyell”: We can’t get through your
manuscript anyhow. Must palm it off, for the present, on
the unhappy type-writer “Pol.”: One of the reasons
of the rowdyism at N.S.W. Freetrade meetings is that
Calico Jimmy gatherings have come to be regarded as
developments of side-splitting low comedy, and people
who enjoy horse-play, but who haven’t two thoughts
on the fiscal question, wouldn’t miss a Freetrade meeting
any more than a straight half-crown fight
“Ali”: The labour revolt in England is likely enough
the natural result of keeping an open sore in Ireland
“ W.T.” (Bourke): If Australia wisely followed the Monroe
doctrine, then what occurred in New Guinea, New
Caledonia, the New Hebrides, aye, and in Tas-
mania and New Zealand, would not seriously disturb.
Australia’s border and bulwark is the ocean
“ H.R.” (Redfern): Take our advice and visit an honest
doctor—say a man connected with one of the three big
Sydney hospitals “A. Mounsten ” : One day’s rest in
seven being essential for the well-being of mankind it is
of necessity a democratic institution, and, where Demo-
cracy has any vitality, the man who works on Sunday will
demand as compensation the right to lounge on Monday
or Friday “E.A.W.”; Until receipt of your letter we
had thought the morality deputation to Parkes was on
general “auger” grounds “ A Britisher ” (Sandhurst):
M. Commetant’s idea about the egotism, the self-interest,
of Australia, is perfectly correct. Every nation worth
twopence thinks of itself first. We haven’t the date of
the Argus article “W.A.8.”: When Australia makes
her own laws then she’ll have a chance to make her own
goods—not before “O. J. Wilson It’s nonsense to
talk about “ the privileges ” of the press. The press
should have by law no privileges which are not possessed
by the humblest retail candle-seller, considering the fact
that any ignoble dustman or grog-adulterator can, by
spending £lO, bring out a printed something and call it a
“newspaper.” But then the press should not have less
privileges than the dustman, and the N.S.W. press has in
the libel-court fewer privileges than even the horse-thief.
For example, when a horse-thief is tried for one offence it
is not open to the Crown to convict him by giving evi-
dence as to a former conviction ; but according to a ruling
of New South Wales Supreme Court, which still
stands, when you accuse a newspaper of one libel you
can, to prove your case, put in what is substantially
evidence that defendant has been guilty of libel previously.
. ,“E. Waston” : Theaverage bookmaker is a safer mark in
N. than the average attorney. That's what a lawyer
told us the other day, anyhow “ J.W.G.”: Well-written
but on a hackneyed subject. Will consider “ R.H. W.”
(Moonee): Never mind ; he cursed the cause but gave the
dollars “ E. West” : It won’t do “Scotty”: We’ve
got your “Onions.” It’s a mystery deep as Revelations
“Subscriber ” (Skipton, B.) : Wa don’t know the man per-
sonally, but all the same we strongly advise you not to go
near him “W. S. Weiss” : The Bulletin has already
pointed out how the capitalist is responsible for the exist-
ence of the middle-man—the latter being the outcome of
the former’s desire to evade the Limited Liability Act....
“A.R.W.”: Bulletin office will find him “E.L.A.”:
Lloyd’s Newspaper isn’t democratic; in every number it
talks in its leading article about “ our beloved sovereign,
&3.” “H.L.E.”: The very first rhyme gives it clean
away “Remittance Man”: Idea good, execution
faulty “ D.G.” (’Rockhampton): Thanks, will consider
“R.D.” (Tumut); Get some one with large feet to kick
him.
“The Vagabond” admires the Samoan
women—
The women are very handsome, and form quite pic-
turesque pictures as they lie on deck in their long muslin
robes—black hair, decorated with flowers, streaming down
their backs, and broad white hats with coquettish ribbons.
You may be sure that the native preacher fixes upon the
youngest and prettiest of his communicants as his partner
for life. Society in civilised lands devotes its finest women
to sin and the streets, as it devotes its finest men to be
shot down in war. In Samoa the finest women are devoted
to the service of the church. Ido not think that any
Pacific Islander can hope for a better station in life than
as a teacher or preacher.


Medical.
Good Health
Is the greatest blessing vouchsafed to mankind. Without
health, wealth is useless, happiness improbable, content-
ment impossible. Many people who do not enjoy good
health, suffer simply on account of their disregard of
nature’s unwritten but potent laws. Any departure from
the natural course of life is sure and certain to result in
physical disturbance, and to induce symptoms of disease.
These symptoms are warnings from the nervous system
that the vital processes are not being properly performed.
The blood forms all parts of the body ; it is the foundation
of all muscle, bone, tissue, and secretions, and is the
mainspring of the physical system, besides being the
source from which all functions and faculties arise ; there-
fore it is absolutely necessary that it should be rich in its
essential chemical elements to properly perform its office.
If the blood becomes weak and enervated by reduction of
its vital constituents, it cannot possibly repair the
loss throughout the system caused by destructive
METABOLISM, or the wear and tear of everyday life ;
consequently some organ becomes and disease
attacks it, or the system gets so low in vitality generally
that they contract some serious affection, disease, or com-
plaint which may last a lifetime, or perhaps quickly have
a fatal termination. In the enervating climates of
Australasia it is positively essential (and we cannot impress
this too strongly upon you) that everybody, young and
old, should occasionally fortify the blood with its natural
mineral elements. This is a fact, and we do not put it
before you as a specious argument, for Anaemia, _or poor-
ness of blood, is admittedly the besetting disease of
Australia, and is the commencement of almost every
serious complaint we hear of. Keep up the blood to its
normal condition, avoid excesses in either eating - , drink-
ing, &c., and disease cannot and will not attack you. For.
years Clements’ Tonic has been before the public of
Australia as a scientific chemical food ; it is not a quack
medicine, but a natural combination of nutrient chemical
material, which is essentially requisite to the blood.
Clements’ Tonic has been prescribed by medical men,
eulogised by scientific chemists, patronised by clergymen,
barristers, solicitors, journalists, newspaper proprietors,
and others, all of whom speak of it in the highest terms of
praise. It has cured hundreds of serious cases, never has
failed, and never will fail. If you are suffering from any
disease due to general enervation of the system, anaemia,
or poorness of blood, loss of nerve power or general nervous
weakness, and have tried doctor after doctor and remedy
after remedy without avail, give Clements’ Tonic a
trial, and if there is no real organic or structural disease,
we can confidently guarantee immediate relief, and
perseverance will effect a sure and permanent cure. We
know this to be a fact. The originator and inventor of
Clements’ Tonic is a qualified man, with a rational
remedy which can, will, and must do good and effect cure,
even when the best physicians and most potent drugs of
the materia medica have failed; the testimonials and
endorsements received from all quarters prove this. We
shall be glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown, Sydney,
personally or by post.
“ Very glad he used Clements’ Tonic.”
19, Elizabeth-st., Sydney, August 15, 1889.
Dear Sir,—For many months sleep, appetite and nerve
power had almost deserted me, and, at times, I suffered
such severe nervous and neuralgic headaches that life was
almost unbearable.
After trying many “ safe and sure cures,” without relief,
I was persuaded to give Clements’ Tonic a trial, and
am very glad that I did so, for now I am quite free from
pain, can sleep well, and do my business with a degree of
pleasure that I have not experienced for some months. It
will give me great pleasure to recommend Clements’
Tonic to all my friends and customers on the roads that
I travel, and, wishing the remedy every success, I remain,
yours faithfully, J. T. BOUNDS.
“His Life almost a Burden.”
The Port, Dawes Point, Sydney, August 12th, i»»9.
Sir.— I have been a great sufferer from langour, loss of
appetite, and depressed spirits, which made my life almost
a burden. I had no inclination to eat or drink even the
most palatable delicacies which make a modern table
agreeable; and to such an extent did the indisposition
affect my general health, that it was impossible for me to
properly attend to my business.
I was recommended to try Clements’ Tonic, which
I did with little hope of relief; but, after taking a few
doses, I felt a decided change, and by the time I had
finished a bottle, I could sleep the night through, and
awake next morning refreshed and with an appetite for
breakfast. I now eat and drink anything that comes in
my way, and by the use of an occasional dose of your valu-
able Tonic, I am enabled to enjoy life thoroughly.—l re-
main yours faithfully, F. DAVIS.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —I have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “ dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to hear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to aH persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
“ Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir,— Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, "together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered, i was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I waspersuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than’ever, and am glad to bear testimony to the value of
your wonderful reined}'. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAHAM.
«Feels like a New Man altogether.”
Richmond, October 5, 1888.
DEAR Sir,—lt is with feelings of great pleasure that I
n these few lines. I have been a sufferer from GENERAL
EBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
ive tried almost every known remedy without the
ghtest benefit. I had given up all hope of being cured,
lien by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
indsor Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
ird dose the change was remarkable. I took three
ittles, and now feel like a new man altogether.
WILLIAM JAMES MARKES.
You have here convincing proof and most conclusive
evidence of the truth of the proprietor’s assertions. These
people have used Clements’ Tonic, are people of
repute, honor and ability, and are competent to judge
of the merits of Clements’ Tonic : when they speak so
truthful and emphatically they must convince the most
sceptical. Clements’ 'Tonic is sold everywhere at
2s. fid. and 4s. fid. per bottle, or packed free and forwarded
on receipt of P. 0.0. by
f. m. Clements; newtown.
STRATEGY.
Photographer : “My dear sir, can’t you assume a more smiling countenance and
throw off that jaded look 1 ”
Rev. Y. Y. Heighton :‘ ‘ Take me as I am, 1 need to go to Hingland this
summer, and these pictures are for distribution among my parishoners. ”
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour,' and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their, superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BEIDGE & 0 0.,
rJ CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOZa BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, the.
ATJGTIOITEEES.
Ca-rg-A-XDXT S^-X.3E3S]M:S3Xr.
DR. SPEKR’S
- AMERICAN DISPENSARY
-3=2 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years "to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 pan. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
TO "ST O XT 3XT Gr E3 3XT-
DK. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r pitF. directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines mil he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life —overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.;—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
ra
uk
r
■rfix' V . Vds.cal^S
r i ,^im!r-"^ aM, ai
r --. m m ’
s ; ; :s- ■ » ■
i t
||-ffiia^6Sss
* . : ,u .;
mm
■ -r ...
11
ELECTRIC PHOTOENC. CO , 8 BRIDCE ST . SYDNEY-
The Oxford Hotel, Hlizig Street, Sydney.
_ H. THORPE ... ... Ppoprxetok.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just l .a. tst id i iut gk
Farleigh, Nettlieim, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YOIEUESI x STREET, x S'STX33XTE:'y-
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines: Peerless Gloss. Satin Polish, Nubian
(Hacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. -|3r“ Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOl^
ura
CONS
?«nWuKIJ
- ’ ' rrnsm
DR. RICHARDS -
c
■"T
r
PRif
■
-V
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Furope. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNO MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
iho day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulno=s, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform -
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a b’st of carefully-pro-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


BEALE <sc CO.'S
new warehouse.
- A--
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
488* 484* k 486 Georgs Street^
SYDNEY.
REVOLUTIONISING
THE PIA.3VO THA.DE.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
THERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
i Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
Of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same degree such rich,
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences, have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument—the inimitable “Hapsburg ’’—and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better-
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking ; every mail brings its burden of letters.
Euom the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsbirg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist.—-The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd.—Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd.—The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. —All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
sth.—They are all seven Octaves.
Gth.—They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th. —They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
Bth.—The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9th.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing oases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLA-FLEIVTCE STREET, SYDNEY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
mm, photons, mm
PONY CARTS, &c., &C.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
—% —
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
Ik
/vj\T4t ONLY
*
ACt ON
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crops by I' 1 . W. Say well, of t>
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
Ihe market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be boughi every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
cne who does, ani obtain the best
article now before the public
Wholesale and Retail from
F + W* Saywell k Co M
6 Pabk Street,
S YDUE IT.
M‘Hah’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
GALLEY
f|Nt OLD HICHL* nd
WHISKV^ c?
anok;*^-^
ascow
L
\
u
1,/
V*
uuaii
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRATER.”
GnfVrf
r&N
NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
Y&
H
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear,
The Queen says : —“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They arc admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
Gold Medal, Jfcw Zealand Exhibition, 1882.
Hold Medal (Highest Award for Corsets), Loudon
International Exhibition, 1884.
Latest Award ! Hold Medal, International
Exhibition, Edinburgh, 188 G.
CAUTION .—Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped
“Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM
CORSET, No. 116,” in oval.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
CPUD*^
WARDED TO THE
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTOR ALT STS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1871
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
T)ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
-*-* Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 9 per cent.
0 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLER’S CAFE
160, 162, 164 Fitt Street;,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler’s Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J. F. Gunsler, 160, 162, and 164 Pitt-
street.
J. F. Gunsler .. General Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers,
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
U years Westeim Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
ElO BUILDING SITES! £lO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotments. Good Frceliold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
34 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
iu Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
BROWNS
f nn«roii
SATIN
X*»«S
ChilSbiS
*
TRU*M*g* C * C '
/?cf
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Thila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
.New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking-is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can he used by
anyone without soiliiig the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries u nmediateiy after being applied, and
will not soil the most nielicatc clothing.
Sold largely in Austj alia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.


ò
IMPORTANT TO ALL USERS OE MACHINERY.
J. C. LXJDOWICI & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers of Superior Oak Tanned Leather Belting, and every description of Leather Goods used for Machine and Engineering Purposes.
o
ò
Full Stocks of
Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
RAW HIDE BELTING,
COTTON BELTING,
Raw Hide Laces, Lace Hides,
TANGYE PUMP LEATHERS,
HYDRAULIC LEATHERS.
All Goods bearing the above
Trade Mark are warranted to
give entire satisfaction, or may be
returned at the Maker’s expense.
Highest Awards
ADELAIDE JUBILEE
Exhibition, 1887-8.
Melbourne International
Exhibition, 1888-9,
INDIAN & COLONIAL
Exhibition, London, 1886.
fp||'
X
—AT —
Sydney,
1869, 1870, 1872, 1877, 1878,
1870, 1884, 1885.
162
nr
and Factory: 162 Clarence Street, between King and Market Streets, Sydney
Contractor* to tbe New Sontli Wales Government. Prices and Catalogue* posted Free on Application. No Agents.
Industrial Life Assurance.
Lire Assurance is one of those questions which
most people reflect upon, and which wise men act
upon in these latter days. It was not always thus,
but time has changed, and as human life is more
©r less uncertain, men deem it prudent to make
provision against the unforeseen. A rich man
need not be so anxious about these things, but a
man who is not rich and whose family depends
upon his weekly or quarterly, salary has no other
means open to him to provide for the' unprovided.
It is a foolish notion to think that there is no use
assuring unless you assure for “a good round
sum.” A “little store ” laid aside is better than
no provision at all- It is said in some quarters
that there is now great competition in Life Assur-
ance business ; that may be true, but it is no proof
that it is_ any the worse for it. Life Assurance is
only in its infancy, and the principles are not
understood or even thought of by one person in
fifty. The truth of the old adage, that “nothing
succeeds like success'” is strikingly exemplified in
the case of the Citizens’ Life Assurance Company,
Limited, whose head offices are at 21 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, with branches and agencies
throughout these colonies. We continually hear
a great deal about the want of thrift in the work-
ing classes, but the results achieved by the
Company in question make it clear that the
“masses ’’ are making great strides in the direction
of providing for the future, and in no class of the
community is this making provision for the future
of more importance than to the “ hewers of wood
and drawers of water,” who are nevertheless, the
backbone and sinew of the country. The great
middle or industrial classes have, until late years
been practically debarred from availing themselves
of the benefits of life assurance in the Australian
colonies, in consequence of the life insurance
offices charging their premiums yearly, half yearly,
or quarterly. But, whatever excuse there may
have been in the past, there is not a single reason
now why every man, woman, and child should not
avail themselves of the inducements held out by
life assurance offices. 'J he “Citizens” devote
their special attention to that system of life
assurance known as the Industrial, and have
framed tables of rates calculated for the weekly
payment of premiums and issue policies for sums
ranging from £lO upwards. Policies on the lives
of children are issued from date of birth. Pay-
ments can be made from Id. a week and upwards,
and the sum assured may be paya'.' 1- it death or
on attaining a given age. Prerff Lwr. be paid
weekly, fortnightly, or monC A -a- the con-
venience of the assured, av <£v-v-s "t Jie Com-
pany call periodically at the < jevj of the policy-
holders for the payments of s ns due. The new
policies issued during 1888 number 34,684, which
far and away eclipses anything ever done in In-
dustrial Life Insurance in these colonies, and
when the annual report for the current year is
issued the number of policies issued during the
year will be seen to be really astonishing. The
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company, Limited,
has earned for itself a reputation that stands
high in the estimation of the Australasian public
for prompt payment of claims. Out of the large
number of claims paid, the Company has never yet
gone to law over a single claim, but, on the
contrary, have always made it a special feature to
pay all claims within a few hours after receipt of
the necessary proofs, and without putting the
claimants to any expense whatever beyond the 2s.
necessary for certificate of death. The Directors
have in consequence received numerous letters of
hanKs, Doth through the Press of Australia and
privately, from persons who have been entitled to
and received prompt payment of claims. A list
containing copies of some of the letters received
and names of hundreds of claimants and any other
information may be had on application to any of
the Companies’ agents’ branch offices, or at head
office. Just send for a prospectus and see for
yourself what can really be done in the way of
Life Assurance for the payment of even one penny
per week. The Citizens is in every,way deserving
of the support which has been given to it by the
working class’ throughout Australia, and from the
good work it is doing it may be, without doubt,
emphatically described as the “Working Man’s
Friend. ”
Had O’Connor been as well aware as was
Searle of the virtues of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,
the race would assuredly have been closer.
The novelist-lecturer does not intend to
write a book about Australia; he has seen The
Bulletin’s “ History of Botany Bay ” (price Is.),
and knows that his would be a work of superero-
gation.
In answer to a query in the S.M. Herald,
regarding the destruction of Maize weevil: this
cannot be done in the field, but only by tank-
immersion in a solution of Bisulphide of Carbon.
In our advertising columns this week
appears an advertisement of the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States, in which
the business and resources of the Company are de-
tailed. Reference is made to the conditions under
which the Company issues its policies, and which
bring it under the operation of the law of the
colony so that policy-holders may feel thoroughly
satisfied as to their position in regard to the
Societv.
The Victorian football-premiership for
1889 has been virtually won already by the South
Melbourne team.
An Otago ex-billiard maker has come into
a fortune of £30,000 through the death of a Sydney
relative. If he “ fancies his game ” what a pigeon
he’ll make !
Joe Morrison, the Flemington trainer,
left £13,330 behind him. Train up a ’oss in the
way he should go, and when your are old you will
feather your nest.
Young Gorry, the jockey who flashed forth
like a meteor and then got lost behind a cloud,
has popped into view again at Adelaide, where he
rode a winner the other day.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) papers do not
credit Joe Warbrick’s statements re British um-
pires, and quote, with unction; the severe verbal
castigation administered to him by “ Pendragon.”
Football matches down Sandhurst way are
played under the distinguished patronage of a
leading citizen’s wife, whose shouts of encourage-
ment or expressions of disgust are alleged to be
entirely too classic for publication.
The native footballers received a terrible
gruelling at Auckland —their only defeat in New
Zealand since their return. The team has now
been disbanded and several of them have sold their
dress suits. “ Sic transit shandy-gaff.'”
Cabala, a full brother to Tradition, has
just been struck out of the Melbourne Cup.
Cabala had no chance of winning because he died
and was buried some weeks ago. Plenty of dead
ones start for the Melbourne Cup, but they can’t
come in first when they are actually lying in their
silent graves. They are too stiff for anything then.
There is much talk of bribery at late foot-
ball matches. Now, “ squaring” is safe enough in
boxing, racing—man and horse—and rowingcircles,
but only a fool would try it with cricketers and
footballers. In the fprmer case you have only to
“ nobble ”an individual and all is right; in the
latter, you may secure half the team without
success, and detection is almost certain.
Australian bookmakers are returning from
“home” impressed by the coolness and good
generalship of English jockeys, but with a poor
opinion of the horses they ride. None of these
distinguished critics, however, attempt to explain
the consistent running of crack English two-year-
olds as compared with the in-and-out performances
which bring backers to premature ruin at this end
of the world.
Mr. Henry Austin has resigned his seat
on the committee of the Australian Jockey Club
as a protest, it is said, against the club’s deter-
mination to commence next Autumn race meeting
on Holy Saturday. Saturday, by the way, ought
to be a peculiarly holy day with most of the book-
makers, but it isn’t. Mr. Austin has done well in
leaving the management of racing affairs to people
of a cast of mind utterly at variance with his own
—sporting vandals who see nothing incongruous
in a collocation of Holv Saturday and stiff ’uns.
Dr. W. G. Grace has been playing in first-
class matches for 25 years. He has an average of
4o runs for 90 innings in Gentlemen v. Player’s
contests, has on two occasions scored over 3000 in
one season, has made 400 not out, with 22 mpn in
the field, has made the largest score on record in a
first-class match, the largest score in a country
match, has played more than twice as many three-
figure innings as any batsman that ever lived, and
three times has got his century in each innings of a
first-class match. He once followed up “a cen-
tury ” innings by taking every wicket on the other
side.
A French sportsman, at a recent meeting
near Paris, backed every runner in four races on
the pari-mutuel (totalisator), with the following
result : °
r l’lio writer has seen the same “system” used in
betting by the medium of the totalisator in N.Z.,
and several times with similarly satisfaetory
results.
Mark Fwy, a Sydney draper, has taught a
parrot to say “ Pretty lady !” to every female who
enters his shop. Clever man.
A dishevelled person, with blood-shot eyes
and a chin like a broken-bottled wall, lately tacked
into the office of Ballarat Codrier, and, hanging
on to the editorial collar with one hand while he
brandished a beer-stained copy of the Codrier in
the other, said, with trimmings of oaths and
hiccoughs: “See here, mister, this is no way to
run a paper. Where were your reporters ?”
“ What’s the matter ?” “ Look here. I was on a
regular old-fashioned tear the day before yester-
day, got drunk, and was locked up. Yesterday
morning the beaks fined me five bob, and—and
(here he grew stern and reproachful)—there’s not a
word about it in your paper. They won’t believe,
when I go back to the station, that I had any sort
of a time at all. ”
The mysterious influence of the weather
upon modern literature was lately made apparent in
a Bulletin paragraph commencing : “ One of the
old original members of the Armytage clan came,
back to Victoria the other day, after an absence of
30 years, and was duly banqueted at Geelong.”
Then followed some scraps of colonial history con-
cerning a hive of bees, the origin of the rabbit
pest, &c., all of which may be hitched to the
Austins instead of the Armytages. In fact, by
a simple substitution of the former ancient
name for the latter, the paragraph can be
made quite lucid and truthful down to the
point whe’O an Armytage (who was never
intended to be an Austin), is mentioned as having
found his way into the Assembly. But for this
uncalled for bursting of an actual Armytage upon
the scene, The Bulletin was prepared to explain
that e /erything was owing to a printer not having
signed the pledge. As it is, we fix a strong glare
in the direction of one who ought to know better,
and request that it may not occur again. There is
no family connection between the many Austins
and the comparatively few Armytages, and Heaven
only knows why our contributor mixed them up in
his copy. Probably one name went in with the
whisky and the other with the water.
How M'G-innis Went Missing’.
Let us cease our idle chatter,
Let the tears bedew our cheek,
For a man from Tallangatta
Has been missing for a week.
Where the roaring, flooded Murray
Covered all the lower land,
There he started in a hurry,
With a bottle in his hand,
And his fate is hid for ever.
But the public seem to think
That he slumbered by the river,
’Neath the influence of drink.
And they scarcely seem to wonder
That the river, wide and deep,
Never woke him with its thunder
Never stirred him in his sleep.
As the crashing logs came sweeping,
And their tumult filled the air,
Then M’Ginnis murmured, sleeping,
“ ’Tis a wake in ould Kildare.”
So the river rose and found him
Sleeping softly by the stream,
And the cruel waters drowned him
Ere he wakened from his drown.
And the blossom-tufted wattle,
Blooming brightly on the lea,
Saw M'Ginnis and the bottle
Going drifting out to sea.
NEW VERSION.
(Respectfully dedicated to the “ Bing.”)
“We don’t want to fight, but, by Jingo, if we do,
We’ll promise not to beat each other either black
or blue;
Well take the greatest care
Not to hurt a single hair,
Well only bleed the pockets of the public.’ -


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan Si Guarantee Company \
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL .... <£500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Heeds ot Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six „ ... 7 „
Twelve ~ ... 8 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
,°f 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company s Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
She snglo-(Australian (Investment,
finance & (Land Company, (Ltd.
Capital Paid-up
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled)
Reserve Fund ..
£IOO,OC
250,000
60,000
Head Office; - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office .. .. 31 Lombard Street, E.'J.
Chairman : Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
. iST’ Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES
Manager
-tee-
federal REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
and
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies Act, 187 k.)
CAPITAL
£200,000.
Sydney Office:
301 PITT STREET.
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
IXI Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATE
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W.
Bead Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
Por further Information, apply-r-
W. B. FLETCHER.
EPPS’S
REATEFOL—COMPOSTING
COCOA.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
mmim mutual
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
a
-I —;
m
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTEAL BANKING AND LAND PEOPEIETAET
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account .... .... .... £250,000
Reserve Fund .... 61,431 10 19
Total Assets over Liabilities .... .... .... 311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices
N.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
Victoria : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O
1\ per cent, for 3 Years
7 ~ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 „ 3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. S. ZET°. Cowell,
Manager.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Bournes'
ELBOURNE
PALACE HOTEL
TRAMS
EYEfcY FEW
PASS
j MINUTES
MMM.
m
13
m
m »
■■■:-■ .r
EE
'i & i iKU
J.A.WILSON
PBOPKiETOP
.G.W.CLARE
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE.
—is—
csiopoas^r^
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hundred. Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofit and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modem Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
TWO PASSEIT&ER OTIS LIFTS
)-(
Ladies' Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and' Reading Rooms*
)-(
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Si Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms z Single Bedroom, 2s- ©ol. jper ZKTi^jhLt;.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
i ■> i-tl-QO'
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical.
sivcxma:, xj.s.a,
—-MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 So 8 First Floor, 482 CffIOEGS STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... Prom 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
FULVEE m ACHIiR’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Peek.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <St SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
4Y4 & 557 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Free l-'rescriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Eree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD So CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent r chronic discharges o the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
jr. m* ms mt ms. ms,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET-
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation;
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S V D IJ S 3T.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all k nds < f Tinsfor Confectioner’s,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
o
Al Trial Solicited.
F. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
■736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619. 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., - Made to Order.,
—AUSTRALIAN—
Holler glour and grain §tore6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition.
1888-89.
UMBRIXIAS
RE-COVE RIO.
CTUDY ECONOMY
ar d
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <5 Bathurst Sts. ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
Ja.zia.es Inglis & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whit®
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of me
age. ,
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Berth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investmen
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness vntn
brilliancy, the Photographs of 0HARLBM03N 1
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pM
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.
"Headon' 'Em."
“ Heading them ” is what is meant, and
no black-block Australian who has ever “ melted ”
a cheque at a country pub. is ignorant of
the manner in which “ headin’ ’em ” is performed.
The game is very popular at shearing-sheds
after “knock-off” time, or on wet days, when
work is temporarily interrupted. The appliances
required are so few, and the pastime itself is
bo delightfully simple, and, at the same time, so
full of excitement, that its undying popularity
is not to be wondered at. The amusement
can be indulged in at all times and in all weathers.
As the cookery-books say, it is “ seasonable at
anytime.” The “heading school” may meet in
the open air, or its studies may be pursued in-
doors. The game is equally elastic as regards
numbers; it may be, and often is, indulged in
by two persons, while a “school” of 30 or 40 is
by no means uncommon. The person of limited
means, while they hold out, can pursue the
fascinating occupation on terms of social equality
with the owner of the biggest cheque in the
crowd, and so with all these advantages to recom-
mend it, it is not remarkable that a heading school
may be seen at any bush pub. where three or
four are gathered together. Generally the school
will congregate on a clear spot of ground in the
yard, or on the road, and there they remain until
they are satiated, or the appearance of a mounted
constable or “trap” causes a hurried grab for the
stakes and a precipitate retreat. In the latter
case, the “trap’s ” departure is hardly an accom-
plished fact before the sport is under weigh again.
* * *
The game is remarkably easy. You throw
up two pennies in the air. If two heads show
uppermost when the pennies fall, you win. If two
tails, you lose. If one head and one tail (“ two
ones ”), neither party wins. That is all—in theory.
But in practice, there is a lot more than appears
on the surface. In the first place, you all take it in
turn to throw up the pennies. They are thrown
from a flat piece of wood, or bark, or leather,
which is called a “ kip.” It is considered a great
advantage to “have the kip,” that is, to be the
thrower, and when you throw two tails, and thus
lose the privilege, it is customary to swear fluently
But, to an outsider, it is difficult to see in what
the advantage consists —that is, unless the “kip
holder uses “ greys.” But perhaps you don’t know
what “ greys ” are. Well, then, if you take two
pennies, carefully cut them through edgeways with
a fine saw, and then rivet the wrong halves
together again, you will have a pair of “greys,” a
“ head grey ” and a “ tail grey.” The former will
have Her Majesty’s likeness on both sides, and
the reverse and obverse of the latter will both re-
present Britannia. ‘ ‘ Greys ” are sometimes useful
in a school of “ mugs,” but the average “ heading
school ” is by no means so soft as to permit their
introduction. Therefore they are rarely used in
a mixed company. The punishment inflicted for
using “greys” also acts as a deterrent. The
would-be sharper is expelled with ignominy from
the school, his stakes are confiscated, and if there
is a better man than he is in the crowd
he gets a thrashing. This is only justice,
but sometimes one meets with a hard case. Such )
was one related to me by one of the chief partici-
pators in the tragedy ; —“I was playin’ real square,
and had the kip for a deuce of a long time. I
Beaded ’em 18 times, and raked in every time.
Then I reckoned that wasn’t going to last much
longer, so I just slipped in one grey. Darned if
ane of the fellows didn’t snap it up fust throw j
And then they reckoned I’d been havin’ them all
the time, and they made me part up. And one
tig feller and me had it out and he gave me no end
of a hidin’.” This was sad, and illustrated the
fatal result of only one slip from the path of virtue.
But, as the average “ gaffer” is far too sharp to
allow of such risks, the advantage of having the
Kip is difficult to discover. Even skilful throwing,
so as to secure a certain fall, does not avail, for
any of the members of the school has the privilege
of “barring 5 * a throw which seems to him sus-
picious. The gambler’s everlasting dream of
“luck” is the foundation of the superstition in
favour of being the thrower. And this is illus-
trated by the fact that many gaffers are the proud
possessors of “lucky kips,” which, they firmly
believe, bring them success. Sometimes a kip-
holder will “head them,” that is, throw two heads,
over 20 times before he “tails them.” In this
case, of course, he wins largely.
» * »
“Dished” pennies, like greys, can only
be used where the company is not very smart, or
is drunk. A dished coin is one which has been
made slightly convex. By a natural law, such a
coin will fall most frequently with the concave
side uppermost, to the manifest advantage of the
thrower if that side is “heads.” In general, the
throwing is perfectly fair, and the advantage of
“having the kip” purely imaginary; but it is
quite impossible to convince the average gaffer of
this. He will listen to your exposition of the
mathematical certainties of the game and will
perhaps agree with you as to theory: but will
always firmly believe that he has a better chance
of winning when he throws than when that func-
tion is performed by another. The throwing is
done by each member of the school in rotation.
When two tails are thrown, the next man to the
thrower succeeds to the kip and holds it until
he is unfortunate enough to lose it by the same
process. The other members of the school, ranged
in a circle, wager as to the coming toss. “A
crown he heads ’em!” says one, throwing his
money on the ground, for “ no trust ” is a recog-
nised law in headin’ ’em. His challenge is per-
haps accepted by several, each of whom puts down
a stake in token that the bet is taken. The matter
is soon decided, although sometimes “two ones”
will appear with aggravating persistency. Every-
one is interested and money changes hands with
much rapidity. The winners pick up their stakes
from the dust, while the losers plank down more
for the next occasion. It frequently happens that
quite a number of coins are trodden into the
ground and thus escape the notice of the players,
and for this reason the small boy of bush experi-
ence gravitates to the deserted gaffing-school with
much certainty. I have known over two pounds
to be exhumed by a ten-year old from the site of a
prolonged engagement.
* # *
Notwithstanding the seeming fairness of
the game and the equality of the chances, large
sums are sometimes won and lost. The loss of
£lO, £l5, or £2O in one morning is not unusual,
and very much larger amounts are often ‘ ‘ dropped. ”
I knew a man who lost £l5 (all he possessed) and
£5 more which he borrowed, in two hours. But
mark what followed. He sold a horse he had for
£5, and began to play that up. He went to work
very carefully, never wagering more than half-a-
crown, but his ill-luck stuck to him. At length
his last half-crown was on the ground, and he won.
Then his luck changed completely. He won as
fast as he had previously lost. Bit by bit he re-
covered his losses, and, fortune still sticking to
him, he left off with all his original stock of cash,
and £33 besides ! On the other hand, a man will
sometimes be £3O or £4O ahead at midday, and
at sundown have lost all, and his own money
besides. Such a case is a severe trial to the
sufferer. One of my friends underwent that
ordeal, and when his last pound was gone he
picked up the two coins he had been tossing with
and pitched them over the house. They were half-
crowns, too, such having been substituted for the
customary pennies in the interests of fair play.
The landlord’s boy recovered one of them from
the roof, but the other was never recovered.
* * #
It will thus be seen that headin’ ’em is
simply a local version of the manly British game
of pitch and toss, and that much pleasure and
profit may be derived from it both by the partici-
pators and the onlookers. It is therefore a matter
of regret that the authorities do not encourage the
pastime. Not only do they fail to encourage it,
D OCTOR COFFIN : “Well, Mrs. Hardy, how is your husband this morning?”
MRS. HARDY : “I’m sorry to say, Doctor, there is no improvement
either way.”
but they look so unfavourably on it that a general
belief exists that they object to it. Thus it is that
when the trooper rides up to the bush pub. on
Sunday morning he sees all the lodgers seated in
the verandah smoking the placid pipe of content-
ment and reading the newspapers. When he has
proceeded on his way he may have an idea that
the bare patch of sand in front is no longer un-
occupied, or he may not. But if he does he will
have hugged the immortal truth more closely than
the average constable usually does.
A.C.
Some bold priestess of Bacchus, who is
running a private bar on her own hook, had the
temerity to send Gould, N.S.W. Minister of
Justice, a circular soliciting his custom. Gould
complained of this “ horrible outrage ” in the
House the other night, and mentioned that he had
referred the matter to the Inspector-General of
Police. Why ?
During the fight for the custody of the
Robertson infants in Melbourne Banco Court,, last
week, Dr. Madden was reading an affidavit of
Wynne, M.L.0., the stepfather, in which it was
stated that it was intended to place the little girls
“ under the care of , Who was used to the
management of children.” “Who’s Blank?”
asked Isaacs. “The Devil,” whispered Higgins.
“ No,” rejoined Topp, “ he’s not used to the
management of children.”
The Storming' of Rangiriri.
Dear Bulletin, —I send you the story of the
storming of Rangiriri as related to me many
years ago by Rewi, the great fighting general of
the Maori King. I have read several narratives
of the affair, including that given in Fox’s His-
tory, which is generally supposed to be the beat,
and I give you a short sketch of the latter in
order that you may compare it with Rewi’s story.
Unfortunately they differ in some of the most
important particulars.
At the outbreak of the Waikato war the whole
of the Maoris were Christians, not in name only,
but (from a modern point of view) in practice also.
They religiously kept the Sabbath as a day of
rest, and regularly attended service. They were
divided principally into three sects —viz., the
Church of England, the Roman Catholics, and the
Wesleyans, and their spiritual necessities were
ministered to by ordained preachers of their own
blood and race.
Believing that as the Europeans did no work on
the Sabbath they likewise did no fighting on the
Sabbath, the Maoris abstained from fighting on
Sunday until after the fall of Rangiriri. At the
first outbreak of the war the heresy of the Pai
Mairiri was promulgated. This was afterwards
known as the Hau Hau. The Hau Hans adopted
the Mosaic code and held their Sabbath on a
Saturday. If we consider that the defenders of
Rangiriri were Hau Haus and kept their Sabbath
on the first day of the week instead of the seventh,
then the discrepancy in dates between Rewi’s
story and that of the European historian is ex-
plained at once, and we can only believe that the
real facts of the engagement were distorted and
suppressed by the military authorities whose ver-
sion of the affair was the only one accepted and
recorded bv the various writers on the war.
Rangiriri was a Maori pah, situated on the
right bank of the Waikato River, and on a con-
siderable eminence. The river took a sharp curve
round the pah, which was connected with the
mainland only by a narrow neck or isthmus. The
pah (says Fox) was strongly fortified with rifle-pits
along the whole of the river frontage, but the
isthmus was unprotected.
General Cameron brought between two and
three thousand British and colonial troops up the
river in boats and small steamers on Friday, Nov.
20, 1863. He landed at 3.30 p.m., and, after an
hour’s bombardment, gave the signal for a general
assault. Three several assaults were made, and
the whole of them were repulsed with great loss.
The General then sent some 600 men six miles up
the river in boats with instructions to make their
way down in the night, and, under cover of the
darkness, to seize the isthmus and so compel tho
garrison to surrender. Towards morning_ a few
shots were heard in the rear of the pah, and it was
then found that a number of the Maoris had
escaped in the night; but the arrival of the troops
had stopped the escapade and the remainder were
completely surrounded. King Tawhiao, Wiremu
Tamihana, the “king-maker,” and Rewi, the
general, were among those who thus got away.
At daybreak a white flag was hoisted at the pah,
and shortly afterwards 183 men and two women
laid down their arms and unconditionally sur-
rendered.
• * *
Rewi told me that after the first repulse of
the British recorded above, the Maoris held a
council of war, at which it was resolved to defend
the place at all hazards. To do so successfully it
was necessary to obtain reinforcements and a fresh
supply of ammunition and provisions. Therefore,
taking advantage of the next day_ being the Sab-
bath, and believing that the British would do no
fighting on that day, the King, with Wiremu
Tamihana, and Rewi and a strong detachment,
left the pah at midnight, intending to return with
their supplies on the following night, so as to be
prepared for the expected battle next morning.
The Sabbath broke calm and clear in the Maori
pah. It was in early spring, the sun shone brightly,
and the peach-trees with which the slopes of the
pah were covered were loaded with blossoms whose
delicious fragrance perfumed the breeze. The
greensward around was resplendent with flowers of
every hue and shade, and birds of the most brilliant
plumage. Far back among the hills towered the
ancient forests of Maoriland, whose glorious arches
resounded with the silvery notes of the bell-bird,
the tuneful song of the tui, and the plaintive cry
of the kuku. Apparently peace and harmony
reigned supreme. Within the pah all the able-
bodied men were busily employed in conveying
provisions from some opotikis (a kind of bam built
on piles) at the rear and in carrying water from
a spring and stowing everything away within the
fortifications. The old men, the wounded and the
women and children were gathered together in the
little chapel where the Maori clergyman was con-
ducting service according to the ritual of the
Church of England. Ha ! what is that which
glitters and sparkles in the bright sunshine under-
neath the foliage of the peach-trees on yonder
slope ? And whose are those forms that are slowly
creeping—creeping up to the now defenceless pah ?
There is a streak of bright red down there that far
outshines the delicate tint of the peach-blossoms
around it. There is a wave of dark blue almost
like the blue of the sky. That is the gleam of
British bayonets. Those are the creeping forma
of British soldiers and sailors coming up here to
desecrate this calm and peaceful Sabbath morning
with most unrighteous war. The green moss and
the soft sward deaden the sound of their footsteps,
but slowly and silently they come—to steep their
hands in the blood of the unsuspecting brave.
Meanwhile in the Jittle church the surpliced
Maori pastor, having just finished his sermon, has
raised his hands, and is about to pronounce the
benediction. The words “Te Atua” (God)
tremble on his lips when a tremendous hurra bursts
upon the air, the forms of the invaders obscure
the light and a volley of musketry is poured into
the building. The terrified Maoris spring up with
a frenzied cry, “Oh! nga paheha, nga honia!”
(“Oh! the white man, the soldiers!”) but in a
few minutes all is over. Of all who were as-
sembled in that little chapel, but one escaped, a
boy 12 years old, who, covered with a heap of
slain, lay still and quiet until the soldiers had re-
tired, when he crawled out and succeeded _ in get-
ting into the bush and speedily rejoined his tnbe.
Men, women, and children, all were ruthlessly
slaughtered, from the old man on the verge of the
grave to the infant clinging to its mother’s breast.
The preacher was slain before the altar; Rewi told
me that besides bullet-wounds the clergyman had
nine bayonet wounds in his body. The able-
bodied Maoris, 183 men and two women, who
were engaged in carrying provisions, finding them-
selves surrounded and being entirely unarmed, at
once surrendered and were taken away as prisoners
of war. The troops completed their morning’s
work by cutting down the whole of the peach-
trees which covered the slopes below the pain
This is Rewi’s account of the fall of Rangiriri,
which I have written entirely from memory. I
do not pretend to reconcile the discrepancies as to
dates and the circumstances of the engagement. I
simply give it as it was given to me.
Trotter Bethone.
P.S.—The exact words used by the Maoris at
the storming of Orakau were “ Ka whawai tonu ;
Ak&, Aki), Ake,” and the meaning: “This is the
word of the Maori. We will fight for ever and
ever.” _ , _
At the storming of the Gate Pah, near Taur-
anga, on April 27, 1864, 165 Maoris successfully
resisted an assault by 1695 Europeans, and drove
them back with great slaughter. During the en-
suing night the Maoris evaotuated the pah, and,
wading through a swamp at the rear, made good
their escape. My old friend, Rihari, was one of
the chiefs engaged in the action and related the
story to me.
Annette, of The Barcoo.
(A Love-letter delivered per favour of The
Bulletin.)
She is onl y a handmaid, on duty
With a Queensland back-blocks cockatoo.
But in baking and boiling and beauty
She’s the boss of the boozy Barcoo ;
She lives close beside Muttagummer,
Her eyes, like her tresses, are jet;
Her age was eighteen just last summer.
And her name is Annette.
If her fingers ain’t white they are nimble,
And useful and shapely enough,
They can handle an axe or a thimble,
And don’t feel a little bit rough ;
Her waist ain’t too stout, nor too taper,
But exactly the thing to embrace;
Her neck is like cream-laid notepaper.
Like ripe peaches her face.
In accomplishments some may outvie her —
Tho’ she knows quite enough for eighteen—•
She’d talk down old Palaver, the lawyer,
And believes in “ that dear BullyteeN j”
She can dress—tho’ the fashions be newer—
She can break both a heart and a horse,
And the shearers all round come to woo her.
As a matter of course.
She can “ sling ” sacred music on Sunday,
And secular, too, when it suits,
And is equally ready on Monday
To dance you quite out of your boots ;
And, when clasped by some luckier fellow,
Who would waltz with her gladly thro’ life,
0 ! her smiles made me mad as Othello,
Who bolstered his wife.
But, alas ! how should I hope for favour
Where so many more wealthy aspire ?
Some swell bank-clerk or squatter will have her
I am only a “ scalper ” on hire
Yet I hope this, in print, won’t escape her—
I’m the cove with the reddish moustache,
The blue tie and the collar of paper,
And a soul above cash.
And should she Incline to the notion
Of yoking her future with mine,
1 will serve her with all the devotion
I’ve hitherto given to wine ;
And I’ll covet not wealth nor fine raiment,
But shall think myself blest if I get
Store-credit or payment,
And a humpy with love and Annette.


Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty years’ standinq has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1889.
GOLD MEDAL SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Lever Brothers are now in a position to execute orders
for the above, and regret the inconvenience to clients
owing to having been oversold. A continuous and regular
supply may now be depended upon.
PRIZE COMPETITIONS.
Competitors having stated their inability to obtain the
soap wrappers, Lever Brothers will extend the time up to
which lists may be sent in to September 21st.
The following prizes will be given to the successful
competitor who complies the most English words from
the name Australasia: —First £5 ; second, £2; third, £L
Also, 11 prizes for children under 14 years from the name
“Sunlight Soap,” viz.; One, 40s; two 20s; fcur 10s.; four
5s each. With each list a Sunlight Soap wrapper must be
attached, and sent to Lever Brothers, Sydney.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
I
K
d
o
o
•JL3lfcJL£ atMtevg
sdmiHd^vssma
SlN3o^
medical
0T
0
v
V*
frt
The Seven Cuticura Boys
These seven beautiful boys owe their beauty of
skin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or scalp to the celebrated Cuticuba Remedies.
Eor cleansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
©f children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
skin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cuticuba, the great skin cure,
and Cuticuba Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticuba Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
infallible.
Your most valuable Cuticuba Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who are troubled with
ekin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cuba Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMER, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticuba Remedies are in great demand.
The Cuticuba Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticuba Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say It is the best for babies, preventing and curing
scall bead and similar diseases.
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
Dl MPBES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
I I 111 oily skin prevented by Cuticuba Soap.
Our little son will be four years of ago on tne
25th inst. In May, 1885, he was attacked with a
very painful breaking out of the skin. "We called
in a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
tressing. We were frequently obliged to get up
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than six had attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse, until about the 20th of
last July, when we began to give him Cuticura
Resolvent internally, and the Cuticura and Cu-
txcura Soap externally, and by the last of August
he was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and he has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady,
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., HI.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, 1887. C. N. COB, J, P.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,’* 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
ns nu’O Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
DAD! 0 titled by the use of Cuticura Soap.
Address: B. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY,
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Acknowledged
The Best
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Bests Cheapest
Baritone!!
JAwmn
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
B
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
“Beneath, the Lions.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In regal halls her Rich high revel hold,
A jewelled gleam on all the robes they wear;
In tattered rags her workers face the cold
Beneath the lions in Trafalgar Square.
To sensuous strains her high-born daughters whirl
A kingdom’s ransom on their necks and hair;
With hollow cheeks their sisters face the swirl
Beneath the lions in Trafalgar Square.
In gilded cots the flaccid offspring lie,
That pampered matrons for their country bear;
On sapless breasts her pauper children die
Beneath the lions in Trafalgar Square.
From altars, gem-bedecked, her preachers dwell
On peace and plenty in their loyal prayer,
While in their midst there boils a living hell
Beneath the lions in Trafalgar Square.
Her starving sons are asking to be fed,
Crawling from filthy street and noisome lair,
Till all the chords of want and pain are wed
Beneath the lions of Trafalgar Square.
Her hungry daughters shriek aloud for bread,
But all this woe is spent on empty air :
Their boasted rulers give them steel instead
Beneath the lions in Trafalgar Square.
From Western coasts the Scottish crofters’ cries
Strike all in vain on ears that scorn to care ;
From Highland hearts the wails of sorrow rise
To ring and echo in Trafalgar Square.
Fair Irish fields are wet with slavish sweat,
The Irish skies glow with destruction’s glare;
A cry for vengeance comes—“ Not yet! not yet!”
Is echoed upward from Trafalgar Square.
But days draw near when all the bestial throng,
Who, gorged with plenty, laugh at Want’s
despair,
Will hear with quaking limbs a fearsome song
Float round the lions in Trafalgar Square.
Then from its gates will rush a stemless flood
Of human tigers mad to seize their share,
And wash away in seas of fish-cold blood
The ghastly memories of Trafalgar Square.
KENNETH MACKAY.
Three brothers named Conn have been
killed recently, one after another, at Coonabara-
bran (N.S.W.) by the capsizing of drays.
Says a Dakota “ad.”: —
If John Jones, who twenty years ago deserted his poor
wile and babe, will return, said babe will lick the stuffin’
out of him.
In Liverpool for some time past the police-
men on night duty have worn rubber-soled boots,
and are able to move about without advertising
their whereabouts by the heavy tramp which
announces the approach of most policemen.
Says a London paper :—“ Parnell’s adhe-
sion to Gladstone in the Royal Grants suggests
that the Irish leader is, a more moderate man
than Morley or Labouchere; and is a formal
declaration of his alliance with the moderate
Liberal party. Parnell’s action is, perhaps, also
intended to affect the Prince of Wales. There
*re stories that he is not unfavourably disposed to
Home Rule; and the Irish leader hopes that the
Prince will open the first Home Rule Parliament. ’•
That fakir, Stuart Cumberland, has started
a weekly paper in London called the Miebob, and
in one of its first numbers he gives a picture of
Jack the Ripper, as revealed to him in a dream.
List: —
The face was thinnish and oval in shape. The eyes
were dark and prominent, showing plenty of white. The
brow was narrow, and the chin somewhat pointed. The
complexion was sallow—somewhere between that of a
Maltese and a Parsee. The nose was somewhat Semitic
in shape, and formed a prominent feature of the face.
The formation of the mouth I could not very well see, it
was shaded by a black moustache. Beyond the hair on
the upper lip the face was bare. It was not a particularly
disagreeable face, but there was a wild intensity about the
dark, full eyes that fascinated me as I gazed into them.
They were the eyes of a mesmerist I
Bah! Cheese and lobster.
Here is a story about Millionaire Watson,
of Bendigo. He was over in Tasmania some
years ago and stayed in a hotel, at the dinner-
table of which there sat down one evening a
number of well-known people, including Charles
Clark, Madame Christian, R. S. Smythe, and
Coker the metallician. After the soup, Watson
suggested to Madame Christian that a glass of
champagne would not be a bad thing. _ The lady
assenting, Watson ordered in the wine, which
was passed round among the party. Next day,
when Clark was leaving, Watson sidled up to him
with, “ Ah, Mr. Clark, I don’t think we need ask
Miss Christian to pay any share of that wine.
Had we not better arrange the matter among our-
selves?” “How much?” said Clark, trying to
preserve an unruffled demeanour. Watson named
the amount and actually took the money. Such
are the people who make millions.
About 270 years ago one Hugh Myddel-
ton, a long-headed individual in knee-breeches and
a linen ruff, floated his New River scheme for pro-
viding a large portion of London with fresh water.
Money bought a lot in those days, and the New
River enterprise was carried through on £7200,
divided into 72 shares of £lOO each. Myddelton
took 36 shares and King James I. took the other
36. The Crown, which has ever been an idiotic
concern, hadn’t the sense to retain those shares
and so assist the British taxpayer of the dim
future, for it wasn’t long before Charles I. sold his
portion to the second Sir Hugh Myddelton (the first
was baronetted) for a fixed payment of £5OO per
annum, which payment is continued to the present
day, Her Gracious getting the miserable “mon-
key.” This year’s dividend on those 36 “ adven-
turer’s ” shares was exactly £93,960. And, for the
first time since Anno Domini 1613, one share was
sold by auction in London last month. It fetched
£122,000. When we reflect that the Queen’s
interest in the New River Co. ought to be worth
four and a-half millions sterling, it reconciles us to
the fact that Charles the First was chopped
through. He deserved to be a martyr.
We read that an Anglican curate has just
formulated a scheme of a monastic order, whose
members shall swear never to carry any money in
their pockets, or, indeed, to handle the coin of the
realm under any circumstances; and generally to
lead the ascetic life associated with, but not
always practised by, the monks of old. Mag-
nificent ! schemes of aceticism always emanate
from poor devils of curates with £7O a year. The
Bulletin is waiting to join one inaugurated by a
Bishop.
Outside Melbourne, the mention of Sir
James Lorimer suggests “ Dismal Jemmy.” He
was not a dismal man, but had an awfully funereal
style in Parliament. The Kirk shakes its head
muchly, because he died about a fortnight after
he had spent £250 in one gulp to give the military
and naval forces the treat of a performance of the
“ Silver King ”at the Theatre Royal. Although
Ormond gave the Kirk £40,000, it could
manage with the £250 thrown in the theatrical
gutter! Lorimer was always an out-and-out Free-
trader. Though Minister of War, he took no
military title ; a more peaceful, feminine man than
Lorimer could not be imagined. He was tall,
thin, and pale, with a lisp, and a very little patch
of whisker on each side of his very thin face. In
Scotch theology he was one of those who thought
for himself, advancing from the school of Rainy to
that of Robertson, Smith, and Caird.
Says an English writer :
It would almost seem that for Lord Rosebery and his
fellow-workers in the cause of Imperial Federation the
history of the colonial empires of Portugal, Spain, Hol-
land, and France had been written in vain. For if we ask
why these colonial empires have dwindled and decayed,
the answer is simply because that self-government, which
is the life of British colonies, was never granted to their
dependencies. There was a time when 150 sovereign
princes paid tribute to the treasury of Lisbon. For 200
years more than half the South American continent was
an appanage of Spain. Ceylon, the Cape, Guiana, and a
vast cluster of trade factories in the East were, at the close
of the seventeenth century, colonies of Holland, while half
North America, comprising the vast and fertile valleys of
the St. Lawrence, the Mississippi, and the Ohio, obeyed a
little more than a century ago the sceptre of France.
Neither Portugal nor Spain, nor Holland, nor Prance has
lacked able rulers or statesmen, but the colonial empire of
all these states has crumbled and decayed. The ex-
ceptional position of Great Britain in this respect can only
be ascribed to the relinquishment of all the advantages,
political and commercial, ordinarily presumed to result to
dominant states from the possession of dependencies.
Johannesburg, a two-and-a-half-year-old
South African town, is a golden Broken Hill.
On a much larger scale it has all its discomforts
and its high tariffs. House-room is precious and
costly, bricks are £4 10s. and £6 per thousand,
and any place is expected to pay for itself in rent
within three years. Builders are doing their
utmost to cope with public wants, but the demand
is infinitely greater than the supply. An ordinary
eight-roomed house may total to £3OOO or £4OOO,
and a rental of £5O per month is by no means un-
common. Waiters command £lO to £l5 per month,
an hotel cook £25 per month, all found, and lots
of extras. A Kaffir cook expects £lO per month,
a Kaffir servant £4 and £6. A groom £l2 to £l3.
Money commands in certain circles 5 per cent, a
month. Meat is very good and cheap—about
fid. per lb. Eggs average about ss. per dozen,
butter 4s. per lb., and bread fid. per lb. Cigars
are Is. and 2s. each, cartridges 30s, per 100, and
forage bundles of between 4 and 51b. (oat-straw,
with the oats attached) Is. Horses are cheap
enough (small, but active and hardy) at about
£lO to £2O. Daily newspapers are 3d., and Stock
Exchange offices anything between £2O and £lOO
per month. An office-boy is worth 30s. a week,
and hard to get at that. Washing is 6s. per
dozen “all round;” and hotel keep is about £1
per day. Beer at 45., champagne at £l, and
whisky at Bs. to 10s, per bottle make many a man
teetotal. Yin ordinaire claret 7s. fid. a bottle.
Vegetables are double or treble English quota-
tions. (A lady has advertised the last three
weeks for a cook, and only yesterday had her first
applicant, who demanded £lO a month, all found,
besides board and lodging for her niece, with a
piano !) “ The Bodega ”at Johannesburg, a very
well-managed Stock Exchange bar, gives a total of
about £l6OO per month now, as against £2300 per
month in boom times. A Kimberley broker’s (not
a very big one, either) average commissions during
the boom were £6OOO per month 1 And yet the
business is all done for cash, and the commission
charged is only 1 per cent, upon the money I In
January last one bank at Johannesburg turned
over £16,000,000. The high prices may be ac-
counted for by the fact that everything is trekked
into Johannesburg by bnllocks at the rate of three-
pence per pound.
To Britain’s shores the British hulls
Hath borne our golden ores,
But now Australia’s ashen sculls
The golden freight restores.


Anything that Dingman’s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Eleptri; Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile
ken’s Beaeonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—-Only two hours from Melbourne.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHRINO'
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO.,
M, Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and. Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
—Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
’VST’-A.IES.ZFS.riESIXr & HO'\7V3Xr.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette ... 85/- per 1000: 9/- per 100.
No. 8 66/- 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Miscellaneous.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fxre, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co..
Limited, ’
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SIEHROIEIDIEIR-
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.;
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
W ALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
•*- Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, os. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
•yTt
ò
rijisi
o
GOT
KL HILDER, '
UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Eiiislic Web, Grindery, «ic.,
"Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Fish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blochs delivered free at 'Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for 2s. 6d.per block extra.
lnstructions sent with each package how to treat the
ish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Order for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works —
ICerLßiE!.g:ton- St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavannah Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor dc Konito ”
Brand of Cigars and ‘* Empire Cigarettes.”
Business Announcements.
HILL, CLARK & 00.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK: & STATION AGENTS,
HAYING unrivalled facilities for the 'Storage and Display of Wool, either m Bulk or Sample
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Mann,
acturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it f
we are prepared to
SHHF* UNmEB LIBEEAL CASH _A_ ZD AT-A. ZEsT CUE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homebush and Corporation Yards. '
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Blacktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all furthe r
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Office at DUBBO
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus: —
#
TJSE
liebib COMPANY
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Federated. Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
OIBCTTIiAB Q/TJ-A.'Y’, SiriDZETIElir.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AG-ENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
PARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mer-
• chants, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xi. BEEUASCOWI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, G-ilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
The Tyrant’s Tomb.
Look on yon path—you must not pass—
Around which grows but ragged grass;
Look on that tombstone, which dread Fate
Has willed, for ever, sha’n’t stand straight 1
But, staggering against that mound,
make Christmas all the whole year round.
No flower on that deserted grave
Its welcome fragrance ever gave;
On it alights no white cheru6 ;
At night it is a reptiles’ club !
And iguanas (and to spare)
At noonday hold a picnic there !
To curse it—it has been our rule
To ride here on a borrowed mule !
On nights when we are tempest-tom
A grisly phantom winds a horn —
What! “ Horror—no more you can bear ”■—
Why, fool! An ice-cream man lies there.
Certain smarty Australian newspaper pro-
prietors— two from Sydney and one from Mel-
bourne—have formed “a corner” with a view to
acquiring a monopoly of the right of using in
Australia the most successful of the new and much-
vaunted type-setting machines. A late London
paper, in a lengthy article, alleges that the Lino-
type, as a machine, is a comparative failure, that
the press has been gagged with enormous “ads.,”
and that a boom has been manufactured in order
that the promoters may expeditiously “unload”
Linotype Co. shares. The doom of the compo. is
not yet fully assured.
Thus a Yankee barber :
“ There’s a young lady, whom I shave twice a week, who
can raise a moustache as quickly as I can, and raise a
better one, too. This lady is well known to the upper-ten
of Brooklyn, and is very handsome. For a long time she
shaved herself, but finally she was introduced to me, and
ever since that time I have shaved her regularly twice a
week. Her mother was also troubled with an overgrowth
of hair on her face, but she allows it to grow. The result is
that the old lady has a great deal better moustache than the
majority of dudes can raise, and the daughter says it adds
to ma’s beauty. Her sister, a young woman of sixteen, is
also raising a moustache. She is a very pretty girl, but
wJI soon have to shave, as her upper lip is getting very
black. This girl is also raising side whiskers, but she
arranges her hair so that a person would hardly recognise
that fact. But the elder sister, who is a regular customer
of mine, has a very strong growth of beard. In fact, if
she were to let it grow she would have a finer beard than
the Bearded Lady. She is a nice girl just the same,
highly educated and a good musician, but the growth of
hair on her face worries her awfully, as she is about to be
married. She becomes more alarmed as her wedding day
approaches, and often asks me if I will be able to shave
her after her marriage without permitting her husband
to know it. I quiet her fears in this direction by telling
her that she may then call at my residence. There I can
shave her without any one knowing it. The majority of
women whom I shave are comely, but not handsome.
There are many of them young, but few very pretty.
None of them come to my shop, although I have had
-occasion to shave a woman in one of my regular shop
chairs. It was one night last winter. A lady, heavily
veiled, called at the shop about eight o’clock in the
evening. She asked to see me, and then told me that
She wanted to have some superficial hair removed from
her face. But she would not get shaved until the shop
was vacant and I had locked the door and pulled down
the shades. Then the woman removed her veil and hat.
To my surprise, when I glanced at her I saw that she had
quite a heavy moustache. I told her to be seated, and
she lay back in the chair like a man. I quickly shaved
her, and when I got through she handed me a crisp dollar
bill and told me she did not want any change. There’s a
barber I know who makes a practice of shaving women.
He had at one time at least fifty regular female customers.
Some of them he shaved every day, while others came
but once a week. He has a few wealthy female customers
who drive to his establishment in their carriages to ‘ have
their hair dressed,’ as they say. But they go there
simply for the purpose of getting shaved. He has a
ladies’ parlour for shaving in, and is about the only
regular barber for women in the city. It is a difficult job
to shave a women, as they kick like a mule if the razor is
not just in A 1 condition. When a barber once shaves a
woman he will kjsep her custom as long as she lives
convenient to his establishment. I had a young man
in my employ about three years ago who married a
young woman whom I used to shave, and it was while
visiting her house for the purpose of shaving her that he
made her acquaintance.”


Medical.
HE
m
1\ A «
51
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC
belt;
y
i V"
\
IV
m
*=A
/T
?n
A NEVES FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
E.rds. This famous Electro Magnetic Belt will cure
VOIJS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on SO days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
lorwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.K.C.P., M.K.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—in—
Chronic, Nervous and (Jemto-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
—3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a lee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility ” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
+ T The Public are requested to notice the
WCt U. wJ.vJ.Li ! words, Hose s Celebrated Eye
lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vender’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
IT. AA. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Pf* Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, Or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent; free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
lag valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Oovuuofurr
Analyst :
•■I have tested a sample of the ‘Maoio Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenio and have
Jo report, aftej a most careful examination, that I have
h*«n unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
Injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnls
aruote should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
, Mr. H. Lunwin, Registered Dairyman, Croydon " I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. fid. ; 561 b., 18s.
od.; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcel* of 661 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
*1 HCNTBR STREET, SYDNEY.
o
CJI4
PATENT
PILLS.
» >
4>.
'4§
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath,
tivehess, scurvy, blotches
6n the skin, disturbed
sleep, frig'htful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Eb ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a w r eak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tea ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeoham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most > violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Pull directions are given with each box.
Y/jy.
THE TREE OF LIFE
o
CTORY
The only pure Eucalypte In the World
AWA.ROED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Ccnsumpion, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY,
CONSULT
M
OORE & HOGG
THE EMINENT
_ SPECIALISTS,
|On all Diseases cJTthe Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
COI.BULTATIONS FREE. PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, EITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from th
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
£2O EUCKBOAED BUGCHES £2O
BEST IX THE WOULD
lor £.20.
No. 45 —Turnout Seat —£35.
The largest Coach-
Works in Australia.
COPE <Sc NEWMAN
BOOGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Plead. ! I lE~S.<eEs J caL I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ For Fiasiing a Picture Heat sad Well.”
w x : x
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 t. , Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Ihotos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gi'ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
special aitention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
o
21
&
& IMPORTERS OF
fL— , a —iAi : u*
HATS CAPS U
458 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY 1
0/yoosiCe LassttCerj
$
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTER;
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AtITHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
ò
NU FACT UR CD 6T • J
C//ANHOfr SarbovrS* J*
s.tSclk hr ate S*ecj*W ) SSer****A»r& 7
I Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
L^Aoe
Bass* Pale A.le,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London,
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON Sc
SYDNEY.
CO.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bo-fit les with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palme i off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules * ill be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrat rs of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents far Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
ASK FOR RUBBER'S ELBERFELD
LAGEE BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment,
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE YATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
BOWOCHS
noth
BOWDEJBT’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. BOWDEN .. Proprietor.
(RIN CE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st. ,Kaat, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. &S" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
rnd Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
lilrery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thoa.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Hoots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST.., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
XiOndLoxi Fashtiozis,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
mr
mm*
LIMITED.
253 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and, Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN AND SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OP
W lUES, x SP I IE?/ IT S 7 x IB IE IE IE S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennkssy’s, Martbll’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
S3f“ The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. I-W" All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
soiolesale anil Sinn'le Bottle Departments, anti 2M Bernine-st., SySney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES 1 REFRESEMEST ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hoydern & Sons.)
) x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE : GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
o
aSTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From XOs. 6d.. to £35.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE HEW ZEALAND
Loan £ Mercantile
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney,
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* ISSS^BS^
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
re HE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
A Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London. •
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G, S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
IfST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of human’ y their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
ENGINE SWEDISH MADE
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. -A-. ZF-A-XjSTIEIJDT,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
of their Clips are made.
SOLE AGENT FOE AUSTRALIA,
COCOA
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the-Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KILMiNSTEB to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
IVEar's. 3ESZIXji3&^EXTa'S"373EIDE : I., Clarendon
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T-ONa’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged-the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACES,
Proprietor.
Comp Oxro
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
SVIACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemi ts and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England. •
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
mm& pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Ijatlies.
BU MACHINES.
&C., &0.
s
■■■'.-
mm -
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines,
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
ELDIULL ENGINES,
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers.
CORNISH BOILERS.
&0,, &c.
We invite all those requiring' Machinery of atiy kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices, h rom the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive ohowrooms,
12 9, 131, 133 & 135 HAY STREET, BE AYM ARICET, SYD3XTEY.
