

Ask your
| { Grocer for
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney, _
€< An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the Porter. — Lanoet.
Corner GEORGE STREET and QUEEN'S PLACE,
THE
BEDROOMS
ARE
Lofty Wei I Ventilated,
And Furnished Very Handsomely,
i
*
ass.
&****■
L
\j
|gr
~ll!!»1 | ,'lE|- , j
W""“l W
- -
THE
DINING-ROOM
is
oomp üßxb— in—avfiax—aaspaoxi
AND
Worked on the AMERICA! principle.
r T~H es -A-BQ.6iican Hotel,
Which has JUST BEEN OPENED, is situated in the heart of the city, and in
jroximity to the principal Banks, Exchange, Post Office, Government Buildings, etc.
Drawing, Smoliing;,
, * AND
READING ROOMS.
Full particulars as to Tarifi, etc., may be obtained on application to the
American IscECptel.
TELEBRAHS and COMMUNiCATIOHS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
The Bulletin


TO BA
CO
n
SOPSONS
*
m
a
X
O
<?DO\
iSIR ROGER
o
C 3
Mm
DIXSDNS
BZOIBBXOB HOTBB, OHABTIRB
TOWERS.
iMMi Brisk Hotel Building eteeted tn above
jin, ilf toil tomes o GUI end Ohuih Stveetc.
W. if. GOUGH. Proprietor
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indigestloi
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
AMD
MX
31 VIS)
QH3J
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL.— For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Wat**.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of aU Dealers Qitd of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose" on “Golden
1 Lyre,” with Address in ftdl.
■William. Cars'ill.
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 —MARKET —STREET,
SYDNEY
M‘IiEAN :BROB., RIGG,S&LCO.,
IEONMON GEES,
MACHINERY f MERCHaJVTo,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
REG 1 ?
SPECIALITIES :
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WAKE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES s—LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES. *o„ *O.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!,
AGAINST ALL RISES!)
■T > AKINS
OISE'S FLUID MitHESli
Cl Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Plow of the Seorelloni
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
the best aperient for children.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS
iYiU MtMeal TuUmtmieds, AnaXysit, «*o., ueeompanyina mm* &c ttU).
TAKE ONLY KRUSES.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
•nbsoribed Capital ••
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received --
Advances Hade
total Income -
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
£180,425
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451.085
Tear ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
807,828
797,990
Tear ending
Oob., 1888.
£580,000
251,015
1,123,949
025,820
9,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :-12 months, 7 p«r cent.; 6 months. S per
3 months. 6 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
FBHDS * or Borrowers. TERMS LIBERAL.
-
m \\v
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £26, when that sum Is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of t le First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat aof Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
■on. JOHN Sin 10, M.P., J.P.,
„ Chairman.
Acting-Secretary.
Jl
THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE
CORNER OT
lEZlrrg' Collirrs Streets, T^eHoo-CLrrre,
Containing 560 ROOMS, la now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and TabW
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced CMf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS
BOT, COLD And SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMITLY REPLIED TO
George Cohen - - - - Manager*


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 478.
SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1889.
Price, Bd.
Uil
David Gaunson.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia eor the Australians,”
Proprietors s BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
•whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and. not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
'‘ The Bulletin" will, return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is. specified and. stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
W,e are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of stick MSS.
NQTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted, regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tp® Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut .is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wfyfo
to interfere.
TTie^xzlldvri.
SATURDAY, APEIL 13, 1889
Mad Monarchs.
Tub Economist is a journal published in
London and zealously attached to the
monarchical form of Government. los full
name of Weekly Commercial Times,
Ba nkers 1 Gazette and Railway Monitor
Indicates wioh certainty the conservatism of
its principles and the sincerity of its belief
in the established order of things. For it
would be just as absurd to expect advanced
or liberal views from a newspaper devoted
to capital, as it would be to lock for dis-
satisfaction among capitalists themselves with
the existing state of society which enables
them to enjoy moat of life’s sweets and
avoid almost aU Is bitters. Wealth does
not establish papers to prove thatpreperty
is robbery. When It dabbles In journalism
at all its teachings tend to show that all
would ba well if piople would bub be con-
tent with the sphere cf life In which it has
pleased God to place them. Bearing this In
mind, it will readily be understood that the
Economist wou’d not willingly say anything
unpleasant about the occupants of thrones.
But the suicide of the Austrian heir-apparent
has had the effect of drawing from the Lon-
don broadsheet a statement of a remarkable
kind. Under the date of February 9;h a
leader appeared wh’ch showed pretty plainly
that many European princes are mad and
many more in a fair way to become so. The
plan suggested for remedj ing this evil is to
widen the marriage circle or, in other words,
to bring some old and wealthy families up
to the royal level so far as matrimony ii con-
cerned, and by such means work off the
monarchical aberration by degrees. “Ii is
greatly to be regretted,” the Economist
says, “ that the reigning houses keep up
with such rigidity their laws of mar-
riage and do not give their families
a fairer chance of re-lnvlgoratlon In
mental and physical health and strength.”
In a word, monarchs should not be covetous.
Having contracted insanity, they should ba
generous and circulate lb among the higher
classes. It may be objected that the higher
families Intended to be honoured by inocula-
tion with royal Idiocy have a fair share of
mental and physical malformation already,
and might object to the introduction of a
new kind of imbecility. Even should such he
the case, however, no difficulty need be ex-
perienced in finding people anxious to under-
go the risk. If the European royal houses
would not object to colonists, we In Austra-
lia could readily furnish from the best classes
vigorous and reputable men and maidens
who would gladly take In hand the renova-
tion of crazy princesses and rambling grand
dukes.
♦ * •
It is clearly stated In the suggestive article
before us that one cause of the mental mis-
fortune among princes Is their being over-
educated for their brain-power. People
undazzled by monarchy and Its surroundings
might be fonnd rude enough to Insinuate
that, even so, the acquirements of heredi-
tary rulers need not be extensive. All
efforts to pour the contents of a quart-pot
into a pint have hitherto, atd from the
nature of things, failed. Not to go beyond
onr own reigning family, It might ba confi-
dently advanced that any attampts to over-
edneate our rulers and their relatives, from
the time when George I landed In England
with Mesdames of Kielmansegge and
Schulbnberg— known in London as the
Maypole and the Elephanb—down to the
present, must necessarily have met with
indifferent success. No training could make
the first Guelph speak any English or the
second much. As for the third and his
successors, it will not ba denied that
the amount of knowledge obtainable at
an average charlty-echool would have sorely
taxed their understandings. But It is in the
method suggested by the Economist for
lessening the effects cf royal llghtheadeduess
that the real danger lies. We are told, for
instance, that “ the two great families of
Europe, Catholic and non-Cathollc, marry
their cousins so regularly that if any disease
creeps in It cannot get out ” ; and, again,
“we have seen a list of twenty princes and
princesses under medical care for brain-
affections, and the number displays a lions
tendency to Increase.” Instead of denying
the highest post In the State to persons phy-
sically or mentally weak, it Is. proposed to
lessen this taint by spreading It over a larger
surface —that Is, by joining the sound and
the unsound in wedlock. But so Insidious
is the action cf Insanity, and so lasting its
manifestations, that the project, if adopted,
would merely i crease the number of fami-
lies where lunacy could ba sought with the
certainty of suoces?. As the least germ of
insanity will leaven a whole mass, there is
little doubt that in time not alone the old
nobility bub the entire body of the middle
classes as well, would be fairly on the road
to frenzy. Ip short, itsbead of having one
fool at the head (faff ,lrs, it is intended to
strengthen hfs administration by a supply of
madmen.
# * •
That the reigning f *mllies of Europe will
bitterly oppose the proposed method of
toning down their eccentricities is certain.
It vrai bub the other day that a commotion
was caused from Sb. Petersburg to Madrid
through Prince Battenberg’s marrying into
the ballet. Even onr own Queen was so In-
censed at the mesalliance as to withdraw an
order given for bis portrait. As wives, It is
generally conceded tbab no class is so apt as
ballet dancers to diive men to madness.
It would be cations to ascertain if they
possess the facnPy of curing the disease as
well as causing lb. The whole science of
homcuopathy is based on the ascertained fact
that what will cause an ailment will also care
it. That ladles who cross a large stage In
three bounds, pirouetting en route, possess
an aptitude for driving even elderly men to
mania Is certain. Ic would surely be worth
while to try If they could also modify the
misfortune mhen unmistakably developed.
Ib Is difficult to understand how disease
could hive crept Into Imperial and
houses considering the cire taken of the
scions’ moral?. 1 1 certain quarters of Paris
no douht some information on this subject
might be secured. At all events a fair trial
should be given to the ballet and to some of
the more active artistes in opera bouffe
before recourse was had to the hazardous ex-
periment advocated by the E< onomist.
The strongest argument that can possibly
be advanced In favour of heredity rule Is
that it tends to lessen the chancfs of domes-
tic and foreign broils. Let bub the highest
post of all be open to the successful soldier
or statesman and chronic disturbance would
be the result. That this is notoriously untrue
the records of the present and of the past
abundantly testify. Almost without excep-
tion, the wars that have desolated the
fairesb lands and brought ruin to peoples
whose only wish was peace, have been
either religious or dynastic the latter
particularly. For thirty years the Wars of
the Roses, a purely dynastic quarrel, ravaged
England ; and many a time since have the
Inhabitants of the British Islands grappled
In mortal embrace for the purpose of deciding
to which fool or knave the right to misgovern
belonged. It was during the period from
1649 to 1653, before the fanatic Cromwell
and his saints paved the way for Charles’
unspeakable reign, that the Commonwealth
of England was at its heat The Peers had
been voted “useless and dangerous;” there was
but one house of legislation on whose records
appeared these words : —“ The office of King
in this nation Is unnecessary, burbhensomeand
dangerous.” The executive government was
in the hands of 51 members chosen by the
Commons, and It Is on record that : “The
achievements of this Illustrious Council by
sea and land, In peace and war, have had no
parallel in English history.” Ib was left for
the Lord’s anointed of the Stuarts to
change ail this—to change it so effectudly
that England was governed in the Interests
of French trulls, while the citizens of London
shivered at the sound of Batch cannon on
the Thames. And If hereditary rule in the
past has been a provocative of strife instead
of a guarantee of peace, still lees is It likely
to be useful In the present and the future.
We dally hear of the jealousies caused by
royal or semi-royal alliances In Europe. It
was but the other day that Bismarck put his
veto on a projected marriage lest it might
give offence toßussla. Imagine the Americana
or the French or the Swiss strengthening
their battalions because their Presidents’
children had a leaning towards runaway
matches I
* *
Adverting to the consolidation of modern
European States and the great increase in
their armies, the Economist asserts : —“ Ex-
cept under a monarchy the Commander-in-
Chlef or Minister of War becomes too im-
portant a personage in the State. This
danger, a,i well as the danger of military
anarchy, discredits Republican institutions.”
But the real dangers to such institutions are
two —popular ignorance and a long course of
political servitude. Let but an educated
Democracy once get sufficient time, as In the
United States, to teach generations of its
citizens their duties and their rights, and no
fear need be entertained of a Oh?sar Two
episodes in American history bring out this tact
clearly. When the success cf, Washingt s on
was assured, his army, siqartlng under the
neglect of Congress, was not at all averse to
the seizure of supreiqe power by its Chief.
There was no force in the land to stop him.
His patriotism, however, was superior to his
ambition, and so passed the great danger to
the liberty of the infant commonwealth of
being strangled In Its cradle. But no such
proposal would have been entertained by the
soldiers only that they had been reared in
the belief that monarchy was essential, and
that, the Gueiph humpty-dumpty having
toppled from the wall, it was necessary to
put another In Its place. Mark the difference
when Grant stood at the head of bis de-
voted and victorious legions. Not a few
Europaan authorities expected and hoped
that he would do as Louis Napoleon did 14
years before. They forgot that the monarchi-
cal poison had been completely expelled from
the American system by 80 years of popular
rule, and that any movement of the success-
ful soldier towards a Dictatorship would have
been received with universal laughter.
• t «
It is not so in France where, even at the
present moment, it is to be feared that a
successful and unscrupulous soldier would
have no great difficulty in reaching the
supreme power. This is because Democracy
in France has never, had the same chance as
In America of teaching its creed to successive
generations. Still, with no lack of royal and
military pretenders ready to seize her by the
threat at the first opportunity, the fact
remains that Republicanism Is the form of
government that divides Franca least. If it
is raid that the Germans, a highly-educated
people, are strongly attached to monarchy,
it is tut fair to reply that, In the first place,
the whole German Empire is honeycombed
with Socialism, and, in the next, that if the
literary culture of the Germans is high their
political education Is backward. In the
famous article on the “Bismarck Dynasty ”
In February’s Contemporary will be found :
“ At any moment the authorities [German]
can peruse all the private correspondence of
a lifetime by the simple process of accusing
you, with or without evidence, of any
Imaginary offence, and then enter your pre-
mises and Impound your papers.” To call
such a country free is a mere abase of terms.
As nations advance politically so must the
noxious principle of heredity disappear. How
absurd that principle Is can be seen in
Holland at the present moment. In order
to provide a ruler for his people an old man
determines to marry at an advanced age. A
daughter Is the result. She, poor child, has
now to give up some of the time which
should be devoted to dolls In order to be
taught how to govern, her aged father having
been declared incapable. What has this
Inoffensive little one done that she should
have her childish head turned so cruelly?
The world might be searched in vain for any
thing more grotesque —more Illustrative of
human fol’y—than the sight of grizzled
statesmen and proud priests bowing to the
ground before children In arms who receive
their obeisances with a crow. As things
are now going It would appear as If the
time was approaching when Europe will ba
governed by Infants and lunatics.
The Programme of "Proputty."
The Foreign-trade party of New South Wales—
sitting in private conclave under the ill-used name
of the ‘ 1 Liberal ” Political Association-has re-
solved by a large majority that it will have no-
thing to do with Land Nationalisation, and the
simple-minded enthusiasts who, in the fathomless
depths of their political ignorance, helped to lift
the Freetrade Government into office, under the
impression that Bueks and Bueeekin and Beuce
Smith and the chloroformed Sutherland were
ready to surrender their estates for the good of
the nation at large, have been thrown away in
derision and disgust. The subject came up for
discussion at a meeting which was attended by
almost every prominent Freetrader in the colony,
and »iih only about two exceptions the influential
gathering arose and repudiated the doctrines of
Heney George in a heap. Almost everybody
present represented “ proputly ”in some shape or
other, and the object of the gathering was, there-
fore, to draw up a political programme for the
protection of “proputty” in its largest sense.
Almost everybody had ten or a dozen voteswhich
he used at the polls to prevent a low, ignorant,
irreverent majority of toiling iconoclasts
from exercising the power which ought to
belong to them by virtue of their num
bers, and overturning once and for all the vested
right of the Sydney Burdekins and Hoensby
Buenses to own the earth and to pen the rest
of humanity in 33ft allotments, and, therefore, the
meeting resolved that the doctrine of One Man
One Vote should be unanimously left out of the
programme. Almost everybody had a large bank
account, and, consequently, it was decided that
Payment of Members should be repudiated with
disgust, as a echeme by which men who hadn’t
“ proputty,” and who consequently had nothing
to lose by Land Nationalisation, were apt to gel
into the Assembly and tit upon the grand old
tradition that Australia was built by a farseeiug
Providence that it might belong to M'Millan
and Buedekin and Hornsby Burns. And lastly,
everybody had a solid faith in. that noble institu-
tion, the nominee Council of New South Wales,
as a body which, could be relied upon to block
Land Nationalisation, Protection, Payment of
Members, the abolition o! Plural Voting, and any
other measure tending to express a disregard of
the tender feelings of “proputty” which might
be demanded by the unanimous voice of the
nation ; and when it that an elective
Council —though The Bulletin does not here
say it necessarily believes in an elective Council
—should take the place of the group of irre-
sponsible fogies who make reform impossible
in New South Wales, the Liberal Political Asso-
ciation resolved, with a shudder, that the Upper
House must be preserved in all the beauty of its
native stupidity as of old.
• * •
With the exception of a few simple-minded
fanatics to whom Heney George is the beginning
and the end, the resurrection and the life, no one
dreams that the land grabbers of the earth will
lead, the way to Land Nationalisation. The
spectacle of the Pope presiding , as Grand Master
of the Orange organisation would not be more
grotesque ; the idea of the Commander of the
Faithful and the Sheik-ul-Islam leading a ,crusade
to establish the Gross in place of the Crescent
could not possibly ba more hopeless; the belief
that the College of Cardinals would vote unani-
mously for agnosticism, and the General of the'
Jesuits give his support to the Salvation
Army, and the Viceroy of Canton establish »■
branch of the Anti-Chinese League in that city,
would be just a shade less idiotic, Heney Georg-
plunged for Freetrade mainly because the mighty
landlords of America were to a great extent sup-
porters of Protection; and now his followers in
New South' Wales also plunge for Freetrade in
servile imitation of the apostle of their creed, re-
gardless of the fact that the great landholders and
land-grabbers of the colony are Freetraders
almost to the last man, and that the Free-
trade party is therefore bound by every
consideration of self-interest to support Protection,
Denominationalism, Catholicism, Yellow Pupism,
and universal anarchy and perdition, if by so do-
ing they can stave off the day when they will have
to surrender the fortunes which they have
acquired by embezzling the surface of God’s
earth, and crowding the landless millions into
the sea. The fact that Land Nationalisation and
Freetrade have been foolishly and illogically
tacked together in the States has no possible
bearing on the question in Australia. Had the
Single Tax movement been founded in Greenland
instead of in America, it would probably have
leant for support on the whale-oil and seal-fat and
snow-hut faction in order to overturn the power of
the monopolists who desired that the population
should live on beaus’ flesh and build its houses out
of the wreckage of the frezen-out whaler, and
then the dismal copyists of New South Wales


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
London Bankers;
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK,
2 King William Street, London, E C.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations In addition to all usual backing
business.
Interest on Deposits :
3 years 8J per cent,
12 Months 8 ~
T B. RTOHARDBON Managing Director
would have attempted in similar fashion to found
a whale-oil and snow-hut party in the tropics,
under a mistaken impression that Land National i-
gation could not exist without these accessories.
It was this miserable want of adaptability which
induced so many of Geobgb’s disciples to vote the
Foreign-trade ticket at the last general election in
New South Wales, and having thus entrusted to
the landlords the duty of abolishing landlordism
they have little came to be surprised when these
supercilious potentates use them for their own
purposes and then repudiate them and all their
works.
* • •
” Thß~lirmc Iple of One Man One Vote, so con-
temptuously rejected by the Foreign-trade party,
is the one and only hope of Land Nationalisation
in Australia. The men who will nationalise the
land are the men from whom the land has been
stolen away. Until the millennium comes not one
landlord will honestly support the great movement
for the abolition of the system to which he owes
his wealth and his importance, and eo long as the
small handful of landlords are allowed, by their
multiplicity of votes, to swamp the great landless
majority to whom alone Geoege’s theories present
any possible advantage, Land Nationalisation will
be impossible-except it be achieved by revolution
and violence. Payment of members is another
distinct step towards the coming reform, and re-
cognising this the party of Foreign-trade and
Landlordism judiciously resolved to lend it no
countenance. The system of unpaid representa-
tion makes “ proputty ” supreme in the Legisla-
ture ani prevents the moneyless enthusiasts, who
have spent their lives in advocating reform in-
stead of in the accumulation of allotments and
dummied selections, appearing in the House to
lay sacrilegious hands on Buede kin’s colossal city
properties and Buens’ Hornsby estates. Socialism
does not find its apostles among the men who
want the earth for themselves, and ths fact that
the earth of New South Wales is owned by the
Foreign traders who vote for Paekes is a final
and decisive proof that to the Paekes party
Socialistic reform means political and financial
suicide. The men who, having for their object
the practical confiscation of ill-gotten wealth, hope
to achieve their object by supporting the land-
stealers in whose hands that wealth is now accumu-
lated would have gone out in the early days
of the Christian faith to vote for the
worship of Jupitee and Seeapis in order that
these heathen deities might be induced to over-
throw themselves and make room for the creed of
the Redeem ee of Galilee; they would have
hollered for the eight-hundred-pound lion of the
Coliseum with a view to abolishing that hungry
animal and putting an end to Christian sacrifices ;
and they would have granted a subsidy to buy
tomahawks and scalping knives for the Comanche
on the war-trai', so that the copper-coloured man of
blood m ; ght see the error cf his ways, and give up
scalps, and become a member of the Peace Society.
With a faith that is mountainous in its unspeak-
able childishness a big section of the Land
Nationalises of New South Wales have given
their cause into the hands of their Enemies, and
already they are beginning to have their reward.
Workmen-Make Ready.
Thanks to Mr. Beuce Smith and his “ Masters’
Organisation,” the workmen of Australia have
now to face Federated Capital whenever they hnd
it necessary to assert their rights against any
individual employer, and Brisbane appear B to be
the chosen field of battle for the first fight under
the new conditions of war. An employer who
violates society rules and thus fcyces a on
his werkmen has no difficulty m getting his work
done for a time by houses which ordinarily are his
competitors in trade. The forces usually opposed
to each other combine under the Beuce bin.
plan for the moment to coerce and ctush their
workmen. This was the cause of the recent strike
among the compositors in Brisbane, and thisis the
reason of the general turn-out in the printing
trade last Friday- Tne master Peters, sticking
together against the men, undertake the work.ol
houses whose workmen are on strike, and thus
enable fupis to hold out until theiy can
procure non-society men, and so defeat
the object of the trades union. H the em-
ploy eis could succeed in this method of war-
fare trades-unions would be abolished at a
blow. Every house of business which, by the aid
of the Employeis’ Union, could get its work done
elsewhere until it could fill its workshops with
non-society men, would finally leave a number o
trades-union workmen ucemployed who would
presently have either to break with their associa-
tion or starve. This is the point Mr. Beuce
Smith’s Employer’s Union avowedlyjaims , this
is the courte of action the Brisbane Master
Printers with the Courier at their head are pur*
suing, and this is the reason why to all approaches
the master pi inters turned a deaf ear and eaid,
“They declined to negotiate under pressure of a
threat.” That is to say, they refused to meet
their men because it was plainly understood that
a strike must ensue unless their course of action
was altered. The hollowness of this excuse is
easily seen when in is remembered that in every
workshop in the world where society men are em-
ployed the same tacit threat underlies the business.
Thereis not an employer in the British Lmiire who
does not know that it he violated certain rules ot
conduct his workmen would have to tarn out and
could not help themselves unless they desired to
break up the organisations which have redeemed
them from absolute slavery.
* • •
Capital has jast as rr-ch right to combine as
labour. Employers have ]' v t as much right to
foi m a union as workmen; ai-d the heads of houses
of business have just as much right to say : It
one of you strikes you all go together as the
workmen have to say : If one cf us is Injured we
all go together.” Certainly 1 Nobody denies it.
Let Capitalists combine as much as they please
and lay down all the rules Mr. Bruce Smith and
the other “oiganisers” of Legree-iem can invent.
The workmen will be quite ab'e to deal with them
provided they face the situation and realise what
they have to do. But unless the workmen meet
combination with combination the Employers
Union must needs be too strong for them since the
Employers’ Union is a combination of men in all
trades while the Trades Unions for the most pari
are combinations of men engaged in a tingle in-
dustry only. If the Employers’ Union is not met
with a combination of trades unions the master
printers of to-day may be sustained in the strife
ly money subscribed by master builders and
master boot manufacturers —returning the compli-
ment by helping these employers in turn when
they have won their own fight with the werkmen.
What is wanted t j face the new order of things is
a union of Trades Union?, and there will be no
safety for labour until such a union is in working
order, prepared to exert its utmost power if neces-
sary the moment the weakest member of its
smallest branch is injured. Let capitalists federate,
as they have an undoubted right to do, but let
Labour federate in order to meet them on equal
terms. Trades Unions of workmen were good
enough as long as the employers in a single trade
only had to be faced, but they will not be strong
enough for the new order of things, and the
sooner the workmen realise this truth the better
it will be for them, and, in the long run, for capi-
tals', s and employers also. For nothing really
injures the employer more than the degradation
and impoverishment of the workmen, and that
very printing trade which is the scene of the pre-
sent struggle is a living proof that the prosperity
cf a Trades Union and of the employers of the
union have progressed together, _ Forty years
ago the recognised hours of labour in the printing
trade were cne-third more than they are now, and
tbe “stab” or standard wages little more than
half their present figure. Yet the master printers
who pay the increased wages were never so well
off as they are to-day, and their position forty
years ago was relatively worse by far than it is
now. Every extra shilling they have paid their
men has put half-a-crown into their own pcckets.
• » •
It is easy to fancy a capitalist and his purchased
advocates standing aghast at tbe idea of Federated
Labour and declaring that “ the effect would be
to paralyse industry by making it possible to stop
the entire activity of a country over any petty
quarrel between an employer and his men ” This
is the stock bogey which is invoked whenever a
strike of any magnitude is likely to happen.
There’s nothing in it. In theory the whole fabric
of order rests on a precisely similar assumption.
The whole force of the British army—horse, foot,
marines, and militia—is supposed to be behind the
meanest member of the Executive, if the police are
not strong enough to help him out of his difficulty.
If Smith resists Jones the court bailiff when he
comes to levy for that ss. fine “ distress or im-
Erisonment,” the police are called in, and if
mith s friends are too much for the police the
military come to protect the official* who are
to enforce the law, and so on, as you may see
in Ireland to-day, where it takes 12,000 policemen
and 33,000 soldiers to collect Lord Clanbicaede s
rents. But, as a general rule, Smiih does not resist
the distress, nor would such a great force be
necessary to squeeze the rents out of the Irish
tenants if they hai the money to pay with.
Smith toddles quietly off with Jonis to the lock-
up because he knows tint behind Jones is an
irresistible force, and when capitalists once know
that labour is federate q so that if you strike at
one weak workman’s in 3 ■> ests the whole force will
hit you back in return, e will cry “pavs off,
Pompey,” as the nigger id to the yellow pup
which was about to bite .1 e owner of the whole
plantation.
If the employers of labour and the capitalists
who find the money for their operations will give
the matter proper consideration they will see at
once that their own interests are actually identical
with thoss of trades unionism. For trades unions
create a fixed price for labour, which is nevtp
varied or exceeded, and consequently the hore.t
capitalist is savtd from being underbidden by a
rogne who knows how to sweat his workmen, and
the rogue from being st 11 further undersold by a
bigger scoundrel than Limself. Ftr labour his
been hitherto the one tquet zable commodity in a
contract You musn pay so much fir raw
material, so much more for bank inter-
est on money employed, to very much more
for rent, and to on. You oatnot argue with
the earth for her increase, nor ta*k & banker out of
his interest, nor persuade a landlord to forego his
rent. The workman is the only p.erton open to
pressure, and ip the past he has been squeezed
pretty heavily. By union he has learned to resist
pressure, but the squeezers are now uniting their
weight to put on extra lever? ge He must unite
his unions, therefore, and meet his enemies in the
gate. The victory is certain to remain with him
in the long run, because Labour is no* 1 , strictly
speaking, helpless without Capital, albeit it), is
sadly hampered without it Labour, which
created Capital, can, as a last resource, Lye by its
own exertions ; Capital, as a last resource, is inert.
There is no need, however, to resolve society into
its first elements, nor is any approach to such a
course likely. All that is necessary is that
capitalists and employers should realise, as they
must, and own, as they will have to own, the right
and the power of Labour to name its own price.
It will always be low enough, for Labour must
live. But the workman must eventually be a
fact r in every agreement in which his lahiur is
required, and the employer will have to meet him
face to face as a contracting party, and the ridicu-
lous words, “ We refuse to be dutated_ to,” must
be laid £ side for ever. There is no dictation in
the matter but law, oid r, and rules which
must be obeyed. But the law cannot be
made, nor the order enforced, nor the ru’eslaid
down unless union be met with union, ani strength
with strength. Therefore, workmen, remem-
bsr that the ctnse of the pi inter at his frame is
the cause of the sailor on the ocean, and of the
miner in the bowels of the earth, of the ‘ hand ’
in a crowded factory, and of the brick'ayer on
that factory wall. The union of empky.rs de-
mands a union of workmen’s unions, for tine peace
and prosperity of the country are in jour hands
and not in theirs —in the hands of the creators of
value not in those of the distributors of force.
You must meet organisation with organisation,
and you must do it at once for the time for action
is here, and the struggle began when the Brisbane
employers stood shoulder to shoulder against you
They were quite justified in combining, but their
combination incurs an attack before which you
must go down nnless you too stand shoulder to
shoulder. You have done so much already that
jou should be quite equal to the new position ;
but you have to face it whether or not. If you
are not ready therefore, make ready, and the
sooner the better.
We have received an almanat for the
present year from Messrs Kerry and Jones, of
George-st, Sydney, on which are given some very
charming and artistic pictures of Australian
pastoral life and scenery cunningly arranged
amidst groups of wild flowers. This production
well sustains the artist’s reputation for high-class
photography.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Empire" Again.
The daily Frets of laab week announced that
the New South Wales Pcs master-General in-
tended to renew the conttact for the San
Francisco mail service for 12 months to enable
the Canadian Pacific Company bo mature its
plans. This is a very extraordinary statement to
put forward as embodying the policy of a Govern-
ment on so important a question. Messrs,
Spreckels are to be invited to run their steam-
ships for another year to enable a rival company
to organise a competing service, which, by the
terms of the semi-cfficial announcement referred
to, would be favoured by the Government and
therefore become the successful ones! If
Spreckels and Co. are the shrewd men cf busi-
ness they are reported to be they will respectfully
decline to continue the service on those terms.
They certainly cannot be expected to nurse a con"
tract for their rival*. On the other hand, why
should the Postmaster-General lend himself to
“maturing” a plan for the Canadian Pacific?
That is certainly not one of the functions of his
office. If the Canadian Pacific Company has any
definite offer before the Government for a mail
service to the Pacific Coast let it be considered
upon its merits. If it has no such offer before the
Postmaster General, why postpone action on the
proposal for a fortnightly mail service to San
Francisco submitted by the Oceanic Steamship
Company of California, whose vessels now perform
the monthly contract in such a highly satisfactory
manner ? The argument perpetually put forward
is that the establishment of a mail line entirely
on British territory will tend to still further
cement the “ bonds ” of the Empire, but Australia
cannot sacrifice its commercial interests to any
impalpable fad of this description. This is not a
party question. It is one affecting the commei c 3
and induitriesof Sydney and Newcastle especially.
If it is the policy of the Government to build up
the Canadian Pacific syndicate by the sacrifice cf
the Californian trade of New Scmh Wales, let the
country know it. The development of the
Japanese coal-mines is fast closing the Chinese
market against Newcastle coal, and the only large
and growing market for that article is in Califor-
nia. If the ’Frisco mail service is abandoned for
a Canadian-Pacific line to Vancouver, and
Spreckels’ steamers are discarded, what is to pre-
vent the co >1 charters which now come to our ports
tlrough that and other San Francisco firms from
being diverted to Japan, which sent several
cargoes of coal to San Francisco during the late
Newcastle strike? This is a point which Post-
mar ter-General O’Connor may have overlooked,
bull it is one which coal-producers and merchants
will rot. Then, again a Canadian-Pacific steam-
ship line to Australia would use Vancouver
Island coal, which is a strong rival of Newcastle in
the ’Frirco market. There are a score of points
wh’ch might be mide in favour of the San Fran-
cisco service, and there is nob one which can be
presented for the Canar ian route. The United
Statesaffordsan unlimited marketfor our products,
and Canada does rot. The experience of Americans
in irrigation, invention, and agriculture, is in-
valuable to us, and, being studied, should save
millions in the industrial development of Aus-
tralia. We can learn absolutely nothing from
Canada. The railroad journey across the States
is an educational tcur of the greatest value to
Australians; the journey across Canada is through
a trackless desert, and moreover the quickest time
ever made from ocean to ocean, by tne Canadian
Pacific, was stycn days, the average time being
ten to twelve da. s & s a mail route it is then f.re
impracticable, while as good time to London may
be made via San Francisco as by the present Suez
rou'.es. Tne duty of the Government, therefore,
is to deal with the definite proposal before it and
not wait twelve months to see if the Canadian
Pacific can formulate a plan. The Oceanic Steam-
ship Company, i« is understood, offers to contract
fo: a fortnightly mail sera ice between Sydney and
San Francisco for a subsidy of £40,000, to be paid
by the O, lame", and £40 000 to be paid by the
United States Government. Furthermore, the
Oceanic Company agrees to stipulate that unless
the American subsidy i* duly paid un,d r contract
the subsidy by the Colonies shall lapse. In other
words, it is a joint contract with the United States
Government, which would guarantee a neutral
mail and passenger service in cose England were
engaged in a European war. New South Wales
needs to dpaw closer to the United States. .Canada
cannot help us, and the “Imperial” conspiracy
must not be permitted to check our progress.
V
feed Wheat and Single.
It has been decided by the Pahkes Government
to grant Protection to the E caped Baynes’
electorate of Mudgee. A large dis ribution of
seed wheat is to be made among the impoverished
farmers cf that Freetrade distiict, and thus the
colony at large is to be taxed to “subsidise an in-
dustry which has, so far, apparently, failed to
sbsni upon its own merits.” Inplaoeof checking
fore’go competition by means of a customs tariff
and thus placing the farming industry on a self-
supporting basis, the obcoxicus system of bounties
is to be introduced, and the farmers are to be paid
for carrying on their business of growing unprofit-
able wheat for a country which has more than
once decided that local industry must stand or
fall by the test of Free Competition. Common
humanity, no doubt, r. quirt d that some assistance
should be granted to the ruired agriculturists of
Mudgee, but Freetrade and common humanity
have nothing in common. The political economy
cf Wise and Pulsford bids us buy at all times in
the cheapest market, and the idea of paying the
farmers with the public money to grow grain
which, when it is grown, will probably prove no
cheaper than grain imported in the ordinary way,
is contrary to every dogma of the New South
Wales Government faith. If the Indian nigger can
grow corn for us without a subsidy while the white
man of New South Wales cannot, then it follows,
on the doctrines laid down by Haynes and
M'Millan and Burns and Parkes, that the
white man is running an exotic industry which is
supported by means of a tax on the nation at
large, and which, consequently, should be abol-
ished. If the white man’s agriculture is liable to
break down owing to want of irrigation or other
troub’es, then it is the obvious duty of the Free-
trader, in the interests of cheap food, to transfer
his custom to some foreign heathen who doesn t
breakdown. Only a few weeks ago the Sydney
D.T. and Evening News pointed out eloquently
that New South Wales, owing to its small area of
grain, had only lost half-a million through the
drought, and returned thanks that the colony did
not grow eight times as much wheat and corn, as,
in that case, the loss would bava been £4,000,000.
Therefore, by this great system of Freetrade logic
it follows that if the farmers of Mudgee received
no seed wheat they would grow less grain and
incur less loss in future seasons, and by a steady
adherence to this system agriculture might at last
be abolished altogether, and then the Joss would
be absolutely nil The s:ppoit which is being
granted to the bucolic electors of the west is justi-
fied by every axiom of the Protectionist creeo, but
it is an enduring outrage perpetrated on the
Foreign-trade faith by its own professed adherents,
and is a lasting insult to the great doctrine which
declares that the white man may starve or hang or
die or go to perdition so long as a nigger or a
Chinaman can be found to do his work, in or out
of the country, for a lower wage than he demands.
4
Murder made Easy.
Any unscrupulous scoundrel who chooses to throw
out a lure to the unfortunate victims of profligacy
in the shape of an advertisement inviting them to
procure abortion can readily obtain space for his
thinly-veiled announcement in a certain daily
paper. A speciously-worded invitation secures
him a visit from his victim ; the magnitude of the
price he demands impresses her with an idea of
his skill. She scrapes together the money, trusts
herself to his hands, and presently her corpse,
drained of blood, is thrown into a vacant lot, or
mangled and dying, she manages to drag herself
to her lodging to expire in secret. In many
cases a hurried medical man is imposed upon
by some cleverly-concocted story of sudden illness,
and he gives a certificate of death without making
any sufficient examination. If his suspicions are
aroused, and an inquest ensues upon his refusal to
certify to any cause of death, the whole
matter is quietly hushed up as being too
dirty for discussion. The author of the original
mischief, the relations of the deceased, and the
quack himself are all practically in the same boat,
Silence is their cue and the daily press follows
their example on the plea of pubi c decency.
If all the abortionists were hanged, one sec-
tion of the daily prers would lose a great
deal of advei t s'ng money. Thus the path
of profligacy is made easy for everybody but the
wretched woman who has been first ruined and
then murdered, and the abortionist finds society in
a conspiracy for his safety. There will be no
cure for this state of things until the publication
of advertisements covertly inviting women to
submit themselves to the abortionist is made
an offence liable to heavy punishment. The
newspapers which lure the victims to the
abortionist’s den are as guilty as the pro-
curesses who tempt girls to ruin in the first in-
stance, Society will seme day have to settle
the whole matter by fixing upon men the
same responsibility for their illegitimate children
which they now have toward those bom in wed-
lock. The abortionist would have very little to
do if the father cf an illegitimate child had to
support his offspring and to become its custodian
and guardian precisely as if its mother was his
wife. We might have many early marriages and
fewer fashionable wedding?, but we should be free
from the stain cf the blood of these slaughtered
wretches whose lives are sacrificed to the greed of
the quack and of that portion of the press which
shares in his horrible gains and helps to support
him,
4
What Governments Are for.
If the New South Wales unemployed were not
as short of sense as of money they would leave Sir
Henry Parkes severely alone. What can they
get by going to him ? What did they ever get by
going to him ? What did he ever d o for them or
lor any one in their position ? They ask him for
work and he gives them a lecture upon political
economy. Tbey beg him to expedite certain
public works which his Ministry has undertaken
to carry out and he delivers them a.diatribe on
the duties,of government. “He is compelled,”
he tells them, “ to make the unemployed under-
stand that Governments were not organised to
find employment for the people of the country.”
Certainly not. Governments in New South
Wales are organised—firstly, to find employ-
ment, or at least salary, for Sir Henry
Parker ; secondly, to find fat billets for
those cf the political friends of Ministers who
know how to pull the rope?. Thirdly, to enable
land-jobbers with official itfiience to sell their
property to the nation at many times its market
yalus. Fourthly, to organise schemes for parting
with public property to influential syndicates ;
and, fifthly, for all o™er purposes likely to btnefio
the members of Ministries. These a r 3 the pur-
poses for which Governments are organised, and
don’t you forget it, Messieurs the unemployed,
4
Breaking Tics.
The R*.y. Dr. Hannat, like a great many more
people who know Australia only through the
medium c,f the Argus, the S.M. Herald, Daily
Telegraph, and ether organs of the drygoods
trade, has made up his mind that “the older Aus-
tralians are opposed to the idea of separation
fr. m England, while the younger ones are in
favour of it.” Mr. Frodde’s views are much of
the samh colour, and so are those of the “ distin-
guished ” globe-trotters who are ready to settle
all Australian questions after spending a few
weeks among Tcorak and PoHs Point gentility.
It does not appear to have occurred to Dr.
Hannay that the threat to “ cub the painer ” ws s
originally uttered by some very old 4 ustraliant —so
old that they have mostly bolted eff into the other
woild, the few of their number who remain be-
hind having been converted by K.O M.G-ships
and other devices for stopping the mouths cf
senile politicians It is not worth while to discui a
Dr. Hannay’s conclusions, bub it is just as well to
point out that Australian daily papers do nob, as
a rule, reflect Australian public opinion, and that
the same state of affairs apparently exists in
Canada. To judge from the daily press
of the Dominic n, Canada is ulora-loyal
and Tory to the very last degree. Yet only last
week the cable informed us that a motion fer
practically “cutting the painter ” was only lost in


Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
Sven for all kinds of Gent.’a Left-off Clothing,
ress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTOX BROS., m
Bcnelfl-itrset
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACUROY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress 1 rinter, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &c.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a speciality>
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
-310 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invited.
the Canadian Legislature by a majority of 28.
{The voting on the motion that Canada should be
free to make what commercial treaties she chose
wiih other Powers without Imperial interference
showed 91 against and GG for the proposal. Now
nhe very first effect of that motion, had it been
carried, would have teen a commercial union be-
nwean Canada and the United States which would
have incorporated Montreal for all business
purposes as closely with the republic as Chicago.
A commercial union would have led to a
political union as certainly in the new world
as it did in the old one where every Con-
tinental empire was originally merely a cluster
of independent states bound together by a com-
mercial treaty. For years we have heard nothing
of Canada’s “manifest destiny,” but have been
sedulously persuaded by her press that Rutland or
Buckinghamshire could not be more loyal in the
good old Tory sense of the word than Quebec or
Ontario. Now it turns out that there are only
twenty eight votes between Canada and secession.
Perhaps this startling event will teach Europeans
not to take editorial utterances like those of Sir
Joseph Porter as “ invariably unanswerable.”
+
Dives ami Lazarus*
The two following extracts stand innocently side
by side in the same issue of a London newspaper.
The landed proprietor, who derives his wealth
from rack-renting his miserable tenants in country
and town, squandeis their pitiful plunder—the
cost of their sweat ar d blool—in regal and reck-
less style, while soi-disant Christianity smiles ap-
proval
Every evening you may
see a row of little children,
standing side by side, a’ong
the kerbstone outside
Towell’s fish-shop in the
Strani. They are poor and
ragged, white-faced,
anxious-looking, silent, anei
motionless. Each one is
provided with a clean cloth-
bag, or a common fish-
basket. Every eye is ri-
veted on the temptingthings
displayed on the window-
slabs, and the same hungry
orbs follow each dainty
member of the finny tribe
on its removal from the
window. The little cuss are
children in years only, and
I doubt if the whole number
combined—sometimes 30 or
40—oould, if they tried ever
so hard, produce one real,
hearty burst of childish
laughter. Providing the
silent watchers limit them-
selvfs strictly to the 'width
of the kerbstone, the police
will not trouble them, and
they are perfectly free, fora
time, to feast (ia imagina-
tion) on the very delicacies
already “booked” for tha
table of a lord. The sales-
men take advantage of the
first quiet interval of trade
after “ the gathering of the
clans ” outside, and make a
“clearing up” Number
one on the kerbstone is
given the signal (o enter.
In dashes the child, eagerly
opening the mouth of her
shabby bag, or pocket, the
more quickly to obtain her
prize. For a few coppers
she may by chance obtain
the hindmost portion of a
“ noble i cod,” which she
will carry to her “home”
in a Westminster"! slum,
while the forequarters of his
codship have found their
way into the palatial abode
of his Grace tbe Duke of
Blankshire. Plaice, whiting,
Finnan haddock, almost
anything and everything on
the premises (good, sweet,
and toothsome enough if
cooked that night) are
quickly thrown into the
open bags or baskets in
turn until alfithe perishable
goods are gone. The re-
maining empty receptacles
must then go away as they
came, and with the long
hours of weary waiting to
boot. Opposite Towell’s
establishment in the Strand
is Marshall's Restaurant,
and here the bread required
to go with the fish may be
obtained, under certain con-
ditions, just as cheaply. As
early as four in the morn-
ing some ill clad little mor-
sel of humanity has been
seen shivering in the bitter
cold of a misty winter's
morning and, while still
hall asleep, taking its posi-
tion on the freezing kerb-
stone, there to remain till
the doors open at seven, so
that it might thus secure
the biggest loaf obtainable
for its limited pence. When
the doors are at length
thrown open, the child at
the head of the lice of little
ones is permitted to enter
first, and is then served with
two or three pennyworth of
bread, getting it at about
half the ocsi usually paid
for the most inferior kind.
It vai by special permis-
sion from Cai (final Manning
that the Oiatoiy was used
for the ceremony, the friends
of the parties being too nu-
merous to be accommodate and
in the church. From a
scenic point of view, the
substitution was a great
gain. Ihe high altar of the
Oratory, which, even < hour h
the decorative part of it is
still incomplete, is very im-
posing and beautiful, was
transformed into cne large
bower of huge, graceful
palms, li'ac trees laden with
sveet and dainty white
bloom, and camellia trees
all covered with creamy,
rosette - shaped blossoms ;
lower down, a garden of
hundreds of arum lillies,
white daisies, primulas an el
lillies of the valley rose from
among the tender green of
beds of maidenhair. As
early rs 10 o’clock the front
of the Oratory was besieged
by a small crowd, which,
being ticketless, could only
gazs at the vanishing sp’en-
Coar of tte guests as they
descended fiom their car-
riages and walked up the
broad stairs, gay w ith crim-
son clcth and snow flakes
glittering in the morning
sun. Every available ssat
inside wasfil'.ed by half-past
ten o clock. The Duke of
Teck was the first of the
Royal party. But the
crowning event of the pre-
liminaiies arrived when the
Prince of Wales came in,
accompanied by the Prin-
cess, who looked even mere
charming than usual, if that
is possible, in her dark grey
velvet costume and bonnet
trimmed with violets. They
were accompanied by their
three daughters vln wore
pink silk hats and dresses,
and short drab j iekets, anei
looked quiet and girlish.
Prince Edward was absent;
but Prince George came
with the Royal party.
At a f e w minute s to t welve
(hs soft opening bars of the
“Marche Religieuse” floated
through the aisles as tha
bride came in and walked
briskly up to the altar, her
Blender fl sure and dark hair
hidden under a long veil.
She wore a perfectly plain,
rich broorde gown, the pat-
tern being of large detached
magnolia b’o'ssoms in firight
satin on'a dull silk ground.
On the front of the skirt lay
a graduated wreath of
orange flowers, tapering at
the waist and continued up
the bodies; and a “Sir
Joshua Reynolds ” flohu of
mousseline de chiffon was
wound in soft twisted folds
round the throat, draping
the high bodice and tying
at the left side in a long
sash falling to the feet. A
long tulle veil was fastened
with diamond pins, and or-
namented with a small
wreath of orange blossoms ;
and ehe carried a’magni-
ficent “ loose ..bouquet" of
the rarest orchids a nd choice
gardenias and orange blos-
soms. There were six
bridesmaids—Mdlle. Clarita
de Murrieta, sister ol the
bride ; Lady Idina Mary, a
sister of the bridegroom
(herself engaged to be mar-
ried to the Hon. T. Allnutt
Bressey, only son of Lord
Brassey, at the end of the
month); Lady Violet Nevill,
&o. t &o. These charming
young ladies were hand-
somely gowned in white
Sicilienne trimmed with
beaver fur, and wore white
mousseline de sola cravats
and large white moire sashes
in the style of the Empire.
The bridesmaids' presents
from the biidegroom were
small blue enamel watches
set with diamonds, banging
from a small gold chate-
laine, with the initial
“B. L,” in diamonds at-
tached to the left shoulder ;
these watches were designed
by the bridegroom. The
bridesmaids carried choice
bouquets of red and pink
roses tied with white ribbon.
The best man was Lord
Richard Nevill (Lord Cran-
borne's private secretary),
brother of the bridegroom.
An Inspiration from the lords.
Baron Lamimoton, a smiling British infant of 73,
has made himself suddenly famous by rising in
the House of Lords to inquire “whether, in the
event of the Australian colonies agreeing to defray
the cost, England would send a few troops to each
colony to strengthen the connection between the
colonies and the mother country.” The poor old
sawed off pe*r apparently didn’t see anything
particularly ridiculous about this unwonted in-
spiration of hia, and seemingly his companion
relics didn’t either, for there is no report about
any wild btlrat of derision, and no news about
Lamington having been suppressed by a shower
of bound Acts of Parliament and other printed
documents. Some 50 years ago, when this legis-
lative skeleton was in its prime, every British
colony was bossed by red-coated troops whose
business it was to tread on any colonist who did
not wallow in the dust at the mention of hia
gracious Queen, and Lamington evidently has no
idea that the world has moved at all since then.
A beastly insurgent named Lalor, it is true,
made things sultry for the British authority at
Ballarat; a riotous anarchist called Berry
threatened to ship the Governor back to his native
land ; a horrid dynamiter known as Pakkes an-
nounced in public that he was going to eject the
Chinese from New South Wales, and if
the British crown didn’t like the idea it
could sit down and perspire inaudibly; also,
a revolutionary fiend called MTlwraith
sent a common policeman to arrest a British im-
perial officer who had thoughts of bombarding
Brisbane, and suppressed one Governor, and
sacked another ; but the British peerage never
heard of any of these things, and therefore it
wants to know if there is any objection to a
British army taking possession of Australia
in the good old way which, when tried in
America, led to the Bunker’s Hill scrim-
ms ga and other public annoyances, provided the
Australians will pay it for doing so. No; there
isn’t any objection—none at all. Neither, we be-
lieve, is there any visible reason why a Chinese
army should not b,s planted in London so long as
Britain will pay it for camping there, and if the
mother-country will defray the expenses of a Tip-
perary mob to come over and burn down Liver-
pool, we don’t see why Liverpool shouldn’t be
burnt down at once. Also, if the French Republic
will pay freight and charges on Moltke to come
and occupy Paris, there is no reason why he
shouldn’t come, and if the Czar will hire an expen-
sive Nihilist to blow him up and knout him and
send him to Siberia, it is enoirely his own look out.
Wo are careful to explain these matters in order
that Baron Lamington may not be under the
necessity of asking questions about each of them
s parately in the House of Lords, and thus harass
that august body and subject it to mental wear
and tear in looking up information. We hasten to
assure him, in fact, that there isn’t the slightest
objection to anything on the face of the earth so
long as the person or persons concerned are willing
to pay for it. Even such a, matter as the blowing-
up of the entire House of Lords and the scattering
of the whole conglomeration of aged hereditary
clams into the upper air could be arranged at the
shortest notice if the Lords are willing to pay for
the dynamite and to hire an expensive engineer to
apply the match to the slumbering vole mo and
start it off.
*
Dear Bulletin, —Don’t you think that there’s a
good deal in what is said about the justice of
forcing every club to take out a publican’s license ?
I pay a stiff annual license-fee and heavy rant for
premises in a Sydney suburb, where local residents
hive lately formed a club—subscription, £1 a year.
This club is open from daylight to day fight. It
contains a big bar and two billiard-ttbies, and
consists principally of whisky and peker—more
whisky and poker, I may tell you, than are associate!
with any licensed hotel. On Sunday the local hotels
are kept rigorously closed, yet pe pie troop down
from Sydney to the “club” (subscrip:ion lea* than
sd. per week) and fill themse’ves up wiffi liquor.
I grant you that it is difficult to prevent a man
from doing as he likes in his own house, but I
contend that the club so-cal'e! is not a bonafidp
private house and that it should not be given tf e
privileges of an hotel for less money than the
hotel it compelled to pay. I, hold that no ejlub
should be given hotel privilegeis unless ib contains
bona-fide sleeping and feeding accommodation for
a strong percentage of its members ; and between
you and me if this principle were enforced by
law in respect to ordinary public-houses ib would
be a good thing for the men and women and
children of the country.—Yours truly, Licensed
Victualler,
The Irish politician who does not know
whether he Is a Protsctionist or a Freetrader is a
rail gintleman.
The N.S.W, Government have promised
to spend £IOOO in irrigating the aboriginal
stations. With rum ?
Melbourne Herald speaks of “bocm”
companions In crime in a recent issue. Land
syndicators, we presume.
Daring the Samoan hurricane tha U.S.
warship Nipsic on losing her funnel began to feed
her furnaces with sugar-cured hams from Chicago.
Wooden hams, we suppose.
The poet Kelly has become editor and
part proprietor of Auckland Observer, and W. J.
Geddes, a smart young pressman, has succeeded
him as sub-editor of Auckland Stab.
A South Australian paper, in the course
of an elaborate zoological article, states that large
ears are an indication of intellect. This is pro-
bably an underhand device to crack up the pro-
prietor.
It is reported that the Negus of Abyssinia
has been defeated and slain in battle. Very
likely. Negus is beastly weak, Whisky-and-
water, we presume, is now triumphant in Abys-
sinia, God bless the Duke of Argjle !
During the hearing of the Hennessy
brandy case in Sydney Supreme Court, not one of
the lawyers could produce a corkscrew. Had the
brandy been in evidence before a church-synod of
any kind it would not long have remained un-
opened. Every clergyman carries about a cork-
screw—to open ink-bottles with, doncherknow.
The newspapers have told us the names of
he Sydney publirans who sold spurious Hen-
nessey’s brandy contained in bottles with forged
labels and capsules. Now we want to know the
names of the big wholesale firm which manu-
factured that brandy, and put it up enveloped in
forgeries For, are not the members of that
house godly people who hump round the plate at
the tabernacle and are honoured in the land !
Whether you happen to be a young Aus-
tralian native, or a new-comer to this country,
before you begin to dabble in local rolitics read
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany Bay,” wlich
will cost you one shilling and will give you a grip
of the great Australian questions of the past
and present. By post, Is. 3d , direct from Bul-
letin Office. Queenslanders may obtain the book
from T. H. Thompson, bookseller, George-street,
Brisbane, by mail or otherwise.
Imperial Federation—and Australian
.Revolution.
Ever since the day when Decimus Tits Barnacle
made his memorable coalition with TddoH Stilt-
stalking, and unhappily omitted to insert a
clause providing that any editorial fellow who
common ed cn anything should be sent to gaol
without the option, iha Conservatives of Great
Britain have spent their time lamenting a wasted
opportunity that will never come back. In point
of coarse, idiotic bull-headedness, the party has
continued to make steady and satisfactory pro-
gress, its ignorance has kept well up to the mark,
and there has been no conspicuous falling-off in its
grovel and its infatuation, but its old-time vigour
has gone never to return. Except where it sticks
unhappy natives with bayonets in India and clubs
dissatisfied peasants in Ireland, it now finds ex-
pression chiefly in blasts of impotent printed
wrath directed at everything newer and more in-
telligent than itself ? like the toad which is resur-
rected after 10,000 years of slumber and darkness
it brushes the earth out of its eyes with its hind
leg, and wants to know what has become of the
grand old glacial period of human thought, when
anybody who was suspected of having revolution-
ary ideas anywhere within 1000 miles of a
royal palace was straightway shovelled into
a dungeon and left there to be forgotten?
and when it is informed that this ancient)
mode of government is dead and buried
and stuffed and hung up to dry, it replies feebly
that it can’t be, for the world couldn’t get along
without it. The old British Conservative is prac-
tically incurable, and among British Conservatives
the Imperial Federationist is the most incurable
of all. Even the story of Bunker’s Hill and York-
town and Saratoga does not come within the range
of his myopic mental [vision, and in his printed
organ he is advocating to-day the same modes of
government which Washington overt©!) at the
point of the American bayonet, and the attempt
to enforce which brought Arnold thundering at
the very gates of Quebec.
» * •
The scheme thus formulated is beautiful in i s
naked simplicity and in the naked simplicity of
the men by whom it was conceived. AH colonies
which refuse to contribute to the naval defence of
the empire, or which in other ways manifest a
revolutionary and disrespectful tendency, are to
Ids ruined by import duties levied on goods arriv-
ing from their ports, and this process is to be con-
tinued until they make abject submission, and
vole unanimously for Imperial Federation, and
accept the Naval Defence Bill, and give up the
las,l shreds of their cherished independence.
Queensland, especially, as the most irreverent of
the colonies, and in particular as the colony which
rejected Policeman Blaise and behaved contemp-
tuously to Governor Musgravb, is to be crushed
into absolute insolvency and generally wiped out,
and the method by which this awful annihilation
is to be brought about is explained thus
“ In the case of Queensland its wool and sugar would
bs subject to the extra Imperial duty when sent to Eng-
land, while similar goods from the loyal colonies would be
free from this tax. Even the agriauUural and other pro-
ducts now ssnt frem Quseis'aad to New South Wales or
Victoria would have to pay this extra duty, and in cours3
of time the obstreperous colony would find its circum-
stances quite intolerable, and would, no doubt, he glad
to escape by accepting the proposal of England and
making its contribution like the rest of the Empire.
There is some) hing s o nobly comprehensive about
this programme, and its details are so eminently
calculated to reuse the senile enthusiasm of the
Carlton Club to the boiling point, that it seems
almost a pity that there should be an obstacle in
the way of its adoption. But there is such an
obstacle, and somehow it has been strangely
overlooked.
- • •
The points which Imperial Federation
omits to notice are two in number. First, New
South Wales and Victoria, however “loyal” they
may be, will see the whole Empire in shivers, and
the Conservative Press sold for old metal, and the
Sepoy mutineer raving in Calcutta, and the new
Mahdi camped in the streets of Cairo, and Wales
and his Institute overturned together in the dust,
before either of thun will lend a hand to crush
an Australian colony into abject subjection to
Sai is bury and Balfour and the other minions
of British feudal imbecility. Secondly, if any
attempt is made in any part of Australasia to
enforce any single item of the Imperial Federa-
tion programme, seven British Governors will be
shipped home by the first steamer with a solemn
warning that any attempt on their part to return to
these colonies w ill be entirely at their own risk; Ad-
miral Fairfax will receive notice to quit, accom-
panied by an intimation that if he feels it his duty
to shell Sydney and Melbourne and Brisbane and
Wellington he can shell and be hanged ; the guns
now rusting in useless fortifications all over the
colonies will be used to arm the fastest steamships
on the Australasian coasts and turn them into
cruisers, and if in the course of these operations it
is necessary to take possession of vessels belonging
to foreign companies the United States of Aus-
tralia will pay the bill; there will be a levy en
masse all over Australia and New Zealand, and
the digger from far-off Kimberley, the miners of
Ballarat and Sandhurst, the hitherto peaceful
agriculturists of the New South Wales interior,
the hardy pioneers of Croydon and the Far North,
the remnant of the grand old fighting Maories
who worsted the Imperial red-coats in many a
hard-fought battle in the Taranaki bush, and
their former enemies, the Pakehas, who finally
manned them down in that terrible stiuggle, will
all be called upon to faco a common danger ; and
Parkes, turned revolutionist in his old age, will
scramble with Atkinson and Griffith and
MTlwraith and even Gillies for the dignity
of first President of the great Australian
Federation. When these difficulties are over-
come, and Germany has quite finished making
England’s difficulty her own opportunity and has
given up trying to discover whether London is,
after all, such a grand city to sack as the guttural
Blucher imagined ; and Russia has got to the end
of making new coir plications in Afghanistan, and
her legions have backed away from the borders of
Cashmere; and Ireland has given up insurrection
and has decided that, whatever Australia may do,
she at least will remain loyal; and the Irish party
in America has ceased to urge the great Republic
to lend a hand in the creation of another Republic
in the Pacific ; and a victorious British army has
penetrated the dense bush, and crossed the
1 reache rem rivers, and driven the Australian
guerillas out of the alligator-haunted swamps of
the North, and has swept through the arid lands
of the New South Wales interior and the great
desert of South Australia and the empty wastes of
the Swan River, and the precipitous tracks of
Gippsland have been cleared of their defenders,
and ths snowy wilds of the New Zoaland Alps
have been niccessfully scaled with cavalry and
artillery, and the new Taranaki war has been
fought out to the bitter end—then the proposed
programmeof thelmperial Federationist may begin
to be put into execution if nothing else intervenes.
• • i •
Ij is wish a certain feeling of regret that we
point out these difficulties in the way of an other-
wise feasible and well-oonsidered scheme. We
hate to disturb the rest of the pot-ballied repre-
sentative Australian who breathes forth fire and
denunciation over his peaceful victuals in the calm
seclusion of a London club ; we grieve to point
out to the blatant newly-imported 8.-iton in our
own land that England does not loom so large to
the Australian eye as it once did ; aid we feel
sorry to have to remind those po'lticians who
drivel about bringing Australia to her knees by
hampering her trade and systematically involving
her in ruin that the same experiment was tried in
America more than a hundred years ago, and that
Gates seriously damaged the great political pro-
gramme of that day when his backwoods militia
took an entire British army captive at Saratoga,
and Washington finally broke it up past redemp-
tion by laying violent hands cn another British
army with a live lord in command at Yorktown.
Arid we feel a certain measure of compunction
when wa point out that England is not what she
was—that her victories of older days were won by
the sturdy Scottish Highlanders who have since
been driven into exile in Canada ; by the
fiery Irishmen whose country has been de-
populated by famine and tyranny, and
by the English peasantry who have been mostly
wiped out to make room for ramshackle
cotton-spinners and asthmatic grinders of cutlery.
The men who built up England’s greatne-s are
now pioneering in America and Australia, and
the array cf knock kneed invalids who in later
years have been licked in every quarter tf the
globe are not the men to force anew despotism on
an angry continent at the bayonet’s point. If Im-
perial Federation is to be established by dint of
coercion and violence it mint be supported by
soldiers who wield the sword instead of the old
cotton umbrella, by steel blades in place of lath
and plaster weapons run up by contract in cheap
German forges, and by brains and military genius
rather than by the inky maunderings of the Im-
perial Federation League. The aged Gamp who
waves her teapot in the forefront of the army in
times of peace is but a feeble instrument with
which to reconstruct the collapsed regime of British
absolutism, and when the shriek of this hoary
female becomes the guiding influence in Imperial
politic) it is a certain sign that the Empire is on
the downwaid track.
The If g il troubles between and Syd-
ney D.T. have, we are glad to »:e, been com-
pletely squared.
The new Melbourne evening paper, the
Standard, is definitely announced to make its ap-
pearance on 24 sh list.
A well-known Sydney quack doctor, whose
name has been before the public of late, is identi-
cal with no less a personage than the manager of
a Melbourne bank which cracked up a few y. a s
ago.
It Is rumoured that on the next proclaimed
day of fast and humiliation the Australian Go*
vernments will order that each citizm take and
administer to his family Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
What an appetite there will be on the continent
next day!
Premier Parkea did not attend the ban-
quet to his ex-colleague, Abigail, but “ Unde ”
had the patronage and moral support of Tom
Garrett, J ohn Davies, G.M.G,, and Burnsby Horns,
These are the oases in the desert of politics that,
brace a man up and make him feel good.
Last week, at LUydale (Vic.) a man waa
bitten by a tiger snake. He was removed to the.
look-up and at a late hour that night the doctor
held out hopes of recovery “provided that the
police succeeded in keeping him awake.” Yes,
there’s no doubt Luke De vhurst will keep alive so
long as he’s awake.
Competition is very keen just now
Grenfell (N.S.W.) way. The other day the”
Municipal Council decided that they could not*,
support the two local pa pars, but would call for
tenders for the printing required. The proprietor*
of one of the thunderers undertook to do the,
whole of the work for the year for the sum of one-
shilling.
Colonel French, of Qaaensland, thus re-
cards his impression of the shooting of a Victorian,
regiment which he saw in Melbourne : —“Never-
theless it was a common subject of remark that ,
when firing at 400, 500, and GOO yards a very large
proportion of bullets struck the ground 50 to 100.
yards from the muzzles. If this was the result
when everything was favourable what would the
result be in actual warfare ? ”
On Thursday, 4th ics)., Mm. and Misa
Forrest gave a capital entertainment of Tableaux'
Vivauts at “ The Mansion,” 14 and 16 Bays water
Road, Darlinghurst. The spacious rooms of the-
Mansion were tastefully decorated with flags, &c,,,
and the guests, who numbered over a hundred,
were loud in their admiration of the well-chosen-
Tableaux, Several recitations and songs were
also given during the evening. After supper a.
large crowd remained behind to dance, which
amusement was kept up until the small hours.
Pastor Jeffetit says that the people of
N.S W, are fast drifting towards Atheism. Chief.
Justice Darley, on the other hand, says that they
are singularly loyal and God-fearing. We must
leave these gentlemen to settle the matter between,
themselves—merely remarking, en passant , that
the difference of opinion possibly arises from the
fact that while all the Atheists pro to hear Pastor
Jefferis preach, a lot of the “ God-fearing men ”
find their way to the Criminal Court to be tried-i
before Darley, C. J. , under a criminal code which
is a disgrace to civilisation.
Dear Bulletin, —I have bean Instructed
by my committee to ask that ytu will be good I
enough to call attention .to the over-crowded state
of the labour market on Charters Towers. Miners-
from the south are under the impression that any
amouit of work can be procured on this goldfield,
and the result is—a large turplus of unemployed 1
here. The Towers is at present experiencing its-*
fair share of the national depression, and it
occurred to my committee that—from a humane-
point of view—it would be desirable to check the*
large influx of almost daily visitors.—Yours, faith-
fully, W, Richards, Secretary, Miners’ As rela-
tion. March 29.


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies lor hire,
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Rotal Macbeth ” p. 14.
Majesty's.— '* Madame Midas ” .. ... „
Obxtbbion.— ■“ The Two Roses ” „
Phillip Park.— Pain’s Fireworks
The Oyolobama. —The Battle of Gettys-
burg
Having wearily supported the heat and
burden of Mr. Charles Warner for many days, we
at last learn that that gentleman is about to slosh
across the horizon like the tired anaconda sham-
bling along on Us stomach towards his accustomed
lair. Various small things have been dashed off to
fill up the closing days of the season. “Captain
Swift ” was subjected to a one-night revival for
Mr. H. H. Vincent’s benefit, and that popular
actor and respected white man was greeted by a
gigantic house in a wildly vociferous mood. Mr.
Warner again failed bo stay away as the gentle-
manly but jerky bushranger, and the audience
learned more in three hours about the hidden
causes Of the failure of Haddon Chambers’ famous
drama than they could have ascertained by
seventy columns of violent discussion in the
j) T. With Titheradge or Harry St. Maur
a 3 the redeemed pirate, “Captain Swift” would
be a tearing success, but if neither of these gentle-
men is for hire at present it had better be shunted
into oblivion until one of them is disengaged.
“Hamlet” also rose for one night, and demon-
strated more effectually than he generally does
that there is something too rotten for human
utterance in the state of Danmark. The unfor-
tunate King, as usual, had a weary time of it, but
when he died he experienced the joy of leaving
Hamlet behind him. While he was alive he was
followed round by the wonted crowd of armour-
plated images in tin hats and paper meat-axes,
who rallied round him cn the slightest pretext
when they weren’t wanted ; and then in the lasi
aci, when tlmy saw along, b'.aok lunatic in loose
hair and a skewer coming at him, instead of jump-
ing in front and uttering a forcible Danish para-
graph such as “Hold! not a step further!” or
words to that effect, they put their meat-axes
where they couldn’t get hold of them in .time to
abolish Hamlet and allowed the poor King to be
severely spiked in the clothes. When this had
been accomplished they stood round as if they
were waiting for a tram while the mon&rch
perished in great agony under a table-cloth. If
we were a king we would discharge that warlike
armament without a character, and let it sue us
for its back wages and be hanged to it. When <
a royal bodyguard stands round like a mi itary
array of frozen meat and allows a large though
danderheaded potentate bo be butchered on his
bhrone by a ball, dark madman with a long nail in
his hand, bheir inerbness casts reflections upon
the institution of monarchy and undermines the
last remaining pillar of the British Constitution.
* • »
“ Macbeth,” who is now clumping wearily
towards his d estiny at Sydney Royal, will last till the
end o! the present week, and then Charles Arnold
and his joyful comedy “Hans, the Boatman,” will
lend us a little pleasant forge'fulness upon good
collateral security. Macbeth is feebly disguised
in two long legs and one short whisker, but when
he gets excited in his scaly mail and raves upon
his native mountains he gives himself away and
becomes Captain Swift over again. Mr Warner,
in bis moments of passion, generally holds both
hands up on a level with his head and spreads his
fingers cut to the dimensions of the old family
Bible out of which we used to be asked
dark conundrums concerning Bildad the Shuhite
in childhood’s joyous hours, and thii attitude
seems to suggest that he is hailing a cab which
plies at two-and sixpence an hour through the
mists of the Dark Ages. The accompanying
sketch, by The Bulletin dramatic critic, is in-
tended t> convey indistinctly to Mr. Warner’s
mind how he looks cn these occasions; any defects
of style or detail must
be set down to the
neglect of the d( sig-
ner’s artistic education
in the days of his
youth when he was
dragged up in the way
he ought not to go.
Mr. Warner strikes
one note of genuine
passion, when, after
the murder of Dunca-,
he doubles up in his
wife’s arms and is re-
moved by that warlike
lady with his head
bumping feebly against hi. feet, bub otherwise he is
sad and unsatisfactory. Mies Augusta Dargon has
returned bo the stage after nine years retirement
to play the trying part of Lady Macbeth, but this
once favourite actress has lost most of her ancient
fire, and the public enthusiasm concerning her
wanes with each succeeding act. “ Macbeth ” is
splendidly staged, and is supp oriel by a fine
chorus and a needlessly stumpy second murderer,
but all the same it will deparo without leaving any
deep regrets behind it.
# # # *
The “ Two Rosea " la billed for six nights
only at Sydney Criterion, and ought, for its in-
trinsic merits, to boom serenely for upwards of six
times that period. It is a pretty little tale m
three acts describing the rise, the greatness, and
the fall of an effluent and lordly yahoo who goes
to seed, and leaves only his hoof-mark feebly im-
printed on the sands of human recollection. The
opening scene shows him musing in a mangy
j acket upon his past greatness and cadging small
loans from h’s daughters’ lovers, and accepting
clothes from Mr. Jenkins, bagman ; the next re-
veals Htn rolling in riches, pompous, poker-
backed, stiff beyond all human comprehension,
and planting his feet down with a princely stamp
upon the surface cf the badly-astonished globe ;
and the third chapter describes the vastness of bis
fall as he abdicates his temporary splendour in the
presence of one small agricultural lout with his
shirt oub-ide his pants, and gently away
with a silver teapot in his hand and a tubdutd
smile flickering on the countenance of Jenkins,
who has founi grn.cs since the unregenerata
days of the first act tnd now speaks in
muffled accents about bis broken and ccn-
trita heart. The rlevatiou and Tie stupend-
ous final burst of this oi ca great man
Point a dismal moral to tha rising generation.
Nobody cares a cent for the desolation which
comes over him ; nobody interposes to break his
fall; even Jerkins stands from under and
judiciously lets him csme down by himself; and
when he grasps the real heir to the property and
tells him that he always regarded him as a
son and is disposed to continue doing so, and that
he will live along with him and watch over him,
and take care of his money for him, the heir only
smiles a bitter smile of mockery and fades away
a distance of several miles. The small boy, with
his shirt outside, utters a fiendish hooray at the
falling mountain of buman respectability, and the
bounced autocrat is left sitting amid hxs own
ruins, like Marius camped among the shattered
public houses and crumbling billiard- rooms and
insolvent old do’ depots of Carthage. An hour
previously everybody in the district would nave
deemed it an honour if he had been thumped with
a club by the landed potentate, and now, if he had
aassed the humblest plebeian in the land a large
clod of earth would probably have struck him in
the eye and his ear would have been flattened out
with a spade.
* • *
Mr. G. S. 1 ibheradge, who pomtraya the
decline an 3 fall of this unhappy aristocrat, is
equally great in his poverty, his elevation, and his
terrific smash; and when the ebbing tide of affluence
leaves him stranded for the rest of his natural
life he perishes, in a financial sense, with subdued
majesty, like a dying roan cow outlined against
the golden glory of a summer’s sunset. Mrs.
Brough and Miss Lilian Gillmore, dressed alike,
are the Two Roses from whom the play takes its
name, and the last-named lady looks like a rose in
the best sense of the word. If she remain s long
enough on the Sydney stage (which she
won’t, as, alas 1 she is about to be married to
a Melbourne lawyer) the time will come
when the flap eared dude of the ancient city will
pawn even his dollar and his cuffs to bask in the
front row of the stalls and see her smile, and will
rather endure the ignominy of wearing in the
morning the same pants he wore the previous
night than be without the price of a ticket
to the Criterion. Dion Boucioault plays even
better than that Roman youth usually does;
and Misses Romer atd Julia Esmond, also the
inimitable male Brough and that vision of male
loveliness, Cecil Ward, are generally up to high-
water mark, “Sweet Lavender” is announced
for next Saturday, and along with it Mr. Frank
Thornton will make his appearance in anew
character, having temporarily ceased to haul sus
tenance out of his hereditary Bath bun.
♦* * *
Pompeii Is still being destroyed some more
at short intervals in Phillip Park, Sydney, and
af t?r each destruction the unhappy city still keeps
on being destroyed as much as ever, and the
blazing ruins are dragged round and set on fire
again, and burnt to the ground after being on the
ground in a smouldering heap already, and the
Last Day of Pompeii comes on about twice a week
regularly, and Pain continues to hit the miserable
township after it has been down for 1800 years
without any compunction. The Cyolorama also
goes on killing the people who were killed at
Gettysburg; and the Crystal Palace Skating
Rink has re-opaned with a large, fierce shriek.
•♦ • •
Feeling lb necessary to do something bo
demonstrate the undying harmony of things, Mr.
George Rignold announced a special peif ormance
of “Black-Eyed Susan” at Her Majesty’s on
Tuesday last, and extended a cordial and lavish
invitation to Governor Carington, Captain Kane,
of the Calliope, and his f ffi cers, and the sea faring
profession in general. The object of this demon-
stration was to celebrate the skill and gallantry of
the men who fetched away Her Gracious’s weary
eea monster from A pia, fcilb somehow things don t
seem to fit altogether. Susan wasn’t a Samran
girl, to begin with, and it was her eyes, not
her legs and feet, which were of a dusky hue ;
then she didn’t fetch away any ironclad, and
the only ironclad she had to do with was the
kettle; William, too. belonged to a wooden ship
in calm weather duiing the time the drama was
in progress, and instead of plunging over the
raging deep he got partially drunk on shore ; and
finally, instead of deserving well of his country,
he prodded his own commander for attempting to
kiss a girl that he shouldn’t ought to have. Con-
sequently Captain Kans’s reward for conspicuous
gallantry consisted chiefly in being allowed to sit
in a theatre and watch a captain being welted by
a common sailor in order to promote discipline
and respect for constituted authority, and we
humbly submit that, despite the general excellence
of the performance, this was exceedingly rough.
Wethinks we see great Caj jar’s bleeding clay
Lie there be/'or 'um— though ’tis but a play—
When Antony bis grand oration gives
The times are real and the picture lives;
As in a mirror, then, is clearly glass’t
A moving vision of a stirring past.
With godlike elcquence of words endowed
The light-clad Antony inflames the crowd,
And, heedless of lumbago in the legs,
Marcs absent Brutus back a dozen pegs ;
L’fting the mantle, o’er ilia body laid,
He shows “ the rent that envious Caeca paid
His landlord, till the people shriek for gore,
Cry “ Havcc 1” and let slip the dawgs of war.
The noble Brutus, Cassius and the rest,
Like heroes speaking and like Romans drest,
Cast in the simple mould of manly worth
(Long since destroyed) are back again on earth
For ten short nights. And those who fain wcmd
see
A worthy show of things that used to be
When lie tors, not policemen, kept the street,
And every citizen had food to eat—
When, as Macaulay sang, men loved the State,
Rich helping Poor and Small not fearing Great—
None scheming how their besom friends to chows?,
Who’d see this show must to the Opera House.
“ Julius Cse iar,” produced before a packed
assemblage, will get the good word of all who can
appreciate a terious work of art, set upon the
stjige with a regard for the uniths that is not
characteristic of Australian dealings with the
Divine Bard. Judging from Saturday’s ex-
perience it would seem that the occasions when
the Bard goes slow will be forgiven for the sake of
those undeniably great scenes, when the heart of
the spectator glows with enthusiasm, and his
normally dark and dismal soul becomes suddenly
illuminated by the light of other days. There
must be eternal fire in Shakespeare (William, by
the way, must also be in eternal fire if he went
poaching) and Mr. G. C. Miln must have the
knack of stirring it into flame, else couldn t half-
a-dozen bookmakers have made loud sounds of
joy when Maro Antony fell upon the oorse of
Britain’s first) conqueror. The tragedian who
electrifies six bookmakers all at once—not men-
tioning a unanimous call from the less distin-
guished public—is a regular whale. What was
Marc Antony to them that they should howl for
him ? Mr. Miln is magnetic, and this perform-
ance is as artistic as vigorous. A Shakespearian
treatise of 250 pages might be w/itten about
his exchange of handshakes with the ex-
terminators of Julius. Mr. Nat Douglas,
well placed in this company, throws off the
long lines of Cassius with ease and elegance,
besides having the lean, hungry look that
a fatter genius could never arrive at. Brutus, the
heaviest part in the play, is not treated in a
frivolous spirit by Mr. Cathcart, but it is under-
stood that Mr, Miln has arranged for Antony
and Brutus to be interchangeable Romans, so
that t’other will often be which and vice versa.
Mr. Hodson is quaint and funny as Casca, a man
of sound ideas on Imperial questions, and three
young actors —Messrs. Greenaway, Atholwood,
and Hill—are severally and collectively of archaeo-
logical value to the show. The last-named young
man, however, drops his jaw too much when de-
claiming, a fault which amounts to positive cruelty
in the case of Miss Maynard. Miss Isabel
Morris’s sympathetic voice lends valuable assist-
ance in the brief scene between Mr. and Mrs.
Brutus, while the aspect and attire of Mr. Dobson
harmonise in the production of a Julius Caesar
who is ideal from his Roman nose downwards.
Eili his manner suggests Pharoah refusing to let
the children of Israel go. The soothsayer is quite
a striking personage, and the unwashed mob have
life infused into them by their leaders, Mr. Boul-
ton fetching out his words with goodwill and
effect. It is a fine and large entertainment which
ought to be very comforting to Caesar’s honoured
dust.
** * *
‘‘ Booties’ Boby ” died at Melbourne Bijou
almost before its liotle eyes were fairly open—
Rest its soul—if it had one! Likewise refrain
from speaking ill of the dead. “The Candidate,”
a comedy which was a most unaccountable frost at
this theatre, some years ago, was planked behind
the footl'ghts in a hurry on Saturday, and a few
thousand people who despised and rejected the
same thing before now, rolled up and seemed to
consider that it was good to be there. “The
Candidate ” is a Conservative lord of long descent
whofeehtoo tired to face his constituents, and
couldn’t say more than “Ha! doncherknow” if
ha did, so he sends a man named Muffin, or
Buffin, to impersonate him and expound his (the
lord’s) blue-blooded policy to his bleeding country.
Buffin, being a red-hot Rad., tells the electors
that he is in favour of boiling down the old
aiistccracy and reducing the price of dairy
produca to nothing at all, so the lord Is
returned by an overwhelming majority and every-
body goes mad. When “ Tne Candidate ” doesn’t
hang tire it blazes away pretty considerably, a lot
of the loud report being accounted for by Mr.
Arson in a reverend capacity with long hair and
a holy cast of countenance. Mr. St. Maur is a
light, tolerable species of nobleman, and Mr. Hans
Phillips does his level best for Boffin. The com-
plications are also harmlessly involved by Mr.
O ven Harris and three representatives of titled
ladies, besides a wicked creature known as
Arabella Mils Harwood and Miss Emma
Temple play two of these characters sweetly, but
one of the ladies of ti'le carries her arms as though
they were Indian clubs and doesn’t maintain her
perpendicular. “ The Candidate ” will hum
enough until Messrs. B. and B. return with the
fall force cf their company.
• • • ♦
“The World” revolves cheerily upon
Bland Holt’s axis at the Royal, but the good
folks who find delight in anticipating the end of
this sinful snhere will be gratified on Friday.
“ Men and Women,” as depicted by Miss May
Holt, wobbles along at the Alexandra, and the
“ Pirates of Penzance” are in a washed-out con-
dition at the Princess’. On Saturday Miss Nellie
Stewart, restored to her own delicious self, re-
appears as “ Dorothy ” for six blissful nights.
Frank Clark has let loose some European celebri-
ties at the Victorian, and St. George’s Hall has
scored another great success in being closed to the
public.
# # * #
A special excitement has bean added to
Mr. Frank Lincoln’s liver-shaking show at the
Athenaeum by Mr. Lohr, who now fl mishes a
cheque for £2O in the f&ca of every man that takes
a ticket. The visitor is merely required to suggest
such a title for Mr. Lincoln’s performance as shall
be deemed most suitable by the management, after
which he can calmly put forth his paw and clutch
the greed. The Bulletin with lavish generosity
will suggest four titles worth £2O each and the
amount may be paid over in gold. “Arts and
Voices,” “Frankincense and Myrrh,” or “Art
and Sole,” the latter containing delicate references
to several features cf the work. But to legal
minds no title would be more acceptable than
“ Lincoln’s In.” Eighty quid for The Bulletin.
* * * *
In view of the fact that we cultivate the
ear and the palate at the expense of the nasal
organ, The Bulletin humbly suggests the insti-
tution of smell concerts to prevent the extinction
of the sense of smell that will certainly be followed
by the total annihilation of the “ Smeller,” Tdis
could easily be done by using a fountain supplied
with variously perfumed waters. Any imaginative
mind can easily work the thing out Picture the
oveiture —the soft, dreamy splash cf the per. umed
water, scented with otto of roses ; then a sym-
phony of civet; a figure in fragrant frangipani; a
valse of violets; a love ditty rendered by the semt of
rosemary and orange blossoms; while for Bichan-
nalianodes the flavouring might be Burgundy or rum
to suit the tastes of the assemblage. Sacred pieces
might be given by the use of myrrh and frank-
incense, and “popular” cor certs at cheap prices
could be run in steak arid onion odours, bouquet
of colonial b:er, essence of pork sausaere and
potato chips, and kidneys and bacon. National
melodies could easily be rendered by the free use
of Scotch whisky and heather bloom ; sauerkraut
and soused herrings; roast beef, Yorkshire-pud-
ding and London gin; spuds, seaweed and psat
smoke; damper and billy-can tea. The idea is
original and not patented; we give it away—
* * * *
Mr. Wyberb Reeve has been making a
very gallant but rather an unsuccessful attempt to
keep things going at the Adelaida Royal. “The
Millionaire ” was a very creditable production in
which Mr. Reeve scored as Ned Guyon, and was
well supported, but the pious public kept away
with marked ability and success. “ Stolen Kisses
is announced for one night, to be followed by the
comedy “A Night Off.® “The Silver Falls ’ is
being rehearsed, and the members o! the New
London Company make themselves known for the
first time on Easter Saturday. Hicks’ coloured
minstrels have been drawing immense houses at
Garner’s Theatre, seating accommodation being
nightly at a premium.
#* * *
We have to come extent lost the ran of
the festivals of the Church, and consequently we
desire to point out in connection with what fol-
lows that we take no responsibility in case of
Good Friday or any other feast-day becoming un-
fixed and happening on a Thursday, or breaking
loose and drifting into the middle of the previous
week. Subject to these reservations we would men-
tion that the Philharmonic Society intend render-
ing Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater ” at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) on Good Friday ensuing, always pro-
vided that that memorable occasion should ensue
without damaging itself. M Kowalski will conduct,
and, in addition to a chorus of 250 voices, assist-
ance will be rendered by Misses Lilian Tree, Col-
borne-Baber, and Flora Graupner, Madame
Lablache, and Signori Dimitresco and Bnzzi, who
have been specially engaged to see that the society
does not fall dead in the last ditch.
#* * #
The Swiss Jodellera are jodelling off home
to their mountains with their proud harps slung
behind them and their proud pockets well bulged
with the coin of the people they have jodelled to.
And, apropos of this, a story is in circulation
amongst the broken down Shakespearian deli-
neators and stranded comic singers who congre-
gate at Poverty Point, Sydney, to the effect that
when the jodellers were about to take their depar-
ture they waited on Mr. Pete Hughes, who had
taken them round the colonies, and at ked for the
passage-money for one of their number who had
died during their stay in Australia. “Passage-
money for a dead man !” asked the astonished
Hughes. “Not going to take the corpse along,
are you?” “Oh! non! non! Meeater Hughes!
We not take zee body ! we want zee money.
Sacri. If ce pauvre homme had not died you
would haf pay passaj, so you should pay paseaj if
he dead.” Pete said he had enough to do to pay
the passages of live Swiss who did travel without
paying fares for dead Swiss who couldn’t.
*# # *
Poor Uncle Abigail’s unfortunate epis-
tolary effusion is likely to follow him to the grave.
In the vestibule of Sydney C s clorama is a visitors’
book with a column for names of patrons and a
column for remarks. Poor Abigail visited
the show, and merely signed his name, bub
some irreverent joker completed the job by
writing under the head of “ Remarks,” “ I thingk
the Oy clorama is More popery than Fiscal. ’
*# * #
Mary Anderson is recovering, and will
shortly return to the stage—to take a benefit,
probably. When it was announced that Mary
had gone mad and had been removed to a private
asylum, The Bulletin audibly smiled. However,
as Mary is a cold blooded young lady who has
never been married, and is now of the mature age
of 34 years, it is likely enough that in thelong run
she will turn rather cranky.
** * *
Mr. Garner is just now endeavouring to
engage the remains of the broken-down comic
patriarch Toole for a tour in Australia. Toole,
even in his best days, was a desperately over-
rated man; now, he is almost as extinct as the
plesiosaurus in three acts, which used to tour this
country under its own management before the
Deluge. But he is good enough for the kawlines,
all the same; Noah would be good enough to be
Bishop of Sydney if he could be secured, and now
that there is a vacancy on hand it might be as
well to inquire about him.
** * *
If the triumvirate bring ont J. L. Toole
they will probably regret it. That fortunate
comedian was never a very great favourite with
the women, and he is just the old-fashioned cut of
humourist that Australian gallery boys—who dote
on Elton—might denounce as “ dry hash.” Toole
was a considerable frost in America. And Santley
is coming ont, too. What chesnuts they are giving
us ! To read about Toole and Santley in the
newspapers seems like reading about Moses and
Aaron in the Bible.
## * *
Sir Thomas M‘llwralth could not get
rooms at Binbenzong, in Java, bub Charles Hard-
ing, happsning to be there concerting the Mein
Herrs with Gracie Piaisbed, O Neill and Trimnell,
took him in with his friend Thompson and made
them comfortable. And Gracie did the honours.
Rather!
** * *
The Shakespearian dislike for Jews may
account for the Hebrew dislike for Bacon.
#* * •
The “Kitty,” an American burlesque, Is
advertised as “a cataleptic caohinacioua con-cat-
enacting cataract of mirth in three meows and a
p-h-i !”
** # #
From America we learn that “ Minnie
Palmer’s little £IOOO terrier has swallowed her
sixty-two carat £IO,OOO diamond—the Cleveland
gem." We demand that that dog should be cut
open at once.
** * #
Lord Onslow takes to N.Z. with him a
portable proscenium and a quantity of scenery,
and as Lady Onslow has a passion for theatricals,
N.Z, should be a happy hunting-ground for the
poor player for five years to come.
** * *
If any new-chnm readers remember Nellie
Farrell, the “ Glittering Star of Erin, 1 ’ they will
be interested to learn that she is defunct. The
last time we saw the Glittering Star it was not in
a London music-hall. The lady was waiting for
her husband- a man named Pat Gainey— outside
a gorgeous edifice which she feelingly alluded boas
a “ dirtby pub,” Poor Ne’lie ! Gas’ric fever put
her glibber out.
** * *
An attack of fever cut short Fred. Mac-
cabe’s tour of the East, and he was back in Mel-
bourne again last week. Begone Dull Care !
** * *
Verses commencing “ Gone away are the
Gaiety girls, 1 ’ published in The Bulletin some
three months ago {and at which the purfesh sniffed
in virtuous indignation) have been reproduced by
the Hawk, probably as a warning to London
Johnnies. The Bulletin verses were inspired by
the criminal prosecution of young Farrar.
Great Ctemr, who did spill the vital fluid
Of many a Roman, Gaul, and ancient Druid;
Whose name shall be renowned when Parkes and
Gillies
Forgotten sleep among the Toms and Billies—
This very Cseiar, once by comrades slain,
Is for the moment in the fl ? sh again,
And, at the Opera House of Smellbourne town,
With wavering hands declines the proffered crown
He covets. Bat upon the sacred Ides
Ot Ma- ch a swift and sudden woe betides
Tae proud Dictator. On his brow the bays
That conquerors sported in those early day s,
He, to the Smate House—undaunted, bold—
Repairs once more, as ’tia in history told,
And there, face mufti id in his classic suit,
Is stabbed to death while saying, “ O ! you
Brute !”
Near the little Bijou stands a grassy mound,
Underneath poor Booties’ baby sleeps,
Brough, and also Boucicault, go swearing all
around,
Overhead Saint Maur in silence weeps.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more H holesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And Is a
Para Ra9i ashing Savers ga.
Be Oarefnl yon obtain WoLn’a,
Write for plana £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Oompany, Limited, 9fi Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Aboriginalities.
One dry, thirsty midsummer day when
Ned Kelly was abroad in the land, and | the
great, shocked country joskin, and the rural
damsel with a red complexion and hair en sui e,
also big feet and protruding points, mentioned
that gallant desperado and prominent pot-shot in
their prayers, a soft, sad-looking man, fat, fair,
and 40, piloted a hawker’s van drawn by a badly-
balanced, pedal-motion, yellow home a'.ong a bush
track between Bealiba and St, Arnaud (Vic.)
This man peddled cheap bonnets, and gim-crack
drapery, and fine-glass jewels to the band of the
female element spread far and wide over that
aching void where a solemn silence ever hangs and
the bustle and the fashionable hat have failed bo
penetrate. In the midst of his meditations the fat,
fair man was suddenly interrupted and his port-
able emporium brought up short by the appear-
ance of a long, ill-nurtured, ragged headed child
of the wllderae-s in boo much clothes, consist-
ing of pants that hung down a long way
behind, and a mis fit hat, and a coat that
Japped over, Thi» apparition rose up in
awful majesty before the caravan, and presenting
an old, worm-eaten, anfquated horse-pistol tried
to look terrible in its wrath, and called upon the
hawker in a sma'l, cr joked voice to throw up his
arms. The fat man gazed at the bandit for some
moments in stupid bewilderment, then he me-
chanically obeyed orders and scram bit d down from
the vehicle, and sab in the grass with his hands up
in a silly fib of aggravated amazement whilst the
armed scarecrow went through his stock. The
highway-robber soon made his selections and was
preparing to depart when the waylaid individual
remembered himself and ar se to tie occasion,
fortified with a pocket six-shooter. Here, you !
come back with that merchandise,” ha calmly
remarked, presenting his instrument. This treat-
ment though mild was effective —it brought the
desperado down with a flop, and caused that
public nuisance to howl dismally and swear “never
to do so no more,” and shiver and shriek and howl
“police” and “fire” and other features always
much in demand under such circumstances. When
the hawker opened up the plunder he found it bo
consist cf one straw poke-ha\ two yards of yellow
ribbon, a large artificial flower, arc! a breast-
pin with water on the brain —about eighteen-
pence worth in all, The itinerant soft-goods
merchant was on the point of administering sum-
mary justice with a trace-belt when he discovered
that the brigand was a girl in disguise ; then he
took the highwaywoman by the ear, and led her
across country to her mother in the distance, and
insisted on that long, strong female executing the
sentence of the court, whilst he sat in the next
room, and listened to the bushranger being banged
with a paling, and enjoyed h c r wild cries and her
ignominy. Thus simply was a desperate uprising
crushed at its Inception, and an organised outrage
trodden on by a soft, sad man, who was fat, fair,
and 40.
* * j
Some scientific gentleman has fixed the
great iron hook of discovery into sundry facts con-
cerning the Soudanese tribes, and among other
picturesque statements he sets forth that a certain
African race in that far-off land have struck a
new and hitherto unheard-of mode of execution.
Instead of hanging their malefactors they simply
tie these persons up in the sun and leave them
there to dry. The offender is carefully protected
from sunstroke by means of leaves, and then he
slowly cakes and shrivels and assumes a boardlike
consistency and cracks and curls up and withers
away. In about a week he is sufficiently blighted
and then he generally dies. This process excites
a good deal of interest in the neighbourhood, and
people who knew the gentleman before in private
life often come round to see how he is getting on.
As a rule, he isn’t getting on very well, bub that
is a misfortune which is inseparable from the cus-
toms of the country, and can’t be helped. Some-
times the local politician who is fixed up in the
sun barks and howls a good deal and does other
extraneous circumstances, but generally he main-
tains a reticent attitude and devotes himself
strictly to the drying-up process with a view to
having the worry over as soon as possible.
♦ * *
A Christian Chow was called as a witness
in tbe Bowen (Q ) Police Court, and the magis-
trate, as usual. asked the redeemed Asiatic how
he would testify. “I thinkee I b’iieva Bible,”
responded the doubtful Mongol, who evidently
was trying bard to believe, but didn’t know if he
had quite succeeded, and found it a large con-
tract, anyhow. “ I thinkee I Chulchee Engla’. I
thinkee”—then there was a long pause—“l
thinkee I kissum bookea.” He was sworn accord-
ingly as a conscientious Chow, who wasn’t sure
about anything, but was humbly desirous to go
straight; and following him there ensued another
Mongol, who was sure about everything and was
prepared to bfliave anything. “Matchee all li;
bookee all li; cub’um off rocstee head a'l li; all li
evelything;” said this widespread Confucius, and
he was also sworn, and testified that the China-
man who swore before him was velly bad man,
Then, as usual, the tired out beak sat up wearily,
and commenced to strike the balance bstween lies
of greater or less magnitude, but the Church of
England Chinaman won the ciss. Toe saved
Chow almost always comes out a little ahead.
* • •
Croydon (N. Queensland) is still a new
district, and the cumbersome conventionalities of
an artificial existence have not had time to take
root. There is a primeval freshness about things
in general- particularly about the way in which
the local paper collects its overdue accounts, which
operation is conducted somewhat as follows :
, the walker, please walk in and ply that 10 bob
you owe in this office for your last ad., it not we’ll have
to go out and bit you on tbe conk.
B. Bracer hasn't paid that half-crown yet. If it isn’t
forthcoming we ll make it five shillings and tramp on his
chest.
A little thing like that amuses us.
* * •
Advocates of funeral reform will ba pie as ad
to hear of the action of a worthy iconoclast named
Baxter Jones, who inhabited an agricultural
locality near Buayra (S.A.) till he was wiped out
at the early age of 87, in consequence of having
pursued smoking and Irish whisky for 70 years.
Baxter’s funeral was on an original principle.
He left the plans and diagrams for it in
his will, hoping the idea would commend
itself to all persona coming within its influence,
and so tend to establish a new and improved
funeral calculated to elevate the mourner and re-
mind the bereaved that there’s no need to snivel
or cut up rough. Mr. Jones’ obsequies were not of
a depressing character ; he insisted on being con-
veyed to the grave in his old dray, which was
ornamented with red and white paper roses and
small pink flags, and he was drawn to bis final rest
by a flea-bitten grey mare that had teen the friend
of his childhood. This venerable quadruped was
youthfully attired in artificial fl iwers and plume",
and it cooked its tail and pranced with a juvenile
vivacity commensurate to the occasion. Tie
friends of the deceased appeared on the
scene in gay raiment, as the late Mr. Jones
had demanded, ard they smoked and drank
whisky and were hilarious to a great extent all
along the line of march, whilst a gorgeously-
apparelled Irish individual cqualliog Solomon in
all his glory headed the procession and played
j igs and things on the bag-pipes, and the lion of
the occasion followed in the dray, sitting up in his
oiffia and wearing on his face the Fok of cheerful
urbanity he had carefully arranged before handing
in his checks. In conclusion, when the deceased
Baxter Jones was laid low and banked in, all true
friends who had respected and loved him when
he was at large were called upon to gat drunk to
his blessed memory and his spseiy resurrection,
provision for which entertainment was made in
the will. Mr. Baxter’s funeral will long be re-
membered in the country it passed through, and
the people look anxiously for a perceptible and
tangible spread of deceased’s principles; they
think he was a great and good man, and s'gh and
A REMEDY FOR OVER-CROWDING OF CHURCHES.
"Bilovod,-Moat of you are doubtless aware that it pleased Providence to
permit me to be fined a considerable sum last week for the over-crowding of this
Church on the previous Sabbath. It is now proposed to make a special collection to
reimburse me for the outlay, and t o-hum-to continue the practice from week to
week to meet those—a—that is, to anticipate those-a-a-as it were, tributes to the
growing popularity of your-hum-Pastor!”
(No danger of over crowding after an announcement like the above!)
shake their head* and say, “Ah ! he was a foine
man—min loike him don’t doi ivery day, worst
luck !’’
When next you b ke try PemTls Snow whits Patent
Roller Flour, and jour bread will be as white as snow-
“ Physicians of all schools use and recommend Dr.
Soule’s American Hop bitters. Test them.’'
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Sind burst (Vic.) has gob two lepers.
Sydney has twelve. Hot ray! Another of the
moral aspects of Freetrade !
The thinnest minister In New Zealand has
just been sent as a missionary to New Caledonia.
And yet we are asked, “Why do the heathen
rage ?”
A Salvation Army tokPer was fined 10s.
in Melbourne County Geur!’, the other day, for
trying to sell a War Cry to a policeman. The
police are a privileged class.
The paiish of Church-of-Eugland Parson
Shuttle vood on tie Warrego, Q , is much larger
than the area of the United Kingdom. That’s
spreading the Gospel anyway.
The Queenslander feminine “sowoiety ”
scribe has struck a new phrase. Thus:—
The room was filled with elegant ly-d cessed ladies, a few
no less elaborately-got up “mashers ” and spicy middle-
aged gentlemen.
“ Spicy middle-aged gentlemen " is excellent.
A man charged at Brisbane the other day
with the use of obscene language pleaded guilty,
but raid there were extenuating circumstances.
“ What were they?’ asked the Bench. “Oh, I
was only talking to my wife.”
After all, the Benson-Richardson swindle
may prove to have bsen a good thing for the
Sydney charit’es, as it will certainly prove a first-
class advertisement fo: the National Fair, which
has been founded on the debris of the attempted
job.
Tae cableman Informs us that “ Sir Eiwln
Smith, of Adelaide, attended a levee held yester-
day by H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.” Now,
why on earth should anyone spend a couple of
pounds in sending such an announcement as this
from one end of the earth to the other end of the
earth ? Who cares whether Smith,! of Adelaide,
has grovelled to Tummy, of London ?
ALL WELL!
Mrs. Norris, the wife of an Adelaide
painter, rec ntiy gave birth to four children—one
boy and three girls. The children are parfeotly
healthy, well-formed, and fully matured, and all
are doing well—except, we presume, the unfor-
tunate old man.
Unfeeling scribs, to bleat “ all well ’
With Mrs. N , her son, and daughters,
While Norris longs, if truth you’d tell,
To quench his light in Torrens’ waters.
“ All well! ’ We smile, and Norris see
Environed by a host of nurses,
While every knock that wakes his door
A punclure to his dwindling purse is.
All well ! We laugh a little laugh
We tot up doctors’ bills and slaveys’,
While painter Norris’ better half
Is well, he marching to the grave is.
Roused nightly by four elfish cries
Gats nasty sniff s of—pare goric.
And nightly walks in ghostly guise
A burden bearing—act historic !
All well ! Ha, ha I All well ! Ho, ho !
And here we sop to sigh for Norris ;
We fear his heritage of woe
Will strychnine make his doch an’ d arris.
"Ob, This is Grand !"
“ James M‘Nnrken, aged 72, was rowing
in Newcastle Harbour on Friday, when he sud-
denly threw up his arms, calling out, ‘ Oh, this is
grand !’ and dropped back dead.” — Daily Paper.
Death closes all. Is that the same ?
At threescore years and twelve, wa kn t
Most loves are dead, and recompense
For lingering one! is cold and t low.
To take one’s place among the dead
Is gaod when one has loveless grown,
And Ce iter is the dead-man’s bed
Than sitting loveless on a throne.
Is that the thought the rower spoks.
When lifting up his arms on high ?
Or did he, as frotnsleep awoke,
Behold new lights within the sky ?
Were suns ablazs, were stars aflame,
And did he see his second lif»,
In gr swth within his second frame,
And panting for the higher strife,
Where higher Doubt and higher Faith,
Twin Gads o! Thought while Thought will last,
Reign in the Splritaf aer Death
With nobler life than in the Past ?
Or did the closing of the main,
Where tides of life-blood ebb and flow,
Create a fever of the brain
Where all was flame and starry flow ?
And did he but with heart and head
Salute these fires with welc une bells ?
And did they, when his hands fell dead,
Fall dead within his dead brain cells ?
E. LOWE
POLITICAL POINTS
The laying of the foundatlon-atone of Sir
Somers Vine’s white elephant, the ImnaHai
Institute, cost £l4 173. i al
Parkes believes, he says, in woman snf.
frage. But did the woman who had the suffrage
of him believe in Parkes ?
Over 17,000,000 acres have been alienated
in New Zealand. Four men hold 409,000 aorei
and 26 control holdings of frcm 50,000 to 100 000
acres.
The Primrose League—where now are the
Australian Primrose Leaguers ?—has been fitly de-
scribed as “an association to promote jobbery bv
means of snobbery.” y
A member of the present Parliament of
New South Wales has declared that he has occu-
pied a seat on the floor of the House for many
years. Queer taste. y
The Prince of Wales, we read, lately
said: “We are all Socialists at heart.” Before
this it was not suspected that he was anything at
all except at stomach.
Mr. Oaorge Coppin’s friends in Melbourne
are trying to work a “ soft ” seat in the Legislative
Council for that popular veteran, now that the
Assembly knows him no more.
Vernon Harcourt thinks that the poor old
Times should be punished by the passage of a
sp c'al law compelling it to publish the words
“ Parnellism and Crime ” in large letters in every
issue.
Australia is this season 4,000 000 but hels
of cereals short of the actual consumption That
is to say Freetrade N.S.W. is 6,000,000 bushels
short, and the rest of the continent is 2 000 000
bushels over.
Salisbury thinks that Bright is the greatest
orator of the generation. This is, however, on the
same principle that Alfred Bennett thinks the
Newcastle Herald the greatest Protectionist
paper in N.S.W.
It now transpires that at the late N.S.W.
general election the cheers for the Queen that
followed the meeting of the Foreign trade candi-
dates were called for by special instructions from
Secretary Pulsford.
Eleven of the eighteen Presidents of the
United States elected by the people were sons of
farmers. In New South Wales it is the auctioneer
and the lawyer and the broken-down commission-
agent who run the show.
A N.S.W. tobacco factory which has been
in continuous operation for the last 10 years has
just closed its doors. The £lOO licerse fee and
Is. 3i. per lb. excise duty imposed by the Foreign-
traders have done their work.
Complaints are being made about the small
s’ze of the Victorian Legislative Chamber, Yet
we’ll bat the customary hat lots of the members
will find it quite roomy enough to “turn ” in. They
turn easily in a much smaller room in Sydney.
Dan. O’Connor, the N.S.W. Postmaster-
General, when he went to address the Newcastle
electors on behalf of the Sydney Foreign-trade
Association, ccmmenced his speech with “God
bless yez all.” This benlson strikes us as “ Mere
popery than Fiscal.”
Sir John Hall, ex Premier of N.Z., re-
siding in England just now, told a Pall Mall
Gazette interviewer the other day that N.S.W,
will not continue its adhesion to Freetrade. It
was the personal influence of Parkes that had
made it cling to Freetrade so long.
SIR SOMERS VINE.
(An Epigram,)
Great Britain sends a knighted Vine
Imperial notions down our throats to thrape.
A threat is in bis name—if we decline
The next she’ll send will be a “ whiff of grape.”
Dear Bulletin —The great argumentative
plank of all Freetraders is the refusal to tax (he
community in the interests of a class. If the
purchasing of seed by the present N.S.W,
Government for the farmers is not taxing us all
for the benefit of the farmers, what in thunder is
it ?— Freetrade
In reply to a Ktama deputation last week
the N.S.W. Premier said “he had a 1 wavs been
puzzled to know why the Kiama railway line had
stopped at the graveyard.” That shouldn’t be
any mystery to him. He might have known that
the old Kiama Ghost wanted a station bang agin
his own door.
Ex-Treasurer Barns, at a recent N.S W.
fruit growers’ conference, said he did not believe
in the people of the country going cap in band to
the Government for everything they wanted.
Why, certainly noi. It’s ever so much better to
have things given to you without your knowledge
by the Casual Labour Board.
Stupid Knutsford, In appointing Sir
William Sonata Fiddlestick Robinson to tbe
temporary Governorship of Victoria, thinks he is
snubbing the Bananalanders. Queensland, it is
an opsn secret, included Robinson in the list of
Governors it wouldn’t have at any price, and
Knuteford shows his contempt for the seditious
Queenslanders by giving their persona ingrata
the best job in his gift. Now then, what has
“loyal ” Victoria got to say to this view of the
matter ?
Joe Symes'candldature for Colling wood was
a godsend for the local greengrocers About two
tons of juicy tomatoes were bought, at famine
prices, on polling day, and when Joseph came for-
ward to address the assembled electors the very
air was red with tokens of their love —love-apples
in fact. A beautiful table tomato found its billet
in the left ear of the talented unbeliever, but he
took the righteous indignation of the Collingwood
lambs in very good part and might have quoted
from their beloved Scriptures—“By their fruits
ye shall know them.”
An important person named Atkinson,
who stood for Hawthorn at the late Victorian


That famous old Sydney hostelrle, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
«W hotel.
Most and Chandon’s Champagne.— Messrs. Moet and
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
ohampagne-produoers In the world. Their Dry«
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres In the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia. The Imperial
Crown Is In each corner of label, »nd, 1884 branded on
sork and label.
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and oomfoit.
man. "Mr Tailob." 164 King street, Newtown.
JOHN M'EWAM ft GO-,
auctioneers,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers db Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
(5-pftgl Country Properties, Farms, Graslng
Properties, &0., &a.
18-PkXS List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, fca.
prtiM list sff Buiieiui fss Inla Isnsi Ballße
411 Blsts posted Vies o» appllfatloe
oleotion, stated that In his opinion a man should
f 1 „<< one vote for his manhood and another for
property.” Then somebody stood up to m-
if the candidate would give a man a vote for
Sis boots and his umbrella, and one for his jackass,
!md s’oosio’ he had a hen wiuh nervous debility or
deaf cow or a oat whose faculties had never been
* v bright, would he have a vote for each of them,
LVand-but Mr. Atkinson changed the subject
mbs hurriedly just then, and the matter dropped
with a dull, sickening thud.
One or two insolvent candidates at the late
Victorian elections are now at odds with hungry
nmdiljora, who want to annex the £5O deposit that
r t 0 be pub up with the returning-offioer before
Z colt can run for the Parliamentary Siakrs In
she case of a certain atborney with five Christian
names in front of his surname—ye gods —the
defence is that his £5O deposit was a special
nrivileged loan for the occasion, P. H. G. P. b.
C mant nob possessing a red cent of his own. Me
ought to pawn his name to pay his debts
Indomitable Dave Ganns on has fired a
well-directed bombshell at the Melbourne Age
and solemnly called upon the working men of
Victoria to boycott the shifty organ of Syme and
help to establish a live Liberal morning paper.
Spiritedly written and smartly managed a liberal
newspaper must inevitably boom in the City of
Many Smells, besides securing a solid support in
the country districts. As things are now the Age
fattens on sufferance, in-so-far that it is rather less
slushy than the Akgds. The Telegraph merely
circulates in a grt aber or s mailer way—as a sort
of tract and chronicle of tea-fights
Britain baa resolved to spend 2H millions
on the building of 70 more bottomless ironclads,
and from this symptom it is ant:c ; pa*el that a
louk era of peace is about to start. When the
Czar is being blown up a little more than usual,
and the Austrian heir apparent has suicided, and
the German Kaiser is kicking his palaces into
small bits, and the Bavarian royal family is a trifle
more paralytic about the brain than formerly, and
about 20 000,000 troops are being mobilised all
over the face of the earDh, and there is a smothered
roll of biff guns and a stifled groan of protocols
and negotiations, a long era of peace is always
just about to happen on the distrac ed shores of
Yurrup.
A writer in the Gentleman, a new Lon-
don weekly, refers thus to the English Civil Ser-
vice : “ The Civil Service is a beauli'nl profession
, because in a vast number cf cases Civil
servants get within reach of the plums of office
only to be pushed aside by strangers, and then
get from the public, not sympathy, but a share of
the odium attached to a system which promoted
iobtery ” Thus, it will be seen, that in making
recent appointments to “fat” sinecures in the
N.SW. Civil Service Parkes had—what to him
would be ample justification fcr almost anything
from pitch and-toss > to manslaughter—Hmglish
precedent for his action.
Of a who’e crowd of juveniles that rushed
madly for teats ia the Victorian Parliament, the
mo*t successful vras Mr, William Williams, who
put up, appropriately enough, for Williamstown,
and was only beaten by two pips. Williams is a
voluble law-student aged 23, with a splendid be-
lief in his mentd resemblance to William A ebb,
jnnr, and other boy politicians cf Good King
George’s gloiious days. Even this aspiring fledge-
ling would seem preferable to Carter, the ex-
Wesleyan parson (win just got Hi holy note first
past the post) seeing that Carter was a Freetrader
in South Australia and a Protectionist when he
crossed into the other colony. Providence told
him to turn his coat, and prayer pulled him
through.
Sir Somera Vine is reputedly one of
Tummy’s numerous “ ghosts ” and has apparently
come to Australia to smell round re the prospects
of Imperial Federation. He evidently considers
the Prince cf Wales a more than sacred being—
“ There gentlemen !” he says in the subdued and
awe struck whisper in which people converse in
the presence of a corpse related to them, I have
delivered you the Prices’* message in his own
exact words.’’ Before Mr. Vine has been a month
in there beastly kawlinies he will discover
that the young Australians have no more reverence
for his fat, baMheaded god than they have for
the stuffed gorillas in Melbourne museum. Vme
& Co. want to hang Horsetrailyah on to Hingland.
They might as well stand in a fish-basket
and try to raise themselves by the handle.
Dick, the Mudgee (N.S.W.) gaolor, who
was sentenced to death last week for shooting
Warden Jenkins with intent to murder, was un-
defended when arraigned, and was assigned the
sorvices of an attorney for his defence. As the
trial was held before so fair-minded and scrupulous
a judge as Chief Justice Darley, it may be taken
for granted that the prisoner suffered the minimum
possible amount of disadvantage through the un-
prepared condition of his defence. _ Yet neverthe-
less does the case afford another instance o' the
inhumanity and illogicalness of a system under
which a prisoner charged with a capital crime and
kept under look-and-key to the very moment of
his trial is prosecuted by an expert State-paid
barrister and yet has practically no provision
made by the Crown for his defence.
“Jim” Moloney, who entered the Vic-
torian election tourney against 1 Juncan Gillies,
took his defeat in poetical bitterness of soul.
After the thunderbolt had fallen James stretched
his Austra’i an manhood over the balcony of Kew
Town Hall and slung this at the assembled
citizens ; “ I came as a native of this colony to lay
the best gifts of my intelligence upon the altar of
my country. You have refused that gift. The
inevitable laughter of his ruthless enemies made
no difference to Jim. He just went on to remark :
" It appears to bs necessary that the juggernaut
of Press lying should pass over my body. . . .
Whether I may yet go into the House or not it
shall be my object to do my best by the land
which gave me birth and upon whose fruitful
bosom I have grown to the strength which I pos-
sess.” The Argus fired its parting sorrow at poor
O’Oonnorian Jim by printing this high falutin in
all its native luxutiance.
Out In Western N.S.W., last general
election, the O’Hooligan borrowed his forty pounds
from an old friend and planked it instanter with
the Returning Officer. This latter did not have
it in his possession many hours before a Sassenach
solicitor, acting on behalf of a Sassenach store-
keeper, served him with a garnishee order de-
manding payment of the £4O, on account of a
prior judgment 44 Bat it ain’t mine, it’s borrowed
money,” stid The O’Hooligan. 44 Can’t help it”
said the Returning Officer, 44 I’ve the judge s
oiders to pay it to Mcßedditor if it am t for-
feited.” Then The O’Hooligan swore that
Mcßedditor should not get it. for forfeited it
should he, and there was a bit of a race for that
£4O. Bat the Sassenach solicitor and Mcßeddi-
tor, the Scotch storekeeper, readied uo their
friends and retainers, and although The O Hooli-
gan was at the bottom of the poll his forty pounds
was not forfeited but went to swell Mcßedditor s
bank-account. There’s a moral here somewhere.
In the N.S.W. Assembly last week a long
and irreverent Protectionist named Abbott moced
a disheartening motion to the effect that the
Parkes Government, being a Freetrade organisa-
tion, should repeal the 25 or 30 par cent, duties on
cheese, butter and bacon, by means of which
profitable industries had grown up in certain dis-
tricts which cheerfully accepted this Protection,
and yet voted that all the rest of the colony should
be subject to Freetrade. Also, he moved that the
33 per cent, duty on kerosene, by means of which
Mr Street, a prominent Freetrade member, lived
and moved and had his being, should be abolished
in order that Mr. Street should go broke, so far as
kerosene was concerned, by virtue of his own
fiscal policy, and thus share in the trouble which
he helped to bring on his countrymen. The
motion was carried by six votes, amid the universal
disgust of the Freetrade party, which had thus
been roused into compulsory enthusiasm about its
own principles at a time when it was feeling tired
and wanted badly to sit down and have a rest.
There was a crowd round the polling-booth
at Oobar (N.S.W.) on the election day, and the
accustomed Freetrade stump-orator was in their
midst. His mission, he said, was to 44 pint out
to the people the evils which followed in the foot-
prints of that “ ’orrid crittur, Protection,” and he
was busy doing it. 41 Look hat Heurope!” he said,
waving his two arms and his one old hat in the
air ; 44 Look at Heurope ! There Hingland fol-
lows the glorious policy hof Freetrade, while
France is ground down to the dust hunder the
hidjas load of Purtection, hand the consekenses to
that country is hawful. Look hat ’’but just
here a sinful person stood up to offer a short
remark. 44 Look here, you blessed old dog-show
he yelped, excitedly, 44 You were never in Eng-
land, or France either. You never read anything
about them. You don’t know where they are.
You don’t know anything, you don’t. You was
never out of Sydney in all your blessed life till you
came here.” There was a shriek of derisive
laughter from the crowd, but the orator was calm
and collected. 44 No, sir,” he said, sternly, I
never was much of a reader, and I never ad tune
to go to Hingland, or France either. But my
father was a Hinglishman, and I got my facks
from the best authority. Gentlemen, for more
than three months I lived next door to a French-
polisher in Sydney, and he told me."
THE “OMINOUS SILENCE.”
(The Roman Catholics of Australia have
baen accused of maintaining _ an ** Ominous
Silence ” on the Education question at the general
elections both in N.S. Wales and Victoria).
In this land of the South
If yez open yer mouth
They accuse yez of tray eon an’ vi’lenoe,
If yez don’t use yer tongue
Than the changes are rung,
Fur thay charge yez with “ Ominous Silence.
But the day it will come
When the Noose, Age and Rum
Will be forced to carry their bile hence;
An’ when bigotry wanes
It’s their printin’ machanes
As will kape up an “ Ominous Silence.
P. FINIGAN.
Personal Items.
John Bright left three-quarters of a million
sterling.
London Times advocates the flogging of
girls.
Bishop Barry will say farewell to Sydney
on the 3rd of May.
Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern Miner,
is now a land-owner.
Henniker Heaton is still alive though he
has given up the ghost.
One-bottle Michia is Melbourne corres-
pondent of London Times.
Mrs. Frank Leslie has just sold Frank
Leslie’s Illustrated for £BO,OOO,
Irish Secretary Balfour wears a billy-
cock hat and boots of untamed leather.
Sir George Grey, It is said, has In hand a
volume on N.Z. poets and their writings.
Minlst* r for Education Carru'ihers says he’s
the youngest man who ever held office in N.S.W.
Mr. Macdonald, manager of London
Times, commenced life as a tracker in a Scotch
coal-mine.
John Danniston, the new Judga io Maoil-
land, was fifteen years ago a lawyer’s clerk in
Dunedin.
An Anglican parson has just died In Eng-
land who had been drawing £lOOO a year from bis
living since 1813.
A N.Z. statesman says he has given
Froude’s 44 O jean a ” a place in his library amongst
the works of fiction.
Mr. Nloian Melville has just bean elected
Chairman of Committees of the N.S.W. Assem-
OUR "SERVANTS."
LORD OF THE MANOR (knocking timidly at the door): "Oh! Miss Bridget please,
here is your coffee. I’ve lit the fire and laid the table. If you wouldn't mind
getting up presently and cooking the breakfast-I'm afraid it's after nine
o’clock.”
bly, Ninian’s father made the chairs in which
the Speaker, Chairman, and clerks of the House
perform their legislative duties.
The Prince of Wales, according to an
English p»])3r, is laying odds that he will not
survive his royal mamma.
Henry Brett, the richest newspaper man
in N.Z., has gone to visit England, which he left
20 years ago, a working compositor.
Plgott, the Times’ witness, It appears, had
latterly been an importer of indecent literature
and obscene photographs from France.
Sir George Grey, of N.Z., has the original
score of “Dar Wacht am Rhein.” It was pre-
sented to him by the composer, Karl Wilhelm.
labouchere’s latest hoi i mot Is that “ the
Babes in the Wood were perfect serpents compared
with the Times’ lawyers Webster and Soames.
Labouohere says that Bishop Montgomery,
the new Tasmanian prelate, is a mediocre person
whose chief virtue it is that he has a father-m-law
(Canon Farrar).
Andrew Lang has only £6OO a year as
leader-writer to the London Daily News, # He,
however, receives as much from Longman s pun-
lishing firm as reader.
The unklndest and most malicious part of
the “bill of particulars” of Henmker Heaton s
“ghost’’was a claim for time alleged to have
been wasted in teaching the member for Aus-
tralia the use and the misuse of the letter U.
Governor Onslow can fence, box, drive
four horses, and has e/en financed a theatre.
When he has eaten a few tons of damper, shot
a kangaroo, and can tell gold from mnn ,
will be a pretty good all-round man, even for
A I’lafivol aciu
When Queensland’s first Governor, Sir
George Bowen, was sworn in, the total amount m
the Colonial Treasury was 9d., and on the very
night of the sweating-in of the Governor the build-
ing was burgled and the 9d. stolen. So said Sir
George at a meeting of the Colonial Institute in
London the other day.
“ Come away !’’ aald a very deaf old lady
to a friend at the Tamar Regatta, Launceston ;
“its very wrong to be leea listening to him be-
cause I’m a Catholic.” The “ him ” was Mister
Edward Hanlan thanking the public for their re-
cognition of his services. And she thought he was
a Salvation Army soldier !
Laab European mail brought to Premier
Parkes a letter bearing the Wertheim postmark,
addressed “ Majestis King, New S. Wales Aus-
tralien.” “That’s me!” said Parkes, and he
opened it at once. At least we suppose he did,
anl if he didn’t he must have been more modest
than he was the week before last.
Jcs. Symea prints in hla paper, the
Libkeatok, the fallowing characteristic notice
My best and hewtiest thanks are due to the newspapers,
parsons, judges, magistrates, and members of Parliament,
for having, in about five years, persecuted, slandered and
lied me half way into the Legislative Assembly. May I
ask fjr a continuance cf their patronage ?— Jos. Svmbs.
It ia related of the late Dr. Brcmby that
one day, while he was head master of the O.E.
Grammar School, Melbourne, lie was flogging a
boy who, during the operation, fell against a
fender. The Doctor picked the boy up and said,
most compassionately, “Are you hurt, mv poor
boy ? ’ “ No, sir,” replied the boy. The Doctor
went on flogging him.
Joa Chamberlain was introduced to his
present bride (his third wife) by his own son. The
story goes that Chamberlain, junior, was “a bit
struck” on Miss Endicott, and raved about her to his
father who went to see her with all the interest of
a possible father-in law. He came to criticise and
remained to love, and so Austin Chamberlain has
lost a wife and gained a step-mother.
Governor Jervois when orating at a public
meeting in Dunedin, the other day, was requested
by one of the audience to “speak up ” Sir Wil-
liam replied that he was—haw—sorry—haw—if
his friend couldn’t—haw—hear him, but he
thought—haw—his friend’s ears —haw—were long
enough—haw—to hear at any distance —haw.
“ Hee-haw, Hee-haw ! ” cried the audience.
Some years ago the crier of the Melbourne
County Court was, and perhaps still is, one Lloyd.
During the progress of a prosy case before Judge
Cope, he fell asleep, and suddenly woke up to find
the Judge about to leave tte Bench for the day.
Lloyd stood up and thus delivered himself in
choice Milesian: “This honorubble Cour-r-t
ahtands adjur-r-ned until Mondee mornin’ nex’.
Saw blip ye God—God save the Quane, I mane.”
Mr. C. H, Bczicobb, cf the Brisbane
Coueiee, who threw cff his coat and went to
“ case ” when the Typographical Association
called out its men last week, began his colonial
career as a compositor in the office of the S.M.
Hbeald. When he went to Qreensland he kept
his hand in by occasionally working off an issue
of his little Peak Downs journal. He was
at that time an advanced Radical, but then
bis constituents were all diggers, and unless a man
be a Radical he cannot succeed very well among
diggers. As soon as Mr. Buzaeott was able to
exchange his paper for one in Rockhampton he
started to shed the Radical cuticle, and by the
time be had corkscrewed bis way to the managing
editorship of the Brisbane Coueikb his pelt was as
fine and smooth and glcs y as if he had been
clothed all his life in purple and fine linen.
Mr. George M'Cullagh Reed, the editor of
the new Melbourne evening paper, tells a good
story about his clever “ Noan’s Ark hoax,” which
circumstantial yarn was accepted as Gospel fact
by scores of newspapers and thousands cf readers
in all parts cf the world. After he had taken
great pains to announce through the press that the'
discovery of the remnant of the Ark had taken
place “ only in his own fertile imagination,” he,
in many cares, found great difficulty in persuading
people that the story was a pure invention. One.
good old lady, a pious Wesleyan, approached him,
and addressed him thus ; —“ Oh, Mr. Reed, do not
say that the discovery of the Ark is a hoax. It
has given me so much consolation to know that
such a wonderful proof of the truth of Holy Scrip-
ture was in existence. I won’t believe it is a hoax.
I prefer to believe that you were at the time-
Divinely inspired, and that everything is just as
you wrote it first.”
James Liddell Purvea, Q. 0., once received
a Rohnd for his Oliver—an event, it may be
stated, of rare occurrence. He was acting as
counsel for a mining company which was being
sued by the representatives of a decaased miner,
whose death, it was alleged, was ccoasioned
by the defective nature of the company’s
cage-machinery. It appeared that the deceased
was coming up the shaft in the cage when a beam
of wood, part of the upper structure, fell, struck
the man, knocked him out, and remained in the
cage firmly lodged in the man’s hat. A miner of
Boeotian simplicity had given evidercefor pis intiff e,
and Purves began to cross examine on behalf of
the defendant company thus; “ What did you
say you saw in the cage when it came to the top
of the shaft ?” “I taw a log of wood in a man’s
bat.” To him, Purves :“ I suppose you have
looked in the looking-glass with your hat on ? ’
“ Yes,” said the witness slowly, for he wondered
what was coming next; “ Well, that’s rol the first
time you saw a log of wood in a hat.” (Laughter
promptly checked ) “No, sir,” said the witness,
“ but I’ve just as often seen one in a wig. (More
laughter, not so promptly checked).
Hasn’t poor old Longfellow got any rela-
tives who are prepared to come out with an axe
in hi? defence? The other day a candidate at
Sandhurst (Vic.) finished up an impassioned
address about irrigation, centralisation, Land
Nationalisation, Federation, aggravation, and
other questions of the day, by reciting a little
poem commencing “Lives of great men all remind
us,” &0., and explained to his audience, “ These
beautiful lines were written by Dr. L. L. Smith
That was all.


Breaking up of the Drought.
AQUARIUS (to Young Australia): "SAY WHEN!”
AUSTRALIA: “"FILL HER RIGHT UP, OLD MAN.”


<T° > F 3st
(foo a//er s ' Cure/uP
//pS/becP/o/p c//-&//ways Sct/jf/s /
jfccs cct-r-sre-cC cef 7?? s- J7ar/~//p<jr copc£ s/ojp //~/s
Tr-u,c/- Sc.cC c/ Co <xfs cc/ a. <£/~<zoCe /T/ap Cc tytek/ os> e--,
/e.cC/'e rn /j To Coq q ratuSaTeoC dp Pa.y/qq /ora. cS e e. aa /nun
fit tra
f > ibrar ) >,Tsc.f7j ? <lb*sf boots
I cdou.Ubzf*rocu.rtcL,
/rfe./reecCofp cyct h^TSOAf6 &Ay 7*u£//c l}ouse\
fas Aee-tp offer-e.cC To fa/rcerS
COfio rfe. Ccc7a.sTr-ofr^ G , *4/*//^
- <Tr... T /fa 7><x/}p (
* It appears that |
when tempororily ( stationed at this port tho j
officers of the German warships were frequent
visitors at Watson’s Bay, whither they were
in the habit of riding on horseback, on the I
pretext that 'they had quite enough of the I]
water when they were at sea /
? fa m/rfoL Wfc *
ZzAfd / Pfa €arS ' / , '* faffayyec *.*&>*?•£
fad fa^y 5
/c*i, ?p w c **’*s*>s 4>
$‘~ C(L p
I
Ay*
. (o''
y
cS'o y^'p r f.
'coSct your
Speaking yesterday at St. Patrick s, Cardinal
Moran declared that he was neither a freetrader
nor a protectionist,
'i
72>' ‘ .c-y
' v \ r * J S ' fieportcr, S(oai ■ I tt "?
A® 2^
hrf//JZ. attlCca? 'Tays Mess?**
W
Things in General.


ORESOENT BREWING CO.’S
“AURORA”
FILSUNBB BHE R,
F. B. WHEELER & CO.,
265 Clarkncb Street,
SYDNEY.
Dry Imperial Champagne— Messrs. Meet and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro
duoers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL" 1 8
vintage is the pure Juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is In eaob corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd., 356 George Street, Sydney,
JJAYE just opened a magnificent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEIN WAY, ERARD, UEBEL, FENRIOH, LIPP, RONISCH, BLUTHN
OOLLARD and others ; also of the wonderful VICTOR pianos at £45, and ESTEY ORGANS. No SUCH VARIETY OB VALUE ELSEWHERE FOB CASH OB TERMS.
Society
An Adelaide postman, when committed
for trial last week for failing to deliver 400 Utters
entrusted to him, said he was “ too tired to wa’k
round with them- : ’ Poor devil, perhaps it was
true ! We have known postmen who had rheu-
matic’, and seven or eight children, and a sick wife,
and £2 a week and no money In hand, and lots of
debts for little boots and loaves too small for
appetites, and the world expected them to “hop
along smart ” and look cheerful all the while.
And then there is the other tide of the picture :
the man who waited for the letter which never
came, the weeping girl who told her mother the
had no appetite and then went and looked herself
up in her bedroom and wept for hours by the
clock bfcause Charley’s plausible explanation as to
why he failed to meet her last night round the
corner didn’t come to hand, all along of that
wicked, tired postman. What is the moral ? The
tired man must lie down and die; for him there is
no billet, andfno billet means no bread. And as
to the lazy man— his troubles !
• * •
Dr. Dale, the enlightened clergyman, who
recently came here on a special mission from Divine
Providence, has accurately sketched a model Aus-
tralian Governor for the Contemporary Review.
“Ha should have personal dignity, reticence,
firmness, but should be genial and buoyant and
should not take politics too serioudy. He should
have a genius for what mieht be called a strenuous
idleness.” What model Governors we get to be
sure
Yet another horror has been added to the
sickening details connected with the tyim? of the
nuptial knot. In September, 1886, one Elizabeth
Cummings, a lone lorn widow of Toowoomba
(Q.)» placed fapr four children in a Government
orphanage, where they still remain. In 1888, she
took very much to Beer—one John Augustus
Baer—whom she married, and he thus became the
parent of a ready made family of four. It
doesn’t seem that he was ever proud enough
of his bargain to take the youngsters out
of the orphanage, however, for he left them there
at a cost to his bleeding country of 24 1, a week.
On bearing of the marriage the Inspector of
Orphanages hauled John Augustus to the local
Police Court to show cause why he shouldn’t pay
the sum of £3B due for the maintenance of his
children since the happy time when he led their
mamma to the bridal bower. At first Baer began
to froth and wanted to know why the Inspector
didn’t go for Cummings on a writ of “have his-
corpus,” but the Bench exolained that as John
Augustus had taken Mrs. C. with all her engage-
ments he would have to be “ put on tap ” for the
33 gold pieces, payable in monthly instalments of
£l. This should be a solemn warning to all men
who have matrimonial designs on “vidders.”
• * *
Hallelujah! Archdeacon Gunther says
there is now a society of Buddhist students in
S ydney, and in all probability there will soon be a
Buddhist temple as well. Oi the principle of
“ the more the merrier,” we would like to see the
HIS ONE GOOD POINT.
A UCTIONEER (rather at a loss for something to say in favour of "lot No. 99”) : “Why,
gentlemen, you never could lose that ’oss. You can always find a white
'oss in the dark quicker than any other colour. Now, how much? How
much?”
Buddhists bloom, for we are sick and tired of the
squabbles of the established sects. We fear, how-
ever, the Buddhist faith is just a trifle too moral
and exacting to ever become practically popular
in Australia. If it were the Shakers, or the
Oalitbumpians, or the Free Love crowd that were
setting up, what a tumbling into the fount there’d
be !
• • m
Sydney D.T. thus commences Its detailed
account of the Samoan hurricane disaster :
Slowly and steadily, covered with gloiy and sad sea-
foam. every foot of her shapely sides engraven deep with
the hieroglyphics of a terrible story, like a weary Titan
going to rest, her Majesty’s ship Calliope, etc,, etc.
When a man flaps his wings like that when start-
ing, what sort of a parachute does he reckon on
using for his return-trip to earth ? The Australian
reporter is not yet born who can take that para-
graph as a key-note and sob and scream oa an
ascending grade over three columns.
• • •
The cableman, or the fellow who “ ex-
pands ” him, speaks of Mr. Gossip as “ the Aus-
tralian chess-player.” Mr. Gossip has lived in a
stable, but he is not, therefore, a horse. He didn’t
learn his chess in Australia any more than Jem
Mace learned his boxing here. Mr. Gossip has
played chess for 30 years or more, and was for
many years a linguist attached to the Paris office
of the London Times,
• « •
Pastor Jeffaris, of Sydney, Is going to fake
up a collection in his church for the Samoan
niggers. Too long have we heard of collections for
the heathen. Anybody who wants to do the
heathen a good turn will carefully leave them
alone or send them down some dynamite to ex-
plode their soi-disant benefactors, the South Sea
clergy. Hitherto when a collection has been taken
up for the niggers it has invariably been invested
for them in missionaries, and then the missionaries
have gone along and made the niggers build houses
and churches for them, and give them their best
lands and grow cocoa-nuts for them and catch fiih
on their account, and when a whole archipelago
has had to file its schedule through too much of
this work the missionaries have generally hoisted
the British fltg a’ld started a war of annexation,
which has not ended till the most of the native
race has been killed off and sent to perdition.
The South Seas are alive with niggers, who
curse the day when the first subscript'on
was got up on their aeon at, and the islands
are full of dead niggers’ graves, above which the
epitaph ought to read “We died through the
white man’s subscription.” And speaking of sub-
scriptions we intend, when we have time, to raise
the necssiary funds to send Mataafa as a mission-
ary to Pastor Jefferis; and our reason for this is
that we consider the brown-skinned warrior to be
the one square, honest, respectable, noble-hearted
white man at present on the loose in these parte,
and hold that for Pastor Jefferii to raise a sub-
scuption for him is about as grotesque an anomaly
as would be the spectacle of John Davies taking
up pennies in a hat to buy Gladstone a dog and a
string.
* * *
Fashionable par. from the Far North :
The Norman (N.Q.) Chronicle states that early in this
month the heat was so unbearable that a meet in? of
srentlemsn was held at which it was suggested that a
Pyjama Club should be formed to do away with the
foolish practice of wearing clothing quite unsuitable to
the olimate lb was resolved that properly-made pyjama
suits should be considered the fashion for Normantcn
during the summer months.
The Bulletin, with its notorious solicitude for
the fairer and frailer sex, rises to move that it be
resolved that properly-made bathing-dresses should
be considered the fashion for the Normanton
ladies (not coloured) during the summer months.
* • *
One of the Argus men, describing an
alleged visit to the ga’lery of a Melbourne Theatre
says : “behind us a fair and rather delicate look-
ing damsel leans her head contentedly on the
broad shoulder of her husband or lover, whose
strong arm encircles her waist.” The possibility
of that couple being husband and wife could only
occur to a verdant bachelor mind. Yet perhaps
they were both married to somebody else, for the
custom of kanoodling at theatres is peculiar to
these illicit loves of the flesh. If a kindly disposed
man (in the absence of his wife at the seaside or
up the mountains), takes a barmaid to the Opera
it is ten to one that the grateful Hebe will flop
her golden head upon his shoulder whea the
prima donna warbhs about love. A wife, on the
other hand, just glares at the poor fellow to see
whether he is admiring that made up thing who
can’d sing a bit. It isn’t much joy to be there
under those circumstances.
« * *
Iq Sydney hst week a publican was fined
£2O and costs for selling liquor on Sunday. And
yet what horrible crimes can be committed for the
expenditure of a common fiver!
• • •
Rtverent extract from a “ leading” dally :
Tds Countess cf Kintore was present at the Drawing-
ro .m on Tuesday, and on making her obeisance to her
Majesty, the Queen said to her, “I hear that you are
going away soon. I hope you will be happy. Go sd-bye,”
History is silent whether Adelaide’s future social
head-light received an Indian shawl or “Litest
details concerning John Brown’s Life,” bound in
vellum, from her Royal Mistress to make the
agony of parting much easier to bear. Victoria
confines herself to the “ pathetic speech ” industry
now. It's cheaper.
The clergy of Meath (Ireland), have pre-
sented Bishop Higgins, Cardinal Moran’s newly-
selected coadjutor, with a purse of sovereigns on
his departure for Australia. The same clergy never
get farther than a presentation of their blessings
to sundry Impoverished female emigrants leaving
Meath for the same d« sfination. Dr Higgins
takes his way to a fine billet, first cabin and at-
ten dint chaplain thrown in, and the penniless
girls sail, steerage, to a land of strangers where
many of them must go to the wall. The girls
however, get the blessing, but the Bishop collars
the purse.
• * *
The following letter is said to have been
handed in to the Palmerston (N T ) Council by the
author, Sam Gee Lee, a son of Confucius, who
wanted permission for his countrymen to fill the
air with rockets, and to tow stuffed idols about the
streets, and to taint the balmy zephyrs with homi-
cidal fumes in honour of a certain two-headed
deity with sixteen feet which is much esteemed by
the silent men who fry the stolen dog in the em-
bezzled pan :
“]) iar Sir,—Please give an order for to-night, 8 to 2
o’clock at morning, to festival day of ghost superstition,’!
Sam Gee Lee got his order promptly,
• * •
Since the Imperial Institute subscription
list was opened £lO,OOO has been absorbed in
salaries and office etceteras, and this splendid
going concern has already exceeded it* income—
viz., interest on capital—by about £l3 OCO. What
shall we contribute to the good work, dear friends?
The entire medical faculty of Australia
seems to be agreed upon the point that there’s
nothing half so sweet in life as the new Melbourne
Morgue. When Dr. Manning, of Adelaide, visited
this lovely spot, he left a memorandum stating
that he had never seen anything so perfect in al
its details, and that even when the Morgue was
filled with corpses the “atmosphere was not ob
jectienable.” The dead ’uns fall into a beautifu
decay on delicious marble slabs, snd it is real joy
to be there. This glory of the Melbourne Morgue
is again referred to because we hear that it has
been found necessary to have a policeman on the
spot to keep people from suiciding right there, in
order that they may become a perfect detail,
• • •
Thackeray was not far wrong when he
hinted that every foreigner (European) has a pro-
found belief in Lis fafal powers of fascination over
English women. Last week a heavy-jointed
young German shot himself in a railway carriage
at Melbourne, his nerves being weakened, he ex-
plained, “because two young ladies with money
and five married women” wanted to take his
Teutonic ielf to their yearning bosoms, and
therefore it was impossible that be could marry
the particular girl he had got in his fishy eye.
The inflated ciank was apparently afraid that the
two maiden heiresses and the five amorous matrons
might anroy his bride by singing ballads to their
beloved German under the bedroom window, to
the effect that he had better fly with them and be
their love. Somehow this reminds us of our ex-
periences at a certain Lunatic Asylum dance, in
the days when we were young, fresh looking ard
very splendid about the shirt-f/ont. Eveiy
bles-ed female patient, in turn, made proposals
of a tender chars e'er, and one red-faced fema’e
lunatic (who had buiied about 17 husbands bsfore
her brain gave out) became so ravenous in her
love that she began to eat cur head ere the keepers
tore her from ber prey. We never went to
another Mad Ball. We felt that we were too
beautiful. Were such an experience to befall a
German or a Frenchman, he would rush outside
and blow himself up with dynamite, having first
written on a slip of paper—“ lam dying for the
sex,” or words to that effect.
j • •
A deputation from a bush township waited
on the N Z. Premier one day lately, and requested
him to remove the post office from the premises of
the local storekeeper, “ Jmt consider,” said the
deputation, “ how awkward it would be for a man
who owed money to the storekeeper for groceries
when he came to make a deposit in the Post-office
Savings Bank.” “It would be awkward,” said
the Premier,” and serve him right, too ; let him
pay his debts before he banks his mone^r,”
Once more the all-important query has
cropped up as to what constitutes habitual intem-
perance, or how many glasses of liquor a man can
lawfully carry every day without being written
down a toper, A Mudgco (N.S W ) alderman
once swore at a crowner’s ’quest that he thought
20 whiskies a day was a fair thing, and the man
who would ask for more was a bog. That deck ion
has, however, just been modified by 33 per cent,
across the border. A man named Kelly died in a
certain Victorian district whebe every resident is
either a Kelly, aßy an, or an O'Rourke. He left
all his property to his widow, but his other re’a-
tions contested the will on the ground of mental
incapacity brought on by excessive drinking, and
they positively swore that he averaged 30 glasses
of whisky a day. The good old priest of the place
deposed, however, that he had known deceased
for many yeare, bub ha had “never seen him
r»mboozled.” As this will was allowed to stand
it is evident that the Victorian law considers
30 whiskies a day “a fair thing”—at least for a
Kelly—and, by the way, “ ramboozle” is a valu-
able addition to cur “well of English undefiled.”
We thank his rivirince for the word and—“here’s
at him ” in a dhrop av rale mountain dew.”
• * *
Our old friends, James Hennessy and Co ,
of Cognac, consist, it seems, of four persons ;
Messrs. Jacques Richard Maurice Hennessy,
J acques Francis Henry Hennessy, Armand
Oastilion du Perron, and Emmanuel Casbaigne.
We mention this so that people may know whom
bo curse when they have “a head on ’em.”
* * •
Some of the Murray Ei rer vlgnerona are
this year employing large numbers of Chinese.
It is indeed a blessed thing to think as you hold
up the rosy liquor to the light that there is an ex-
cellent chance of the exhilarating draught con-
taining the germs of both small-pox and leprosy.
FAN v. YAWN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Although New South Wales may boast
Of a lord who rules the roast
With the weariness innate in every toff—
Which weariness is part
Of the true vice-regal art —
In Melbourne, just now, they are better off.
We could never sing the shape
Of the Cariogtonian gape
Any more than we could hope its breadth to span,
But we fall upon our knees
In entrancing ecstasies,
And we rave of Billy Robinson, his fan.
It may sound a bit absurd,
But ’twas first at Richard Third
That this breeze-compeller came to be the rage ;
By some hundreds on the melt
Its sweet influence was felt
In the gallery, circle, stalls, and on the stage.
It was built of sombre silk,
But, like others of that ilk,
Gained a brightness, not inherently its own,
From a patch of painted flowers
Which throughout this world cf ours
Must ever to mankind be quite unknown.
There, within the Guvnor’s box —
Fitted now no more with Lochs
But wide open to each music-mad B flat—
Working hard to ‘ 1 raise the wind,”
Feeling much too lengthy-shinned,
William Wobinson, the Hacting-Gnvnab, sat.
And while we clutched our chairs,
Fearful lest vice-regal “airs,” *
In the shape of that tenifio “over-draught,” ‘
Should blow us from our seats
Down the length of several streets,
We suddenly jumped up and wildly laughed.
We had got a happy thought
With our wonted wisdom fraught,
And we ceased to yell out, “ ’Oist the bloomin’
rag! ”
But each time that fan was spread
We wished muchly we were dead,
For we knew he advertised “ Unfurl the Flag.”
But we sing a song of praise
When the South-wind gently plays,
For we know that Bill’sa-farming on his lawn—
“ Vive la Rain ! ” we gaily shout,
“ He has broken up the drought ”
And a fruitful fan is not a Baron yawn.
0 ! what a gem is Baron Bob,
Of-fic-i-ally speaking:
A better fellow for his job
Than Wobinson wants seeking ;
And Loch, as anyone could tell,
His love of work did bri-dle ;
They’ve learned the art of being—well,
Most strenuously i die.
Now hither comes our dear Kintore,
And Onslow’s on the spit, too ;
Towork they doubtless tbink’s a bora—
We therefore ask them not to ;
Bill Wobinson or Bob maybe
1 Up to their pals will si-dle,
And whisper, “Do the same as me—
I'n\ strenuously i-dle.”
Let other people slave away.
With soarely time for jesting,
While Governors devote the day
To looking interesting,
Or singing (as the gay guitar
They nonchalantly twl-die*)
“We are, we are, you know we are
Most strenuously i-dle.”
* Xwldle— To touch I'ghtly.
THE UNFRUITFUL VINE.
The summer’s vine is fresh and green,
Bub Semers Vine, who tries to mesh
Us subjects of his Gracious Queen,
Assumes that we are green and fresh.
The summer's vine bears luscious fruit,
Bub S smers Vine, the bard believes,
Will nothing bear till, vexed and mute,
He takes his noble trunk— and leaves.


THE SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 King Street.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
3 years P« cent.
12 months H P«* cent.
6 months ... P° r cent.
3 months % P er cent.
For the past three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager.
la Bight Sweats and Prostration
USB HORSFOED’S acid phosphate.
Dr. Cnis. Cutmore, M.R.C.S, 5 Hogarth-road, Ken-
sington, S. W , eays: I have found it extremely valuable
in the last stages of phthisis, where exhaustion had B't in
after the night sweats. Also in debility and prostration
arising frt m levers. In atony of the stomach in dyspepsia
it has done me good service."
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. 4V Branches In all the Colonies and In the United Kingdom. ,
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 10,1889.
My Dear Moobabinda—
I have"just received^the following:—My Dear Miss
Sappho,- As you thirst for knowledge, of which “ News'
or “ Knows ”is only a corruption, and because I love you,
I lie (on a bed and in bandages, not on paper) flit as I
indite tbis to you. lam in hospital with! a broken leg,
and was bemoaning my late when a gleam of light shot
into the ward and remained. Have you ever been (except
as a visitor) in a hospital ? The female habitudes have no
waists, and no clothes, only bagginess and bags. What
do you say, then, to a lady-matron dressed ; not clothed,
but actually properly dressed 1 Morn, noon and night,
tidy and shod. With my eagle eye; I saw at once that
something was wrong ; either that hospital matrons and
nurses are generally chosen from the great undressed, or
that my sunbeam is an accidental legacy, or„iperhaps re-
former. You know me, mea Sappho pulchrissima, and
know how I bate and despise dowdiness, and, therefore,
you can conceive that my bones are knitt’ng and my
spirits reviving to such an ex'ent that the doctor felt my
pulse to day, fearing fever. Still more am I delighted to
find that fine feathers are in my case a sign of a fine bird.
111 lay my splints and bandages to a pint of hospital tea
that she, whose pra’ee I sing or say, has here she ic-
Yours, Scotty the Wbxnklbb. P.S. — I have, since writing,
had a relapse, caused by the visit of a Salvation Army
female sergeant.
I hear that at a ball the officers of the Egeria gave m
Hobart on 22 id March, the decorations were so strictly
naval in character that even sailors in holiday rig helped
in the general effect, while the ship’s diver, in his working
suit, stood in a corner and held a tray containing pro-
grammes. Daring the evening a jouth, thinking the
latter was merely a figure in a diver’s dress, posed himself
alongside the supposed dummy and made a leaning pest
of its shoulder; to his intense surprise the object ad-
dressed him thusly Hold hard, mate; these togs are
quite heavy enough .to.', support without your weight
extra.” I) was a great shock to the young man, and
several whiskies were necessary to brace him up after it.
No one fell over Lidy Hamilton's dress this time, so the
ball was a greater success than the last given by the same
gentlemen.
Apropos of the see more” costume, the Americans will
have a rather Puritanical sort of time under the new Pre-
sideutess, for I read that at an inauguration ball Mrs.
Harrison was “ with great didimity persuaded to wear a
moderately low dress of thick white lace,” as she believes
very strongly that low-necked dresses are always im-
proper and not infrequently indecent.” Then the Presi-
dent is bitterly opposed to routd dances, and taking
them “by and large ” the new leaders cf the United
States are going to make things unpleasant for the “ bong
tong ’’-for what is life to the average society girl unless
she can wear a wa’.stband with two little tulle straps and
waltz every item on her programme ?
The sunburnt Bananalander is requested to fall pro-
strate, sobbing bitterly, while I read to him the following
blighting S.M. Herald announcement
Queenslanders may be interested to know that by re-
fusing to accept Sir Henry Blake as their Governor they
have moat probably missed seeing a Dike and Duchess at
Brisbane. Sir Henry and Lady Blake have been staying
with the Duke and Duchess of St. Albans previous to set-
ting out for Jamaica.
Now, aren’t you sorry? The Duke was to have come in
his “yot,” too, and Queenslanders have missed the great
and glorious privilege cf paying his Grace 2s. 6d. to
saunter through the vessel on “ select ” days or take a
flight through it in the rear of the lowah ordahs on shill-
ing afternoon?. O you wretched people !
divorcs troubles, yet I fancy that the real Simon Pure—
or Impure—is seldom mentioned. You may remember
that when the Donegals (then Earl and Countess of
Belfast) were doing Australia I ome rather odd remarks
concerning the noble Countess used to be whispered
about, and by people who have a keen scent for scar dais.
I don’t know whether there was any reaeoa for those
naughty innuendos’, and I fear your Sappho wili have to
get her to a nunnery before her last vestige of respect for
man is fl aally destroyed. The Marohione-s of D. is childless
and more than 20 years younger than her aged lord. But
she is, what Tom calls, “pretty old in the tooth’' herself,
so if the awful charge is proven I shall put on my ver/
severest frown and deolare that she ought to know better
at her time of life, indeed. Why, the soapiest of clergy-
men couldn’t call her “ a lamb gone astray,” as the Rev.
described one of his choir-girls only a lew Sundays
back.
Nothing more seems to bs said about Lady Robinson
coming out to join dear Sir William in Melbourne, so I am
gradually arriving at the painful conclusion that she
doesn't find it convenient to come at all. Rather strange,
when you think about it, particularly as the highly-
re spec table old lady who is understood to rule us has ever
been so strict in her ideas touching conjugal relations, &o.
Sir W. Robinson will never get another Australian
Governorship proper while his wife remains at the oppo-
site end of the world, no matter what her excuses may be
or how affable the musical grass-widower may make him-
Eelf while doing his six months at Melbourne Government
House. Clara writes me that when Sir William gives his
august patronage to the play there is always a neat petti-
coat or two in the vice-regal box, and His Ex. has quite
the appearance of being in the bosom of his family, which
is very n'cs, indeed.
Talking of theatres, the cultured Robinson is a staunch
supporter of 11 high art " on the stage. On the opening
A DIRE COMPLAINT.
SMITH: "Great Scott! That you, Brown? Why, what a change! You’re as
thin as a rail and you’re shaking like a leaf! What have you been doing
to yourself? Not late hours, I hope!”
BROWN : “Yes, I’m afraid it is late hours. There’s a piano come next door to
me lately and it never-never leaves off, and I can 't sleep. I am suffering
from cerebro piano meningitis-I think the doctor said it was."
night of “ Richard III.” he sent a message of congratula-
tions to Mr. Milo, adding that he would have liked to step
behind ths footlights and personally thank the tragedian,
but as he found that no former Governor had established
a precedent, he was afraid such a new departure might be
considered “bad form,” Under the circumstances nobody
would have suspected the enthusiastic Wobinson of
“ ulterior motives,” because we all know that “ Richard ”
isn’t a leg-show.
Rather a well-dressed crowd turned up at the Congre-
gational Hall, Melbourne, on the 3rd, when Lady Clarke
opened a sale cf gifts in aid of a shelter for newspaper
women and girls. The shelter, please understand, is for
those poor creatures who sell newspapers in the streets,
not for us wealthy females win earn an occasional bonnet
by inking our fingers. After D-’. Sevan had prayed that
the work in hand would increase and multiply, and to
forth, Lady Clarke spoke a fe v words, and then set a good
example by dropping lots of sovereigns at the stal’s. A
feature of the show was the really beautiful singing of
Miss Frederica Mitchell, sister to Madame “ Melb»,” who
has just been re-sngagel lor the Italian opera season at
Drury Lane.
A friend of mine had a funny experience in Hobart
lately. Not long since, when no girl was happy
if her hair exceeded half an inch in length, she
joined in the general “ crop,” but afterwards, disliking the
bare appearance of the back of her head, she made a neat
coil of the hair out oft and fastened it securely to her hat
by the elastic. This arrangement answered admirably,
till one windy day while walking near the P.O. her hat
was blown off and went rolling down Macquarie street,
her hair unwinding as it went. She rushed after it,
vainly making frantic dashes at it with her umbrella,
until at length a gentleman picked it up—a most deplor-
able object with hair hanging from it—and gravely
returned it to her. Although a perfect stranger he has
won her undying gratitude by his unsmiling aspect, for
she knows he must have been just dying to laugh,
A new-ohum gentleman has shown me a letter of intro-
duction to one of our Governors, which he brought out
vuth him from ‘‘home.” It is written by a fifth-rate con-
cert singer, who addresses the vice-regal person by a pet
name, and goes on to remind him of the dear old times.
My friend has wisely decided not to present that letter.
If he did, I suppose would put on an official
stare and deny any knowledge of his fair correspondent.
I rsad that.
Well-kept clothes are essential to good dressing;besides,
clothes that are well oared for will last t wee as long as
those that are neglected. They can be 89
by careless handling when not worn as when in use
Dresses thrown on a chair or hung in a crowded
under other heavy articles are certain to be creased and
icilured. Laces, gloves and ribbons tossed into a drawer
with other articles will not appear fresh and neat when
worn.
All o! which is worth remembering, my dear, unless you
wint your maid to revel in a boundless wardrobe, while
your milliner’s bills get as long as a parson s face on a wet
Sunday. Apropos of drsses the latest evening wear for
very young women is a waiet (they call bodices wais s
now you know) of cream or white pongee silk, low-necked,
with short, puffy sleeves, A smocked Vis let in back and
front of the waist; they have no lining and are worn with
a soft belt, which strikes me as being quite idyllic. I do
hope those middle aged girls won’t take to them as they
do to sailor hats ! It would be t imply awful to see them
sit in a childish get-up like that!
This is a true, sad story—sad for those who yearn in a
demccratio direction—about a St. Kilda (Melb.) hash-
house fairy and a wily and unremunerative boarder with
a large appetite. He had not paid his little account since
he came, and the atmosphere got gloomier and gloomier,
until one morning the hash-dispenser made a veiled sug-
gestion that a certain young man must either pay or go.
The w. and u. lodger spake not a word, but) merely fixed
a gardenia in his button-hole and sauntered to office, and
during his absence a post-card came for him. There is
no woman who could refrain from reading a post card
this landlady was no exception. She read: “ Why didn’t
3ou cone to dinner last night ? Mrs. and I expected
3'ou. Come Tuesday without fa I.—Yours ” and here
followed the signature of a magnifi lent Tooraker ! The
bait took, and at latest that young man had neither paid
nor left He just stays and allots his landlady to bask in
his reflected glory.
The fourteenth smcke concert of the Sydney Orpheus
Olub came off on the 3rl inst. at Aarons’ Exchange, and
was a “puffik success,” if Fred can be believed. He
simply raved about Mr. Gilpin’s rendering of the “ Devout
Lover" and became imbecile over the “ Kaiser” quar-
tette perpetrated by Messrs, Allpress, Sohmellitscheck,
Rice, and Straus.
At the inquest (creepy word, isn t it?) held over the re-
mains of a Melbourne tailoress who felo-de-se'd the other
day, it was elicited that the poor girl hid been wont to
eirn the magnificent sim of halt a crown per week. I
hope she will get a whole crown now, anyhow.
Fred tells me that statistics (always unintelligible to
me) go to prove that men live two years longer than they
did 30 years ago and women three years and four months.
Comforting, isn’t it ? though one wonders what conduces
to such longeviiy, considering the tightness of our corsets,
the burden of our bustles, the “drag” of our lead-weighted
draperies and our Ligh-heeled boots. Apropos, high heels
are to be tapu this winter among the “ besi ” people, and
absolutely heelless evening shoes will be worn.
Your own S.ppho is very pleased to keur that Mr.
Touoh-of-the-Sun Leitch, is progressing favourab’y after
the second operation. When Sawbones told him another
carving match was necessary, Leitoh whispered, “Very
well, doctor, only try to leave mere of me behind than
you did last time.
From a Sydney dai'y
A COMFORTABLE HOME for 2 gentlemen, bath,
gas, piano, lata dinner, mending, ’bus, tram,
stop door, musical evenings, lunch, latchkey, 20
minutes town, terms £l.
And yet people cannot understand why men don't marry!
A correspondent tel's me all about a valedictory garden
party given by M-. and Mrs Alick Osborne, of Kangaroo
Valley, previous to their departure for Yewrope. Mrs.
Alick Osborne was presented with a gold and sapphire
bracelet, while Mr, Osborne cime in a bad second (I quote
my correspondent) “ with a b;autifully illuminated
address from his tenants.” Which sounds quite baronial
and old worldy, does I’t it ?
Little Twopenny has a sleepy servant—from the bogs—
who will not gel up in the morniog. The baker, the
butcher, and the milkman, all bound by special agreement
to arouse her, come and go unheeded, and the appeals of
irate Mrs. Twopenny never set her going under three-
quarters of an hour. Little Twopenny, who is quite sure
he oan manage servants better than his wife does, under-
took to cure the slumberous maiden. So he stayed
away from the offics one morning, allowed Mary to
have her sleep right out, and when he heard her
stirring, after 13 solid hours’ rest, at 10 a.m , he took a
cup of tea to her bedroom door expecting to see her
quite crashed with humiliation. She was not in the leas}
overcome. She only remarked, “ Begorra, if you’d bring
me a cup of tay ivry marning yer house ’ud be worth
livin’ in, and a gurrel ’ud have seme ha’rrrt to put up wid
yer tempers and ways.”
If I were a leading milliner I should certainly start a
«' Parnell” hit. It would sell splendidly just now among
the servant-girls who, to do them justice, are always
ready to back their political opinions, which are intense,
with their money, which is immense.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
M'ss LUiian Gilmore Ib going to be married
to a Melbourne lawyer.
Ninety thousand Americans have already
booked berths for Paris Exhibition !
In a recent issue of the Sydney E. News
were no less than 14 “In Memoriam ” notices to
one Michael Purcell.
At a recent little dinner on board the
Messageries Maritimes steamer Yarra, the gallant
captain permitted only one toast—“ The Ladies."
How like a capting !
A new patent. —No. 1225, February 7 :
W, A. Elliott, of Footsoray, for Elliott’s improved
rotary heels far boots and shoes. Isn’t colonial
fcesr enough without this invention of the devil 1
An otherwise uninteresting recent debate
(among the members of a Biitish learned society)
on “ tight lacing ” was livened up by a remark of
Dr. Hoyle that “ no woman regarded herself as
properly dressed unless she felt a little uncom-
fori able ”
The Qieen takes only a glass or two of
dry wine during the day, but has a “nightcap”
o’ Donal’ o’ Glenlivat. We are quite bfginning
to like the Queen. There is, after all, something
in common between her and the most unapprecia-
tive of her subjects.
The AfternoonBuLL(Sydney) again : —“A
third case is that of two children, aged 8 and 5
years respectively. Their father deserted them 8
years ago, and the mother is dead.” It puts us in
mind of the French lady who, when asked “And
who is the happy father this time ?’answered—
“ Je n'ai pis encore chois i.”
Oscar Wilde recently called on a lady who
had just purchased a number (f Japanese screens,
which were standing in artistic disorder in her
drawingroom. “Yon have come just in time,
Mr. Wilde,” she said, “and can arrange my
screens for me.” But Oscar replied, “ Oh, don’t
arrange them; let them occur.”
Balle Starr, a notorious American adven-
turess who was found murdered a few weeks ago
had buried, or bolted from, about 20 husbands in
20 years. And she once shot a man for playing
the role of “lover” to her unmarried daughter.
The feminine code of morality is hazy, uncertain,
elastic and illogical, but the masculine article is a
good deal wuss.
ANS.W. labour agency advertises for,
say, a cook, to proceed up country, wages £1 per
week. The applicant has to pay 10s down to the
labour agency harpy to secure a chance of the job.
In return for the fee the applicant receives a note to
the Immigration Office which at once secures him
a pass on the railroad to his destination. The
employer pays no fee to the agency, and no fare,
for the employe —the very man who can least
afford it—has to pay 10s. for permission to travel
as a pauper, while the Government is swindled
out of a free-pass.
The Argus aid Australasian picnic,
brought off last Saturday week, was not quite
destitute of loyalty and grovel. The staff were
required to assume an expression of joy while
they drank to the health of Her Gracious, and
Mr. A Sutherland, disguised as a splendid British
seaman, s»ng the Acting Gov.’s ‘ patriotic” in-
fliction, “Unfurl the Flag, that all may see our
proudest boast is libertee,” It is rumoured, too,
that the small offspring of the employes were in-
structed to lisp “Da Queen—Dod bess her!”
every time they lowered a lemonade.
The American Etchings Hotel, at the
corner of George-street and Queen’s Place, Sydney,
is conducted from cellar to attic on American
lines. There are Yankee drinks in the bar,
Yankee luxmiousness in the furnishing and
appointments of sitting and bedrooms, and the
cuisine is so thoroughly American that it makes
the average Australian “ guess and calculate that
he’ll go again.” Lunch at the American Exchange
is a gastronomic poem, and American grills,
porter-house steak, and broiled chicken must be
tasted there before the patron can ap-
preciate how much better the Americans live
than we do- The chef is Louis Dallaglio, late
chef to Sir Hercules Robinson and subsequently
culinary monarch at Menzie’s Hotel, Melbourne,
Union Club, Melbourne, and N.S.W, Club
Sydney.
If you had cottoned to 'Eon/ Blake
And taken him as your “ Gov.”
Each sunburnt spook with a real live “ dook
Might now have been hard and glove !
You might have been franking him on the trains
Or letting him “ nod ’’ at the play,
Or giving him cash for some scheme bold and rash
(Most nobles are built that way);
However, you’ve missed all these wonderful things
You must sleep on the bed that you make,
And you never shall look on a genuine jook
Because of your rudeness to Blake 1
I hear all sorts of rumours implicating all sorts cf “ dis-
tinguished” Australians in the Marquis of Donegal’s


Something New in Sewing Machines.
TEE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THE RE SPECIAL ABOUT IT.
fTIHE restless march of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
or the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ng, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
bead. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
bo the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for blankets
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top-sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines—as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
o double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
abour, produce work of similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it —we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING, —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it baa been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
481, 484, AND 486 OEORGB STREET,
SYDNEY,
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN'S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
_ PHILLIP PARK.
Scenic Artists: Mr. Walter Milla
and Assistants.
Stage Manager : Mr. J. Raymond,
in accordance with the expressed wish of a large
body of the Sydney public who thoroughly ap-
preciate the Entertainment which has been pro-
vided for them.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS AND
ADDITIONS
will be made to the
MAMMOTH STAGE.
Under the personal supervision of
CAPTAIN RAISON,
assisted by a body of 200 skilled mechanicians.
KIKKLAND 4 00.-s
JSUSSfiftZS&JS? °’ raUlnß the
TEN EEET ABOVE
its present level, thus enabling persons at the
extreme end of the Grand Stand to obtain a per-
fect and uninterrupted view of every detail in
emotion with this MAGNIFICENT SPEC-
TACLE, and will furthermore obviate the neces-
sity of any spectator standing up.
PAUL WEITZMANN in his daring performance
on the Wire.
ROMAN GAMES,
nnvTATn L ££I ATORIAL COMBATS,
BOXING, WRESTLING, NET & TRIDENT,
Deadly Combat with the Net and Trident.'
The Procession of Priests, Drill of the Roman
Guards, Mr. Raymond’s celebrated Flower Dance,
in which a trained ballet of lady artistes will
assist; living Roman statuary, athletes, gymnasts,
rope-walkers, &c , &c , together with numerous
other attractions.
T * invented an( j produced by
JAMES PAIN, of LONDON & NEW YORK
Be early and secure good seats.
DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yokk-stekkt.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Great Sensational Event to take place at an Early
Date.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA,
Mr. A. F. SMITH, CHAMPION SKATER
OF THE WORLD,
In Scientific and Character Skating.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, ccol, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Pa lac a is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
the well known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassie.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
Metropolitan skating rink,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE COOLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE.
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band every evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and
has been pronnneed Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G. K.
Kirkland and Co., York-street.
SESSIONS :
Morning, 10, for Ladies and Children only.
Admission free, Skates 6d.
Afternoon, 2 30. Ladies and Children : Admis-
sion 6d,, Skates 6d. Gentlemen : Admission Is.,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 7 30. Admission (to all) Is. Skates Is.
Patrons (with own skates), floorage 6d. Season
Tickets now ready.
Pyrmont and Balmain 'buses pass the doors
every few minutes. The management reserve the
right to refuse admission to objectionable persons.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
LAST 7 NIGHTS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S COMEDY
COMPANY.
LAST seven NIGHTS
of
THE TWO ROSES.
THE TWO ROSES.
THE TWO ROSES.
THE TWO ROSES.
ADMISSION—£2 is. to Is.
Box Flan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is. | Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d,
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
Complete and Undeniable Success of
MADAME MIDAS.
PRICES — 55., Ss., is., and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 6,
J. P, MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Batin’! Min; Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP.
Vinegar, Blacking,
*•.. &«., fee,
Stbam Wobks and Bbewkbt:
8A382S STBEET, FLIIMO, S7SNE7
(opposite Goldsbrongh’s Wool Stores).
Theatre royal*
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee; Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Last Nights and
FAREWELL PERFORMANCES in SYDNEY
of the Eminent and Popular London Actor,
MR. CHARLES WARNER.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Maokay’s.
£JYCLORAMA,
THE SENSATION. THE SENSATION.
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG.
A Novelty. History in a Nutshell.
CYCLOBAMA.
There the terrors of war and its scenes of
heroism may be seen side by side with
all that is lovely in nature.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, from
2to 10 p.m. ROTUNDA, opposite the Redfern
Railway Station.
Admission 25,; Children, Is. No Sydney
Visitor should omit to visit
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
OYCLORAMA.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Gee. Rignold.
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 19th.
Rossini’s
STAB AT MATER,
By the Members of the Orchestra aid Chorus of
THE PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY
(Numbering 300 Performers),
Who have kindly tendered their assistance
as a mark of appreciation to
HENRI KOWALSKI,
The Conductor of the Society.
Plan of Reserved Seats now open at W. H.
Paling’s.
Manager for M. Kowalski, Mr Philip Stuart.
Jgl LITE SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the renutation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here y.u are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburb*.
A dmission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling ; Private
Skates, Sixpence., Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen, 455. ; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s.
Roller-bearing, 15s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford-street, opposite the Rink.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Street,
OOLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
The Imperial Laid, Sullding I Deposit Co,
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNGS BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST, SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Alex. Milsop, Esq., J P , Chairman.
H. L. Summereibld, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P,
E. V. Manning, Esq. Wm. Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This C amp my undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
imr Society Business on the most favourable tsrms.
F.xed and Current Dt posits received and Int rest allowed
at the following rates:—l2 M nths, 7 percent, 6 Months,
6 per cent., 3 Months, 6 per cent. Advances to Muni-
cipiliUes on lha Secirity of rates cn very hberat terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Paoperties at lowest
ct rr nt rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
shas?. Arnuit.es purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
prhioipa l , or both. D.vidends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
Doyle’s New Hall, Janee, the best on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escapes.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Junee. Price
Moderate.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
JJ'BWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS
Show Rooms and Manuvaotort t
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS]
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb,
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented,
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, Bs. 6d. extra.
Drawingroom suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Flush, &o. Newton & Lamb,
advt
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
oua alssea, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Rnler and Pen
RacKs. Outside Drawers divided Into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
mtm
Drawing room oabi
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs,
Newton & Lamb,
PIANOEOR ES by R. LIPP and BOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUEELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
advt
Austrian bint-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vbbt OoHFtn
Assortment.
Many quite new deslgni.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
ful—a speciality. Newton & t.amh,
advt
XJKDSTKADS, all shea.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All deaorlptioni
at lowest rates.
Newton ft Lamb,
advt
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
makei also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 11s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13a. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 30s. | Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,|
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s,; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d, |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
EWT O N AND LiMfi!
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERED S
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & * O’CONNELL STREETS.


advt
u
O
H-
N
■n
s
T
o
li,
f
./tetH-TS*
DECISSAt PHILLIPS
Barack Stkeet.
“Mt Tailor," 184 King-street, Newtown. Don't forget
him. Suite to measure for £8 3s.
O n fils last legs—the Kangaroo.
The White Waistcoat party represents
the vested interests.
A publican named Death baa died at Carcoar
(N.S. W.) from alcoholism. Death’s sting was in
tis whisky-bottle.
“ The Press may be the watch dog of
civilisation, but in Sydney it is much troubled
with the mange.” —Domain orator.
Charters Towers having an alderman
called Oarse gives Editor O'Kaue the opportunity
of calling him “ The Carse of the Municipality.”
A heated controversy Is going on In Mel-
bourne Herald regarding “A Tasmanian Ec-
clesiastical Ruin,” We have not read it —we are
not interested in the new Bishop,
CAUTION
LOOK OUT FOH FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over ttie world, and me
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “Hop
Bitters.”
truths.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitter* are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They are compounded from Hops, Buchu, Man-
drake, and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all th*
best and most curative properties of all other Bitters,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, Uiver Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are tnexr
*perations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and In-
firm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
Of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, pr mild stimulant, these Bitters are
Invaluable, being highly curative, tome and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr, Soule’s American Hop
litters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other genuine. T*ke no other.
BRUCE SMITH.
Department o! Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3rd April, 1889.
FENDERS FOR TEACHER'S RESIDENCE.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
TEACHERS RESIDENCE (Brick) at
Iroydon Par* Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and
Forms of Tender obtained, at the office of the
Department of Public Instruction, Sydney
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Jeachers
Residence, Croydon Park Public School, must
oe lodged with the Under Secretary, Department
if Public Instruction, at or before 12 o’clock noon,
on WEDNESDAY, the 24ah APRIL, 1889,
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
tow “* ”“ J Ten j“-H. OARRUTBERS.
OGG
CONSULT
&
Jtl B ME EMINENT
JS SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases rff the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.BULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER,
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book tent on receipt ofSd. stamp.
Everybody should use Pemells latest) best Snow whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age
PUBLIC UOTICE Of REMOVAL
PBAPES-&-SHAW
Are now located in their New Premises. 311 GEORGE
STREET, tlaost Immediately Opposite their Old Place
of Business.
They are Now Opening Up One Hundred AND
Fifty Oases op New Goods specially selected in
the Best Markets of the World.
The New Premises
Will be found the best lighted, best-arranged,
and most commodious for a FIRST-CLASS
GENTLEMENS OUTFITTING TRADE to
be found anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere.
Their future operations will be exclusively con-
fined to the MENS’. YOUTHS’, and BOYS’
GENERAL OUTFITTING. All orders will be
under the personal supervision and care of the
proprietors, and no effort will be spared to please
their patrons, and give the very best value for
money.
The Tailoring Department.
Three first-class cutters are kept constantly
going, and the stock of Coatings, Trouserings, and
Vestings is unsurpassed for quality, style, and
durability, and the prices will be found strictly
moderate.
The Shlrt-Mahlng Department
Is the largest order-trade in the Australian
Colonies, while the stock of ready-made Shirts is
unequalled for style, quality, and finish.
The General Outfitting Department.
This Department is one of the most important.
Everything that can contribute to the health and
comfort of gentlemen travelling is to be found
here, from the handsomely-fitted Gladstone Bag,
serviceable Portmanteau, Steel Trunk, Travelling
Rug, or other minor necessities of travel, such as
Rug Straps, and Luggage Labels or Deck Chairs.
Gentlemen’s Heady-Made Clothing
Department.
In this Department will be found every variety
of Ready-made Garment, from the stylish Gentle-
manly Overcoat to the inexpensive Ready-made
Suits, ranging in price from 21s. to three
Youths’, Boys’ and Juvenile Beady -made
Clothing.
Special attention will be paid to this important
Department, recognising the fact that the child is
father to the man.
Hat Department
Tress’ and Christy’s Hats in all the latest styles,
and the very beet quality these well-known manu-
facturers can produce.
Hosiery and Mercery Department.
It is almost impossible to enumerate the variety
of goods comprised iu these Departments. Scarfs,
Ties, Braces, elegant Scarf Pins, Links, Solitaires,
&. from Welch, Margetaon, and Co., and others.
Hosiery, Undershirts, and Pants, from J. and R.
Morley, and other first-class makers.
Every attention and courtesy will be shown to
persons desirous of looking through our new
establishment.
PE APES AND SHAW,
Gentlemen's Hosiers, Gloters, Tailors and Out
fitters,
311 George Street, SYDNEY.
* Adam Bede s *
Benevolent (Consultations.
“ All thb Yeab Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “ Adam Bede '* will devote to
specific public charities three-tenths of his com-
mission on all sweeps upon four of the great evenM
of the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cup, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. In the three sweeps advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps except those above
specified he reserves to himself the right to give a
bonus to charities commensurate with the success
of the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run at Hawkesbury, April 13, 1889.
)000 Rnlt!>CTll * trll at £1 Each. 4,000:
First Horse ... £l6OO
Second Horse £6OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Sydney Gold Cup,
Run at Randwlck, April 22, 1889.
10)009 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000.
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse ... £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N.Z., April 22, 1889.
2,000 Subscribers [at £1 Each. 2,000
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £3OO ; Non-starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
Aim Bede 1 ! is tbs anh fair method of dravise,
The names o( the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adah
Bbdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and resnlt and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event ADELAIDE OXJP (£2000)
May 9bh, 1889»
The Referee
Young “Dunlop” Sanders, the jockey,
has sold Recall, and goes off to England again by
the Britannia. He ought to get some decent
mounts this journey, although his old fnend, Mr.
Bob Howett, has paid in his checks since banders
returned from the last trip.
* * *
A Scottish Accident Insurance Company
Insured the Maori football team for their tour
through Great Britain. By the end of their 10th
match the Maoris had struck the company for *
broken leg, ditto collarbone, ditto thumb, besides
about eight sprains, &c. The company then can-
celled the policy, returned the premium for the
balance of the tour and instructed their agents to
leave footballers severely alone in future.
» • *
Ted Evans has bowled more balls (5206)
than any other player in intercolonial matches;
his average being 13 42. Garrett comes next with
4554 balls ; average, 19-4.
*• . •
J. B. Benjamin, proprietor of the Ameri-
can Exchange Hotel, Sydney, is the amateur
champion wrestler of the Pacific Slope.
* * *
The V.R 0. holds the first of Its “ extra ”
meetings at Eiemington this Saturday, and gives
£1350 to be raced for by a rather limited number
of moderate horses. Those owners who entered
liberally stand an unusually good chance of pay-
ing exes. # , ,
The expense of the forthcoming trip of the
N Z. Pakeha footballers to England is to be borne
bv the Yeung N.Z. Party. Dr. Newman, M.H R.,
of Wellington, and Mr. Allen, M.H.R , of Dune-
din, are the prime movers in the matter.
» * *
W. T. Harper, of Leichhardt, Sydney,
writes to say that he drew Lochiel in Adam
Bede’s Consultation on the Australian Cup, and
received the prize-money the day after he had
sent in his ticket.
« * •
There is a consensus of opinion amongst
English football players that Tabby Wynyard, of
the Maori team, is the best drop kick of this
generation. Tabby is a quadroon grandson of
Lieut. Col. Wynyard, once Lieut.-Governor of
New Zealand.
« * *
A Yankee firm la boldly advertising appli-
ances for cheating at cards. Here is a chunk out
of their business announcement: —
We have recently discovered a valuable secret by which
you can prepare your opponent’s cards while playing, and
do the trick described in our “ Cocfidential Circular.
This trick is especially adapted to the use of c'ubs where
different games are played, and where detection in any
crookedness means disgrace and expulsion.
* • #
Just before the Thompsons and the Lochs
started to cross the “ herring pond,” Bookmaker
Jce made a few modest confessions to an inter-
viewer, and amongst other things said : ‘ I find
myself, at 51 years of age (to-day), worth £lOO 000.
It’s now 35 years since I landed here in the Black
Bull liner Saldonab. Came out before the mast,
you know, and although I had three years at sea
afterwards I have been in Australia permanently
for more than 30 y.-ars ” £lOO,OOO amassed in 30
years ! There must be something, after all, in
literature —of a certain kind.
Mr. W. F. Lamonby, who has been for seven
years on the sporting staff of the Akgus and Aus-
tralasian has left these journals owing to a desire
to exchange night for day-work, and has been
appointed to tte charge of the sporting depart-
ment of the new Melbourne evening paper, the
Standard, Prior to his arrival in Melbourne
Mr, Lamonby was for 15 years on the London
Field.
• * *
There was big excitement and big betting
over the final running for ihe Botany Handicap
on Saturday, as may be judged from the fact that
21 out of the 32 starters were laid 1000 to ‘ love
by the books, with the object of running out the
cracks, Skinner, Harrison, Eairweather, and
Company, but it was no go as Skinner was fairly
“on the job,” and after putting Eairweather out
in 12 seconds, won the final in 12 1-5 second. One
prominent bookmaker is said to have lost £5OOO.
If the timing was correct Skinner broke the re-
cord at Botany by running yards in the first
heat of the third round in )2 seconds.
» * •
Superstitious “punters” may think It
worth while to follow up the following list of
Sydney coincidences. The Queen won the Birth-
day Cup ; the Prince of Wales Stakes_ fell to
Silver Prince; and Paddy won the handicap on
St. Patrick’s Day.
» * •
Hon. James White will not be the first to
race Australian horses in England after all. Ring-
master, who was sent across the “ heiring pond ’
so quietly some time ago, has made his first ap-
pearance on the English turf, and after finishing
nowhere in the Trial Stakes at Lincoln has an-
nexed the Bittesden Cup at Leicester.
* - *
Dan Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel,
writes the following memo, fer the consideration
of a defaulting turf club “We can’t afford to
go to Sydney to sue them for Ihs amount, but this
much we promise ; ‘ Should the secretary, the
treasurer, or one of the committee ever visit
Bathurst, we will skin him alive and make a
water-bag of his hide, and thsn give the club a re-
ceipt in full.’ ”
•- * *
Sandall, the boxer, haa returned
Sydney after a visit to his relatives in NiZ.
He will challenge Seale to fight for the amateur
championship almost immediately. He has put
on nearly two stone since leaving Australia, »ni
now weighs 12s t. 71b.
CORRESPONDENCE
“P.T.” (Melbourne); (1) A man legally entitled I
to seven votes should vote seven times, if at all. Until
property qualifications are abolished his title to the seven
votes is as good as his title to one. You, b/ suppressing
six votes, may have sent an unfitting candidate six votes
ahead. (2) The “ one man one vote ” cry does not express
a perfect electoral system. Its recommendation is that it
is preferable, and greatly so, to the present system.
There is no political intelligence in an allotment of land ;
there is likely to be some in the densest voter. An allot-
ment should not, therefore, s vamp a man, (3) Property
has no more right to representation in municipal councils
than to representation in Parliament. The contemplated
reform in parliamentary elect! ms will be followed by a
similar reform in municipal ones. (4) This is sufficiently
answered in the foregoing...." Stirrup Cap”: Many
thanks; write again. ...“W. M. White "(Brighton): A
well-written thing, but rather spun out. May use shortly..
“RT.D.” (Paroo): Thanks, bat the items have already
appeared in adifferent form... .“W. J. Gore ” : \ou bad
better write to Mr. G. R. Sims, office of Referee, London,
and ask him to fully explain his petroleum specific for
baldness. We have unfortunately mislaid the clipping,
which wa carefully put by agin the t’me when we our-
selves should be bald. It is true that while waiting three
or four months for an answer from England your taldmss
will be getting no better vary fast. That can't be he'ped.
Kerosene is refined petroleum, but we presume it’s the
raw oil that is needed,..." E.J.W.” : If you want to read
what Mr. Walker real y did say get Hansard. H’s speech,
of which the repor s in the da'ly press give no no ion
whatsoever, was a fair, eloquent, temperate and even a
merciful speech, as he had it easily within his power to
make one of the most brutal and effective answers
imaginable to Sir He nry Parkes ....' ‘ The A dze ;An old
story—printed long ago.... 11 J. 8.” (WoolUhra Gully) ,
Letter on "Spiritism” rather incoherent “ J.D.8.” ;
Many thank?. Hope to hear from you again....
“ Peter Murray ”: Very we 11...." ZZ ” ; The NZ. public
debt is £38.225,537, which is at the rate of £57 181. 81.
per caput, and entail? an annual interest of £1,745 444....
“D. Gibson”: Libel received "Fashionable Develop-
ment” (Brisbane): Yoa are too f ivolous. We cannot
even give, however, the least azare of your verses....
“Billy Khan”: Received....Saburban Agent”; You
would do well to talk the scheme up amongst business
men “Inventor” (Colombo Creek): Your idea is rot a
new one...." Austral” : Devoid of point...."F.H.":
Your screed in dim pencil is unreadable “Pater ’:
Poem not up to standard.. Commercial Traveller”
(Warrego, Q.): There is a blazing libel in every line of
your letter...." J.C.”: Your item is good, but is so
mixed up that we cannot tell what Governor or what
colony you are referring to. Please enlighten us
[Many letters held over ]
Oar large friend, Alice Barnett, Is to have
a leading part in “Dorcas,” the opera which fol-
lows “Dorothy” at the London Lyric Theatre.
Miss Marie Tempest, late leading lady in that
phenomenally successful show, will not make an
appearance in “Dorcas.” The manager has just
paid £5OOO damages and £2OOO costa for the joy of
being Marie’s co respondent, and he will now, it
is said, return to his matrimonial allegiance, leav-
ing the “tart” who tempted him to lock after
herself.
Dear Bulletin, —Gambling la as much a
part of human nature as love. In some it is
developed to an abnormal and dangerous degree,
in others it is latent, dormant, inappreciable. If
betting and consultations are suppressed, there is
always the kip, the peter, or the broads to fly to.
The Prince of Wales gambles, in fact he is a bad
loser, and, therefore, a bad gambler. He got the
cut direct at the Carlton Club because he, in pay-
ing a rubber, dropped a sov. on the_ ground and
did not pick it up for delivery to his adversary.
But we hear of no prosecutions for gambling in
high places. Cannot we, the lovers of the humble
uncertainty, be left alone in our attempts to spend
a sov. soberly instead of purchasing 40 beers ? My
object in addressing you is to let the public of
Sydney know what good can be done by a legalised
permission to risk your surplus dollar. In New
Orleans, the genesis, construction, management,
equipment, and completion of perhaps the finest
Fire Brigade in the world were due to the en-
terprise of one Howard, and the funds poured in
from the percentage on the Louisiana State Daily
Lottery. Mr Howard was granted sole permis-
sion to establish and conduct this scheme, con-
ditionally, viz, that he should guarantee the
equipment and maintenance of the Fire Brigade
and Hose Companies. The Lottery is something
Icn the principle of Pak-a-pu. You pay your
I dollar, choose nine numbers out of 88, I think,
and if at 12 o’clock you have a certain number of
corresponding figures thown on the notice board,
you gain piizei from one dollar to several hun-
dreds Go thou and do likewise.— Scotiy the
Weinkler.


.BARBEES’
SUM HOUSE.
—Hairdressers—
Xf you want EVERY or any REQUISITE for
Fittirg out or Famishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
CRiIG & AITKEN’S
N. 5, Wales Barbers' Supply Eon's,
Where you can get, at lower prices than
at any other House in the Trade :
Hairdressing Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPE'S HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (in Bottle & Bulk),
SPRA.YS, ANTIQUE OIL,
COSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISE,
And Every Other Necessary,
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial „ from £2 10s,
,-v v
SOLE AGENTS for the CELEBRATED
“ IPI-cim ”
AS" RAZORS and SCISSORS It
Complete Saloon Outfit
FROM £lO UP WARDS t
Assistants Engaged for Town A Country
Customers.
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco & Cigar Merchants
And IMPORTERS,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
in the Trade.
All the Leading Brands of
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
<,
SOLE AGENTS fob thb
ARMY & NAYY
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
H! SWEETHEART ciwiiri
An Immense Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, etc., etc.
Silw-monnled Ueerschaum and Briar Pipes
A BARGAIN.
Bend for our Price List and judge for yourselves.
Note Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tobacco il Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET
(next to Priddt & Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
An E agllah democratic paper asks has It
ever occurred to the “ British Socialists to induce
such of their order who are Christians to join the
Salvation Army ? The Army is a democratic
body, containing an enormous multitude of ready-
made enthusiasts. The work which could be
quietly done by discreet propagandists in the
ranks would be incalculable." The opinion of
this writer agrees with the views of the Rev. J. S.
Hill, a Church of England clergyman of Auck-
land, N. Z., and who laboured for a number of
years in the East End of London, He told a
writer to The Bulletin, some years ago, that it
only required the Salvation Army to embrace the
dogmas of Socialism to place in the hands of its
leaders the power to revolutionise the civil and
ecclesiastical Government of England.
A Lovblt and Dklicatb Complexion.—This Is ob
tainedby using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harm leas milk for the face, hands, and arms; it remove
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth ■
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands'
articles.
Old Foh, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouelllen, Madeira,
Unseat, Sokay, Ac. Unequalled High-olaii Wines are
mly to be had from Hookinob of 410 Qeorge-itreet, nnder
1 arthall, chemist, near King.street.*
E. C. ELEY
advt
&
&
s
#
&
<F
V
<
y*
*
advt
JS
&
o
$
o
v
Jr
o
</
V
o
air
# vv '
O'-
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY.
Lor.don Economist thinks there is a dan-
ger of monarchy dying out in Europe owing to
the increase of insanity in the royal families. It
is far more likely to die owing to the increase of
sanity in all the other people’s families.
A perfect gem from the cableman :
The proposal to exclude from the Reuse of Lords peers
who have been guilty of oertain offences has been rejected
by the lords by 59 votes.
“ Why, oerb’nly.” Ib isn’t the Lords who want
to have the House of Peers reformed, is it ?
For if all the Lords who have done those things
They didn’t ought to have done
Were bundled out of the House of Peers
Who would remain ? Not one.
The Lords all abhor the Decalogue,
To break it is one of their feats—
So if they “excluded” ail sinners—why
There’d be nothing but empty seats !
William's Auitiallaa InieatlsM li dulh la all Imhli.
Simple In Application—sure In eSeot. this la lha only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Inseote, while It le perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosqmvos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to Ihem. Bold In
i. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, SIT King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale teem Messrs Elliott Bras,
and K. Prosser ft Co.*
£2O BV€EBOAED BUCHBUS Jg2Q
Regular shipments of the Best Buokboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x Sin. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
A ustralasla. Call and see ns. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERQ ft 0 0..
• IMPORTERS,
81 Okabbnob Stem jit, Wystabd Sqdabi.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing suiferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
ALLAH A. MARSHALL & CO.
Enoineebs, Ooppebsmithb, Bbasb and Bau Fodndbbs,
TOMm, Fkumbbbb, Gasfittbbs, Ship & Qenebal Smiths, Abu & Medieval Metal Workhkb
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
'sally's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In n
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yaoht and Boat Work of every description In
( IB os Brass, Ships' Single and Donble Action Valve Olosets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appllanoesi
MR ACCORD WORKS, t Haeinarla Him, Sydney, and Stanmsre Road, Petersham.
JC33.©S’ 2^L^013.133.e5,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FA&LEIOS, RETTBEIU & Co., Tannari and Leather Kerchanti,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New Bontb Wales and Queensland. —■
o
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details. Including Machinery,
(moorted Leathers. i an* of the following Special Lines j PEERLESS GLOSS. SATIN POLISH
NUBIAN BLAOKINO Tanners Tool* and Material*. Indent* executed on Favourable Term.'
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
RO
nsuvti
CO
D?
RICHARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably,
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
ov«r FORT? YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
Irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfallness, disccntentedness, weakness or pains
In the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, backing
cough, who cannot honourably marry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of fid. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Fbii.
A STAB AT THE CHURCH.
THE MINISTER (with severity): “And so you do not believe everything you learn at
Sunday-school, Richard?”
RICHARD: "No, sir; not everything.”
THE MINISTER: “My little boy does.”
RICHARD: "Yea, sir. I suppose your little boy has to.” -LIFE.


Basinets Annonnoements.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETINS”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gatll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
“ The Bulletin's" well-known Artists,
L. Hspklns and Phil. CBay.
Price ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, la. 3d. (except Queensland.)
SOLE ASENT FOR QUEENSLAND :
J H. THOMPSON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
GBD. QBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
(@)P
IPES
Ttaa Bast In tha World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS]
Mis GilisM & k,
OLARENO E STREET
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary,
EPPS’S
grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Medfiealo
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured 1
■sssssnsrJ •«-“ { srasar
It, 3. 3, SDBELXANH, Comltim Eclectic,
Bkillrs Sproialist for all Chronic Dibrasrs,
M WIIIIII gTKBKT. IMBOrili.
Any sufferers unable to call can write lor a list of ques-
tions (frbr) by which they can be treated equally well at
*“i r . Kugelmann'e treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
yon are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
onderstand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
•omplete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 19th July 18861
Ve H. 1. Kotrlmahm, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, Ac.
Dear Sir,—This Is to certify that I, Frank B. E. Knight,
menoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went Into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
Without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
lor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
elnes, as all 1 had taken tor the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
■urable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
did In March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
aulous, as all expected I would soon die : and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and 1 can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as 1 ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until 1 was given up to
Ale.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. B.
knight.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, i. P.
MT All Consultations Tree,
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
.provides that No Cost Is Incurred In the event el dona
MOT RRINO BfPRCTRS.
•'
t***
■
PETTY’S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
i :>
4W LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. ■«
sS©t©l, IL/Ca-a^ly-
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
x:-
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
A served on the shortest notice In the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding county j
tore also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can os
lomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! Jiro yidei. TabU
Is H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. KilmiNsteb to make her
dlitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
■rs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
ow
L
For
AIR
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr dr.cc;:> a luxuriant and gl}tsy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, NON-GRITTV Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the ccm-
plexicn. Removes Preckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE dyesßedor
Grey Hair a -permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
advt
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Kazor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIS & AIT KEN, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Hairoutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN.
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock so Importers,
lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many Mends, bbtfi
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by thd
admission into partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office —trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
Kate lichtner <t Co., 32 O’Connell Street.
past years,
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318* GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Aasaranoe Oompaniea.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Ic corpora ted by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed £32.000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K C.B, Chair-
man ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq, F.1.A.,
Deputy- Ch airnc an.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest :
F. r 3 years .. 7 pircmt. I Fori year .. 6 per cent.
For 6 months 4 percent 1 3 months.. 3 per cent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate
seal of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coup ms for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving
a FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc , Collected.
Estates Sub divided and Sold by Auction and
Piivats Contract.
Head Office— lo, HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Waal Sanity.
ESTABLISHED 1849-
head OFFICE:
87 Pitt Sydney.
Directors :
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary :
MORRICB A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES O. COX, M.D.
The Society is now in its forty-first year, and la
the only Australian Life Office which gives
ANNUAL BONUSES.
Policies In Force, over
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over
Accumulated Funds nearly ...
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Divided
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887
86,000
... £33,000,000
... £8,000,000
... £1,500,000
... £3.250,000
£357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
K'NB’g V>ews
0* SYDNEY,
JENOIAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&0., &0.,
318 &EOSSS ST., Saturn Huttf-atu 11.PDi
EATTERSALL'a
lOlim COIIHTiIim
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Bvehtl
throughout the Year. For full particulars ice
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening Newa." Address, “ TattersalTs," sare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per*
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
bo register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
tor reply and the other for resnlt of drawing.
“Magic Meal,"
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OP
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials
G. S. Ybo, Esq., Multrrave Stud Farm, near Windsor ]
"I tried the ‘Magic Meal’ on a horse bad with worms
and he eeeme to be improving last."
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: 11
find it greatly increases ths flow of milk from my oowe, at
the same time keeping them in good condition."
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “I
tried the • Magic Meal' on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he ie in grand condition. ... I consider it
! of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 3s , IJflhs. ss. 6d , 56lbs,
18s. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561b5,, Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Fort within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerkagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Musical.— patent scale indica-
tor, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s, 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Arcade. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s,


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
The eyes of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich discoveries of GOLD, COAL, SILVER,
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT (a certainty) it may, with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES!” BE WISE IN TIME!
secure an allotment in or near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOU.
buyers, SYNDICATES, &0., from £lO to £20,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
Kf NOW is the time to invest your FEW FOUNDS *BS>
MT TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
TIN, and other minerals have been made, and with
Call on the W. A. Agents (G. W. DENT & CO.), and
Numerous Properties for Sale to suit LARGE and SMALL
119 a Eliz aToefb. Street, S3Td.rre3r
We read that “Haddon Chamber*.’ author’d
fees seldom fall short of £BO a week.”
Locdon Figaro describes Governor Onslow
as “ insatiably hospitable.” He will find in
Maoriland plenty of people ready lo keep up their
end of the table.
Colonial papers have been printing a story
abiut an Englishwoman who was supposed to be
dead but was proved to be only in a trance by the
fact that she had moved whilst being photographed
in the coffin as the negative showed This will ha
the death-blow to post mortem photography
amongst Australian widowers.
“Grandmamma,” said a little four-year-
old, one day to her grandmother, “all little
children are found under a cabbage-Paf ?” “Yes,
darling,” replied grandmamma. “ With their
olotheson?” “No; os rtsialy not.” “Ob, then,
that’s the reason ,that nobody can tell me if the
little child to be found to day is my brother or my
sister.” — Tableau ! —Exchange.
A disgvuted Victorian, who, with the aid
o! a “ Colt’s Navy,” bounced uncaremonlousl/
into eternity the other day in marvellous Sm’dl-
bourne, left a letter on his diaphragm stating that
he confided his wife and children to the protec-
tion of God and the care of Mr. Davies. This
reminds me of the pious command of the old-time
warrior : “ Put your trust in God, my boys, but
keep your powder dry.”
Oakaloosa (U.S.) was at one time ruled by
a male Mayor and male councillors, but the
citizens having discovered that their municipal
magnates (like most others) developed nothing
but aldermanic stomachs, tired them out and
elected a Mrs. Mary Soroman as Mayor and five
other ladies—a Carrie, a Minnie, a Sarsh, a Han-
nah, and an Emma—ai alderwomen to back her up.
The change has not been very beneficial as yet,
for the only business the fair councillors have done
consists in the passirg of a by law prohibiting
graziers and farmers from cxiibiting breed ng-
stock in the public streets.
advt
Fashion,
PIT, and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES I
We have in [took
AND
Make to Order
advt
TltE FINEST
Hand Sewn Soots and Shoes
AT PRICES
tH\T
Defy Competition !
advt
A Visit will Prove the above Assertions.
THE CO-OFEEATIVE BOOT ME CO:
376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite Jones and Co).
Australian Roller Flour &. Grain Stores,
CKASVILIE.
Sydney Office: 172 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Stree*),
BRUNTON’S
Patent—E ol ler—Flour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation” of the iurors of the Melbourne
International Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000. Reserve, £270,000,
Wool Season, 1888-89.
REGULAR SALES OF WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wo ila
entrusted to the Company for sile, whether from
large or small clips.
tW Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Pro-
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins,
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G, S, CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
The Anglo-Australian Investment, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,100
Heart Olflce s ■ 84 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENßY GORMAN, Esq , J P.
Vice-Chairman— F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
Loudon Office t - 31 Lombard Street E.C.
ChaWman— Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, MP.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wite and enterprising: management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Cunpaniei.
The amplest security is offered to Depositor?,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations
_ Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
AWKESBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River,
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile frjm the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River,
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
Genuine Swedish made ‘crown
BRAND” HORSE SHOE-NAILS *
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
C. A. FALSTEDT ,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
Egyptian Cigarettes!
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRIITO ”
MELACHRINO .
MELACHRINO
M. Melachrino & Co,,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continenta
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
m~ Have the UUGIifT SiLE in the World.
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best 1
Sole Agents:
WARREN i ROWNi U Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000; 9/- per 100.
» No. 8 „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part cf the town or country, if a-oom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0 , inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
ARBENZ’S RAZOR,
WITH WARRANTED INTERCHANGE-
ABLE BLADES.
The best, most reliable and easiest Shaver in
the world. Used by Teddy Wick, the Champion
Barber, who, after his recent great feat in London,
wrote: —“Your Razors always kept me to the
front during the competition, and you may be
prcud of my well earned victory. They are a
great improvement on the old-fashioned Razors,
and lam delighted with their performances. The
harder the beard the better they shave, I shaved
some nights with them tlindfold, and did not cut
one man all the week.
Price, 10s. per set of four; 14s. per set of seven.
Extra Blades, Is. 4d. each.
May be had of LICHTNER & SOLOMON
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
I
MPEEIAL
EMU PARK,
HOTEL
William Toon ... Pbopbiktob.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
AS. GAB. ,G A B.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 119 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Offiee Hours ; V to 5, and I to 1 on Saturdays-
FOR SALE—Two Grand lYaRr Frontages,
Parramatta ard Lane Cove Rivin. Apply
Bulletin Office.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL
GAMATING. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY,
Works: CLYDE, NSW.
Head Office: 46 CaSTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; Geo. R. Dibbs, M.P.,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D Merton, OunnirgirWorks, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gild hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
nhe directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
tppreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
reated by the latest known scientific methods,
nd a full report and assay given by competent
xperfs on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
Id saving appliances fcr amalgamating and
lorination, together wi*ih a complete assay and
alytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
Uate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
o ssfully worked and developed an extensive and
nr.ilar establishment at Gan tic gar, near Haiden.
For further infi rmition, apply
W B FLETCHER.
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALIA.
The Best Investment Going !
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Ouy Nowl Buy Nsw!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Flans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, ltd,,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas ... ... Manager.
For sale.—t« o (Irani Water Frontages,
FarratraMa and La-ie Cove Rivers. Apily
Bui LET IN Office.
ONiy .
Murder!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywell, of 0
Park street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F. W Saywell & Co.,
6 Park-s'reet, Sydney,
om
1| 1 *
t
lIBU '■ ■" . \
“ I ; ' - JH ‘t«™ranasaaiBiS«Bf
.fni i!
r
■ in
... ,■ ■.
f mw^
EtfOTOD PHOTO-ENB. Cfl.. 8 BEIDDE-ST,, SYONEfj
Tha Oxford Hotef, King Street, Sydney.
: i : y
H. THORPE ... ... Proprietor,
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
SA\JC
kramiiS
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WO RC ESTERS HI RE
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottli
bears their Signature thus —
Without which no bottle of the, original WOP PESTERS fflUM
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on ' Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopperr Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester Crossed and
Blackwell, London, (src., 6rc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.


EMBROCATION
i
'<*Al
advt
JJIBBLB & COMPANY,
SI«R WXIfIRI
AND
—ART ++ DECOR AT O K
M CastlereasA Street*
On* Doob pbom Kins Stbbjw:.
B
ROU’S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE,
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
reseat or chrome discharges of the urinary organs
Sold in Paris by
«J . F H B IE& HI
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Complaints. Sure cure;
14 days. Apply in confidence to “MEDIOUS,”
Box 120, Gr.P.O , Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Peek.
0m
r 6 k
HO
WDEN
WOE NS
WOEHJ
Hom
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Eiilzabbth Strrrt (near Huater St.), Sydnby.
IMIPfI € BSWssES • - Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
■OORPORATBD UNDUE COMPANIBS ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000,
Sydney Office s
Corner of MARKET and TORE STREETS,
SYDNBY.
Melbourne Offices—283, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
■ grant
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of In-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, 5 per cent,
6 „ 6 „
12 „ 7
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
... Manager.
RUSSELL MARSHALL
Robert butcher & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co,,
SAW-MILLERS,
Tinier Merchants and Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, Sco,, In
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—245 Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried on at our new premises,
245 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited-
F. 0. HBDEMANN \
L. C. HENDERSON J
Trust^s
irUBl!ees -
The federal reversionary
INVESTMENT. AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited,
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200.000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia,
Inmiediaite Advances granted, Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest Allowed on Fixed Deposit3 Years. 10 per
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent, ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. : 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
fLatt 0/ BaywtU's Tobacco Oo.f,
Wholesale ensl Retell
TOBACCONIST.
532 George Street
(Oppositb TOWN HALIa),
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 - bales, at 74d= per lb, (free
from seed), Cabi Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. oo 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds.
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
tngs, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608. 610. 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List,
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER~& SOUS,
General Importers and House Fubnibhbrb,
SYDNEY.
HfITABITSHBD 18W,
BourkeS 1
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
p
■" r :
II
JEspB
: r-
m
■■ .■
Uk
n
Msg
te-g
o
I
■riF
□
l’,-T.
SSSp!
1 ? !
.'V;V
i-
PALACE HOT EL
J. A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
G.W.CLARE
Uf MANACIR :
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
i3r NOW OPEN.
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Sprat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by th»
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up iu the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
MT TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. *W
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Inns i SINGLE smOOK, 2s. Sd. in HIGH
/ Entitling tbe Ocenplcr to tbe privilege of
I using tbe Public Rooms of tbe Hotel.
JB3T MEALS can he had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Frill particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
RTHUE D. SPALDING
HOMCEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate, I
will guars ntee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic. Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
NO CURE NO PAY.
Private Uonsumng itoorna ana uaooranory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
p U B L I 0 NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel sad Seatnl Sams Srokn.
and trusts to merit a share of their support It
is his Intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of bin
future clients to the tact that NO CHANGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the ev r n j
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


BWKJgT BOKOBfIA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Bor onto
Megistiguto." Sold everywhere. Price, 3a. 6d.,
55., and 10a. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
HMJtOmK.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Dingman’a electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market*
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de laines, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease-stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
Its introduction Into our households will be quite
* startling domestic revolution.
The Hypochondriacs of the Aus-
tralian Bush
Dear Bulletin, —That there are more
malades imaginaires in the country than in the
town is so evident that it might be of some
use to the community to analyse the subject and
thus prevent the more reasoning of these mono-
maniacs from inducing actual disease by the per-
nicious use of quack, proprietary, and other drugs.
I am the more induced to commit my observations
to paper by the fact that I am at present (with
partial success) undertaking the worst case I have
ever met.
Imagine a hale young farmer who takes a
dose of every medicine that he can lay his hand
upon ! His sole literature (until I induced him to
read my Bulletin) consisted of the printed cir-
culars of half-a-dozm kinds o! pills, draughts and
powders. As a general rule, the Australian bush-
man has an old song-book for his breviary, pater-
noster, and decalogue. I cannot adduce stinginess
as a reason why three out of four station hands
refuse to subscribe to a paper or to buy a few
novels from hawkers. The man who would be
above cadging tobacco cannot see that, when he
borrows my Bulletin week after week he is to
some extent a loafer unless he furnishes a quid pro
quo in the shape of some exchange to which he
subscribes. I have therefore come to the con-
clusion that inertia is the principal cause of
the want of mental pabulum in a bash-hut,
for it is well known that about the most diffi-
cult thing to induce a bushman to do is to write a
letter. Nearly every patent medicine is accom-
panied by a pamphlet and copies of so-called testi-
monials ; and they are sold by every general and
station store. It is natural that a man who can
read will read anything on a wet day or a hot
Sunday afternoon in the intervals of rest and
meals, and the only available matter is in many—
very many—eases the pamphlets above-mentioned
and their accompanying flaring almanacs and
posters.
Now, we have plenty of sound medical
testimony to show thatj especially for youth, the
reading of the diagnosis of disease has every ten-
dency to induce hypochondria. The few old
papers that are knocking about the houses and
huts of non-purchasing readers are devoured over
and over again. I have frequently heard a man
(by invitation) reading Dr £ £ S.’s advice to young
men. Gan on 3 wonder, therefore, that the ordi-
nary boundary-rider and burr-cutter of the period
is frequently, though a presumably sane man, in-
duced either to “ look into his heart and write,”
or (perhaps a cheaper method) to purchase a bottle
of Dr. 0 imminator’s Armour-plated Concrete
Cure for Everything ? That the less intelligent of
bushmen will not reason on the subject is due to
the fact that half of them do not understand logic
and the other half understand nothing. Of the
reading aud reasoning portion many do not take
the trouble to think about wbas may be in the
nostrums, and others are coo charitable to believe
that Youknow’s Floral Crystals are just the
Banana Man’s Sody Acid with some shade of
variation I shall now revert for a moment to my
bucolic patient.
# ♦
After three or four nights’ tough argu-
ment I induced him to give his pro tern, medicine
a fair opening by complying wita the directions as
regards tobacco I could see at a glance than it
was over-smoking that made him sallow and sick.
In four days he was comparatively well, when it
was time to point out that he was not allowed
“ fresh or salt meat, tea, coffee,” &c., and that
therefore the cure was due to his knocking off the
pipe. What do you think his next step was ? He
argued ; “ If the cure has done me good when I
eat meat, &c., why should I not try tobacco
again ?”—and he has actually commenced to smoke
a little although he is visibly worse every day. It
is useless to persevere with or argue with such a
man. The only way is to induce him to take
some bolus known to be innocuous
• «
And this leads me to the opinion that very
few quack medicines are very deleterious. My
experience as a travelling medicine-vendor (own
make) on the Barrier, taught me that it is useless
to attempt to sell any colourless or tasteless
medicine. “ The bottle of stuff,” by which name
it is generally designated, ought to be red or
yellow (vegetable greens and blues are difficult to
obtain) have an offensive smell and a pungent (not
nauseous) taste. Long directions are not neces-
sary, but it is best to name some specific time or
way of taking. A good solid general cure for
everything can be composed of oil of aniseed,
tinctvasp o! camphor, and tincture of cardamons,
with a large quantity of cold water —Darling or
Lachlan water for choice. This won’t do much
harm and is sufficiently nasty. If the patient
thinks it is doing him good, it is effecting the
desideratum.
* * *
From the remarks that I have made the
conclusion can be arrived at that want of mental
nourishment and amusement is the general cause
of this morbid desire to pose as a sufferer from
bilious and other diseases. If bushmen were to
spend one-tenth of their tobacco and patent-
medicine money on newspapers or books I fancy
there would soon be better real health and less
imaginary sickness. I must here say a word about
a very serious matter, viz., the eyesight. Hun-
dreds of sound eyes are changed into chronic
weak, ugly, annoying eyesores by the pernicious
indiscriminate use of infallible eyewaters. Nearly
all of the latter are too strong. If you must use
one, try it with three times its bulk of rain-water
for a start, and to conclude let me tell you that if
you are subject to sandy-blight it would pay you
to hunt up an article written by a Rockhampton
hospital-surgeon about two years ago. I think I
saw it quoted in the Echo ; and as far as I re-
member the doctor’s name was Campbell.
HIRAM ABIFF.
“Mt Tailor,” 154 King-Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarington
“By Appointment.”
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cannot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hote
thoroughly oomfortabe.
Since 1853 Sydney University has received
private benefactions amounting to half a million
sterling.
A Nevada restaurant bears this sign :
“come in An git a squar mele sich as Your
mother Use to Kuk for a Quarter.”
From a Melbourne auctioneer’s advertise-
ment in a Sydney weekly paper
90,000 Acres tor Sale. No selectors, rabbits, or other
vermin.
No; we won’t comment on it.
A Kanaka on the Queensland border is
making a big fortune out of marsupial skins. He
employs a large number of aboriginals as shooters.
He sacked bis Kanaka cook because “he was not
fit to cook for a blackfellow.”
Mine uncle In Australia acorns to call him-
self a pawnbroker- He alludes to himself and his
clerk as “The Royal Imperial Oriental Loan
Mortgage Banking and Discount Company.”
Another insult to Monarchy.
Dear Bulletin, — You know everything,
so I expect you’ll be able to tell me why in
thunder they call China “ the flowery land ? ” I’ve
just come back from there, and I want to know,
because I saw nothing flowery in it —not even the
bakers. Yours ever, Cathay.
Twin fac s printed on the same day In the
telegraphic columns of the papers :
The number of oasas of typhoid to date at Balranald,
N.S.W., is 93.
Two men were charged at the police court, Balranald,
with burying night soil on their premises, and were each
fined four- and-tenpenoe and costs.
Four-and-tenpence !
A patriotic Irish poet has been writing a
little thing, partially his own, about Mr. O’Brien’s
breeches. It commences ;
“ O’Brien O’Lynn had no breeches to wear,
In spite of the efforts of Sexton, Lord Mayor;
But Balfour will tremble without and within
When they put on the pants on O’Brien
O’Lynn.”
The Maoris had a meeting at Waltangl
lately, and one of the principal notices of motion
had reference to the photo, of Te Kooti
'WM7
>5)
** a c, ,
laMjaMi) t
THE WAY OF THE TRANSGRESSOR IS HARD:
A BRIEF LESSON IN ENGLISH GRAMMAR.
which appeared in a late issue of the Down and
Gumtrek Jernil. Various schemes were then
devised tor catching the accursed Pakeha who was
responsible for the publication of the monstrosity
in question, until a red-headed Irishman proposed
“to lave him to his God.” Notwithstanding this
the artist had better not travel the Ngapubi
country just yet.
After going the rounds in England the
following is commencing to appear here :
The practice of commencing breakfast with oatmeal,
says a'physioian writing in the American Magazine, has
caused more dyspepsia than any other single habit that
he can recall.
Bah 1 What a terribly dyspeptic race the Scotch
are I If the Yankees devoted half the pains to
masticating their food that they do to chewing
tobacco, dyspepsia would soon disappear.
A Queensland woman advertises in a paper
up Croydon way :
I, Joanna Mead, am open to " Scratch Pull ” any man
or woman in N. Queensland, of any country, colour, or
creed, for £5O or £lOO. Woman and money at Durham,
Challenge open for two months.
From this it appears that women up in Queens-
land don’t confine scratching and pulling to the
old man’s phiz and thatch.
Councillor Fox, of Adelaide, is indignant.
After making a characteristically eloquent speech,
the other day, he was almost paralysed when a
brother councillor arose and “ warned the mem-
bers of the Corporation not to be led away by the
sophistry of the representative of Grey Ward.”
“Your Washup, I desire them words to be taken
down,” screamed the choleric councillor, “ I don’t
know what ‘ sofa-stree ’ means, and I don’t want
to, but I ain’ti a-going to stand being called names
in this here Chamber !,’
The greatest German humourist is a Jewish
journalist named Saphir. While living at Munich
he incurred the displeasure of King Ludwig by
criticising the royal author’s poetry. An oppor-
tunity subsequently offered for expelling the
offending pressman from the Bavarian capital,
and he was ordered to leave within twenty-four
hours. The court chamberlain, commissioned by
the king, waited on him, and asked him if he
could get away in so short a time. “Yes,” replied
the unabashed journalist, ‘' and if my own legs
can’t carry me quickly enough I’ll borrow some of
the superfluous feet in his majesty's last volume of
verse ” He once accidentally knocked against
some person when turning the corner of a street.
“ Beast,” cried the offended person, without wait-
ing for an apology. “Thank you,” said the jour-
nalist, “ and mine is Saphir.”
There was a young man called Te Kooti,
Who took many lives and much bcoty,
In a cannibal way,
At Poverty Bay,
Because he then thought it his duty—
And now this same party, Te Kooti,
Old, ugly, gridironed, and sooty,
The Poverty Bay
Boys would hang, shoot, and slay.
Because they now think it their duty !
Hone Webere Te Kerenga ( Anglice, John
Wesley the Snag), the great chief of the Mokau,
N.Z., has just departed to the land of spirits.
Wetere, until four or five years ago, was under the
ban of outlawry for having taken part in the
murder of Lieutenant Gascoigne, the Rev. Mr.
Whiteley, and several others at the frontier fortress
of Pukearohe, or White Cliffs. Wetere was the
chief of the most powerful and warlike sept of the
Ngatimaniapoto tribe, and when his three war-
canoes, each manned by 70 warriors, swept down
the Mokau, the paddlers keeping time to his shrill
war song, he was the very picture of a blood-
drinking chieftain. When Minister Bryce ex-
tended the amnesty to him and his tribe for past
offences he came to Wellington to kiss the hand
of the Governor and swear fealty to the Queen, and
John Whiteley King, a grandson of the murdered
missionary Whitely, who was editing a paper
in Southland, journeyed post haste to the same city
with the express intention of shooting Mr. Wesley
the Snag. The Government, however, packed
Wetere off to the Mokau, and so averted blood-
shed. At the time of his death Wetere was in re-
ceipt of Government pay as pilot to the Mokau
River, and nothing pleased the old warrior better
than to be addressed as “ captain.”
Dear Bulletin, —Seeing that Mr. Dennis
makes Henniker Heaton’s speeches, I looked
about for a similar billet. At last I thought to
have struck oil in the Australasian. This is
what inspired me :
Mr. Zox is an accountant and financier. His state-
ments, therefore, are entitled to consideration. Well, on
December 7, 1886, he said that “ Mr. Gauneon cost the
country £7O per hour for each hour that he occupied the
time of the Legislative Assembly.”
“ And dirt cheap at the price,” remarked Mr. Gaunaon.
Now, if £7O an hour is spent on Gaunson’s rattle,
he might give, say a fiver a night if I did the
rough and dirty work of composing his speeches.
But what’s this ?
The loafing swag-man wno occasionally crosses the
Murray with a shilling to spend on an electoral right—
I was just rolling up for Victoria when I saw the
above. I acknowledge myself to be a Murrum-
bidgee whaler. I don’t shrink at the word sun-
downer or traveller. I have even been called a
peripatetic pauper, but I draw the line at “ loafing
swagman.” No, Victoria can’t have me unless
the objectionable epithet is withdrawn.—Yours,
Wrinkles.
A correspondent of an Anstralian dally
paper, writing on the Bishop of Lincoln contro-
versy, remarked that women and clergymen,
being defenceless, anyone who insulted them was
a coward. The fact of the matter is that the
clergyman who is most really and genuinely res-
pected is not the old-womanly man, but the manly
man, who Is able and ready to take his own part,
or the part of those who are really defenceless. All
men respect strength and obvious self-restraint,
and they despise the simpering weakness of the
great bulk of those who take to the church for a
living. Bishop Moorhouse’s bull-pup and his pipe
were outward and visible signs of vigour and man-
liness, and he was respected because he had
emancipated himselt from the fashionable languid
missy -ness of the average cleric Bishop Selwyn’s
vigorous personality and muscular Christianity
commanded respect among the Maori savages
whom he used to thump, on occasion, in fair
stand-up fight, and the Tipperary priest who can
take his own part amongst “the bhoys ” wid fisht
and blackthorn gets the most eggs at Easter.
The respect for musole and manliness, which
are the proper complement of brains, is uni-
versal, and it in no wise detracts from the
admiration felt for the big-brained ascetic, in
whom the spiritual outweighs the material. One
of the best-respected clergymen that The Bulle-
tin ever met was a little, 751 b Anglican parson
who could shove up big dumb-bells and put a
head on the aggressively unrighteous.
Chief Secretary Deakin says that the
Grillies-Deakin Government want to show that
Victorians are re* dy to be Australians. Of the
Gillies-Deakin pattern ?
The Melbourne Evening Standard is to
make its first appearance towards the end of
April. The company is financially one of the
strongest ever formed in Melbourne, there being
among the shareholders leading men in profes-
sional, pastoral, manufacturing, and commercial
pursuits, and with George M'Cullagh Reed-a
writer of the “slashing, crashing, smashing” order
who has earned marked distinction in the New
Zealand journalistic world, as editor ; Jack
Roberts, one of the most popular and capable and
experienced of Australian pressmen, as sub-
editor ; the artful and energetic “ Jimmy ” Thom-
son, of Exhibition fame, as general manager;
John Leech, formerly of the S M. Herald, as’
mechanical superintendent; and a staff of the
moat reliable reporters whose services can be se-
cured, the paper ought to be brought out in such
a style as to ensure for it immediate success. The
directors of the company seem determined that
no expense shall be spared to make the Evening
Standard a first-class newspaper, and it will be
surprising if its advent is not followed by an
immediate rise in the copper market.
Education in Maorlland is national, free,
and secular, and there is as much probability of
the people permitting it to become denominational
as there is of boss-atheist Symes becoming an
affable archangel. Every now and again, how-
ever, at the meeting of the Anglican Synod, some
sad-eyed shepherd in a muslin strangler arises
with a sniff to move that the Education Act be
altered to permit religious instruction in school-
hours, and while a holy and expressive
wink circles round, another sudden saint
rises to second the motion. On which
some sort of a bishop mentions the fact that the
experiment has been tried in N.S. Wales with
“the most gratifying results,” and after all the
clerics have emptied themselves on the subject,
and various formal and awful proceedings have
taken place, the Synod solemnly goes on to take
into consideration the date on which the Syno-
dical picnic shall be held and whether muffins
shall be supplied or whether buns are preferable
from a doctrinal point of view, “and nobody
seems a penny the worse.” Everyone is
agreeable to religious instruction being given
before or after school hours—except the clergy,
who object on religious grounds to getting up
early or working too soon after dinner. At Nel-
son (N.Z.), where the experiment of giving reli-
gious instruction before school hours was tried,
one cleric only out of five heroically appeared once
but never repeated the essay. An hornet old
Presbyterian minister summed up the position
concisely : “ Ech ! but Its joost awfu’ twaddle
this talkin’ aboot gittin’ up in the middle o’ the
nicht to teach dirty bairns their catecheesm.”
Hon. George Fisher, NZ. Minister for
Education, has been putting his foot into it again,
thusly. The other day. at Island Bay, Wellington
(N.Z.), two Iflap-eartd her-.es (Smith and Cun-
ningham) fitced with four feather-beds faced one
another with the balaful glare of homicide in their
eyes. At a given signal they began to saw the
atmosphere with the beds, to aim horse-kicks at
limitless space aud hit it; to counter, cioss-
counter, feint, pant, paw, pirouette and prance,
eventually sloping adown diverse verges of the
sky-line. Presently they re appeared, snorting
black death at each other, softly collided with the
feather-beds, were bottled, sponged, fanned, and
in the fulness of time one gladiator- butchered to
make a Wellington holiday—lay on his back with
one eye closed and the balance glaring at the
heavens, while the victor came forward and ex-
plained to the audience that the foregoing spectacle
was a prize-fight, and that he (the speaker) was
open to fight almost any aged female with a
bolster, and that the other hero, just then engaged
in discovering the latitude by meridian altitude of
the sun, was the werry best man as he ’ad hever
met, that he was. After which the recumbent
lion-heart was picked up and carefully stuck
together with a postage-stamp aud came forward
to observe as ’ow the gent as ’ad just spoke was a
wonner, a reglar tarrer, that he were, but he (the
orator) ’ad adone ’is best and no man couldn’t do
no bloomin’ more’n that. Then these artful crea-
tures retired to count the gate money and have a
real combat over a bad shilling that some heartless
spieler had passed in. Solitary but majestic at
this exhibition, in the only front chair, sat “ Our
George,” Minister for Education. When this
lamentable fact became known there arose an
indignant yowl from all Fisher’s constituents who
—had missed the fight. The yowlers’ fugleman
was Teddie Wakefield, an ex-M.H.R , and once
(for nearly 24 hours) a Minister of the Crown, and
who now edits the Wellington paper known as
the Evening Mangle. Wakefield, who com-
menced life as the conventional “gentleman,” has
been as a politician an icy failure and naturally
hates Fisher, who started his pilgrimage as
assistant to a printer’s devil and has succeeded as
a Minister. As Teddie has lately been delivering,
for various religious bodies, lectures on Bunyan,
Dr. Watts, and Mary had a Little Lamb, it is
surmised he intends contesting Fisher’s seat next
election The electors, however, will probably
prefer Fisher though he should attend a prize-
fight daily and a chicken-mill on Sundays.


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
fUBBiniB DISPENSARY 12 MARGAREf BIKES*
gßMwtii Bulge Yoik Blieett.) P.0.80x Ml. Dl
Bpoot I* * npihi Bndutid Fhyilclan, ilhmM ol
ffimwi College, 0.1. (fox emlmetlen eea Maw Sialaod
Ban Me. laonuy «•», 18881 olao New Booth Wolea
Bnoam. April iflh. 1888). the deetet he* devoted 11
f«wa to the ilody of CHRONIC. NERVOUS, AND
BPHOIAIi DISEASES, foot of Iheae wete to the leading
HttyOai. a( the United Btatee, which enables him to Meat
•II aomplatota with excellent reaalte. All applying to
Mao will teaalve hie honest opinion of thelt aomplatota.
■I ftwf—i—aMnp | no Mercoty need. He will guarantee
a noeltlve tore In every case he ondertakee, or forfeit
Bill. Via reason tor doing so le this—when there le no
»T rll ,l t j| mt « an d nothing bat an Inorganic treoble, or,
ißOther watda, a oonglomeratlon of symptoms predating
a attH" resolt. there Is no reason why It aannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore be goarantees.
Ha withes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
H perform impassibilities, or to have mlraonloot power,
ha alalms only to be a skilled and socoessfol physician
thoroughly Informed to his speciality—CHßONlC AMD
gginclr. DISEASES oi MEN and WOMEN. People
H«wi.f at a distance ean. by explaining their Ireables to
ligiii be treated at home. Che coarse of treatment will
Ml to any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and ad visa free to all. Chargee moderate. H. I.
- ' Sondays from
(■aim.’ to IT am. | I to I and T to 8 p.m
lIM tl a.m. only.
RIDGE’S
FOOD
mIHFANTSuiD INVALIDS
Tt«« pa enormous sale in. Englindj
m 4 Ie now being Introduced Into thi
Colonies. *
Storekeeper should get a supply,
kb evorr wise mother will certainly
use It.
DR. RID OK'S ROYAL. FOOD MILLS :
LONDON,
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
T IFE PRESERVATION
XJ ‘ BY
Dr. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne,
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’ Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
tfliW"wous
wMe.
f/'
-THE THEE OF LIFE
EuCALVPTE Ou-sa.
Victory Ointments
W Hi •ilylTmlliealjvti la IMilffwlit
A WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
fK lihlblllon. First Prize Great Centennial
■zUbltloß, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Bronchitis, Oonsnmptlon, Pleurisy,
Stlda, Coughs, and all affections of the Ohest and
inni nho, for Goat, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
al«. Oar VICTORY OINTMENT stands wlth-
Mk a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
■■■ones, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
Manufacturers of the Bacalypte Pills, Bacalypte
■air Restorer, Eaoalypte Soap, and onr world-
laail Bacalypte Honey is the best preparation
kaiora the public for young children and aged
ewla. Also, makers of thejlucalypte Lozenges
I the Voice. Manufactory —Oootamundba.
■Vlaaf Wholesale Depot-227 Elizabbth-stbsbt.
Vested to any part of the Colonies. Bold Bvery-
Alwars of Imitation*, , J
Announcements.
Vrurap A
V^-
U
KM
IF
. S CAPS ie
SattORCEST
SYDNEY^
02 /uMttUry
Branch ;
678 GEORGE STRE E^T,
BBIOKFIBLD HILL,
(Next to Oralg and Altkena.)
A Wonderful Discovery
Ass
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure dwelling and
dandy Blight, Inflamed Byes and Bids, Djnmeii
ol tight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and cooling
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels them
to strain their recommended by the leading
Oculists.
f The public are requested to notice the
Uaution ! £ or( g ( « ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION," with the Trade Mark {a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
HOSE'S CELEMED ETE LQTIDE,
Not for Rose Eye Botlen,
as you will get a Lotion composed ol Rose Water palmed
oil on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser lor the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
B, A. BOSE, Dispensing IXaufutving Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. '6d.)
Manufacturer ol Dr. and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Spealalist in Nervous
Diseases. He will v on the receipt of a sell-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Herb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W,
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 S;
entrance King or George streets ('
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
■ i; •• lt' : : '■■■'
AUCH’S
(
advt
mMt
m
m
.
a
/IUCH»S
akinc
POWB£“
[*/.
m
MANUFACTURED BV . /
JAML'S Cm ANNO ft cdarboirrS*
JiW ft/ aK SaccM * Sk'e***/>**>: >4
Si<-
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
EEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
8
w
%
3
V
Aw vairwaaHy ad-
mitted to bo worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilioow and Narrow.*
Disorders onoh aa
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
neoa and Swelling
after Meals, Diazt-
neM and DrowaineM,
Cold Chilis, Flushings
of Heat, Loaa of Ap-
petite, Shortneaa of
Breath, Coatireneae,
Scurry and Blotchea
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Kerrous and Tremb-
The first do** will fir*
9k twenty minute*. , . ..... , .
Hvscy sufferer i■ earnestly **7
taK et the** Pill* and thsy will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Wm fsmal** of *ll age* these KU* ■» *«*£“»**
M * few do*** of them carry off all unmoor** ana
Mw about aU that i* required. No female should
be Without them. There is no Medicine to b* found
ami k Beecham’s Pill* for removing any' obetruo-
tfeesr imßularity of the system. If t»««*ccor.
Mm t* the direction* given with each box, they
wflT soon restore female* of all ag** to *oond and
rnfrpM health. This ha* been proved, by thousand*
wha hare tried them, and found the benefit* which
in earned by their uae.
Mr a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
JMcrrdws of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
lew do*** will be found to work wonder* on the moat
important organ* in the human machine. They
etreagthan the whole muscular system, r**tora the
loag lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
eanetit*, arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and om of the
bant guarantee* to the Nervous and Debilitated i*,
BOuEAH’S PILLS Ljc* tin Largnt Bale •/ «f
Pile* JfeKnM *» the Warli.
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Fills.
km a remedy for Cough* in general, Asthma,
Braaohial Affection*, Hoarsen***, Btaorta*** oC
Breath. Tightness and Oppression of the Cheat,
Whee Sag, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the beat ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ef breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient ef rest. Let any person give BBBOHAJaS
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short one be removed.
Beg Sea
tavwenl
Sensations, Ac.
ity minute*.
and
Patsnt
by all Druggists
Dealers everywhere,
gj,- Pull directions are given with eaeh 1
T
8U F F
R B B S.
oornuH pnaoKAUiT o» bt uhb
Cowan and Anderson,
ICIECTIC PHISICIAMi*
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
XSX——
THEY Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
——x:x
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE,
JLbsolute Secrecy observed in all easts,
x :x ■
M.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation tad
securely packed, to aU parte of the (Monies.
++
Non the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
IS! Elisabeth Stmt, Mi Park, Sidsn.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches ;
14 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital Sno
Reserve Fund •••
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facUities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. GIBLIN> Aotln g Manager.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. OOMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the finest hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
Conveyance meets Every Train.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALE S’ HOTEL,
n «nr Opera House, Bourke Street Bast.
This Well-known Sporting House is conducted
n First-class Style. Every.Oonvenlenoe. Centrally
tuated.
Business Announcements.
Ghdness’s Extra Stout*
ruts* quality.
n»aP>£
Bass’s Pale Ale.
"- "■ .3 j
SOL* PURVEYORS to the
BSLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION i
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.,
Seaunerelal Chambers, Bend-Street* Bydne*
m^TCASR£* S %
'■'■A’UFACtUBWG HATUSS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
’ORTERS OrAiLTHE
■ CWEST SHAPES.
AmA at ALBERT STREET, BBBHAWI
JUST FU6BISHID)
A Moat Unique Work on
MEDIOAL, SOCIAL, AND HTGZENIO
SUBJECTS.
It eontalns Information moat Valual
NERVOUS and OTHER DISBASI
For Ita Hygienic Rules are worth Ita
Cleveland Street, Surry Hllla, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Btohr BniHil,
Tasmanian Edition, Publisher* FITE*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (parable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence pci
quarter, or One Found per annum.
Tn Bourns will be.
the office, George Street, or
the street.
e every Friday at
the runners In
C. STEPHENSON
Bil ON KALB—
CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
BUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS, |
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, ftO.
COOPERAGE,
111 KENT STREET, and IU SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Street!,
svnjHan^
«XfiO«S *****
mmmnup
_ m
• «»*i
“ «»fP—
*«*- i
ooST »o hmS
"FOB FRAMING A PICTURE NMA%
AND WELL."
D BERNARD'S Fiorou rad Uonoofl
• B«OM, >99 9oorge-«t»eet (opposite Bofnl
Hotel), is asknowledged to be the Best rat
Cheapest !■ the Colonies. Photos., Bagravlngs,
&«., carefully stsetshed rad ssoanted. Be-gUd&f
equal to new. Mounts eat with seal gold edges.
Special attention paid Bshool Drawings. Flash
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. BTJGENE’S
(Tram Faria)
Ladibb* and Gbntlbhbn'b
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Reqnlelteii
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair,
HOT! TEN ADDRESS—
w ,n- 86 ELIZABETH STREET
(ft few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank);
MELBOURNE.
UIOR BALE.—Two grand Water Frontages,
JP Parramatta and fcw Oaw Binn Amriv,
mnMMw o«'»;


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. t»o 21b.
249 rnr ST., S¥»SB¥ (Near Tatteraall’s.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARB NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENEBAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND OO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
advt
JE*. R« JLXW 9
IMPOBTBB OP
tV WINES, SPIRITS, BHBBS «Sco. a &0, •«
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
tV The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t3T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Beorge Street, Sydney.
tv SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. IS*
nm-CLASS LADIES' RETmiraF DOOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdbbn & Sons).
Produce stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYSYAED SQUARE,
AMD
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, TREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOI BROTHERS.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURC PIANOS
Werioieliu
SEWIHB MACHINE DEPOTS
nr
VICTORI Am
BEHAN’S
IB lac Is: Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
808
BS, CATTLE S IS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, BAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANOHj
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS.
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & 00., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S. Hoflnung
and 00., J. Brash, Son and 00., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbanb; E. Fletoher, Jnnr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V. 8., 33 Pitt Street, KedlerS;
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle
Sold by all OhemistB, Saddlers and Storekeeper*.
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENt.
There is not a country in the oiivlised world when
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneflcient action is at onoe
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER. TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London tar Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
spurious.
THE
Wo/seley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTORALIBTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
" A GENTS :
J, S. G-EDDES Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market.
TO BE HAT> FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdrlau <S& Co.,
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &o.
TENNIS SHOES and BALLS.
amm rubber works, 270 oeorob street, Sydney.
AMERICAN
WATCHES.
r s«
*
.
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
-m-
Or Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
-I : >
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologies! art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
nrevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. , . _ ,
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected In
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Cheonogbaphs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches, the “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. t
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and ail the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof. ___ _ , ,
Waltham Split seconds Chronographs and Mindtb Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
IP
m,
Q££r
CHBOHOGRAPH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Stroot, SYDNEY. ——
