

Aak your
Grocer for
Fry*s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“An ordinary cap contalna more active properties of malt than a pint o the beat Ale or Porter. '^Lanobt,
ELITE SKATING SINK, Bedford and Elizabeth streets, Sydney. K. A. Skinner & Go., Proprietors.
W. S. MALTBY, The Undisputed Champion Fancy and Trick Bicycle liidar of tha World ! j
r" 1 1 ' ;
03fTB 'WEEK OIiTLT.
Commencing Thursday Evening, June 6. Every Evening at 9 p.m. Saturday, June B—Special8—Special Matinee at 4 pm.
Change of Performance
Remember —Positively his only
Engagement in Sydney.
Positively his Only Appearance in Sydney for SIX NIGHTS and
Saturday Afternoon Matinee, To be seen only at Elite Skating Rink.
Maltby, Champion of the World!!
-V
*2*
Jr;
yi
;>■
as~Sa.
K
rt
•*
■J
j a ‘*/Kiir>cMP.«r c.n.sn
J
Maltby, Champion of the World!
Under Contract to Perform Only at
K. A. SKINNER & CO.’S ELITE SKATING-RINK.
*
Positively for
ONE WEEK ONLY!
Six Evening Performances and
Saturday Afternoon Matinee.
W. S. MALTBY, the Undisputed Champion Fancy and Trick Bicycle Eider of the World,
AT THE
SLITE TZXXTXZ O'3^TZJ m Z m -nem
Ud ßB at Mr ~ A bicycle IHe stands erect on the saddle when going at racing speed ;he stands erect on the rim of the bicycle on a pyramid of chairs •he
Tilt • U( * ,OWn * sta “ s without the forks or handle bars on the bicycle ;he also rides on the rear wheel of the bicycle with pedals attached 'over a Se'o-iSaw or
; aad other wonderful and daring feats never before attempted by any other Eider in the world. No Advance in Prices t although secured only at Enormous Expemf"
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
Ml
pUPg
I M
IS I
tr:.
v:
DiXSOPSOMS
£
a
33
O
O
SIR ROGER
50
£
a
Y
o
Mm
□ IXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Migestios
MW
MCA
Etomacli & Liver Complaints ▼
OF AI.L CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
i
ì
springs.)
GH&UDE-GKILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &C.
CEL E3TINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Complaints.
HAOTERIYE. —An excellent Table Watb».
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
la Unequalled for. its Strength and
I Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J, & E. ATKINSON.
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
KTrade Mark- “White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,’ ’ with Address in full.
•Willis- 330. Caxgrill,
Photographic Stock Importer,
30—MARKET—STREET,
SYDNEY-
IM‘LBAN BROS. ! BIGG,I &' ICO. ‘
lEONMONGBBB, ;
MACHINERY MERCHANT^
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
s
IRONMONGERS
512
o
<<✓
o
H
<6
SPECIALITIES’:
Davis* Sewing T Machine, Asbesto® Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light.
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAB COOKING STOVES s—LBONTB FLETCHER’S. JEANS & WALKER’S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, &0., fto.
I FA &PERRINS SAUCE
ADC
* pVpr'*^
Jn consequence of Imitations cf THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pcmns
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bctU
lean their Signature thus —
Os
without which no bottle of the original WOR CESTERSIURM
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRIES' Sauce , and see Name, on Wrapper, jf** 1 '
Stopper , Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester
1 Blackwell, London, (re.,bre. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughput the World.
T. Lawless. Jun.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Merchant.
WALTER HOPE, General Merchant and
Commission Agent, 199 Sussex Street,
Sydney. Consignments of all Produce, Live
Stock, &c., received and realised in the best
markets. Account Sales and Proceeds remitted
the day after sale. Orders executed for all (mods
from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale Prices.
SPECIALITY.—Pure-bred and Pedigree Ptook
of all description Bought or Sold on Commission.
All communications referring to Pure-bred Poultry
and Eggs for Setting to be addressed as usual W
WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg Prize 1 oultry
Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Inbeorlbed Capitol -
Paid-up and Accrued Capitol
Deposits Received .. -
Advances Made
Total Income ~
Year ending
Got., 1886.
£180,425
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,086
Tear ending Tear ending
Got., 1887. Oct., 1888.
.. £SBO,(MW
251.015
_ 1,123,949.
625,826
„ 2.048,951
£431,126
206,686
891.366
807,828
797,990
-<-y-
Itonnaito received at following Rate* :-12 months, 7 P«r cent.} • months. S per
month., 6 per cent. 3p«d.l Term, 10. long., period..
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
REMAIN IN THE BANK
5,T r E ERANOH St the very best opportunity. Deposits in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance,
Hill Ft!NDi~tor~P° rrowers - TE&HS LIBERAL
rf
■■
JL
I
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
<25 Contributing Shares
BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. pe
Share Entrance Eee, and the Payments upon these Shares are 1*
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received in October,
1886, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat a of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
■•n. JOHN nn 10, M.P., J.F.,
WILLIAM OOHKKT*
_ malrmMu
AtUr ;.»e«retaryi
3c
THF - -
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
CORNER Of
ZKllxxg' <Sz> Collirxs sb'txee'ts, Iv£el"toc>"o-XXAS,
Containing 560 BOOMS, U> now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Vlelbore.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Mannlflcantly Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Tab e
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ™ GROUND FLOOR.
With excellent iIW, prodded ever b, an experience dieted b, . civil and obliging ete*.
BILLIARD. SMOKING: READING and RECEPTION ROOMS
_ HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO
Manage


The Bulletin
Vol. 10 —No. 48'.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8, 1889.
Price 6d.
m
A Victorian Musical Critic: Alfred Plumpton.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia #or the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 PITT-STRBET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £,lO 0
Half-yearly ... 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclf.od, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—ivhich you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JUNE 8. 1889.
Divorce.
The re Introduction to the present New
South Wales Assembly of the Divorce BUI
which has repeatedly been approved by pre-
ceding Assemblies, was the signal for an ex-
plosion of sec arian protestations and con-
servative resistance. The occasion was
fruitful of at least one lesson of which the
public cannot too deeply take cognisance.
There are pubi c men la the New South
Wales Legislature who have deserved and
earned the reputation of being ardent and
consistent Liberals, and who belong to the
Church of II ime, Tie proposition of a pro-
cedure diametrically at variance with the
cm ns of their fai.h has sufficed to put to
flight for the nonce all their Liberal 1 s iacta.
Mr. O’Sullivan furnished a striking example
of this peculiarity. No one would deny that
on ordinary subjects the member for Quean-
beyan Is a faithful and devoted exponent of
Liberal seat’menb*. Yet when this Divorce
Bill, which fa more d stlnc ivJy Liberal than
perhaps any measure ever presented to the
N.S.W. Legislature, Is before the Assembly,
Mr. O Sullivan’s Radicalism suddenly gives
place to a strenuous Conservatism, and we
find him s raining arguments the Incoher-
ence and fallaciousness of which, when his
mind Is free from aberration, he would be
the fiist to expose and astail wlih unsparing
rldiccle. lo becomes clear from this that
Mr. O’Sullivan Ib, on one point at least, a
better Catholic than he is a Liberal. And if
this be true of one ordinarily so thorough
and so consistent as the mm who has been
styled, quite as much In earnest as in jest,
“ th j keystone of the Denocratlo arch,*’ln
the New South Wales Legislature, no doubt
can remain as to what may be expected of
other professing of the same faith
whenever their political professions come
into conflict with their religious prejudices.
• •
Another disclosure emphasised by the dis-
cussion of the measure was the embodiment
In the mental constitution of Mr. Copeland
of a strain of dogged C onservatlam. Toe
existence of this partial tendency has been
previously exemplefied by that genera’iy
Liberal member. His ardent Imporfa’latic
tendencies have long been notorious, and
must have been regarded as not easily com-
patible with entire Immunity from Tory In-
clinations. Mr. Copeland’s backsliding
from the ways of Liberalism was the more
prominent In connection wich the Divorce
BIIJ, Inasmuch as the hmdfnl of members
who protracted the opposition to the measure
into the snail hours of the morning was
constituted, wnh the slrgle exception of
himself, exclusively of Roman Catholics and
of extreme churchmen. Mr. O’Sullivan
led the forlorn hope, Mr. Edmonds acted as
lieutenant, Mr. Gormly, who seldtm sets
his fog-aignal a-eoundling, save when there is
an agrarian prc'iet question on the tipis,
brought that chmal organ into appalling
activity. Mr. O'Connor, for the first time
since he has attached himself to the coat-
tails of Sir Henhy Parkbs, emerged from
behind there sheltering curtains, and Lctively
opposed a measure which his patron sup-
ported. In the division on the motion to
adjourn the debate, the carusge of which
would have burked the Bill for the session,
every Roman Catholic present voted among
the twenty ayes, and constituted neatly half
their number.
• • a
As may be supposed, when the constitu-
tion of the opposition to the Bill is con-
sidered, the arguments employed against lb
were of a character quite distinct from those
which the public has been accustomed to
read In connection wish the debates in the
Assembly. Mr. O Sullivan quoted the
New Testament. Mr. Molesworth preached
about the Church of England synod. M’’.
Copeland expressed his uumoveable convic-
tion that existing social arrangements em-
body the perfection of human wlsd m, aud
have never been equalled in excellence in any
nation or at any period of the world’s varied
history. Mr. O’Connor quoted Luther
with an unction which nothing less than a
special dispensation for the occislon could
warrant, or nothing less than a severe
penance expiate.
• • •
lb is futile to attempt controversion of
opinions which are more subordinations of
the mind to alleged supernatural authority.
We shall attempt no such task. It will
suffice to consider the proposed Act by the
same light which Is brought to bear upon
every other proposition of civil polity. What
the Bill proposes to do is to enlarge the
reasons which will justify terminating the
marriage contract beyond the single euffi dent
cause which the Churches recognise—adul-
tery. To the lay mind lb is obvious that,
grave as may, under particular—bub not
under all—circumstances be, the wrongs and
the confusions which are attributable to
marital infidelity, there are other breaches of
the conditions of union which arc equally
vital. ludeed id la only infidelity on the
part of the wife which can be demonstrated
to Introduce social confusion In respect of
inheritance and succession. The Bill takes
Into reckoning, misdeeds which render so-
called union the worst sorb of antagonism.
It proposes to grant release when a couple
find their relations become similar to
that of two creatures of opposite nature—
fierce and furious or foul and pure—
chained a duplicate living misery.
It proposes to grant release when association
is but a name and a mockery, one cf the
partnership having definitely atd practically
abandoned the firm atd lefc the other all Its
obligations and all its responsibilities. It
proposes to s.vor the bonds when one of
tw*ln has become civilly dead. What
would be thought of a system which denied
to one of the physically united Siamese
twins a severance from the other after
that other had expired, and the continuing
bond of union rendered further association a
living misery ? A married couple constitute
social Siamese twins. Tae latter, Indeed,
were twain whom God had joined. These
were indeed one flesh, Yet when one died,
there was no hesitation from performing an
operation which divorced the other. This
parallel Is susceptible of being applied to
almost every cam dealt with in tho New
South Wales Divorce B 11. Had one of the
Siamese twins contracted habits of habitual
Inebriety would anyrne have questioned the
natural right of the other to demand a
severance were a severance practicable ? Had
one committed a felony was it right that the
other should suffer restraint and a blighted
future? Yet these are two of the instances
on which the Divorce Bill undertakes to
grant relief. If husband or wife contract
habits cf habitual drunkenness, the other
can claim divorce. If husband or wife
commit a crime Involving as its consequence
protracted incarceration, the other can de-
mand release,
• • *
The question is entirely one of human
happiness and welfare. Will the sum of
social happiness be increased or diminished
should the provisions of the Bill become
law ? Nob merely the parties primarily con-
cerned have to be regarded. The children
of a married cauple have also to bo con-
sidered. Will It be better for a wedded
person to contlnne tied to a mate who turns
their home Into a scene of diucken orgies,
or to be released from a connection to
degrading ? Will lb be better for children cf
such a pair to grow up In a heme so repul-
sive or bo be afforded a prospect of having a
step-parent o! d;cent habits? Is it better
fo? society that a woman whose husband
becomes a criminal and fs Incarcerated for a
term of years, to be set free, If she so deter-
mines, to find another mate —or for her to
continue morally chained to the clvilly-
dead, deprived of her bread winner, ex-
posed to the temptations of a poeioloa
In which she is deprived equally of motives for
maintaining, and hope of recovering, social
respectability ? I s It better that a deserted
woman shall remain all her life the legal
chattel of a husband who has desalted her,
and has abrogated his function of protector
and provider, or that she shall be enabled to
seek, under klndl'er auspices, a happier lot ?
* * ♦
These questions, when honestly considered
by minds free from the bias of religions pre-
judice and social preconception, admit cf
bub one sort of reply. That there are dis-
advantages attendant upon either system
maybe admitted without hesitation. These
a’most exclusively relate to the offspring of
annulled marriages. I a no case can the un-
fortunate chlblren of unhappy wedlock
escape some 111 consequences. Tne question
really is whether the sum of the joint snff wr-
ings of parents ani children would be greater
or lais under the existing legal conditions, or
under those proposed to be substituted. We
have no doubt on the point; no hesitation In
declaring that the present laws Inflict upon all
concerned the maximum of 111—where some
111 is Inevitable, be matters arranged as they
may. Io Is quite certain that there will be
nothing In the lot of the children of parents
divorced fw the causes dealt with In the
present Bid, which will be more grievous
than that of children of parents divorced
under the existing law. In many respects
the benefits conferred upon such children
will be much more appreciable by them. The
child of a man divorced for adultery has
gained nothing to countenance Its loss by
the separation of lbs parents. The child of a
woman divorced for the same causa retains
the only parent of whose actual relationship
lb can be assured. The children, however,
of a drunkard or of a criminal are released
from associations in the first case revolting,
and In the latter case dangerous to their
future. The children of an absconding
parent loses nothing by a legal sentence
which but gives formal recognition to a fact
of which all the effictual consequences had
already been In operation. Again, the
children of a worthy parent—father or
mother separated from one unworthy,
certainly will be gainers la the generality
of Instances and especially when tte
parent who r. mains to them is their
mother—by the right to re-marry In-
tended to be conferred upon such parent by
the Bill before Parliament.
• • •
Thus it will be readily peic jived that the
true crux— the Increase or diminution of the
sum of human happlneis—tells distinctly In
favour of the Bill. It is scarcely worth
while to discuss the political question in-
volved In the proposal to re-enact the mea-
sure. The refusal of the Secretary of State
for the Colonies to advise the Queen to
give her consent was a step taken quite
within the bounds of the Oonatltu lon uuder
which we subsist. That refusal was Indeed
prompted by Insidious In flue aces whose in-
trusion deserved, warranted, and demanded
peremptory closure. The back stairs repre-
sentations made by little coteries of sectarian
bigots among ourselves were imp jrtlueaoes of
the groisest kind. Taab any suchunau v horleed
cliques should have the preteusim to go
behind the back of the representative C jam-
bars, and by sly insinuations and privy
solicitations seek to neutralise the deliberate
decision of the recognised mouthpieces o! the
public at large, was an Intrusion which can-
not be too promptly or too severely dealt
with. The Imperial functionary also, who
so utterly misunderstood his functions, his
duties, and h's obligations, as to permit his
ear to be reached, his judgment to be
swayed, or his action to be determined by
Rich sneaking whispers, should be brought
to his senses without any circumlocution or
side issues. Whether the Divorce Bill be
again passed or whether It be now rejected
makes no difference whatever. A distinct and
decisive resolution of the N.S.W, Legislature,
directly censuring the buaybodles who tres-
passed on its exclusive province, and the too
susceptible Minister who allowed himself to
be approached by tuoh Impsrtinents, should
be placed on record without delay or heslta-
tlon and formally despatched to Great
Britain for the edification of those Ministers
of the Crow a who differ In no degree from
our own Ministers, save In saving la a
hrgar establishment and having more direct
access to the ear of the Sovereign Head of
both establishments alike.
"Our Marble Friend of Cow Fiat.”
The “ petrified man ” discovered the other day at
Oaleula, Cow Flat, New South Wales, was wise
enough to appear at a dull time when no subject
beyond the weather was worth disci'sung: when
the din of party strife had temporarily subsided,
and the wild humours of the Anglican Ohurch
Congress were no more heard. This fact alone
should prove the deep sagacity of “our marble
friend.” He is no slouch at sensation, and although
he has lest one eye, the other gave him
the cue to an appropriate scene to appear
in. “Who is he,” is the first question
that occurs to men who are privileged to
gaze upon his stony countenance. We are
fortunately able to solve the mystery. He is
Lot’s wife. That lady, whose death through all
ages has pointed an unheeded moral to inquisitive
womanhood, was tuintd into a pillar, not of salt,
for the Biblisal translation is at fault, but of
Caleula marble, and lay where she fell until a
gay cld pre historic captain came along and
brought her to Australia as a kellick for his
row-boat. When his line parted Mrs. Lot
subsided into the Oaleula mud from which she was
dug out by her present owners. Against this it
may be objected that Lot’s wife was a woman
while “ our marble friend” is a man. But
this is easily t xplained. Women like a change. Up
to the present, opinion as to the identity of th’s
fermon In stone is not unanimous. Ledge No. 10
Gore and Glory, L.0.L,, regards the stone as
more popery than physical. The thing is a graven
image according to this view—probably an image
of the husband of the Scarht Woman, and its
Ominous Silence is a proof of its diabolic»l nature.
Lodge 17 holds a different opinion. Our marble
fiiend, according to their view, is evidence of the
murderous work of the CJan-na-Gael. Tne re-
mains are those of a sanctified evictor, murdere
at Ballyhooley while engaged in the pious work of
collecting rack-rent arrears. This good man was
secretly slain by poisoning. A piece of Home
Eule pie, of which a section was exhibited by N.
Boanerges I owning at the “loyal” meeting,
was given him, and he ate and died, cursing the
ook. The n mains— minus one eye, a scalp, and
the arms, which formed the murderer’s tupper—■
ware sent out in the tame ship with Messrs.
Billon, Beaky and Oo , and it Is a remarkable
fact in the chain of eviderca that the marble man
was found near Grange just after Dillon and Co. had
been there. This alone should furnish sufficient
evidence to ensure a conviction for murder, and if
the witness who proved Buttner’s case will only
consent to appear once more the jury will have no
hesitation whatever in sending some more men to
the gallows There is no doubt that a foul
murler has been committed, and some one
ought to die for the gratification of public
taste. It Is a further question whether the
marble man himself should not be prosecuted for
something. He has no fixed place of abode and
no lawful visible means of support. He has at
least been guilty of concealment of death, and
trespass upon enclosed land ; further, he has sunk
some feet into the ground without having first
taken a miner’s righ". Moreover, he has refused
to pay the costs of his inspection and discovery,
and is, therefore, guilty of contempt of court for
which he should be duly attached. And being
hard-hearted and cold in his nature no jury in the
world could have a bit of sympathy with him.
But what is he, anyhow ? Listen and we will
tell more than is known about him up to the time
of our going to press. He was found in the
bowels of the earth by two men who were quarry-
ing marble. He was lying, not under oath, but
under a five ton block of marble which, for hun-
dreds of centuries, had sat upon his chest. This
may explain his inaction during a long period.
When “ his earthly robes were removed ’—meta-
phorical phrase stolen from a rural journal—he
was seen to be of full height, and, without being a
masher, of passable appearance for one o! so great
an age Without going into particulars we may
here state that there is no doubt of his having
been a male person. One eyeball is missing and
the remaining one is half-closed as if in anticipa-
tion of the larx this gay old corpse intended to
have with the scientists. Mark Twain’s marble
man had one thumb in contact with his nose ;
this relic had no arms, so had to content himself
with the derisive wink aforesaid. Most probably
he had lived in a Freetrade country, for his arms
are worked off to the shoulders and he has not so
much as the price of a squash in bis pockets. He
has a rib too many or one too few and his scalp is
missing—but for all that he has been the means of
starting a splendid wrangle among the New South
Wales scientists.
* • *
Among others the Government Geologist and
his crowd visited the humble abode in Sydney to
which the marble man was transferred. The G.G.’s
party came to two emphatic conclusions. First, that
the charge for inspection was one shilling ; second,
that our deceased marble friend was a fraud of
the most ponderous description. His ancient
lineage was scoffed at, and his pretensions greeted
with derison by these scientific sceptics. In the
medical profession, Robert— that may not have
been his name but that’s what it costs too see him-
found at least one admirer and one denouncer.
Dr. Soutku, who is probably a Soot cbm an with a
level head only a very little sol ter than Robert’s,
said in effect that the job was very badly put up.
The corpse had not left sufficient impression in
his grave to show just where he bad come from,
and the kind of rock he was taken from was not
the kind that he was, and he was too recent and
the rook too old, and moreover the doctor seemed
annoyed that Robert did not come from a cave.
The petrified corpse, to meet .with Dr. Souths'’s
approval, would have to be a lot different to
Robert. But as doctors don’t agree once in a
dozen times about anything it was only natural
that they should disagree about this departed.
And to prove how perfect a thing medical science


is, wa reproduce soma of the opinions already
vouchsafed in all solemnity to a waiting world.
This’ia how the medical evidence goes :
C. W. M'Carthy, M D,,
MRC.S.I.of Sydney:—
“ After a close inspection
I have to doubt that the
petriflel holy is a human
body in a thorcu/h state of
petrifaction. Tne specimen
is that cf a man in fairly
nourished condition. Tha
superficial muscular struc-
tores (in form flat and dead-
like as they would appear
in a post-mortim condition)
are well mapped oua
throughout the body, and
some lupeifi ial veins in a
petrifi d condition are seen
coursing along in their usual
direotions. The left eye-
ball is absent, so also loth
arms from c ose to tie
shoulder joints. The ex-
tended arm-stumps would
suggest (hat tie man died
while reolining on his back,
with the hands supporting
the head. Their remaining
in this extended position
woull be accounted for by
the body having been buried
before rigor mortis had
passed away, the arms hiv-
lug been cut off near their
BJckets—possibly to make
burial more convenient,
This is, of course, is purely
hypothetical.”
, M.D.
“It requires no geologi-
oal research to see (1) that
the specimen h not of
recent date, and (2) that it
is not man’s work, but the
handiwork cf Nature. . .
Not alone are the outward
groupings of muscles and
the bony parts mapped out
ia Nature’s accurate correct-
ness, but they are shown
flat and dead, like exactly
as they would appear in the
post-mortem condition. As
one somewhat versed in
the art of sculpture, I may
ba permitted to give, as my
opinion, that the man who
with chisel and hammer
oould produce this or a
similar specimen would be
the greatest sculptor the
world has ever 8.e0,”
J, C. Soutbr, M.D., of
Orange, N S W :
“ I have myself most care-
fully examined the speoi-
men, finding it to be
composed entirely of pure,
white marble, and unques-
tionahly the handicraft of a
net very able sculptor. . .
In all true fossils such
textures aa watery humours
(of tte eye, for instance)
cartilage of the nose, &c.,
would dry up and practi-
oally vanish altrost imme-
diately after death ; cr they
would dissolve and diff ise
if any fluids, even in the
form of petrifying water,
were present. Oar marble
friend haa still a well-shaped
nose, and the eje that has
not been gouged out is
quite rctund, with the lid
closed. The man who still
I olds it may after all be a
petrified being coaid never
be convinced of his error
though he should read
volumes on the subject,
11 Rsverting to the sped-
men. The aquiline nose,
the thin lips, the represen-
tation of gougiagand scalp-
ing, and massive jaw
remind one forcibly of
pictures one has seen of
American Indians, Califor-
nians and others. 15 should
now be needless to draw
attention to the crude
chiselling cf the back of the
figure: to the honeycomb
appearance that the artist (?)
has given the trunk and
limbs in working eff the
superfluous stone in his pro-
gress towards a finish: to
the very inaccurate forma-
tion of the chest: to the
unequal number of ribs on
the two sides: and to the
lame attempt to represent
the standing out of bones in
a too well developed thorax,
... 1 have beard seme
rumours about the case or
box in which the statue (for
let us now call a spade a
spade) has been moved
about. I have not noticed
these rumours; they ate out
of my province.”
All the italics are ours, introduced to illustrate the
perfect reliability o! medical evidence in the matter
of “specimens” Other comment on these opinions
would be supererogatory. The only question that
remains is as to the nse Robert can be put to
when the public shall have ceased to retain a
shilling’s worth of interest in him. He might with
profit be burned for lime: masons don’t care
whether they are working up burnt rock or
calcined corpses, they are soulless and so long as
the lime sticks they don’t care what it is made of.
Or a place might be found for him among the
Sydney Post Office carvings, the figures already
there would not dim his ghastliness by comparison.
But we have another and a better suggestion. Let
him be promoted to a place among the other
fossils on the Sydney Marine Board. Then he
would feel at home and not attract any monopoly
of reproach on the score of his great age and un-
changing stupidity.
The Culler Case.
The notorious Cutler perjury oases—in connec-
tion with which Mr. Arthur Daly, solicitor, has
suffered a fine of £25 and one week’s imprison-
ment (reduced from one month) for contempt of
court —have brought the Law, as it is dispensed in
Victoria, down to the New Sauth Wales level.
To repeat an oft-told tal p . On November 17,
1888, a Chinaman was brutally murdered in a lane
off Little Bourke-street, Melbourne, and a man
named Cutler was arrested and tried for the
crime. Sundry other Chinaman (whose ability to
photograph European faces upon their Celestial
brains is probably limited) swora that Cutler
dealt their countryman tha fatal blow, while
sundry Europeans expressed a belief that he was
the man seen running away from the gory tragedy
with a mob at his heels. Even if this latter
testimony were quite trustworthy it by no means
follows that Cutler was guilty, because it is
generally suspected that he knew the murderer,
aud mly have been anxious to clear out of the
way for clanship's sake. But, on the other hand,
nine witnesses distinctly swore that Gutter did
not hill the Chinaman, among them being an
usher at the Princess's Theatre, who saw the murder
committed and gave abortive chase after someone
else whom he alleges to have been the real culprit.
Upon the general evidence of these nine, but par-
ticularly upon the evidence of the usher aforesaid,
Cutler was acquitted. Some of his witnesses,
■maybe, protested rather too mush. Anyhow, the
Melbourne police promptly decided that they bad
■been robbed of a “ good case,” and the upshot of
their decision was that the nine men who had up-
set the Crown’s theories were arraigned for per-
jury. In very rapid succession five of them (four
being undefended by counsel) were convicted of
having falsely sworn that the acquitted Cutler
-was not a natural descendant of Cain, Judge
Williams tried these cases, and when, the cessions
being concluded, he passed a sentence of nine
year a’ penal servitude upon that unhappy quin-
tette, the Justice delivered a long harangue wbich
appeared to prr-iuppose the guilt of four naen yet
to be tried. Thereupon Mr Arthur Daly, by
way of counterblast to such apparent prejudicing
of unheard cases, wrote letters to the daily papers,
stating that the first batch of Cutler witnesses
had been “ slaughtered like bullocks, and that the
second batch stood in imminent peril of suffering
a like fate.” This by the way. Anon Cutler
himself —and this part of the business is positively
h imorous—was charged with intermediate perjury
in saying that he was not upon the scene at all
when the Ohiiamau died, nor tad he been in the
lane off Little Bourke-street during that fa*al day.
With the assistance of counsel Cutler gained a
verdict of “ Not Guilty.” whereupon the law stood
In the position of having sentenced five men to
long terms of penal servitude for sweating that a
Chinaman was not slain by the man legally proved
to have been somewhere else at the time. Then
the remaining witnesses, whose evidence differed
but immaterially from that of the convicted per-
jurers,” were also tried, defended by counsel, and
Requited. Finally, as if the law bad not already got
itself into a sufficiently hopeless tangle and proved
Itself to be a sufficiently egregious ass, Mr. Solicitor
Daly was charged with oentempt of Court in
having expressed a published opinion that the fiist
five witnesses were slaughtered like bullocks,
which effenoe against the Law’s alleged majeety
the solicitor has expiated with k 25 and seven days
in gaol. Furthermore, the editor of the Herald,
for publishing a paragraph that seemed to in-
sinuate the possibility of the Cutler case being a
little mixed, was called upon to expiate his little
offence with a modest £5. Thu is the whole his-
tory of the Cutler perjury cases at time of
writing. The five men in prison should be
released unless the other four are sent to join
them, and if they are released then it will logically
follow that M>. Daly was rendering a service to
society when he declared that they were slaugh-
tered like bullocks in the first instance. And if it
is contempt of Court to tell a great truth in the
interests of that j ustice which the Court is sup-
posed to administer, then how much more does
the charge of contempt of Court lie against
the Law that invites contempt, and against tie
judge who goes out of his way to make an awful
example of men wrongfully convicted ! One word
more. Presuming that Cutter had been found
guilty of telling a lie in declaring that he was not
In the vicinity of the Chinaman at the moment of
his death—presuming as much, would the Crown
not allow a man just acquitted of murder to
further confirm his innocence with a harmless ex-
tension of the main truth ? A man so situated
has much excuse for seizing every available chance
of clearing his character, provided he doesn’t do
so at another’s expense. The Crown has been
guilty of persecuting this said Cutler, who had as
much right to be left alone alter his first trial as
have the pei j rred co-respondents in divorce cases.
If an adulterer may tell a pack of lies before he is
found guilty, without being subsequently worried
by the Crown, surely the man tried for murder
may erjoy the same license when his innocence
has been legally proved.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Buchanan and Bertrand.
Mb. David Buchanan, M.L.C., barrister-at-law,
writes a long letter to the Sydney press claiming
that Berth and, convicted many years ago
in Sydney of the murder of Mr. Kinder, with
whose wife he had a liaison, should now be
released from gaol— on the ground that he is inno-
cent. If Mr. Buchanan can show any reasonoble
ground for a belief in Bertrand's innocence The
Bulletin will cordially co-operate in seeing all
possible reparation made to a man who has now
been Immured for a quarter of a century, and
who for a long period was supposed to be
insane and treated accordingly. But we believe
that Mr. Buchanan has a far better mark for
bis rhetoric in the case of such of the miserable
Mount Bennie lads as a brutal law, savagely ad-
ministered, has left in the land of the living
and outside lunatic asylums. Bertrand was
found guilty after a most exhaustive and calmly-
conducted trial. He had the benefit of a defence
so able as to be now historical. His trial,
in all its stages, extended over more than a
year. He had at his back wealthy friends who
u led every means to see that their co religionist
got at least justice. There can be no earthly
doubt in the mind of anyone who reads Bertrand s
letters (especially those with regard to his rival
and enemy Jackson) that be was a most malignant
man, capable “ at a pinch” of desperate deeds—in
fact, he has told the public so himself There se c ms
overwhelming evidence even to-day that t ebtband
meditated the deed of which he was convicted,
and this we say altogether irrespectively cf
whether he really committed that deed or not.
Unless there can be set up a far more plausib'.e
theory of Beeihand’s innocence than that con-
structed by Mr. Buchanan after 25 years’ rumina-
tion on the subject, The Bulletin hopes that
Bertrand will be kept in prison to the end of
his days. This journal altogether disbelieves in
capital punishment (of which Mr. Buchanan is a
loud-mouthed and uncompromising advocate)
chiefly on the ground that it is possible to
hang an innocent man, and that if you once do
hang him you can’t resurrect him, nor can you
unhang his innocent father and mother and
brother and wife and children who share in the
social brand which the hangman imprints upon
the memory of his victim. Mr. Buchanan now
says Bertrand is innocent Supposing Bertrand
instead of having at his back lots of money and the
clever Mr Salomons, had only had Mr. Buchanan
to defend him on a £10 brief, or on a Crown brief
with no £10, and, further, supposing that Bert-
rand when convicted had had no friends with the
money to carry his appeal to England, what then?
Bertrand has been in gaol all these years simply
because, although possessed of powerful friends, he
has had as eni mies men who were still more power-
ful —men on whom he had inflicted personal in-
juries the recollection of which can never be
blotted out N it only this, but the public still
believe Bertrand to have been a deliberate and
calculating murderer and so unworthy of sym-
pathy. The right substitute for hanging is
imprisonment for life, and The Bulletin wants
to show the people of Australia that imprisonment
for life is possible, no matter how the rich may
roll logs.
*
Fleeing From a land Tax
Dear Bulletin,— Apropos of the Queensland
Sugar Commission, it seems to have escaped the
memory of its Badioal commentators that the four
or five millions of money virtually lost is largely
made up of Victorian capital which fled in ’77 8
when Berry (then a Badioal) was passing the
Land Tax. The Tory Argus, in its furious
endeavours to oust the Badicals, represented
Berry ism and Anarchy as one, and screamed that
Victoria was no place for the investment of money
and, no doubt, greatly influenced the capitalists,
as shown by the fall in the value of res 1 estate at
the time. Besides the money lost in sugar there
is about six or seven millions of Victorian money
invested in sheep stations in the West of Queens-
land which is not nearly returning interest and
which never will pay interest if the last 10 years
may be taken as a fair criterion of the climate.
The drought just ended was only of 14 months’
duration, from rain to rain, yet it did incalculable
damage. I think that it is within the mark to
say that not only will there be no increase in the
number of sheep this year, hut that there will be
a decrease caused by deaths. If rain had held cfl
for six months longer there would not have been a
sheep alive cn many stations, and the inhabit-
ants of some districts would have had great
difficulty either to maintain themselves where
they were or to move away. In a country
where such climatic conditions as have obtained
here during the past ten years are normal, an in-
dustry which depends for its existence upon the
lives of grass-fed quadrupeds is very precarious.
In the opinion of a good many, the only thing
that can possibly put the pastoral industry in
Central and Western Queensland on a proper foot-
ing is a good supply of artesian water. Where
that cannot be found, it is probable that cattle will
It e substituted for sheep within tbe next five years.
A large portion of these six or seven millions
may be regarded as lost, for artesian water Is
not, it seems, to be got everywhere. It was in the
panic which the Argus was mainly instrumental
in causing that this money was withdrawn from
Victoria, By the way, it was the influx of this
í
he is one of the very few Australian knights who
possess really knightly attributes. We congratu-
late him on having been simply made a knight
and not dragged into the Order of St. Michael
and St. George, The latter saint was a fraudu-
lent contractor, and a large number of the Aus-
tralian politicians who are his companions and so
on are doing their very best to live up to their
patron’s reputation,
There is nothing new in the cabled statements
that Sir Geoege Grey, New Zealand’s great i rc-
cinsul, sympathises with the Home Rule move-
ment. He was a Home Ruler in sentiment before
many members of the Home Rule party in the
British House o! Commons were born, and when
Gladstone declared for Irish autonomy, Grey it
was who cabled to him on behalf of GO of the New
Zealand Legislature, cheering him on his herculean
task. But, unlike many local professors of Par-
nellism, Grev is neither a coward nor a snob, nor
is he a politician who “ travels ” on religious hate.
They have not the courage of their opinions at
times like the present when they should be ready
with tongue and pen to give a reason for the faith
that they say is in them. He, an aristocrat by
birth and a friend of leading men of both parties,
is not afraid in season and out of season to ex-
press his opinions. This is the test that div.des
the real from the shoddy—the Greys from the
Paekesks.
4.
Poor old Jock Nimmo, a loquacious teetotal
Scotchman who makes no difference, has been
literally slung out of the Victorian Ministry by
his devoted colleagues, in order that D. M. Davies
maybe Cjmmissioner of Public Works instead,
and thereby participate in the political spoil. The
mode of “chucking” Nimmo was distinctly brutal
and he fell upon his bruised feelings “ with a
sickening thud,” but beyond the fact that he is a
victim of disgusting circumstances, calculated to
sink Gillies and Deakin rather lower than usual
in public estimation, it doesn’t matter the least
bit In the world. A certain amount of salary is
divided amongst the Cabinet, and Nimmo has got
to leave off drawing a portion quarterly—that’s alb
His immediate friends can raise a rumpus if they
ohoosf, Nimmo himself may sit upon the steps of
Parliament Home and howl bitterly, but the
colony at large despises the whole Ministerial
crowd and doesn’t care a rap how they cut the
money up. Nimmo will commsnd no sympathy
unless he heaves a brick at somebody, and even
then he would be regarded as a failure if he didn’t
keep on doing it. Poor old man !
*
The New South Wales Supreme Court has sus
pended Mr. Harry Levien, M.L.A., an ur con-
ventional but otherwise so far par feebly leputab.'e
attorney, for having allowed Mr. Rawlings, an
expert conveyancer who is not an attorney, to
practise under cover of his name and share in the
profits of his business; and they threaten that
when next an attorney shall be found engage and in
such proceedings he will be dealt with, not under
a mere rule of Court, but under some musty old
imported statute which renders such conduct a
criminal < ffenca. Tne Court says that attorneys
must be compelled to conform to rules made for
the protection of the public. We smile Not
very long ago a Sydney attorney who had “ con-
formed " to pretty neatly all the rules disappeared
from society with a trust-fund shortage of netween
£50,000 and £IOO,OCO. Then another attorney
went bung for scores of thousands, and another,
and another, and another, and then a lot more.
Why don’t the judges, if they want to effectually
protect the public, agitate for legislation
which will result in every solicitor, on his ad-
mission, getting a note from the Ch’.ef Justice
something like this : —“ J. Smith, attorney, gen-
tleman by Act of Parliament, Sir,—You are
now starting out in life to prey upon the public
according to law under the mgis of this Court.
Tnis is to intimate to you that in business you are
to keep two banking accounts—one, your own
private account as Smith, E q ; the other as J.
Smith, Supreme Court attorney. Should it ever
be found that you have, on whatever pretext, paid
Into your private account even so much as one
single sixpence of trust funds, you will be sent to
gaol for a minimum of three years and be struck
off the rolls for ever.” Then the public would
arise and bless the Sapreme Coart ; but
now, as they don’t see a single embezzling
lawyer in gaol, they only regaid such sen-
tences as that pass id on Barry Levien bb
the outcome of a paltry legal trades-unionism.
After all, what is the offence imputed to poor,
insignificant John Davies, who is just now serving
as a scap goat for a moral community ? We know,
and the public know, a dozen lawyers who are
admittedly short in their cash and have spent the
money. They won’t get Into gaol, bless you, they
won’t be even indicted, even if they don’t “cash
up,” although their shortages amount to thousand s
of pounds. And yet all the pipers and nearly all
Parliament is shrieking for the blood if John
Davies, who at worst has put into his private
account two or three paltry Government cheques
and has omitted to efund the money until his
“attention was directed.”
Judge Wilkinson, of Sydney, last week gave a
young fellow convicted ot garosting (aod who un-
contradibtedly pleaded that it was h’a t rsi offence)
imprisonment for fourteen years anti the lash.
The New South Walei law is too merciful. Vby
doesn’o it set fire to the convict’s legs and stick
matches under his nails, while it sools a bull pup
on to chew off his ear? If you are going in for
unreasoning savagery you can’t do it too
thoroughly. What a magnificent specimen of the
wild beast will Henßt Williams be when he
leaves gaol 12 or 13 years hence at the age of say 36!
He will then be in bis prime as a criminal and may
make society wish that neither he nor Judge
Wilkinson had ever been born.
The poor, broken-spirited Times has
apologised to Morell Mackenzie for having inad-
vertently published a Tying letter about him.
What a change has come over the Times since
those “ Parnell letters ” appeared 1
It Is calculated that the “dead head 1 sys-
tem on her railways costs N.S.W. £12,000
annually. Orders have been given to discontinue
the issue of free passes to the unemployed; but
politicians can still travel “on the nod ” as usual
The Argus, having gob lbs rusty old knife
into J. L. Dow, the Victorian Minister of Lands,
recently published a story, a very big story, about
him wandering away to Queensland without in-
forming lis colleagues, whereby the business cf
the colony was bursting up and excited crowds cl
selectors were hammering at the Lands Office door
and shrieking fer the mi-sieg man. It subse-
quently transpired that Dow would have bo n
back already but fer the floods in N.S.W., and
that his absence was distressing nobody except tbe
Aegus, which “high-class” journal religiously
refrained from withdrawing its fiction when
Deakln explained that itwas a twopenny romancer.


»WMTf bokonia the New Perfame. Mmo*
factored from the West Australian •• Boronia
MegisHouia.” Sold everywhere. Price, Sa. 6d.,
6a., and 10a. Poat free to any addreaa In
Australasia. Be anre yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONCMORB. 188 Bonrke at., Baal
MELBOURNE. ’ '
The Engliah People’s William
la the grand old W. 0.,
But Auatralia’a People’a William
fa the Famous Billy Tea.
PACKRD OsiiV BT
JAMES INOLIS * CO.,
4 and 6 Oban's Plaob,
OBOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write lor Plan* £lO Bnlldlnff Site*, Perth,
Western Australis. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited OB Bathnrst street. Sydney-
Ben franklin printing office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IN. MAfLAROT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Aooount Book Manufacturer, Ac., Ac.
Madardy’a £6 Box of Stationery a speciality-
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
819 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
B.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Card*
and Fanoy Goods. Inspection Invited.
[?]
846 Maoquarle-street North, Sydney, June 5, 1889.
Dear Moorabinda, —
Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax is at present staying at Toxteth
Park, Glebe Point, as several of the servants at Admiralty
House have been attacked with diphtheria, which is
rather prevalent on the North side, just now.
Sydney social matters have of late been dull to the
verge of depression. There is yet a great deal of sick-
ness in the suburbs. Mies Darley, daughter ef the Chief
Justice and Lady Barley, was recently dangerously il
with diphtheria, but is row almost convalescent. Miss
Sybil Jenkins, whore marriage with Mr. Murray, son of
Lady Murray, was announced for the 22nd ult,, has been
so seriously ill with congestion of the lungs that the wed-
ding has been postponed indefinitely, and everywhere one
visits there is a long account of how often Matilda sneezed
the day before yesterday, or you are requested to inspect
Maud s tongue, while the pill-boxes set into the card-tray.
The Sydney Hospital Bazaar and Village Fair cmmittee
are " working zealously in a good cause.” In other
words Mrs. Allen and Miss Belisario, the hon. secs.,
are worrying their friends to death to work im-
possiole eu» flowers and things on squares of velvet, or to
comtruct •'refreshments ’ for the cake-stalls which will
probably create a crush in the dyspepsia ward of the
hospital aforesaid. Apropos of fairs, ths cash collected at
the Women's Exhibition has been put out at interest, and
" any woman in need of help may spply to the secretary
when, if the case upon Inquiry is found wcrihyfo be
relieved, a certain sum is forwarded to the applicant.” I
am told that the “ certain sum ” has not yet exceeded £5.
I bear from Melbourne that Governor and Lady Robinson
do not solely “ cotton ” to the retired pork-batcher or the
recent beer disperser, but assemble at their hou»e a'so
the brainy, artistic, cultured portion of the community
even though the latter may not in all oases be able to
jingle their money-bays as a social recommendation. The
dressing at the Queen's Birthday At Home was exceedingly
handsome all round. Lady Robinson wore a demi-trained
gown of daffodil satin with a jape of pale daffodil crepe,
the low cut bodice being trimmed with crepe, a tiara of
diamonds, while pearl and d ; amond ornaments aid a huge
daffodil yellow fan completed a becoming toilette. One
of the most admired gowns was that worn by Mrs. Arthur
Blackwood—green and gold on a cream ground formed
the brocade which constituted the corsage, train and
draperies relieved with soft green velvet and point lace.
Lady Clarke wore a very handsome go vn brocaded in
silver with front drapery, sleeves and bertha (how fashion-
able these detestable •* berthas ’’—which make one’s
shoulders look wide out of all proportion—are just now !)
In pale mauve crepe, ths bodice touched up with sold
galoon and pearls. Most of ths singers were inaudible
owing to the howling conversations maintained all round,
and the scrimmage over the wraps in the ladies’ cloak-
room was simply a revelation as to the amount of bleeps
society carries.
A change is predicted in the fabric of ball gowns,
though the same old make of no bodice to speak of and
unlimited skirt will obtain as usual. Plain stuffs are
going out, and the correct thing now is a rich figured
material like our grandmothers—if we had any—used to
wear, and stiff, gorgeous brocades are the i\e plus ultra of
styl?. Natural flrwers are not allowed on any really
"swagger” toilette, though carried bouquets and posies
are multiplying—why, I can’t say, for they are a useless
bother in a ballroom, and when one's partner begs for
"one little tiny bud,” one feels inclined to give him the
whole garden and get rid of it.
It was " V. R.” at Sydney Criterion for the first night
of "On ’Change” on Ist lust., and though the weather
was a clammy, foggy drizzle calculated to take all the
curl out of one’s front hair ineide ten seconds a huge
and elaborately gotten-rp audience fought even for the
d.o. steps. Lord and Ladv Gating ton and party, includ-
ing Miss Daveney in black beaded lace and passementerie
with a cluster of crimson and gold flowers in the low
corsage, end the brand new secretary, Mr. Helbert, who
once served in his lord and master’s regiment (and aho
isn't half so Wellingtonian in appearance as his pre-
decessor), arrived with their usual punctually, a lavish
management providing two Brol dlgr agian bouquets for
the ladies, while all the programmes in the vice-regal
enclosure were p.dnted on white satin with silver
Utters. Like the rest of the dress circle "Her Excel-
lency” wore black, made high at the back and V-
shaped in front with elbow sleeves of black spotted net,
open on top of the arm and caught together three
times with email bows of black ribbon, pearl-grey
gloves, a Watteau fan, a diamond aigrette in the hair and
a crimson satin opera cloak striped with velvet and edged
with beaver fur. Mies Myra Kemble, in a d.o. box, was,
as usual, perfectly "groomed " in every way, wearing a
black lace and moire gown, the corsage out low but the
neck shrouded in black tulle, a diamond " lily of the
valley ” brooch, long tan gloves and a huge white feather
fan. As to the circle, every second woman wore black,
either moire or lace, with mostly low-cut bodioes ornate
with passementerie, and the very fat female wore black
silk with red splashes on the bodice, a row of pink coral
round her creased and oily windpipe. A well known
society girl wore'black laoe with moire interludes, a blue
aigrette in her dark plbd-np hair, and blue flowers on her
shoulder-straps. Another ditto wore a beautiful Ivory
qatiu gown, the whole front ct the bodice beaded in
oryrtal with crystal healed tboulder-i (raps ; another
wore del blue ooided silk, the front embroidered with
crystal beads, diamond bmdlet in the coiffure ; whilst a
fourth wore white silk, the full front designed in pearls
and a white aigrette in her hair.
There was not much dressing in “On ’Change.” In
the Oral act Miss Gilmore wear* • dark Mas walking-
dress with velvet oufl#, a oonioal black hat bound with
velvet and trimmed with dark-blue end a bright eoarlel
bow. In the second act she wea’s an innocent locking
white gown with tan evening shoes, and in the third a pale
pink silk dinner dress. Emma Temple wears the same
costume right through—a cream-coloured frock with a
big suoflower-yellov silk bat; whilst Miss Romer’s get-up
in the last act is her beet—a copper-brown patterned silk,
trained and made in the fashionable untidy style, with
skirt-panel of velvet and sleeves of copper-brown satin.
As for the men—and, by the way, what a splenlid recep-
tion the company all got!—l thought the clapping would
never cease lor Brough, the other B, Anson and
Titheradge eepeoially.
The Sydney Sohool of Industry annual ball—it has been
annual for far more than fifty years—eventuated as per
advt. at the local Exhibition Building on 29bh ult., but as
most people were just then engaged In baling out their
residences and fishing their dress-clothes out of flooded
wardrobes, a rather small attendance resulted; many
tickets, however, were bought and not utilised. Lady
Carington wore a handsome gown of begonia brocade, en
traine over a jupe of ivory white moire, tiara and riviere
of diamonds; Miss Daveney, of the Government House
party, wore a soft tulle in a heliotrope shade relieved with
violet which became her fairness excellently. As usual
most of the gowns were either blaok or white, black pre
ponderating to an extent which made the ball-room look
almost like a orow s retreat. A rather pleasing trained
gown—not blaok or white—was of ivory brocade over a
skirt of soft cream lace caught with rosettes of seed
pearls, the square corsage beautifully embroidered in
pearls, long Suede gloves; while another nice toilette in a
room where nice toilettes were a little scarce, was of sea-
green moire, in two shades, very elegantly trimmed with
silver and filagree. Baumann catered. Need’s band
discoursed sweet music, and the floor was—l beg your
pardon ?
The postponed Birthday meeting of the Sydney Turf
Club eventuated at Randwick on the 31st ult., when a
very average attendance resulted. The stand looked
almost empty, but the situation has its advantages, as the
dresses were more visible on it than they are on mob-days.
Perhaps the handsomest gown apparent was a chartreuse
green brocade, en Directoire, with fronts and revers of
peach coloured silk, jupe beautifully braided with royal
tinsel, toque hat ornate willi chartreuse green ribbons
and pink aigrette. Another drees—green, of course—was
of eerpentine-green cloth, in the Directoire style, equally
of c;urse with front and revers of green velvet, plain
velvet skirt, a “ Fortus ” bonnet trimmed with velvet, and
a green asprey en suite ; while a begonia-coloured cash-
mere very lavishly trimmed with gold braid almost made
my eyes water. The lawn was not at all damp, and every-
thing locked as green as the youth who invariably backs
Lis fancy.
The marriage of Mrs. Conoannon (nds Jenkins) to Mr.
S f anlsy Kennard, took place place at All Saints.Woollahra,
the other day. The bride wore a tasteful blue cloth gown,
en Directoire, over a jupe of blue and white watered silk,
lat en suite. Her going away gown was of deep green
cloth braided in black. Among the wedding presents was
a beautiful phaeton and pair of ponies.
A fair correspondent writes in a hurried hand to say
that the annual ball in aid tf the Mucfgee hospital eventu-
al in the local institute on the 23rd ult, when every
thing went off like a free luncheon. The dresses also
appear to have been quite too gorgeous, a pink tulle
over silk, and a white tulle over silk being amongst the
prettiest.
Some run-away matches turn out well, others don’t
The heroine of one such match, mmh talked of at the
time in Melbourne, is to be divorced from her husband.
No defence will be made, I hear.
Two of the biggest drapery firms io Sydney regularly
present to suoh of their female employ 6s as answer to ths
muster-roll on particularly wet days a pair ef stockings.
At one of thsse establishments, on that dreadfully wet
Monday a fortnight ago, only 25 girls on) of 300 employed
attended to claim the hosiery I
On Saturday week, during the heavy rain, from the other
side of the street I was eye-witness of a distreesing
tragedy which took place in front of Sydney General Post
Office. A young woman was bsating her way up George-
street wi h her gingham in front of her, when she collided
violently with a burly masculine person in leggings and
overcoat. Dcwn went the gingham, and with a despair-
ing shriek the fair one fail " ker-wosh ’’ into the gurgling
gutt:r. No one went to her assistance, and when she
lifted herself up her appearance was truly awful. I saw
the burly personage look back at the wreck and noticed
that he wore a large smile, but where the laughing came
In I couldn’t see.
The latest fashion in prayer-books are too sweet for
anything. They are constructed to go intc the waistcoat-
pocket and contain a satchet large enough to hold a
threepenny-piece for the offerto y.
Owing to the foggy drizzle Rosehlll races on the
" glorious Ist ’’ were not to thronged as is customary out
there, only a handful of women occupying the Stand
clad in jackets and mantles and looking dismally con-
scious that their noses were blue. The lawn was de-
cidedly oozy, and the tea-room was filled with blue fog.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mr. Walter Hope, of Liverpool (N S.W.),
well known as a breeder of prize poultry, has
started in business at 15)9 Sussex-sweet, Sydney,
as a general merchant and commission agent.
James Morrison, the alleged burglar who
seems to have shot Constable Sutherland in
Macleay-street, Sydney, on Monday morning last,
appears to have given binuelf away rather neatly.
When confronted wlh his victim the latter un-
hesitatingly identified him, whereupon the
prisoner appealed to the dying man to say that
the pistol-shot wag accidental; but Sutherland re-
£ lied firmly, “No, you pointed it at me.” H»d
lorrison deliberately tried to ask a more
damning question he could not possibly have
picked upon a more unfortunate Query. There is
we take it, little doubt that Sir Henry Parkes, as
head of the police, will behave most handsomely
to those hitherto dependent on poor Sutherland for
support. The murdered officer was a fine athletic
young fellow, and inflicted a nasty mark upon his
man after receiving a mortal wound in the eroin.
CORRESPON DENCE
" J.C.8.” (Cafe) : Thank ycu. Will use (n
day.... “ Black Diamond Very neat, indeed, but much
too frisky—not to say risqui ,... “ Marconi (1) Parkes
says he never Mai a Chartist. (2.) The Cba*tistB ad-
vocated payment of members “ A.W.8.”: He is of the
firm of Redfern, Alexander, and Co., we believe....
“WE We believe neither in the Pope nor in John
Haynes, but for choice we'd shallow the Pope—and so,
for tne matter of that, would loti of self-respecting
Orangemen. John now exclusively travels on the “ to-
hell-with-the-Pope- ticket” ; but as Tipperary is stamped
on bis heart as on his face bis immediate friends will,
when he gets rea’ly sick, tumble over one another in their
hurry fo “ fetch the praste.” “ Loco.”: Yes, a nice old
man—when all be can advance in defence of his dear
friend is that “ you can't make a silk purse out of a sow’s
et rH J.T.”; No we aren't very proud of our Aus-
tralian abroad.... “M. 8.” (North Melb): Idess good,
metre bad.... “ ’Possum Verse good, subject puerile....
“Stump and Newman,” photographers, Adelaide: Many
thanks for portrait of Mr, Deasy....“ Braidwood” : You
had better get a copy of Kendall’s works, published by
George Robertson, which contains a well-written memorial
of the author “Brownie”: Why, you are giving us one
Of our most venerable ideas “ Glasgow ” (Melb,): It is
sheer idiocy to cable to us what the Morning Post says
about the Irish question. We all know what the Post
thinks what it is paid to think—just as we know what
the other Tory papers are paid to think. If the demo-
cratic I ,-ish of Victoria and the Victorian democracy in
general know their way about they will remorselessly
boycott such of the daily papers as have wilfully misre-
presented them—they will also boycott all those who
advertise In them. “Bambira”: Thanks
“ Gang-Gang": We find on reflection lint if we
published jour “Ode to a departing Private Secre-
te ry” we would probably drive the poor man to
suicide, and we don’t want to have his gore on our
head...." HE.” (Launceston): Thanks for clippings....
“A.S." (Wellington, N.Z.): Poem not up to usual....
“Narrabeen”: Please ca11....“P.M.” (Kilmore); Your
new National Anthem has been (orn up among the accu-
muhted curses of this office. When are you going
to again give us something like “ Our Mother
Lend?” “A, Donald”; The “tames” was
part of the apparatus tf the ancient flour-mill
which became hot through friction when the mill was
worked too vigorous’y, Thus it pissed into a proverb that
a lazy miller would never set ths tsmes on fire
“ Nyngan ”: Why not send along n shoit notice?
“ Robert B."; Not of sufficiently all-round interest...,
“ Ned Lawyer ” (Kew, Melbourne): We think so too., .*.
“H.J.M.”: Thanks “ G.E.S ” : Simply beautiful.
Next week “V.J.D.” (Melb.): Letter for yon at
G.P.O. [Many letters held over]
Three Cabinet Ministers helped to welcome
the Irish Envoys to Brisbane. And how many In
Sydney ?
Mr. and Mrs. Essie Jenyns were at last
advices In Florence, and were turning the brewery-
receipts into statuary and pictures at a great rate.
An American Court recently granted a
Chinese murderer a new trial on the ground that
some o! the jurors while considering his case took
claret to dinner.
A Melbourne Standard scribe graphically
remarks tVat the spectacle of the North Mel-
bourne railway disaster “made his brain swim.”
Water on the brain.
The ex-Bishop of Melbourne—Dr. Charles
Perry—who is 82 years of age, the eleventh
hour resigned his sinecure as Canon of Llandaif
Cathedral with its £350 a year—on the score of ill-
health.
While In China Qoong Tart managed to
look every inch a Mandarin, though certainly the
pigtail he were was sewn to his official cap,
and on state occasions the want of fixity of tenure
about the pig- tail caused him not a little anxiety.
Mr. Pleydell, general manager of the Bank
of New Zealand, came to Australia as the mate of
one of Dunbar’s ships. He distinguished himself
by gallantly saving the life of a lady passenger,
and was rewarded by her friends with a post on
the staff of the National Bank cf Australasia.
The elaborate plans and specifications of
the Ms cleay street bicod and burglary published
In tbe Sydney D.T. w» ra possibly not unconnected
with the fact that the alleged burglar Morrison is
suspected of having tried with bis cold chisel one
or two of the windows in the house of Assistant-
Editor Gullett, who lives in that neighbourhood.
On Friday last the Indefatigable J, F.
Gunsler. whose ns me is the Australian synonym
for a well-provided inner man, was presented by
the employes of the Oompagncni Catering Com-
pany with a handsome piece cf plate in apprecia-
tion of the pleasant relations which had subsisted
between him and them, end also as a memento of tbe
success attendant on his efforts as the Company's
manager.
The popular representative of Messrs.
H. H. Warner and Co., of “Safe Cure” cele-
brity, was a guest at Government House last
Thursday evening and dined with their Excellen-
cies Lord and Lady Carington. He speaks in the
highest terms of the genial hospitality of the dis-
tinguished hosts. How will Professor Holloway’s
representative, also Mother Seigel’s receive this
Item of news.
The Rev. Spurgeon, junior, who came to
the Antipodes in the fond hope of rivalling bis
pas fame, has retired from his N Z. mission and
admits he was a failure. That is a hard admission
for any man to make, and the man who can brieg
himself to honestly make it has in him some good
grit Tho retirement of Mr. Spurgeon affords a
violent contrast to the enthusiasm with which be
started the Auckland Tabernacle. A Victorian
f .rmer bad sold a porker and sent the proceeds to
the Tabernacle, and the young apostle thereupon
prophesied that not men alone but pigs would be
icflaenced by his mission And now the apostle
passes and men and pigs are as they were 1
Brief Mention.
The Chinese Relief Fund —The Poll Tax
Perjury is now called Oablery.— Melbourne
joke.
The path of doty is through the Custom-
house.
In the human raee the butcher holds the
steaks.
Man i ige is not a failure. It is merely an
assignment.
Business is very stiff in the undertaking
lice just now.
Charity covereth a multitude of aim. So
does a 0.M.G.-ship.
Very few Birthday “ honours ” this year.
Australia is becoming less beknighted.
Queen’s Birthday will henceforth be
associated in our minds with a severe Wettin.
Quong Tart says that he struck numberless
traces of The Bulletin even in distant China.
N.Z. has a warrior who a sword once.
Was it in the cause of liberty ? No, in a raffia !
Mr. Justice Foster holds that tin term
“ thief " is sometimes used as a term of endear-
ment.
A bailiff was pat into a dissenting church
at Ballarat a short time back—with a holy writ,
we presume.
“ You cin’t nuke people honest by ma-
chinery,” as the tram conductor said when he
“ queered ” the bell punch.
There is a Chinaman in business in Mary-
borough (Vic.) whose name, according to the sign-
board above hia infected emporium, is Bad Luck.
Melbourne Herald reports the disap-
pearance of a pair of spectacles from the local
morgue. We have seen many moving spectacles
at the morgue.
Victoria wants a Crown Solicitor, and
can’t find a suitable one. The Civil Service 0 im-
nrsfionera should grepa among the N.S.W,
“gent, ones.”
Says the Age : —“ The clergyman has just
as much right to be protected from outside compe-
tition as the manufacturer.” By all means, let ns
apply the,in-come tax to parsons.
Melbourne Herald says that Mr. Daly,
the local lawyer imprisoned for contempt by the
Chief Justice, was quite jovial in his cell. He
was lucky he didn’t “ get bis hair i ff.”
Yonr compositor is a comical dog. la a
Melbourne weekly the other day the following
startling line appeared : “The old won an dashed
the ears from her cheeks.” “ T<-ars ” was wiitten,
but the conpo. thought that if a man can d n
his eyes surely a woman may dash her ears.
Mr. Donald Larnaob, of N.Z., has been
annexed by Isabel, youngest daughoer of the Earl
of Cork.
The Victorian Railway Commissioners are
about to discontinue refreshment-rooms at ter-
minal stations. They think the hotels quite able
to supply all the poison needed by travellers.
There la a very free and easy club in a
Sydney suburb. The other evening a memoah
was sitting down “spieling” with the steward,
when another membah, a gentleman well known
in legal circles, came in, and said srmethir g nasty
about the style of the play. Thereupon the
steward arose and plugged him in the eye. The
steward’s resignation was then unanimously ac-
cepted.
When the last team of English cricketers
were in N.Z they played a match at Wellington,
which proved so horridly uninteresting to the
visitors that during the progress of the match nine
or ten of the team went for a day's pleasure to the
Wairarapa— 60 or 70 miles distant—leaving the
two men who had been batting for the best part of
the previous day to hvld up the wickets till they
returned. This will give Australian players an
idea of cricket as she is played in N. Z.
The accusation levelled by Mrs. Irving
Bishop against the doctors who attended her late
husband, and who, according to her statement,
did him to death in the interests of science, re-
calls to mind a similar esclandre of some 20 years
ago, which followed the death of Lord St Maur,
the heir to the late Duke of Somertet. Bt. Maur
was suffering from a mysterious affection of the
windpipe which rendered breathing difficult, and
Dr. 0. J. B. Williams, a great authority on lung,
diseases, was summoned in consultation with
another eminent surgeon, and then agreed to try
tracheotomy as a last resource. Pathologically
the case was a most interesting one, and the
dec tors discussed itwilh thennimpaseioned frank-
ness of scien ific men investigating obscure and
instructive phenomena. In conversation
they paid no attention to a shabbily-dressed woman
who was busy with some appliances for the
patient’s comfort, and whom thsy took for a
nurse. Presently Williams let f<*ll some expres-
sions implt ing that though It was just as well to
try the operation it could hardly be successful, as
the obstruction wss apparently below the wind-
pipe. With this the supposed nurse gave vent to
an expression of horror and disclosed herself as
the patient’s mother, the Duchess of S cmerset. A
painful scene followed’; the mother, shrieking hys-
terically, was removed from the room, the operation
was proceeded with and the patient duly died. Sub-
sequently the Duchess published a frantic pamph-
let, accusing the doctors of having subjected her
son to unknown torments when they were well
aware, as she bad heard it from their own lips,
that his life could not be saved or even prolonged.
Williams brought an action for libal, and all the
leading practitioners having signed a declaration
that Williams’ treatment of the case had been in
accordance with the teachings of medical science,
the Duchess formally apologised, and the proceed-
ings were withdrawn. The moral of this is of
course—well, read Dr. Creed's speech in the
N S.W. Legislative Council in defence of Dr.
Strong.


“That low nervous fever, w»nt of sleep and weakness,
calls lor Dr. Soule’s Amerloan Hop Bitters.
When next you bake try Pencil's Snow whits
Roi,i,hr Floor, and your bread will be as white as snow
Write for plana £lO Building altea, Perth,
Weatern Aaatralia. Intercolonial Investment
Company. Limited, 9 Bathnrat atreet, Sydney.
High Abt Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
h 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oartngton
' By ADOoln*ni»nt "
Dbt Impbriai, Champagnb.— Messrs. Moet and Ohandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL" 1881
vintage is the pare Juice of selected grapes from their own
vlnevards of 2600 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
i
d
s
T
O
DXUSSAIPHILTIPS
3 Barack ,St ke£T.
Sundry Shows.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal --Toe Ruling Passion"... p. 14.
Heb Majesty's.—" Romany Rye
Criterion On C iange >•
Gaiety Theatre.—" Fan on the Bristol ... „
Opera House —' ll The Beggar Student
Thb Otolobama. —The Battle of Gettys-
burg "
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COKING WEEK.
Theatre Roial ‘‘The Pointsman.”
Princess's Patience. „
Opera House << the Madcap.
Alexandra _M adam Midas.
Victoria Hall ... Frank Clarks New
Company.
St. George’s Hall Harry Rickard’s Co.
Cyclorama Battle of Waterloo.„
Athsn.eum Maocabe.
“On Change, *’ at Sydney Criterion, la
said to oe a German comedy by one Von Moser.
Assuming the English version to be a fair replica
of the Ttuionic, it is but just to say that German
humiur and the German sausage are about on a
level— 3o far as mystery goes. Yet this odd piece
mak is people laugh enough—at times, b ome of
the performers employed would pull anything
thro igh
• *
Mr. Burnett lo a thriving stcckbrokar—a
rolling whole followers in real life are distin-
guished for probity and frankness. Hts wife has
a soul and devotes it to poetry. Brokers with
lyric »1 wives are sometimes found ; but they
seldom live long. There is a daughter, Ifis> a
bouncing wench fresh from a convent school.
Then there is an elderly man-servant whose livery
and face give one the gloomiest views of the future
of humanity. There’s nothing like a conventual
education for prompting a girl to disappear with
the first man she sees So it is no matter for
surprise that Miss Iris bee imes deeply enamoured
of one Joseph Johnson, who sprained his wrist in
st ipping a pair of runaway horses which, but
for his timely interference, would certainly have
reduced to pulp the cab in which sh« was return-
ing home. Little wonder that bhia Johnson, who
is as poor as an apostle, should fill the whole of
the blank space left in the mind of Iris by the good
nuns. Burnett phre is a man full of vitality
and vulgar language, with an occasional plethora
of a’cjhol. An old friend of his—one Peck, a
Scotch professor entertains becoming ontempt
for stockbrokers. Toe Professor labours under
the delusion, common to many, that he too could
make a fortune “Oa Change if he but gave his
nrnd to it and had a little money for a start.
£lO 000 is the sum placed at his disposal by old
Burnett, and the savant lays himself out at one)
to double it. Any small glints of humour the
piece contains are owing to the absurdities into
which the scientist falls in hia pursuit of fortune.
From the occasional mirth witn which his efforts
were received it was clear that many among the
audience had indulged In a plunge or two during
the late mining boom and got sho'kout bad.
A daughter, too, has this wide-awake Professor,
and she, wish the fine instinct of her sex, is
deeply attached to a young doctor, Tom Lyons,
who, butt for having no patients and no money,
would appear to be making headway in his pro-
fession. Uld Peck dt Clines to entrust his chi d s
happiness even to a legally qualified medical
practitioner, so long as the latter has no one to
physio or dissect. The poor girl declares with
to in that if she knew anyone very unwell she d
recommend her sweetheart-a trustfulness that
did her credit, however it might have disagreed
with the patient.
• • •
All this time there la flattering round Iris
one Theodore Da Haas, whose appearance and
address would goad even the most humane man to
violence. He is an entirely impossible creature,
for it is a reflection on human nature to suppose
that such an idiot would be suffered to live
In any properly-organised society. This natural
extracts the verses sent by Iris to Johnson
for his pluck in the cab affair, and putts a
couple of £lO notes in their place. Johnson,
for some reason not quite easy to understand,
considering the appearance of his biota
and hat, resents this, when explanations
follow, ending in the complete overthrow of M.
De Haas. S ime of the traditional stage business
—old as Aristophanes-was introduced and helped
to work off this singular production. Johnson,
for instance, squirmed and limped in borrowed
boots a size or so too small for him ; O.d Barnett
reached the footlights with a spurt of champagne
owing to a sound t hwack when his mouth was full;
Tom Lyons and his ft o ncer knelt and requested
forgiveness as stage characters have bowed and
begged pardon fer centuries; but it took all the
best efforts of such artists as Anson and Tither-
adge, Brough and Bouoicault to make this stupid
piece stagger along at all.
♦* # #
The monthly reunion of the N.S.W.
Government Printing Office Siciety was held on
Monday last at the Academy of Music ; on which
occasion the startling moral drama ot xne
Ticket-of-Leave Man” was produced, and the
house was so densely crowded that large numbers
were unavoidably turned from the doors. J
drama which was excellently put upon the stage,
will probably be repeated on Monday next,
♦* * *
The first night c£ “ Tae B tggw Student
»t Sydney Opera House brought together a
crowded and fashionable audience the big e
toned audience in fact that has formany
assembled within the building. We jpoetpine *
fall notice of the performance—ln wind, »m™g
others, Miss Tree, Mdme. Lablaohe, and Mms
Clara Thompson take part. Kowalski conducted
the orchestra in a masterly manner, an ;
Solomon has been most lavish In his mounting of
the piece.
** * *
Manager Oughbor, of the Trocaclero Rink,
Newtown, has got the people of that part of
Sydney solid. He has fresh attractions almost
daily, and the excellent ventilation renders skating
there a perfect pleasure.
•* * *
Be the “Petrified Man." Ib 1* only fair
to siy that a man who is admittedly one c f the
moat intelligent members of the Australian
medical profession frankly admits to the bul-
letin that he la utterly puzzled over the matter.
On nhe other hand, a Sydney surgeon who has,
and is believed to deserve, a first class reputation
as an anatomist, unreservedly characterises the
11 petrifaction ” as a first-class flam.
6 The season of tragedian Miln at Melbourne
Opera House closes to-morrow (Friday) in an
overwhelming benefit to that interesting per-
sonality, who will then take a week’s rest prior to
soothing the savage breasts of Ballarat and Sand-
hurst with the music of a voice that stands in its
pride alone. “ Richelieu ” caught on like its pre-
decessors, and from start to finish Mr Miln has
been a startling success of the most unexpected
description. By sheer force of character he has
carried the poetic drama tight along for three
calendar months, picking up admirers by the way
and metaphorically taking ’em to that portion of
his anatomy which he pronounces to be his
“ boosom.” The result is an individual popularity
In Melbourne that has had no parallel in these
latter days, and if Mr. MUn returns to the Opera
House anon the chances are that he will get there
more than ever. To-night (Thursday) Louise
Jordan takes her benefit, for which occasion the
sylph-like belle Americaine is advertise! to appear
in a large assortment of interesting capacities cal-
culated to knock perfidious man into a pulp of
unrequited adoration.
* # # #
“ The Pointsman ” see mi to Increase and
multiply in a heavily artistic fashion at the R oyal,
al oeitt the Triumvirate's enthralling pic lorial poster,
representing a railway collision which eventuates
behind the scenes, is coming to bo generally re-
garded as an amiable delusion and a managerial
snare. On its solid merits, however, “The Points-
man ” is a strong and moving work as times go,
and when our last week’s notice conc’uded by pre-
dicting a good run for this melo drama The Bul-
letin’s prophetic soul was evidently on the right
track. Meantime, Miss Williamson, Miss Clara
Cowper, Mr. Bucklaw, and one or two other
fresh arrivals are showing just cause and reason
why they were imported into a country where the
supply of stage performers is rapidly exceeding
the demand. “ Yeomen of the Guard ” comes to a
declining end at the Princess’s, and “ Patience” —
which is about exhausted by this time—will start
six nights’ revival on Saturday.
* * # *
Also the end of “ Shamaa O Brlen," at
the Alexandra, is nigh at hand. The Rebel Chief
of ’93 hts been wept over by every patriotic Celt
in Melbourne, begorra, and there is no more
health in him to speak of. Anyhow, Me Dam-
pier is under a sacred contract to retire in favour
of Mr. P. Back, who intenia to produce “ Madame
Midas ” upon a scale of colossal magnificanca next
S murday (Bth ) Coincident wioh the historic
occurrence Rickards will produce himself at St.
George’s Hall, supported by some new talent.
Tae Victoria Hall crowd go along nicely and
good old Macoabe Is doing what he always did
with such success that a further extension of his
period at the Attheuae im is calmly endured. “ The
Battle of Waterloo” Oyc’.orama is finding the
favour that such a noble work of art deserves,
and the only other Melbourne show of particular
moment is Jo Jo, who is shaking his mane at the
Waxworks under Frank Clark’s direction.
Jo Jo, briefly summarised i< an undersized youth
oast in the image o! a Stye terrier about the
faci. Long silky hair of canine texture grows
from his nose, cheeks and chin although the tresses
that hang down the back of his low browed skull
are not dissimilar to those of a German Professor
of Music. Jo-Jo has no double teeth, but he talks
like a Christian in a small way, except when he
relieves his feeling's with something resembling a
bark, which he seldom or lets off in pub xo.
The most interesting peculiarity about Jo-Jo is
his origin, insofar that he appears to be a replica
of his late lamented papa, a gentleman who was
discovered in the wilds of a Russian forest and
was exhibited in company with his presumed off-
spring until a few years ago, Jo Jo mere is a
matter of ghastly conjecture and a soiamific
mystery that can never be cleared up previous to
the Crack of Doom.
* # # #
Mies Kate Putnam, an American lady of
the Minnie Palmer persuasion, will appear at Mel-
bourne Opera House on Saturday, in a delirious
trlfl 3 entitled “ Lena the Madcap.”
* * * *
An English paper quite recently had a
notice of a new play called “ Penal Servitude : a
drama of Manchester and Australian life.” Tae
principal effect was a change from the interior of
an Australian gaol to the bush with the convicts
working in chains on a new line of railway 1
* * * *
Rinks with skating capscity for 4000
tinkers are rarely heard about and still more sel-
dom seen. Saoh a rink, however, is that now run
at Darlinghurst by that clever skater, Mr. Agin-
ton.
* # # *
The floods at Maitland swept away George
Darrell’s Nawcastle profits. George and Christine
were billed to open in “The Sunny South," bat
at 6 pm. Darrell and his agent were carrying
their shoes and socks on their shoulders and
ploughin&knee deep from the local Drury Lane to
the chieKhs sh-house on the main street. Next
day Darrell borrowed a horse and rode valiantly
through the fi ood fearlessly rescuing stray children,
dead bulk eke, fl )ating pumpkins and such like
fl otsam and j ettsam. For thi ee days the company
were waller-bound at the various “pubs, and
when the goag summoned the hungry •• pros to
damper and sardines they had painful proof that
the larder wryp nearly empty. Darrell siys it Is
ten years since he last visited Maitland, and he
intends waiting for the next fl ood before returning
there again ; he has had two firea and one fl ood
during the pass few months, and he only wants an
earthquake to complete his run of luck. The
Darrells sailed for Q leeasland on Friday last,
* # * *
Dating the whole of the recent deluge In
Sydney Blond Holt billed as the great attraction
at Theatre Royal “ A shower of real rain. Olt,
who will have his little joke, continues to rake in
dollars with “The Ruling Passion.”
* * * *
The Dake of Bedford threatens to pull
down Drury Lane Theatre unless he gets a bigger
rent. **
* * * *
Mr. Miln was fined at Melbourne the
other day for not having sufficient hose about his
theatre, the Opera Home. lo is a pity the magis-
trates cannot satisfy their yearning for leg shows
at the music-halls.
♦ * # #
The famous asp which Mrs. Brown-Potter
used to so ostentatiously place on her well-exposed
breast while playing " Cleopatra is dead. Mrs.
Langtry’s opinion is that it died from want of
nourishment. How those women love one another!
Miss Von Finkelsfceln has captivated
the Brisbane people. Not the melo-dramatlo
acting of Mr. Charles Warner, nor the dar-
ing feats of those children of the air (the
Silbons), nor the funnimenta of the Oogill
Brothers, all of whom were in opposition, kept a
dollar out of the Daughter of Zion’s treasury.
For three weeks she lectured every night to
crowded audiences ; and one unfortunate son of
Israel, who ventured to dispute her explanation of
Jerusalem being neither salted nor swaddled, was
completely demolished. Tae lady is now in
Townsville, so is not likely to arrive in Sydney
for a month cr six weeks.
* * * *
The callad Jabllee singers are “ more
Fiskal than Popery."
* * * *
This is the true story of the escape of
Gasparini, the New Caledonian convict, from the
custody of the N Z. policeman last year. At the
time when the Italian was under arrest in Wel-
lington (N.Z.) and handed over to the French
C msul to ba sent to Sydney en route for New
Caledonia, there was another loalian in the city
exhibiting a performing bear. This showman,
having been present at a meeting of his com-
p»trioas who sympathised with the ex-convict, he
agreed for a sum of money to rescue Gasparini
from the graip of the extradition law and give
him his liberty. Accordingly, when the steamer
Isft Wellington with the detective and his charge
on board, the showman and his bear were also
passengers. On the way the Italian killed the
animal, and on reaching Sydney Gasparini went
ashore cavorting and gambolling in the skin of the
deceased Ursa Maj or, and was shown In the streets
of Sydney for weeks afterwards in his new role to
the mutual profit of himself and benefactor.
* * * *
Judge Windeyer has, in response to a
request for his opinion on the subject, written to
actor Thornton with reference to certain nasty
remarks by Mr Austin Brereton in the S.M.
Herald, His Honor st ites that he doesn’t see
anytmng objectionable in that nioely-wicked little
comedy “ Mamma ’’ which has been running at
Sydney Criterion. We liked “Mamma" our-
selves and are delighted to ba able to join in
the good judge’s recommendation. As His
Honor has done so excellent a turn to Messrs.
8.-ough and Bouoicault it will be only fair for
them, when their considerate judicial patron next
has ten or a do 7. m men in tne dock for a capital
offence and is trying them all day and all night, to
go to Judge Windeyer’s court and say whether or
not they see anything objectionable in his heavy
tragedy N iw that one thentre has thus begun to
use a N.S.W. Supreme Court dignitary as a
hoarding for its posters, we expect to see J. O.
Williamson fee two Q.O.’s and four j iniors to
approach the Full Court by affidavit and ask for
their Honors’codective judgment as to the fit of
the tiahts In the pantomime. How our learned
brother Foster wonld snort, to be sure !
» * * ♦
Mlaa Lillie Bryer, the favourite Australian
actress, who was lately playing at the Strand
Theatre, London, has joined the “Run Wild"
Company for a tour through the English Pro-
vinces, and, by the latest English files, was ap-
pearing with great success at Manchester. Her
brother, Mr. George Bryer, is business-manager
for the same company.
• * * •
W. J. Lawrance, a well-known London
authority on the stage, is writing a history of G.
V. Brooke, and will be glad of information con-
c srning the Australian career of the gi eat actor.
w • w *
An iv nb of considerable magnitude Is the
combination of “ The Silbons ” and “ The Sticks ”
at the Exhibition Building, Sydney, under the
direction of Messrs. Hiscocks and M’Mahon.
Very elaborate alterations have been made in the
building, which will doubtlessly be visited by
great crowds during the next month. Wo hold
over a report of this big show until next week.
Ths Church is approaching the stage In
Its methods. Pastor Jefferis’deacons now scoop
ths pool before the sermon.
* * * *
Miss Myra Kemble, who 1s going bo try
her luck In England, ii to have a monster benefit
on Saturday afternoon, 15jh June, at Sydney
Theatre Royal.
W. S Mdtby, “champion fancy and
scientific cyclist of the world," arrived in Sydney
by the last ’Frisco boat, and the enterprising
Skinner swooped down on him like a wolf on the
fold, and engaged him as an attraction for his
Elite RinV, Maltby can ride with equal facilty on
three-wheels, two-wheels, one-wheel - especially
one- wheel —and his feats are more “ hair-breadth ”
than a circus or the whole of Paddy’s Market on
a Saturday night.
« * * ♦
Sometime 1 there la more fun In small,
out-of the-way shows than in the ordinary places
of amusement. For this reason we went round to
Mr. Sim Matthews’ great world contest, assault-
at-arms, buck j umpar riding, horseback wrestling,
&o , which was supposed to come off at Phillip
Park, Sydney, last Saturday. Alas for our hopei!
When we got there the door was closed and the
bind was loitering about outside. One of tha
band said : “ We are engaged to play here, but
I'm afraid it’s a cooay with it ” It was a cooey
with it apparently : the door remained locked, and
just as we were turning sadly away the great
champion runner, Charlie Samuels, came up.
Rather a rough-looking diamond is Charlie, his
long, antelope-like legs clad in pants which he had
apparently “stripped a peg ” for, and a battered
hat gracing his head. Though he is not a dandy,
there is no gammon about the way he can ride—
he is a perfect demon outside a horse; nothing
that ever wore a hide can throw him by fair buck-
ing, and if the show had come off Charlie’s per-
formance alone should have been worth the money.
The proprietor of the show came out to greet
Charles and explained the circumstances. The
blaokfellow took it very coolly, and turned
to his mate, a seedy while specimen, appar-
ently half “tight," and said: "Come along,
Billy, you can’t ride no horses to-day ; they
are afraid you’ll fall off and break your neck
like you did last time.” “ Billy ” uncurled him-
self from the kerbstone where he was silting, and
the blackfellow, by way of enlivening things,
bashed his hat over his eves and ran. The white
man chased him, but, although Samuels seemed to
be running at the merest trot, the other could not
gain an inch It reminded one of Mark Twain’s
description of a dog chasing a prairie wolf. When
Billy got tired Samuels playfully bashed him
again, and so they staggered out of sight through
Hyde Park. A light-hearted child of Nature ap-
patently this Samuels, in spite of his greatness,
Then one of the baud arrived hurriedly m a cab
ftniid the jeers of his comrades, and when the
siuuation was explained he said naughty words s
an d ™ began to rain, and we came away.
## # #
Thla is fche Argus criticism of Santley at
his first concert : “In all that belongs to the art
of singing Mr. Santley possesses a complete mas-
tery; perfect control of voice, clear delivery, de-
clamatory force, and, above all, the most ex-
cellent taste and expression.” Which is rasher less
interesting to the general public than the news
that Qseen Anne has breathed her last. For
thirty weary years they have been saying those
nice things abont Santley, and as the notice con-
tains not a word about Santley’s present voice,
which is under such perfect contrcl. It migr t as
well have been copied by the Aegus eti ,ic’b dead
grandfather from an ancient musical dictionary, or
any fusty record of other people’s opinions- But
daily journalism invariably sinks to its lowest
depth of diplomatic drivel in dealing with concerts,
*# # #
The triumvirate's advertisement of their
qow compamy at the Melbourne Royal winds up
with the usual list of supers, tbnsly : “ Loafers,
policemen, &c. &c.” This is wasteful and ridi-
culous excess—“loafers ” filled the bi ! l.
„ „ „
ww w w
A syndicate has offered to bnlld a new
theatre in Bourke-street for Messrs. Brough and
Boucicault. The selected spot is in close proximity
the ili-fated Bijou, but its exact position re*
mains at present a secret.
There la nothing half aa sweet In life as
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Mount Morgan (Q.) gold-mine has paid
£575,000 dividends daring the last half-year.
The S.M. Herild labela a cablegram
"The Pope of Rome ” This funny little clerical-
ism affords one a glimpse of a reverend sub editor.
Pritchard Morgan reports that In twelve
months be has treated 5290 tons of Welsh quarts
for an average yield ot I>z 201 wts per ton; total
value, £30.000, He has 90,000 tons of ore broken
down, and means to erect machinery capable of
crushing 30.100 tons more quartz per annum.
It la a mistake to suppose that France
produces more criminals in proportion to popula-
tion than other European countries. The statis-
tic) prove otherwise. The foreign el* in eat in
France represents bat three per cent, of her popu-
lation while ten per cent, of her criminals are
foreigners,
A Brooklyn (U S.) minister states, with
surprising frankness, that after many years’
labour " he has not even succeeded in breaking the
crust of bell which surrounds that town.” If he
breaks it his congregation may fall in. and the
plate will probably be swallowed up in the raging
depths below.
An E iglish jury has just awarded a tenant
£7O damages against the landlord o! a house in
which he resided, the insanitary condition of
which caused several members of the plaintiff's
family to contract typhoid fever. This verdict Is
likely to do more good than the services of whole
armies of sanitary inspectors.
O ie of the most expensive jobs in creation
just now is the guarding of old Vanderbilt’s tomb.
S ime eight or ten high-priced private detectives
have a permanent engagement to shadow the
financier’s remains and see that nobody skips with
the bones, and they work in relays, two officers
being always on hand to keep a sleepless eye on
the dust. One of them camps outside the
mausoleum and the other sits inside in the cheer-
ful society of the cirpse, and they are both pre-
{»ared t j make short work of anyone found illegally
nterfering with the object of their solicitude.
Why anybody should want to hook Vanderbilt’s
skeleton we don’t really know ; it wouldn’t he
any more nw than five leg) to a hen, and the only
possible profit in the transaction would he the re-
ward offered for the recovery of the lost article.
Consequently, it seems to us that a simple way
out of the difficulty would be to fix a bill to the
tomb setting forth that the relatives didn’t care a
solitary rap whether the remnants were taken
or not, and that anybody scooting with the
wreckage of Vanderbilt would lose the hire
o! the barrow used in the transaction, and
would be left to pay storage on the loot out of his
own private means. Most people, we have noticed,
leave their ancestors’ tombs to take their chance
and nobody interferes with them Tae earthy
part of thefr g -andfatber slumbers, so far as we have
observed, juati where he was planted years ago,
and their bachelor uncle’s monument has never be en
upheaved by anyone attempting to haul the old
man (tom his place beneath the wattle. And even
if they were both abducted twenty times over
their affectionate relatives wouldn’t give two-
pence for their recovery, feeling quite sure
that it didn’t make any difference either to
the dead or to the living, and not oaring a cent
about the whole affair anyhow.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
GREAT •<" RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM
THE CHILD OF THE FLOOD.
A TALE OF THE HAWKESBURY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF there is anything in life that I enjoy religiously
it is a holiday. When I say religiously, I mean it
after a Hindoo fashion. I am not a Brahminical
pundit, but I remember that Brahma, after
creating his world, took a thousand years of holi-
day. I first read that in an interval of stock-
taking, and I envied Brahma. But Brahma spent
his holiday in contemplatine the work of his
hands. Now the average Christian, whfe'n he gets
his holiday, flies from the ec ane of his labour as
from the wrath to come, and the particular
line of flight that this Christian takes, if he
happen to live in Sydney, is towards the
Hawkesbury. She lives there, but if you, friend
reader, think ycuare going to be regaled with any
of our little confidences, you are this time mis-
taken. Later on, when it happens, you may be
told ; on this occasion it is to relate some 4 hing
of a very different nature that I play the his-
torian.
A few years ago I went down to the Hawkes-
bury nominally to fish, really to lie upon my back,
alternately and delightfully basking in the sun-
shine and bathing in the shade, with a novel at
hand to read between the acts of slumber, I
always had a line, and frequently had a bite. I
know this, because the fish either nibbled the bait
off the hook, for which I forgave them, or went
off with hook and all, for which I pitied them.
Provided I had the fishing, I did not care so much
about the fish. This is not payment by results, I
am aware ; that, however, does not matter, for I
do not believe in amusement carried out on busi-
ness principles. Sport should be sport.
In the intervals of glorious lassitude I sometimes
went out for a pull. There was no great display
of skill, and there was an expenditure of effort
quite out of proportion with the results attained.
One day the results were abnormal. I was
putting my back into it rather more vigorously
than usual and caught a crab. Scrambling
to my feet, I found that I had run into an
old-style dingy which was so damaged that it had
no chance of getting much older. The lata occu-
pant, a grey-haired old boy, was floundering in
the water, half-entangled in a net With the help
of the boat-hook I drew him alongside and helped
him to board my own craft. Being plainly in the
THE ARTFUL CHINKIE SCORES AGAIN.
wrong I made no apologies, but bore myielf in a
fatherly, not to say patronising, way.
To do hi,tn justice, the old man took matters
just as coolly. I pointed out to bim the grave
danger of going about in a boat of so rotten a
character as his was, and even took credit to my-
salf for bringing it to a timely end. He nodded
assent to the proposition, as also to the proffer of
a pocket-flask. With similar equilibrium he
requested me to row him to his cottage across the
rjver. This was more than I bad bargained for ;
in the end I was not sorry that J fell in with hia
request; first, because of the excellent meal of fish
I was treated to (they cannot cook fish in Sydney),
and secondly, for the story the old no an told me.
The physical man having been satisfied, the
mental nature began to assert itself, being assisted
by a smoke and the remaining contents of the
brandy-flask. After some disjointed conversation,
in which I congratulated him on his escape, the
old man leaned back in his chair, and the conver-
sation settled down into a virtual monologue
'• I was much nearer drowning years ago than
to-day,” he began, “though I don’t think that
water will be my last enemy. That’s one reason
why I didn’t flurry myself today when you
cleverly ran me down. You must know that
when I first came out to the colony, I stayed in
Sydney for a bit A shipmate of mine, a fellow-
passenger from the next village to where I was
born, came on here to the Hawkesbury, and fra
good six months we saw nothing of one another,
and then when we did meet.it was by chance,
down in Bridge-street. We had eo much to tell
each other that we could hardly let one another
speak. I hadn't been doing badly, but my mate
was enthusiastic about the Hawkesbury, and
nothing would satisfy him but I must go there too.
After come persuading, I said I would go, atd
back I went with him accordingly. We got to
where he was stopping about midday. In the cool
of the evening he says to me, ‘ Tom, come with
me for a walk ; I've something you to see.’
What he wanted me to see was a young woman
who hadn’t been behind the door when gocd looks
were served out. He introduced me in a kind of
proud and proprietorial way that he tried to keep
down, and I couldn’t help smiling a little over my
pipe as we sat outside smoking on the verandah.
1 could see with half an eye what made him so
fond of the Hawkesbury.
“ Well, I got a billet the next day as good, if
not better, than the one I had left in Sydney, and
I soon found that I began to like the Hawkesbury
as well as my chum did. Oi course I went to see
him when I could, and equally of course I found
him always, or nearly so. at Mary Hs z d’s father’s.
We both went to see Hazel himself, no doubt,
but somehow, if Mary wasn’t at home we didn’t
stay quite so long. This was all very well, but one
fine moonlight night when I went down neither
Hazel nor my chum was there. Mary was, however;
she said they had gone a little way down the river,
but when I hung in the wind, thinking whether I
should go after them or stay, she said they
be back any minute, and it ended in my staying.
They didn’t get back till nigh eleven ; we hadn’t
thought it long, howeter, for we had sat talking
all the while very sociably. I and my mate
walked home together not saying much ; and,
without being able to say why it was, we were a
little cool with each other in the morning. Be
that as it might, we went up to H izsl’a in the
evening as usual, and, to make a long story short,
it was soon seen clear enough who was most wel-
come to Mary. Anyhow, it wasn’t my chum ;
after a lit there was not much chum about it, and
oneevanlng, at a sing-song down atthe public-house
when we both had had a glass, we fell out and
had a set-to, At the finish neither of us had much
to brag about. Some of the more sensible cf the
crowd parted us, and after that there was only
one visitor at Hazel’s, and that was me. My late
chum stuck to the neighbourhood all the same.
“ Not many months after there was a wedding.
Mary Hazel changed her name and took mine in
exchange. Her father, who had a fine farm, with a
good stretch of river flat to it, wouldn’t hear of
our going to Sydney to live as I once mentioned,
but split his farm in two, and I took one-half of
it. Before long I had my share of the flat land
ploughed and laid down to crop, a nice house
built, and the best and best-looking girl on the
Hawkesbury in it as my wife.”
The old man stopped with a sigh and knocked
the ashes out of his pipe. For a moment or two
he held bis peace, and then went on in a lower
tone.
“Those were the happiest days of my life. I
I really think the sun shone brighter then than it
does now, but the brightest sunshine for me shone
from my wife’s eyes, and when in due time there
came a little stranger, a fine, fat little fellow,
there wasn’t a prouder man in the district.
“The seasoa turned out a good one for the
crops through the early spring, bat we had a long
dry spell after and prayed for rain. No rain came,
and then we prayed again. I think we felt a
little angry that we had to pray again ; it was not
long before we had occasion to remember that. I
had turned in one night after looking, farmer and
sailoj-like, for weather signs in the sky, and finl-
ing none. I had been pretty busy through the
day and slept like a top. What the time was I
don’t know, but it must have been towards morn-
ing, when Maiy woke me with a start and said
she was sure someone was in the house. I sat up
in bed and listened. I heard nothing for a rr iQute,
then there came a cry from the horses In the
stable. 1 j|Umped out of bed and shouted in alarm,
for I was over my ankles In water To strike a
light, to run to the door and look out from the
verandah was the work of no time. By the faint
light of early dawn it was easy to see what was
the matter ; the paddocks and the wheat fields had
gone, and in their place was one wide lake out of
which the hills rose like cliffs on the seashore. For
a moment I was paralysed in mind and body;
what to do first I knew not. I ran into the house
again, and told the wife how things were. She
took the matter infich more quietly than I did; she
asked me if the snook were all right. She was a
native of the Hawkesbury and had seen floods be-
fore. To tell the truth that calm inquiry settled my
wits in a moment. I slipped on some clothes,
floundered my way to the stockyard, and threw
down the bars. I, think the cattle must have
bsen Hawkesbury-born, too, for they walked
quietly out and set off for the higher ground
directly, I jumped into the stable to get the
horse and ride over to Mary’s father’s to see about
a boat, bat the fool of a horse was so frightened
with the water getting into the stable that he
wouldn't move till I put the bridle on him. I
hurried back to the house as a thought struck me,
and carried the wife and the little one back to the
straw-stack near the stable. This, though only
half made up, stood ou higher ground than the
house acd would be safer. All this time there
was no rain falling ; the floodwater had all come
down from the mountains I kissed Mary and
the little chap, and then went away, a plunging
gallop across the paddock’s, to her father's. Hszil
had gone down to the landing where his boat was
moored, purposing to come to us ; I set off after
him, and met him coming back. He told me that
somebody had helped himself to the boat, and I
nearly fell off my horse with the thought of how I
was to get Mary and the youngster to safety. I
thought nothing of saving anything out of the
house now. The water was rising fast, and if the
horse couldn’t carry us all—l pretty well knew he
couldn’t—Mary would have to ride with the baby,
and I lake my chance swimming alongside I fell
anxious and down-hearted enough riding back ; as
I crossed the little creek that marked the boundary
between Hazel’s land and mine. I regular had to
swim for it, and I began to fear I should never
see Mary again. But, God help me ! I did.
“ As I neared the house through the trees in the
paddock, I could see the water was over the eaves
and well up toward the top of the stable door. I
couldn’t see the stack because it was on the other
side of the stable in the line of the rise, and I had to
keep on for shallow water. When I got round the
stable you may think how I felt: the stack was
gone, had floated away, and where were my wife
and child ? I have felt pretty mean in my time
now and again, but never worse than then. For
an instant I stood still, and I don’t know whose
flanks throbbed most, mine or the horse’s. Then
I flogged him on and next minute j erked him up
again to a standstill. I didn't know where I was
going to, where I should go to. I watched the
muddy waters swirling by, and then caught sight
of a boat going along the river. I shouted to the
people in it, but they ware too far off to hear me,
and then I galloped bard along the ridge to where
a spur branched off down to the river. I had got
about half-way or rather more along the spur
when my horse ran foul of a stumn that was under
water, and over his head I flew. It was lucky one
way that there was water for me to fall into tc
partly break my fall or I should have broken my
neck The horse was up in a minute and
bolted. He was a gocd, faithful brute, and had
never served me that trick before, but the flood
scared him, and I forgave him. I never saw bim
any more
I had now to swim for it; I could see the boat
well enough still, though my long, wet hair got
over my face and eyes enough to blind me. I
shouted again, and this time they heard me and
rowed toward me, though they were pretty well
loaded as it was. One of them pulled me on
board, and after I got in I turned to him and
thanked him. We both started; the man who
had pulled me in was my old mate, Wilson, and
he sat glowering as black as night at me, sorry
for what he had done. I had something eke to
think of besides him, and I looked around for a
glimpse of the straw-stack with Mary on it.
Curiously enough, I thought more of her than of
the child. There were stacks enough flca^ing
around j weatherboard houses, barns, with fence-
rails and firewood no end Sometimes horses and
cattle were seen struggling in the broad waters.
Of these we took no heed, but kept a bright look-
out for our fellow-creatures. We took in three
more, one perched on a tree, and two floating on
some sawn stuff that just kept their heads above
Wa 4. te « A nd t, 1 1 ' en the worßtl waß tha t we could
not afford to take any more in, for the boat was
nearly gunwale under with the water. We had to turn
deaf ears to several calls for help, and we saw one
poor fellow go down in making a vain effort to
reach us. We had just seen the circling waters
o.ose over his last struggles, when the boat lurched
oyer to the other side. We all looked round in
r^ t;a iP a i rof .,h a “ da haii grasped the side of
the boat, had pulled it down, and the water was
pouring in amain over the side. The hands were
close to me ; I seiz’d them, wrenched them loose,
and flung them far away clear of the boat. She-
for it was a woman as we then saw-gave a
despairing shriek, gave me a look that I shall re-
member to my dying hour, and sank under water,
1 fell back in a fib—it was my wife I”
ui T £ 6 °l d man Bt °PP etJ and lulled his head upon
his hands, remaining silent for several minutes. I
did not care to break the silence, and pulled
quietly at my pipe, only to find that I had allowed
it to go out while listening to the story. I hardly
liked bo strike a match and light up again, so I
waited till the old man began afresh. Presently
he lifted his head and went on. 7
“I don’t know why I tell this story, bnt some-
times ! fee! that I must tell it, however I am
pained by doing so It was six weeks before I
came to my sober senses again, and if I hadn’t had
SoMd 8 „ b ’tTa 81 e^ an °°u ld b n* n l ght day ‘ 1
shouldn t have got up off, my bed alive. Not that
X wanted to when I did corns to myself. I was
sar»
1 “ ked -
Oh, it was a man you had tending you ? ’
“ I had, and he was a good one ; he was my old
wasnearly'tMowing me SeZIT
down, and the shook that stunned me, altered
him. It was he who saw me well bestowed in a
place of safety; it was he who searched far and
wide for the bodies of Mary and the child. He
found the latter, and alive. He was found on a
pan of the stack which had caught and lodged in
the snaggy head of a ring- bark’d gum, but my
We raid onT? thick lb«
she had tried to fend off the sharp branches of the
tree, and that the stack, in swinging round, had
parted in the middle, one-ba’f floating away with
her on it, and the other remaining fast to the
limbs of the tree. He brought the little fellow,
fat, chubby, and crowing with innocent glee, to
the bedside, and I thick the eight of him did me
more good than all the doctor’s drugs, and
the doctor was honest enough to say so. I
c ime round by degrees, though I’ve never been
quite my own man since. Bat the little chap
took to my mate as much as ha did to me; called
him his “uncle,” his “ other daddy ; ” I wasn’t
jealous, and my mate used to swear the boy had
his mother’s eyes, and then would start to cry
like a child himself sometimes, i'he youngster
took to the water like a duck, and I believe he
could swim before he could walk. There was no
kind cf boat he could keep out of. When he
grew older he wanted to go to sea, but I couldn’t
bear the thoughts of that. He chafed a bit, and
I told him how I had lost his mother in the
Hawkesbury and couldn’t afford to risk losing him
at sea. Then he said, ‘ Well, dad, I won’t go to
sea, and if I am to drown, I’ll drown in the
Hawkesbury, too, like mother.’ And so from
sailing he turned his attention to rowing, and a
smart boy he is at It, too. Many a day hia ‘ uncle 1
coached him from the bank.”
“ And where is your mate now ? ”
“Dead ; drowned in the Hawkesbury. He
often used to say to me, ‘ I wonder which of us
will see Mary first ? ’ Well, he went first, you
see, and got the start of me in death if I did of
him in life. Like my poor wife, we could never
find hii body. The boy was awfully cut about it,
and touched neither scull nor oar for a month. He
rows about now as much as ever, and has come off
well in some of our little local matches. You’ll
see that boy champion of Australia yet.”
“ What’s his name ? ”
“ Tom ; I named him after my mate.”
“ Tom what?”
“Tom Jenkins.”
R. A. BULFORD.
But the old man didn't say “ Tom nor did he
say “Jenkins.”
The value of longer y.
Dr. .Felix L. Oswald, in writing of the value of
longevity, says :
“Can there baa doubt that Burns and Keats
foresaw the issue of their struggle against bigotry,
or that Cervantes, in the gloom of his misery
could read the signs of the dawn presaging a sun-
burst of posthumous fame ?
“ Spinoza and Schiller died at the threshold of
6 l r ?wl Fu ascal -’ ? a . rve y> Macaule y. Buckle and
Biobat left their inimitable works half finished ;
xiaphael, Mozart and Byron died at the verso of
a summit which perhaps no other foot shall ever
approach.
“ Who knows how often, since the dawn of
modern science, the chill of death has palsied a
hand that had ail but lifted the veils of Isis
temple? Or in how many thousand lives time
alone would have solved all discords into harmonies*
An increase of longevity would indeed, solve the
vexing riddles if existence ; it would furnish the
peculiar endorsement of Mr. Mallock’s conclusion.
It would give the vicissitudes of fortune a chance
to assert their equalizing tendencies, it would
supply a missing link In the arguments of that
natural religion that trusts the equipoise of justice
in the apparent caprices of human fate.
“The price of longevity would redeem the
mortgage of cur earthly paradise”- and it can be
prolonged and should be. with care and the use if
proper medicine at the right time.
Owing to the stress, the worry, and the annoy-
ance of every day life, there is no doult but that
tens of thousands of men and women vearlv fill
premature graves. 1 *
Especially after middle life should a careful
watch be kept over one’s physical c edition The
symptoms of kidney diseaee, such as becoming
oisiJy tired, headache, neuralgia, feeble heart
action, fickle appetite, a splendid feeling one day
and an a lgone one the next, persistent cough,
e J c -« be looked into and at once
stopped through a faithful use of Warner’s Safe
Cure, which has cured tens of thousands of such
troubles and will cure yours.
Experiencing no pain in the region of the
kidneys is no evidence that they are not diseased
as those great purifying crgans have very few
nerves of sensation, and often times the kidneys
are positively, rotting and being passed away
thronph the urine le'ore the victim is aware he is
suffering from advanced kidney diseaee. which is
only another name for Bright's Diseaee
To preserve life and to be well while you live
are two cardinal virtues, and it is time well spent
fD give this vital subject earnest and careful at-
tention, and to use the knowledge acquired in a
judicious and intelligent manner.
Mwla Island has been sold by the Tas-
§°!|"D^ e < nt « t0 ® i .« n . or Bernacchi, who
goes to England to float it mto a company for
™f“ d v,ne Pro win f?. It was on Maria Isltnd
that (Governor Denison marooned Smith O’Brien
' W j en the latter 'efased, after his first
at term ted escape, to Rive bis "word" that he
wcu d not make e.noth«r at‘empt


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, J
Melbourne, superior accommodation visitors
Pnsh and salt-water baths in house, close to sew
baths. Uorset and buggies for hire
Kveiybody should use Pemell's Istest best Snow-whits
Patswt Bolls* Flous. II Is the *re»tesl success of the
we.
Mom and Chandon’s Champaonn.— Messrs. MoBt and
i Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers In the world. Their Dry*
Imperial ” 1881 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres In the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia, the Imperial
- Grown is In each earner sf l»bal and 1881 brand#* sa
ylib and label
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers <£’ Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing:
Properties, &0., &o.
SB-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Bail
AH lists posted Free on application,
Personal Items.
Brown during the last few years of his life, and
they are to be kept permanently shut as a tribute
to the departed Highlander. A large brass plate
ia to be fixed in his sitting-room wh oh will bear
an inscription recording his virtues and deplorir g
his loss. Brats!
G .vernoj Onslow’s cousin, Lieut.-Colonel
Onslow, superintendent of the Military Cymna-
sium at Aldershot, is quite a pocket-Hercules He
weighs less than Bst, and is the best lightweight
boxer in the army, a beautiful fencer, and a gym-
nast of the variety that makes even the expert
hold his breath. Blondin ones carried him across
a tight rope in a basket.
A Sydney Divorce Court banister, much
given to the old legal form of identifying himself
wish his client, pleaded the other day that the
lady petitioner “smashed our face with a flat-
iron.” That makes ns think of the Irish barrister,
similarly given to forms, who, on the judge asking
why the death sentence should nob be passed on a
female prisoner, jumped up and said, “ My lord,
we are enceinte !'’
Ernest Batbner, tbs German saved from
the gallows at Sydney by the recantation of his
prosecutrix following on information concerning
her antecedents given by the Queensland authori-
ties, says he was born on 28 ;h May ; on 28th M iy
he was to have been hanged, and on 28th May he
was set at liberty. He was condemned on 29 ih
April, and is 29 years of age. He speaks highly
of the exertions of Mr. Crick, ML A, his
solicitor.
The late Sir James Martin soon after his
appointment as Chief Jastice had a wall-known
Sydney oitizm before him in the witness-box—a
citizen whose reputation was a little off-colour.
Sir James, believing that the witness was not as
truthful as he might be, sternly said: “Sir, you
are prevaricating.” The witness astonished
everybody in court by demurely replying; “ I
cannot help it, your Honor, I have an im pedi-
ment in my—sp-eech !”
Messrs. Gailey and Btz c itt were in
Sydney together last week. Those are the pro-
prietary heads of Brisbane Coueiee and Queevs-
lander, The third partner is a lady. Mr. Gailey
does not profess to know anything about politics,
but is great at machinery. Alfred Bennett’s new
type-setters were the main part of the business in
hand In les j than a year the firm will nob grieve
Borwlck, the bakirg-poitder man, just
dead, left £259.010,
Percy M Donnell, the famous bat, la now
a relieving manager for the A. J.O. Bank.
An elder alater of Prcmier Parkes if atlil
alive and resides on the Blue Mountains,
The “ Capld of the Macleay” ia not yet
knighted, but the Macleay is himself a knight.
There la a blx-foot five parson In South
Melbourne. His sermons are built in proportion.
Tomaso Smi, who “eculped” the now
historic Sydney Post-office carvings, is insolvent.
The revenue of Mataafa, King of Samoa,
is 20 Chilian dollars, or £l, a month, paid semi-
occasionally.
The “ three R’s ” are to be found In the
name of Mr. Cirruthers, the N.S W. Minister of
Public Instruction.
The new R.C. Bishop of Melbourne la
said to be an authority on electricity. The last
Bishop was an authority on stout and oysters.
Sir Alfred Stephen and Sir John Hay, the
fivab and last Presidents of the N.S.W Legislative
Council, are the only occupants of that office now
living.
Bnzicott, cf Brisbane Courier, aaya that
when he was a country editor he was once washed
out of his office and had to write a leading article
up a tree.
Premier Parkea complains that members
of deputations talk too much and stay too long.
The remedy is simple enough. Let Enry start
reading one of his poems.
Madame Melbr, the singer, who la now in
a position to refute £4OO a month in Paris, is the
wife of Mr. C. Armstrong of Maokay (Q), other-
wise known as “ Kangaroo Charley.’'
The eldest eon of Dhnleep Singh, the erst-
while ruler of the Punjaub who wants Her
Gracious to give him back the Koh-i-noor dia-
mond, is an officer of British infantry.
The house of Pnrves Q.C, has been burgled
three times, and the uproarious defender of the
humble hog-thief is getting to feel pretty tired.
There is no gratitude in the criminal classes of
Australia.
John Mndgee Haynes, M.L.A., when
asked in the N B.W. Assembly a few nights ago
what creed he now favoured most brought a broad
grin on the faca of the house by replying, lam
now a Latter Day Saint.
“ Jack ” Gillies, part proprietor of the
Maitland Mercury, and Mayor of that town, is
said to te the smartest compositor in N.S.W. He
served his apprenticeship in the office of the paper
of which he is now part proprietor.
The slater of the mmderer Gnltean has
written a “novel,” entitled “The Stalwarts ; or.
Who Were to Blame ? ” She endeavours 1 1 show
therein that her brother was insane. She hersslf
publishes the book, which is sold by subscription.
John Biigh 1 ] was r above all things else,
personal, combative, pugnacious. “It is all very
well for Mr. Bright to ealogise the virtues of
peace,” said an English M.P. once. but if he
hadn’t been born a Q iaker he would have been a
prize-fighter.”
Every candidate for registration as a doctor
in N.S.W. is now required by the Medical Board
to furnish a copy of his photograph duy
attested with his signature for future identifica-
tion. This is one outcome of the celebrated
Drummond case.
Fanny, the dear young thing who figured
la the Dilke scandal, and who was so conspicuous
by her absence when wanted at the trial, is m
Auckland, N Z , and has been there some time.
“ She toils not, neither does she spin, but isn t
she a daisy 1” say the local police.
Said Parkes the week before last to the
Vprnnn bovs : “Never do an unworthy deed or
think an unworthy thought” Said Parkes last
week to the N.S.W. Assembly; I yield to no
one in my reverence for that sacred institution the
marriage tie.” Comments crowded out.
“ Never do any act, or think any thought,
which you would not wish to have paraded in the
light of day, and do not attempt m private which
you would fear to do in public, and, depend upon
it vour lives will be straight and lead to perman-
ent success.'” — J. dvice t<*Little Boys, by an ancient
failure.
Melbourne Argus says that Judge Wln-
deyer has only been guilty of “ boorish vagaries.
And pray, what is there to counterbalance them
Snely to H aven a courteous lawyer with as much
brains and a better sense of justice than the Judge
can be got for £fiO a week and the prospect of a
fat pension 1
Mr. JuaticeDay who, as mentioned In last
issue, did not speak a single word in Court during
58 sittings of the Parnell Commission, has a
brother in the police-magistracy of Queensland
also given to be taciturn, anda nephew in a
Northern branch of the Q N. Bank eloquent to
the verge of volubility.
When Sir Henry Loch was “ Governor
Chancellor ” of the I-le of Man he had in his
“Executive Council” the Lord the
Attorney-General, the Archdeacon, the Water
Bailiff, and the View-General. With luoh a lot
we wouldn’t wonder at hearing that a collection
was taken up at each sitting.
Mr H B. Vogel, a son of SI r Jalius, f»
also an aspirant for literary distinction. He has
already produced a weird and mysterious tale
entitled “The Haunted Saloon, and is now
engaged on a startliog story with the extensive
title of “The Smiling Reptile or the Seductive
Snake of the Sanctuary.” This is probably a he.
“Sprats,” as young Prince George of
England is commonly called, is credited with
having developed a most awful penchant for
“sparking” servant girls in preference to the
high-born ladies of the Court. A topical song is
being sung at the music-halls in wffich the police
are represented as being madly j of H K.H.
B7io wrote “The Vernon Boys’ Song V
commencing .., . ,
“ We were wildings once, and the world looked
WirtTan eye askance at some ways we’d shown?’’—
The Bulletin could guess in two tries. Try one,
Parkes. Try two, Parkes.
Queen Victoria has closed the rooms at
Windsor Castle which were occupied by John
A FLIPPANT LIAR.
F ATHER: “Look here, sir! I say you’re a bare-
faced liar!” .
SON: “I know it, worse luck! Ive been trying
to grow a beard for the last two years.
Barefacedness seems to run in our family.”
if the comp?, strike and go out. On the contrary,
they reckon on being in a position to tell 80 per
cent, of them to walk.
Lieut.-Ocl. Shepherd Is the five-feet-
nothing officer in command of the Auckland G-ar-
tison Volunteers. C oncerninar this fire-eating son
of Mars the non-coms tell the following:—
“ When he was only a common major—damit—
during one of the inspections, he took occasion to
reprove the officers for the ‘ slommicky ’ manner
in which they cirriei themselves. Addressing
them with that Eevere look of offended dignity
for which he is noted, he said : ‘ Look he ah, men!
You—haw—don’t know how to walk ; if you wish
to look like an officer and a gentleman you—law—
must swaggah 1 swaggah 11 swaggah 11!’”
Thomas Monahan, of Elsternwlck (Vic )
Is dead. “ Tom ’ arrived “free” at Sydney as
an emigrant just 50 years ago—a time when the
term “ free ” meant a lot. ’3O was also the year
when Henry Parkes honoured the city of Sydney
by picking up that crooked sixpence which has
kept him straight ever since. Monahan betook
himself to Port Phillip in 184 T, and has remained
there ever since. He is said oo have left behind
him property valued at £2,000,000 sterling. His
family consists of two daughters, one the widow
of “Old Tom” Keogh, of Warrena Creek,
Ooonamble, N.S W., whose two sons are now
heirs to the vast property of iheir material grand-
father.
Poor old Marsh Brown, a leading chief of
the Ngapuhi, has just died in N. Z at a great age —
how old no one knew. He had quite an assort-
ment of ages, acquired by the fact that he told
everyone who questioned h'm on the subject a
different story. Forty or fifty years ago he used
to boast that he remembered Captain Cook s
arrival in N Z. ; then as time passed on, to recon
cile his statements with probability, he changed
the ciroum navigator to Missionary Marsden, and
at latest advices the first white man he could
recollect was Governor Hobson. Marsh was a
great theologian, but never could find a religion
that suited him exactly. Soon after his conver-
sion to the Church of England he relapsed into a
Maori Buperatuion called Pal Marlri, then he was
received into the Church of Rome, then became a
Baptist. He died a Mormon.
POLITICAL POINTS
Job (pronounceable In btro ways) la the
politician's patron saint.
John Davies should not ba allowed to go
unpunished. He should be made a K O.M.G.
Rilkes has cabled Hennlker Heaton “ an
adveriis'ng politician,” and Heaton has called
Ra'kes “a right honourable booby.” Each knows
his man
The French hate the Germans but despise
the Italians. One paper says that the Italian
Premier “ puts ia his tooth cotton-wool out of the
German Emperor’s ear.”
Qaeen Victoria has sent a donation of £lOO
to the swamye’-oat Chows of the Hoang-ho, and
another £55 to her own starving subjects. There
is a special blessedness in being a Chinaman after
aii.
No s access or has as yet baeu appointed to
Sir William Sliawell as Lieutenant-Governor of
Victoria. Should anythin? happen to Fiddler
Robinson the Republican Chief Jnstice must cave
a show.
Miss Frances Holden, of Sydney, Is as,ain
on the stump. Miss Holden will, it is understood,
take a prominent part in public affairs as soon as
Parkes’ scheme for conferring the franchise on
women has succeeded.
The Constitution Bill cf West Australia
provides that Ministers shall, on accepting office,
seek re-election Au attempt to expunge this
provision was defeated by 16 votes to 4 By a
greater proportional-rate that very provision was
a few weeks ago ordered to be expunged from the
N.S.W. Constitution Act,
No “good” R. 0., unless Mr. Crick ba
one, voted for Abbott’s N.S.W. Divorce Extension
Dill-and but four (Dan. O’Connor, The 0 {tulUvjM,
James Gormly and W. B, hid the
courage to vote against it.
!li Russia, when a “ drank ” is found in
the street he is imprisoned until he sobers, and is
■then forced to sweep the streets for a day. it
this law prevailed in Australia, the law-makers
would keep the streets clean.
Sydney D.T. sneers at Walker,,M P-. for
“‘not losing interest” in the case of the Mount
.TRennie boys. The Buttner case, hideous though
it be, is in point of legal atrocity not a circum-
stance beside the Mount Rennie and Sweet man
(oases.
. Protectionist Victoria is to have a free
ibreakfast table—ao duty on coffee or cocoa and
only Id. on tea, By the time that NSW.is on a
(political par with her daughter the latter will
'have a free supper-table too wioh whisky and soda
»tthrown in.
Mr. M‘Lallan, of the Victorian Assembly,
.ill to receive the support of the Government in his
candidature for the Chairmanship of Committee.
Mr. M'Lellan shares with Duncan Gillies and
three others the honour of having been in the
Victorian Assembly for 30 years.
Sir Samuel Griffith, lb la said, wants to
have a new morning newspaper in Brisbane. At
present he has net the hearty support of any
paper up there except the Evangelical Stan-
dard, and since he sold out of the Tklkorarh
that paper has sharply rounded on him.
The Home Rule movement was started in
1870 by Isaac Butt. In 1874 there were 51 mem-
bers in the House of Commons favourable to it;
in 1880, 61; in 1885, 85 ;in 1886. 277. The move-
ment was led by Shaw in 1870, Parnell in 1880,
and Gladstone and Parnell in 1886, Judging by
present appearances it may be safely predicted
that 1890 will see Home Rule an accomplished
fact.
A N.S.W, Lands Office clerk Is reported
to have had a strange experience the other day.
A selector cams to him for some information, and
although the clerk tried hard to do so, he could
not possibly refer the matter to any other branch
of tie department and had to attend to it himself.
This occurrence :’s believed to be utterly unique.
In 1869 there were 26 500 holdings of
alienated land in N.S W,, measuring altogether
7 BCO,OOO acres; 10 years afterwards there were
37 OCO holders of 19,000,010 acres of alienated land;
and now, whilst there were 45,000 occupiers, of
36.000 700 acres cf alienated laa**, averaging 800
acres per holding, (n p a rfons hold nearly as much
freehold land in the colony as the remaining
44.000 persons 1
Under Protection, such as it i», New Zea-
land’s exports are increasing and her imports de-
creasing to the tune of several millions respectively
per annum, It is calculated that the balance of
trade for the current year wiil be £5.000.000 in
favour of the country. This wJI do more good
than a loan of the same amount would do, with
the immense advantega that there is neither in-
terest nor principal to pay back.
Writing to Mr. Joyce, a N-Z M.P , Sir
Robert Stout, evidently suffering from an acuta
attack of dyspepsia, says ‘I am rather pessi-
mistic over the future of Liberalism in New Zea-
land—l mean in the near future. Our land is
going from m. and not being properly settled, the
need of future developments in eiuca’ion is not
felt, and the political penduffim seems swinging
towards a parsimonious Conservatism that must
injure us.”
A London newspaper man raises a weird
howl concerning the alleged fact that 70 Irish
members of the Commons don’t pay any income-
tax “and yet legislate for tax paying English-
men.” And now we want to know about the 500
English members who don’t live exclusively on
potatoes and yet make laws for Irishmen who do.
Also, about the unknown and unknowable number
of members who don’t do all sorts of other things,
and yet help to boss au unknown number of
citizens who do these things every day and some-
times even oftener than that.
Mr. Janata Dalton presided at Mr. John
Dillon’s meeting at Orange, and headed the local
subscription list with £lOO. He discharged the
duties of a similar office for Mr, J. E Redmond
when that genleman visited Orange a few years
ago, and is one of a number of magistrates who
were struck off the roll at the instigation cf Mr.
Francis Abigail; M-B-. for having signed an ad-
dress to Mr. Redmond in which England was
spoken of as a “foreign” nation Messrs J. E.
and W. Redmond married into Mr. Dalton’s
family, and rumour has is that the cheques handed
to the bridegrooms went into five figures each.
Those gallant champions of civil and reli-
gious liberty, the Revs Dill Mrckay and Erackle-
ton, of Sydney, are requested to express an
unbiassed opinion on the following incident: —
“Mr. Harrison, of Baliiol College, Oxford, and a
relative of Judge Harrison, of the Irish Bench,
was arrested oa a charge of supplying food to the
tenants on the Olphert estate. The tenants who
were evicted had gone back into their houses, atd
these were btiug besieged by the police with a
view to starving them out. Mr. Harrison was
handcaffel, although nob the slightest resistance
was offered.”
A Medern Type-wr[?]
In those go-ahead days it is essential lor a man to do his
writing at lightning speed as it is for him to lave the
means of speaking with h's business friends without
being in bis t fit te. It is not sufficient for him to pick
out the letters of the aipl abet one by one upon a card or
disc, he must be able to ran his fingers mechanically
over a key-board and rapidly record his thoughts. In w
i ist as certain that ha snonld have a machine witch will
not raise a distracting noise er “stick up’ when he
wants it most to show its powers. Toese are the results
obtained on the Caligraph wilting machine which is
manufactured 1 y the American Writing Machine Com-
pany of Hartford, U.S.A. This machine from 1879, the
year it was first put on the market until the present has
been a prolonged beam, ar d no lets than 30 000 have been
brought into use, notwithstandingthe comptt tionof other
instruments which depended on the specious advantage
of one key for two or even three charaott ra to capture
purchasers who were b'ind to the complication and weak-
ness which such a lessening of the keys inevitably en-
tails. “ A key for every character and no shift ” was the
watchword of the Caligraph when it was launched, and
thote who doubted the success cf this principle had very
soon to admit that lightness of key depression, absence of
noise and vibration, certainty of alignment and absolute
means for adjustment were not the only claims to
superiority which the new machine possessed, for there
was convincing proof that the clever arrangement and
shortened depression of the keys would enable it to dis-
tance all its rivals ii point of speed. For several years
the original and more complicated type-bar machine held
its own at the public trials cf speed through the
skill of an operator, wbo was indeed a phenomenon ; but
in August last the Caligraph people brought out a David
from the office of the Vacuum Oil Company at Rochester
New York, to meet this Goliath with tne biblical result,
for he vanquished the great man by five words a minute
under penectly even conditio? s, excepting as to the
d.flarence in the make of the machine! Mr. T. \V.
Osborne, for he was the good young man who met tie
Philistine at Toronto last August, has been rtciog seme
wonderful work. At publio trials at New York and New
Haven in February and March last he wrote 145 words »
minute lor five minutes, 180 in a single minute, and 99 in
half a minute These trial i consisted in repea ing a sen-
tence of four-letter words, the average of ordinary news-
paper composition being five letters to the word. On
dictated matter the operator did 113 words in half
a minute, and 99 and 3-stbs on legal evidence
in one minute without an error. Oae of the
New York newspapers, in fpeiking cf this wonderful
p rformanoe says it will take Mr Oiborne s rivals all their
time to live up to this record without ever hepirg to
break it. It may be mentioned that at one of the trials
alluded to a Mr. D. M'Bride though blind-folded, wrote
129 words in one minute on the Caligraph. The Austra-
lian agent for this machine is Mr. J E. Cunningham, of
Lyndhurst Chambers, Elizahcth-street, Sydney. The
Melbourne Agency is controlled by Mr C. S. Cunningham,
to whom his fellow pressmen of the Argus staff recently
made a handsome presentation on his leaving the paper to
establish a shorthand business at the Australian Widows
Fund Buildings, Collins-street. Melbourne, on the lines
adopted by his elder brother in Sydney.


The Buttner Case Denouement.
MISS LENOX (loq): "THERE NOW, MY DEARS, THAT WILL DO NICFLY. TO SHOW PEOPLE HOW EASY IT IS TO «ET A COMMON MAN HUNS IN NEW SOUTH WALKS."


ft
“
s , / %r
f" M '/May // y ocL a f '?
fojS- /yr(> yy 4p*/j
(X c/ry/y /Yoy fy#U /
' t/ ::> 7-'oC4,e'cC's
'jfiere. <sat;
7/) e. des/~ J /r/p
ScCo hr}d e,/p ;• /
''“ Oau dare, tycfeedi
("day rfe /n 7aT'hSe.}).
S?/t Ky *J.4 £~ /
fo/. e <*-6ocif3 /*J/ (Of>f>A: }>““ cCoof /fu./>fif>p u
f:% -sV 9 J£t a. o . i'*/-"* -
%* *,?/»s*» **
- itS(j
4 mo ftffgl
7> 's< P'3* / J
Cane />» MbrijWl ™* r/ ,°-..
pic fistoi/e ,
**f' Sttrea fA,r
"/W y-/ - ltaiy
, X 6 * f 9 *?>**"*
7 *
«/ AjfJ AM far* jij ft S/ 7 A 'y
6I?fATS/H.£ OF
BRy'
Damaged By
WATER.'
-I: **m.i nc p
" WLf^SEgr
' hf fifj- ■
dccf yAS o. qoof /dee.*. Jy , «
/yys*>f
/*7ety to of doyf £uf T
fjof bjefpfy l/a./e,r ■ ——
Isaak k^^laipucCe^er
'
Slcccejs 0/
lefiir. u/>/° ur
TFeuserf (fA ■ .
See*** iJ'of' y*«>- ■
rtfi o/ Sr*fcj fia s/eft-/f
'a/f fyo& "
v/i
' tyssas toUtyTK fry/>/*'?*/
atf*tfr ****'' y jf tc(
A ' A tyijuj,/} fife 6/*»Sf*r -<? e
**Pc( t* ** $* Co *'S /•-►'e JofiSca/te-t/ *>
/A//“ '
€./7r r £c. /
« _ / "I
fiurcH-e-A-o~o~o~o' (
ct/y f-oec/pcC Cc./~ /y<zstrcA~yf//P
7tyf> jf/aeA. J'ez/’j/offcC - JX/tfeaseof /c\
6<Z*r£> rfpfiA CC Jp/XCS4>/ps/&Qet}</r<* (c>jo ~
»OCC Mt) 'r refiafr 7£<> ro,/
Sup uf{&A VyA ft in i fitfu
‘ of t^eJuLarf
i
The Late Deluge.


QRESOKNT BREWING OO.'S
“AURORA”
lsbnbb bbbb.
F. P. WHEELSE & CO.,
866 Curbroi Strut,
SYDNEY.
COLONIAL i>i|,osiT a,,dmM ° ixT WL
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Arcade )
Deposits received and interest allowed as follows :
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months 0 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Oommunioatlons to be addressed to
H LIKELY, Manager.
ì
Society
Certain Incidents if the recent delugo
go to prove that a large proportion of the re i
dences in Sydney come under the category cf
“This is the house that Jerry built.” Scarce
a terrace was there in Sydney’s suburbs
without its little deluge coming through tie
ceiling—which deluge after transforming the
stairs into a series cf cascades, and the hall into a
river, made a little Niagara ai the front and the
back door, and found its way into the garden plot,
and tore ravines through tie flower-beds. The
next man who prays for rain ought to le put
under a pump or compelled to reside perpetually
at Marnckville.
, • •
The Sunday evening addresses cf Evan-
gelist Yarley. at the Theatre Royal, are ireating
something of a panic among the nobility and
gentry cf Smellbcnrce. Mr. Yarley has taken to
“naming” the moat premirenb frequenVra cf
Madame Brussels’ bagnio, and a lumber of well-
known citizens are now engaged in speculating as
to whether their torn will come next. This being
the case we may expect shortly to hear that
Yarley has been suppressed by special resolution
parsed at a packed Town Hall meeting and carried
unanimously ; admission by ticket only. If com-
mon report may be believed an inspector of police
is bold off to attend the Royal on Scnday mghtr,
with instructions to gag Yarley if he shows symp-
toms of mentioning ihe giddy goings-onof certain
vi ry distinguished personages.
e t
Dear Bullelin,—A selector named Jores
said to Donald M'TavLh, of Bargowlahmice
station, in the main street of Bargowlalmine yes-
terday : "Well, Donald, old man, how do you
feel after the rain ? ’ A policeman was pi snng at
the moment, to whom the squatter sa'd : ‘ Sum-
mons that man /” which was done, and the case
will come off next This struck me
as being a very novel proceeding, Yours truly,
J. Smith.
* • •
A married nun hai just died In Melbourne,
after bequeathing the bulk of his possessions to an
undertaker, not connected with the family. Fancy
leaving your money to the man who puts you in
your little wooden ulster I
* - •
Mr. Dillon and Barer eb Clarke travelled
by the same train from Melbourne to Sandhurst,
the other week. Personally there is not much
resemblance between the man of brains and the
man of money, bub their identities gob mixed at
one of the stations en route, where the gilded
Croesus came nigh to being kissed by an excited
Old Irish lady, who put her blaming Hibernian
Countenance through the open window of his com-
partment and screamed —“The Saints presarre
ye, Mr. Dillon, for its a good man ye are !' The
tightened Baronet explained that he hoped he
Was good, but ftlb convitced that he wasn’t the
Other gentleman, upon which the patriotic female
said “ Ugh 1 ” and went off to rectify her error.
As far as is known, Mr. Dillon was spared the
indignity of being mistaken for Sir W. J. on this
historic occasion.
* * •
At Melbourne City Court last wetk, a
Tlair, ordinary “ drunk” went to the expense of
pleading guilty through a solicitor, whereupon the
Bench fined the misguided capitalist 20j. ; The
solicitor, pointing out that it was his client’s first
offence, wanted to know if the price of “drunks
had been raised, but the Bench replied that 20 j.
was no more than the full market quotation, and
the young man departed with the conviction that
legal assistance is a delusion and a mistake.
t • •
' Five amiable justices at E sendoa (Melb )
asserted the sacred rights of property the other
day. An awestruck little girl of 13 summers was
put into the dock charged withli ting sixpenn’orbh
of dead wood from the prosecutor s uofetcod pad-
dock, A fine of 10.«. or one wee k was duly in-
fl cted, bub as the child's father couldn't produce
that amount (»ith costs) his offspring was carried
into captivity by the perlice. The Juvenile
Offenders’ Act apparently extends no mercy to
the infant laroenisfof dry chips, and we can pic-
ture the quintette of justices solemnly reminding
one another that they used to hang little girls in
Hingland for crimes of this description. Good
old Bench I
* • •
As if to emphasise the absurdity of
“ Queen’s Birthday Honours ” the Duke of Edin-
burgh’s name heads the list of those singled out
for “distinction ”by their Sovereign Lady. And
the true value of lit'es or decorations may he
calculated by the fact that no matter how many
“handles,” et»rs, ribbons or melals a glorified
British subject may acquire in tl o course of a lor g
eweer, the Prince of Wales la bound to carry a
lot more marks of royal favour upon his puffy
Person. This class of greatness runs in the Reign-
ing Family. It would be impossible to heave a
brick at such a fat headed old faineant as the
Duke of Cambridge without striking a medal
granted for special vahur in the field he never
went near.
• • •
Sergeant Dalton, the burly and popular
Crimean veteran who, for many years, has acted
as orderly to successive Governors of N S.W., is
now very ill indeed. A Sydney newspaper says
that he has been called upon by 20 membnrs of
the Light Brigade who were at Balao’ava Now,
the Light Brigade c insisted of GOO men or there-
abouts, and of these, according to what we have
read, only 197 or so answered the muster-roll
after the fight. Assuming that half of those who
were left on the field were subsequently patched
up, we are asked to believe that, after a lapse of con-
siderably over 30 years, 20 man out of the 4CO are
in a tingle Australian city, and are well enough to be
able to call upon their old comrade ! The man
who writes this is a bit of a liar himself.
* * «
AaecrebCimt if Justice has jas t been
exposed in Auckland (N Z ), The son of a wealthy
citizsn w?s arrested for a sitting of fhe
Court was hastily convened late in the af ernoon,
and two justices eummoned post-haste, the
change being at once dismiss d on the under-
standing that tha prosecutor did not wish to
proc:ed.
* * *
Juab as winter commences, Sydney’s
neatest amatiur skater has been sent to
prison for skating off with Government momy.
The lawyers lad no doubt about the miserable
BUTCHER!
MY BLEEDING HEART !
TOO HIGH !
EVERYONE SATISFIED.
A BACKYARD IDYLL.
little e’erk boing “ an ag«nt or servant” of the
Government. That is also the way of the world.
j m •
lb la the opinion of Stipendiary-Magistrate
Fisher, of Sydney Water Police Court, that there
is no law to punish a man for wearing female
appard. There is a law against a female who
wears male attire. If the Stipendiary is right,
w man has here a grievar ce which should stir hr r
scul to its ti m :estuons depths.
* * *
Tha great Primrose L?agae fad has given
rise to a ert z > for representative fl >wers amongst
other societies A Melbourne Temperance Oig*n-
iz\tion is casting about for a suitable blossom.
We bag to suggest the Liverwort. Should the
Caledot i»n Society think of following the example,
Scratch-weed would seem to fill their bib.
* • *'
The following h a very popular “In
Memorlam ” with widows down South
G. H R Id has been telling a meeting of
the Sydney articled clerks how to become orators.
The sharklets, he said, should speak persistently
at their society meetings and not mind first
failures. They should begin with a short speech,
write it cut, learn it off and speak It out. When
they could speak with self-possession, they would
be ready for greater efforts and a long course of
practice. Good advic°, this Self - possession
means cheek, and the corollary of cheek is jaw,
*
Evsn the piteous have bad dibbs. Quite
lately the Rev. Duncan Prater, of Northcots
(Vic ) summoned one J. Brown ti recover P 3
for a marriage performed. It seems Mr Brown
was marr ed “ on tick ” and las since refused to
squsrs the account. The rev. gentleman sreured
a verdict, and the Bsnch remarked that in future
marriage contracts should be paid in advance
i
“ Thn’ he is gone I will nob grieve,
Nor sit in sorrow for his sake —
The Lord it was who gave me him,
And what Ho giveth He con take.”
It se°ms to state the case more lucidly this way
Though he is gone I will not grieve
Nor wring my hands in useless pain—
Tha Lord it was who gave me him,
I trust the Lord to give again.
This Bench’s words to parsons should
Present some strong attractions,
The warning should affect them so,
Regarding future action?,
That weddings may henc forward be
All straight-out-cash transactions.
“ No Credit ” should in letters large
Be “writ” on Bibla-bordars,
A nd if the pulpit and the pews
Were plain and bold recorders
That twelve per cent deposits are
Rdq -.ested on a'l.orders.
The clergy would no more be bored
With book debts past collection,
And run upon these business lines
With worldly circumscectk n ;
The parson who is popular
May boast of his “ connection.”
And if the Ruling Pores should call
Him to anothn- mission
He need not lose the whole by that
Unfortunate transition.
Bit advertise, “Good-will and plant
For sale by competition.”
There’s lobs of momy in the biz.
For parsons enterprising—
A pushing man might scoop the trade
Of marriage solemnising
By ouiiting down the prices and
Judicious advertising.*
But “money down” must be the cue
Of every oonsecrator,
Although no axiom we know
Can b) appropriater
Than that the man who weds a wife
Pays for it soon or later.
1 1 Tub Bulletin (largest circulation in Australasia )
The Maungatautari Bank.
[BY J. F. EDGAR LAWRENCE, CTAGO.]
The improvident character cf the Maori har be-
come so notorious that the notion of a Maori bank,
Damaged by Maoris for Maoris, ni h a staff of
darks and depositors, printed regulations and
other addenda, will be rec jived with incredulity—
will be scouted, in fact, as the invention of tome
imaginative mind. Fxva years ago, however, a
Maori bank, such as I have described, existed at
Maucgatautari, and for a time did an ac ive and
(to the owners) lucrative business. The business,
I may say, was purely a deposit one.
During the sitting of the Native Lands Court
at Kumreiti, when immense areas of land were
being “ put through,” and the inheritance of the
natives transferred to the Land Purchase Com-
panies and speculators, large sums of purchase
money were paid to the tribal owners who suc-
oeedrd in establishing their title to the various
blocks adjudicated on. Almost every native one
met was the proud possessor of a pocketful of
notes (which, being of greater bulk, were generally
preferred to gold), or of a daposit r caipt for a
substantial amount. Being unable to spend it as
fast as they received it —the generous assistance
of the publicans nctwithstanc ing—the money was
generally deposited in the b a ok?, of which there
were two in the place. Though neither bank paid
interest on these shoit deposits, the use cf the
money was amply paid for by the trouble and
annoyance given by the depositors. Ths younger
men would call, perhaps twice a day, to make a
draw, while the older ones would call regularly
every morning and ask to look at their money,
just to see if it was all right. The women were a
great nuisance When they made a deposit they
appeared to think it gave them a proprietary in-
terest in the establishment. When the bank
opened in the morning they would rush in, ask for
their money, count it, and, satisfied that it was
there, would once more band it over the counter
and then go out and sit on the doorstep. There
was a terrible how d’ y’ do one morning when old
Mere Wakatutu went to count her £5O, The
clerk banded her over three note; —two twenties
and a ten-and in reply to a look of astonishment
informed her that she was entitled to no more.
She bad paid in fifty tirgle notes, and was not
going to bs put off with three-not she. ' The joke
was a good one, but it deprived the bank of many
of its customers in Kumreiti.
Ttiags were in this fl wishing condition w i h
the Maoris when the thought e f storting a Maori
bank suggested Itself to a few men of “ light and
leading ’in native c roles. They had reasoned to
themselves —or, at least, to those about them—
that while banking their money did not result in
any loss to the Maoris, it must result in some
profi) to the Europeans, otherwise the Europeans
would not keep banks. It was accordingly repre-
sented at a meeting called to consider the matter
that, as the Europeans were making a profit by
keeping the Maoris’ money, there was no reason
why the Maoris should no) be their own bankers,
and enjoy the profit themselves.
The idea met with ready acceptance, was taken
up vi ih enthusiasm, and before many days bad
passed, preparations were under way to establhh
what subsequently came to be known —alas ! to
many too well known—as the Maungatautai i
Whaie Utu.
The basis on which the institution was started
was semswhat original. A bank to a Maori was
a place where money was kept for safety, to be
available to the owner when required In their
bank there were to he no advances —no overdraft;
everythirg went in, but nothing went out.
A Board cf Directors was appointed, mostly
well known chiefs, selected from various tribes.
The hal'-oastes—the sons cf a well known mis-
sionary, by the way—who had an English educa-
tion (a veiy comprehensive term this) were en-
gaged as clerks or bookkeepkera ; and it was one
of these who came to the offi.e of the Boeder
Chronicle one morning to consult me about
printing the prospectus This precious document
was in Maori, and the interpretation ran as fol-
lows :
THE MAUKOATAI'TARI MONEY HOUSE.
Board of Directors:
T; Kvkoura (the Fishealei)
Ts Reiputa (the Boar with Tusks).
Hune te Pungorungoru (3am the Sponge).
Td Whakatoi (the Teaser),
Wiremu te Tapu (William the Hob).
H inn ta Parikou (John Slippery Fish).
Te Kalpuratoke (tha Glow- vortn Eater).
Apsrahama te Kai (Abraham Iho Ja vel),
To the Maoii People :
Qrejtings.
Whereas it has come to the knowledge of the foregoing
chiefs that the peopla of the tribes Ngafcihaua, Ngatl-
kaplti, Ngatiman apoto, Ngatiraukawa, Nguirangiwehs-
wehe, and Ngati •>aikato have bean in the habit of bank-
ing with certain E in-p’ans:
And whereas the M ori people so hanking have been
grievously wronged in their Ceilings with these Euro-
p ans. who have largely profited thereby :
And whereas our hearts being greatly grieved at this
robbery of our people :
Be it known, therefore, ihat we the chiefs of the
tribes aforementlcn d, in Council assembled, have de-
cided to start a bank f jr the use i f the Maori people.
The rules upon which this bank will be conducted are
1. The right to share in the privileges of the Maunga
tautari ba k is confined to people of the Maori race.
II No deposit will be aocepied for a shorter term than
six rnioths.
111. The rates of in ' ere st to be paid on depos : t) are !
On all sums under £2O, 5 per cent.; over £2O and less
than £5O 10 per cant ; over £5O and lees than £lOO Ifi
per cant. ; ovir £lOO, 20 p r ceot.
IV. The bank will be open to receive deposits on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Saturdays, letvetn the tours if
10 a.m and 4 p.ro.
(Signed) Tamaiti Nikoremu, Secretary,
t give the ditectors’ mines in English, as an
illustration if the eternal fi ness tf things in
Maori philology. Tha prospectus which was
printed in the form of a coloured “dodger " (the
Maoris dearly love the colours), was duly oircu*
.latad. The response was beyond the expectations
of the most sanguine. A Maori bank for the
ex elusive u«e of that injured aid sotely neglected
people ! Excellent idea ! And such liberal inter-
est, too 1 Why, only a few of those who deposited
money in the paheha bsnks were getting interest
a) all 1 Yes, it was just the very thing the
Maoris waited; ought to have b:en thought of
long ago.
The news of the bank spread like wildfire from
harm to hapu, from tribe to tribe, from ktiega to
baiega. There was an immediate run cn the
European banks, as if the rumour of ruin bad got
abroad. Men and raoncen jostled each ether at
the counter for who would get their money first.


THE SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 King Street.
Agencies In London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of Interest allowed
For the psst three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid In addition to the above
I ommunloatlons from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager.
Horsford’s Acid rii nuptials
FOR WAKEFULNESS)
Ilystf r'a, tni other dismses ol the nervous system
Ths grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilo'-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE. —TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OP Thu
PREMIUMS PAID beinp RETURNED os an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Kvent of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS «T Br»nohei Id »ll »he Ooiomiß *nd Id »be Usitdd Kihoqov.
What imprecations and elbowiags I A spectator
of a dramatic turn compared it to the pit-door on
a first night. Had the rua been general the banks
must hava put up their shatters. By twelve
o’clock on the day after the issue of the prospec-
tus there was notia Maori shilling ia a European
bank ia the country.
Tae premises secured by the Mauugatauhari
were of the most unpretentious nature, and
their vary imecurloy might hava served as a fing p r
of warning to the uniop nistioated They consisted
of a large runsnga home divided into three com-
partments—office, “strong'’ room, and sleeping
comoartment. The clerks and some of the
directors ata and slept ori the premises. Ail
armed guard was secured, consisting of two
natives —one armed with a flint-lock and the other
with an ancient pattern of fi rearm which Captrin
Cook might have been suspected of smuggling into
the country. The treasure, which amounted to
Soma hundreds of pounds, was securely locked
away in candle-boxes in the strong room.
, Tae confidence in the bank was aim ost universal.
E very Maori who had a pound which he could not
oiherw.se c’iipose of, put it in the bank that it
might “ grow,” as some felicii iusly termed it.
Trae, there were a few'who, after a few days,
began to entertain misgi dogs an 1 demand their
money; but the Dlreccors were obdurate; the
rules could not he violated. The shortest term of
deposit was six months, and no money could be
returned under that time.
Some weeks after the bank commenced business
it became apparent) that two or three of the direc-
tors had unllmit d resources at their command.
Tueir generosity was even prodigal. “William
the Holy ” was the owner of a buggy and pair;
the “Boar with Tasks” had commenced the erec-
tion of a villa d la Ang l aise; the “Glowworm
Eater ” evince 1 a relish for sucouDnt mutton and
bottled stout; and the “ Slippery Fish ” figured in
sporting circles as the owner cf a racing stud. To
crown the extravagance, the armed guard were
actually wearing trousers—no makeshift garment’,
but real orthodox uumentiotab’es, though they
did persist in occasionally wearing the wrong side
foremost. It is not too much to say that those
connected with the bank, however remotely, were
the envy of all Maoridom, Opposition banks were
talked cf and attempted, but without success. The
clients appeared to bo all used up.
The bank was in the zenith of its power when a
great Maori mission to England was decided on.
Among those who undertook to go to England
were several of the directors ; in fact, it was at a
meetirg of the board that this great mission was
suggested. Te Rei brought the matter forward.
After dealing with the Treaty of Waitangi—that
old subject so dear to the heart cf every Maori
orator —he said the spirit of a dead ancestor had
appeared to him and tcld him he must sro to Eng-
land. There lived the great pakeha Queen, the
redresser of all wrongs. The Maoris had been
robbed of their inheritance, their children were
landless and their chiefs without mana Let
them go to England and lay their petition before
the Q teen. Was not the mission in the interests
cf the Maori people ? What, therefore, more
reasonable than that the Maori people should pay
for it ? And who were the proper persons to go
on this mission ? The chiefs, of course And
what greater chiefs (pronounced “ thiefs ” by the
the speaker) were there than Te Kei and Te
Parikou ? They were the chiefs of Ngatiwaikato,
and had not the ancestors of Ngatiwaikato killed,
cooked, and eaten the ancestors of Ngatipatu and
Ngatikoru ?
This current of reasoning bad the desired
effect. Old Reiputa (Boar with Tusks), who was
a bit of a dandy in his way, said he had bad a
dream in which he saw the Queen beckon to him.
He would go to England. Yes, the bank th uid
find the money. Wby not? It was the money of
the Maori people.
By this time a considerable portion of the
deposit-money had been invested in such securi-
ties as the personal predilections of the directors
could suggest. There was still, however, some
hundreds of pounds in the cff and this, it was
agreed, should go towards equipping the mission,
procuring presents for the Queen, and paying the
expenses of the self-appointed delegates. The
decision of the directors cn this head, it may be
mentioned, was not formally communicated to
the bank’s clients.
• • •
When the six months which had to elapse be-
tween Ihe deposit and withdrawal of money in
the Maungatautari bank had passed over, the now
famous Maori mission was “out on the ocean sail-
ing,” well on its way to Eiglatd. The bank
opened on the March 1, and exactly on the Sep-
tember 1 Maoris from the outlying settlements In
large numbers nrghb have been seen wending
their way to Maungatautari. These were the
depositors, who, having been living in a stats of
self-denial for a long time, were jubilant that the
day had at last arrived when they could make a
draw and dissipate to their hearts’ content. And
then there was the Interest 1 Not only would
they have their own money back again, but wfra
they not told that their money would “grow?”
“ Would the bank be op:n when they arrrived ? ”
t’aev asked each other.
Yes, sura enough, the bank was open. There
was a crowd about the premises, too, talking,
swearing, and vociferating—all c’amouriog for
their money. The women worked thems'lvesiato
a terrible fib of passion, ani ths men g .ve vent to
their feelings as Maoris only know how. In re-
sponse to the general camour, Homai-ta-ulu,
the clerk in charge, had told the in-
furiated people that the Directors had taken
all the money to England. Ths love of
lucre is as strong ia the savage as in the civilise 1
man, oaos its pewer is mderstood Tae tempest
of disanpolnted greed that now broke forth was a
powerful commentary on the progress towards the
ideal of which the rrlisaionary speaks. Some beat
the walls with thnr fists, others wreaked their
fury on those o! the offi ials that remained, while
nob a few book the matter philosophically enough,
contenting themselves with a few muttered impre
cations. The crowd increased as the day pro-
ceeded, and every minu ie the passion gathered in
intensity. At last the idea seemed to take hold
that the money mu t be still it! the bank, and a’l
at oace the fury of the multitude concentrated
itself arctiul the walls of the “Wha’e Utu.”
Within the twinkling o! an eye ths old raupo
whare was torn to the ground, the boxes which
Had done ddty as treasure chests ware smashed to
pi ’cos, bocks dnd papers were thrown to the wind,
and the people, who sfiemed to have taken leave
of their senses, jumped about in a wild delirium.
OI ths did runariga nothing remained that could
bo up-rooted. All of a Mldderi a tongue of flame
leaped forth, and before manjr minutes there was
nothing visible of the Maungatautari bank but a
heap of smouldering ashes and the grief and in-
dignation cf ito clien's.
* • s
Some months after ths incidents just recorded,
when the feeling had subsided and the people were
reconciled to their losses, the mission returned
from England. When they called the people to-
gether they were enabled to tell them ot the great
things tin y h ad achieved in the land cf the pakeha.
The Q ieen, they said, was greatly grieved at the
wrongs of the Maoris. She would gi re back all
their lands and restore their chiefs to their
ancient mana As for the money in the bank
which they had taken, what of that ? Did they
nob know it was the custom of a’l banks to charge
interest ?
They also had charged interest. The charge
made by the bank was so much per cent, per
A STEPHENESQUE IDEA:
FIRST AMATEUR LAW-MAKER: "Scoicide! Why I'd make Socicide punishable
SECOND DITTI: "Um — well, I don’t think I'd go so far as that; say Imprison-
ment for Life.”
month, so that some of the depositors were ac-
tually in debt to the bank. The interest they had
charged for keeping the money had eaten up the
pritirlpal.— C. Times,
Gaionesp, 8 »n & C , the big stout manu-
facturers, made a profit of £790 930 last year.
The Interrupted traffic In Melbourne
suburban land is being gradually restored, and the
noble army ef (state agents is preparing to ravage
the country, which reminds us that the silver-boom
is coming up again.
One of Australia's foremost enterprises In
connection with the inner man is the business
carried on in Harris street, Sydney, at the Metro-
politan Confectionery and Pastry Works, When
the present proprietary, Messrs. F. G. Nioholls
and Co , took over the business a couple of years
ago it was of very small dimensions, tut under
the energetic management of the head of the firm.
Mr. F, G. Nichols, the output has increased
enormously and the quality of the goods have made
a name ut Australia. The firm hava re-
cently made alterations to their premises and ad-
ditions to their machinery at a cost of £2000, the
revolving pans fur the manufacture of dry goods
being of the largest kind. The firm have a depAt
at George street, Hay market, and those on the
lock-cuifor wedding-cakes or any description of
pastry or confectionery should keep this sddress
in mind.
"A Great Grazing Land for Germans.”
(A. GLIMPSE AT BRITISH ROYALTY.
Tin Dacaesa cf Cambridge, an aunt o!
Q i=>en V.ctcr’.a, died the oiher da”. Daring the
past 40 years she and her son, the Dake of
Cambridge, arid his immediate relative have done
very wall oat of the British taxpayer. Gimp (he
G irmanesquely speaks of himself as “Tae Shook
of Gampcidge’) himielf has thrown in for £O5O 000;
his late mother had £234 000 ; the Duchees of
Sireli z £ 135 000 ; Sni hs younger sister, the
monstrcildy obeie Dachess of Teck, £156,000 ;
total, £1,175,020, The latel7-decased Dachess
asked in her will that she should be buried quietly.
Bat Qteen Victoria, who dearly loves funerals,
said to, and so at Kew Church—
“ After most cf the Invited guests had
taken their seats, the Lord Chamberlain ushered
in a 1 ady in a deep crape veil, with a numerous
fold wing, who had ’tired their heads in similar
fashion. As the Earl of Latham walked back-
ward with wand in band, and frequent bowings,
the whisper goes round ‘ The Queen, the Q ueen !’
Not yet awhile, good subjects, it ii the daughter
of the deceased lady, the Princ ss Mary of Cam-
bridge, Duchets of Teck, varih her suite.
“Noxt cones thi Prlncets of Wales and
her party, and this ‘Royal group’ is introduced
wi ih the same obeisance by the Lord Chamberlain.
Any more of you coming on ? Yea, down on your
narrow bones ye ‘ highly-favoured congregation !’
and lift up your head?, Oye gates ! Presently
there Is much hurrying to and fro of e’ergy and
churchwardens; the sound of wheels—(Bickfords,
Carter Paterson’s, or Victoria's ?)—is heard with-
out, and the Q reen of Glorious Great Britain has
come in! Accompanied as per usual by the
‘mother of the Batteabergs,’ she is ushered, ‘in a
procession of one,by the Lord Chamberlain bow-
ivg mere proLundly, if possible, and ‘ waving his
wand’ more ceremoniously than before. Is it
possible that this great functionary has for the
nonce gone musically mad and is, in fancy, ‘ con-
ducting ’ an orchestra o! the heavenly tort, in-
stead of ‘personally conducting’ the bereaved
niece to a gilded chair ?
“Now til this kow towing, and back-watering,
and back-sliding, and baton wavirg. be it noted,
took place, not in a theatre, nor in a Torone room,
but in a small village church before several mem-
bers of the regular congregation, who were not
altogether unfamiliar, at harvest and other festi-
vals, with such floral inscriptions as ‘Toe rich and
the poor meet together,’and ‘My house shall ba
called the house of prayer.’ On witnessing the
reeption accorded by clerical and gold laced
lacqueys to the elderly mourner, one aggrieved
parishioner was overheard to mutter, ‘House of
prayer, indeed ! I call it the Home of Rimmonl’”
* • •
Writes a welMirown London journalist;—
“ When I say that the late duchess was a
foreigner, I have no desire to imply that the rest
of the royal family ere in any way Erglish if the
word is to he used as meaning there is the hast
drain of what it is the fashion to call English
blood in their veins. At the time when the
Elector of Hanover was invited to become King of
England, he was already provided with a German
son who was married to a German spouse. That
son’s son was married to a Carman atd began
George the Third, whose large and (to the countrj )
expensive family were also tte result ef a German
marriage. One of Farmer George’s eons, ihe
Luke of Kent, married a lady who was not cnly
German, but the widow of one of the petty
princelings with which Germany in those days
abounded. A result of her second marriage was
the Princess Victoria, who in due course became
Queen, and has for fifty-two years now reigned
over up, happy and glorious. May Heaven in its ‘
inscrutable wisdom long preserve her ! For what *
should we, who bo-.st our Constitution and Par-
liament, to say nothing c f local self-government
and brand new parochial machinery- what should
we do without a head to the State who scarcely '
condescends to look oa London, and who not once
in 20 years takes the trouble to open or close that
last remnant of rule by diviae right, the! House of
Lords 1 ' As for tba-tH-fcfase/of Commons—well, 1
perhaps it may in djfceccy fco 'admitted that In
these days it is a good bit beneath her or any y
other really great personage's notice Td get on •
the Princess Victoria, two or three years alter
she became Qreen, married still another small 5
German ; it is perhaps a mercy, seeing what were
his views as to the government of the people, that
Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, who,
beginning life with about a hundred sterling a
year, was by and-by almost smothered in John
Bull’s wealth and John Bull’s honours, and who
always professed to be nauseated by John Bull’s
grovel—that Albert the Good, as on the lucus-a-
non principle he was called, did not live to tee the
political and social developments of the past
quarter of a cinlury. la the marriages of some
of the Qaeen’s children we have seen an improve-
ment on previous Guelphic alliances; in ethers the
condition of affairs is even worse than it was dur-
ing the days of the George’s. Oar future king
dii cerianly escape from ths old poverty-stricken
and none too illustrious minor serenity mob—
he did marry a king’s daughter ; his next brother
aimed higher still, and became the sot-
in-law of one Emperor of All the Russias
and the_ brother-in law cf another. The Prince cf
Wales is also a sort of brother in-law of Russia's
Emperor, seeing that the Princess of Wales’s
sister is Russia’s Empress One of the Queen’s
daughters married the son and heir of accotch
dnke woose ancestors were famous in history when
the Guelphs were little bitter than banditti, if as-'
good ; and another married a ycung morganatic
sc on cf still another petty German dynasty. It
does not say much for our modern Court etiquette
that repeatedly the husband of the Princeia
Louise, the son of the Mecallum Mohr, the Mar
quis of Lcr ne, has to kick his heels away from his
wife, who is in the place to which alone royalties
and those offshoots of the royalties, the serenities,
are allowed access, whai time Henry of Batten-
berg, the Princess Beatrice, but who
until he did so was not considered ss bring really
akin to even the serenities, ruffles it inside with
the best of the blood roj al.
•
“ A goed deal of the Court etiquette which
still obtains here in England is an insult to the
manhood, not only cf those who abase themselves
before it, but of those who are asked, while they
look on from afar off, to believe that it is right
and rational. Most of its forms are purely Ger-
man—if the word purely can properly be used in
this connection. Far be it from me to wish for a
return cf the Stuarts, who were perhaps the
unworthieet lot that ever disgraced and degraded
the kingly title; but it has to be said of them that
they rarely or never exacted any of the servile
submission from their courtiers that has lobe paid
by the courtiers of their supplanters Yet the
Etuarta were kings “ by divine right,” while what
wefcave now is supposed, and said, to te a Constitu-
tional monarchy—s' e., a monarchy which exists
wholly and solely under the will of the sovereign
people. Are you aware, reader, that the Prince
of Wales, or any one who is royal, would be defiled
if he took anything direct from the hands of a ser-
vant? That is why equerries and lords and ladies
in waiting are used; they, as it were, check the
contagion cf plebeianism. A gamekeeper who loeds
the gun* at a royal battue can only hand them to or
receive them from the Prince through the middle-
manship of an equerry. I myself decline to sub-
scribe to a form of belief that the roya’ty of this
or any ether country is made of belter material
than even the best of its aristocracy. If you were
to press me I might go further and say that un-
less we are to believe that the doetdne taught im
our S ate-endowed and all other Christian churches
is humbug, the Queen and the Prince of Wales
and all the rest of the Royal Family are, after all;,
only human like ourselves. As I have been
accused of turning Conservative in my old days, I
am gkd of this chance of showing I don’t go so far
as s:me people. In this particular, and having
my own free will, I am better eff than either the
Dnke of Westminster or the Duke of Portland, or
any of the other dukes and nobles who a»e about
the Court—such as the Court is ; though paid for
by the people it is not kept up. These pillars of
the State have to go through the form of believing,
or at least of acting as though they believe, that
it is quits a different sort of mortality from their
own that they are waiting on and serving and
rubbing shoulders with in the person of the Queen,
cr the Prince, or even Henry of Battenberg. I
have seen the highest of our titled dames curtsey
low before Prince Christian at Ascot and Gocd-
wood, and the husbands of these dames stand
before him bareheaded. He wasn’t a person oi
very much account before he a'lied himself with
the reigning family of this great graz'ng-land for
Germans
* • *
“No one with a modicum of sense would
mind these bows and curtseys and salaams gener-
ally if it o uld be shown that directly a man cr
woman beccmes rcyal, cr only serene, he or she
loses some of the coarser attributes of our Yahoo
nature—becomes free from seme of the inherent
naitlnecs which causes our claim to be made after
the imsge and likeness of the Almighty so veiy
blasphemous. When a prince or princess is proved
to be above the ordinary eveiyday necessities of
life, I for cue will tben begin to believe that the
royal nature ir above the common simple, gentle,
or even noble nature ; but not before then.
Strange as it may seem, it must ba this belief that
they are above ordinary mortals which keeps kings
and queens and princes and princesses in their
ptsitions. If lam wrong, pray tell me what pur-
pose they serve in a country that boasts the pos-
seision cf government by tbe people for the
people; what weight they have in the formation
of tbe laws or the administration of them, except
indeed when they interfere to divert the course of
justice. If such a belief did not exist, ‘all per-
sons ’ would not be ordered to go into mourning
for an old lady of ninety-two, whose death was
the only thing which led the bulk of the population
know she had until now been living. The Chris-
tian doctrine tells us that when a royal personage
in dead, 1 is or her soul is no mote before the
Creator than the soul cf the poorest snd meanest
gutterling. And right in the very face of this
teaching—at the very moment while the royal
soul is being taught there are no differences of
rank in the next world, we in this world are asked
to pay deistio homage to the royal body,


HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Leasee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7: commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
This and Every Evening, at half-past 7 (
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY RYE. ROMANY RYE.
PRICES—Ss., Ss., ta., and la.
Box plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till 6.
1. P. MACDONALD. Acting Manager
THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE,
EVERY EVENING at 8,
ON CHANGE ON CHANGE
ON CHANGE
ON CHANGE ON CHANGE
A Comedy in Three Acts.
ADMISSION-£2 U. to la.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Canirges at 10 20,
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVI3.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessees Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Last Two N'ghbs of
BLXND HOLTS COMPANY
in
THE RULING PASSION.
Siturday, Jane 8, THE UNION JACK.
Prices as usual. Tickets tor all parts at Maokay’s.
■\T EW OPERA HOUSE.
J3I Kmg and York Streets.
Leasee and Manager Mr Juhn Solomon.
Musical D rector Men’. Henri Kowalski.
Stage Director Mr Henry Braoy
Treasurer and General Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Mr. John
ENGLISH and COMIC a PE HA COMPANY,
Undtr the Musical Direction of
MONS HKNRI KOWALSKI,
The Renowned Composer aud Conductor.
Every Evening Until Further Notice
The M >st Successful Oonain Opera
THE BfGGAtC STUDENT
Plan of Risexvea Seats at Nicholson’s. Ad-
mission—Drees Ci’de, 5j ; Stall*, 3j ; Pit, Is.
P/ival" B jxe.», 2«.
Doors open 715 Overture *t 8 Carriages
at 10 20 POSITIVELY NO FREE LIST 1 .
Manager for Mens. K -wa.’ski, PHIL STUART
C c Y y C c L l O°R r A a M m A a !
Battle of Gettysburg Cycloratna.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama.
(Opposite the Railway Station).
Open Daily From 10 a m. to 10 p.m.
Sundays, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, 2s. ; Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
" Every detail is true to the life ”
—A Gettysburg Veteran.
C‘ , Y y C°Tj l O°R r A a M m A a !
gONDI
AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.} Children, Sd. Tram runs to Oates—fare, 4d.
Hospital bazaar and village
fair,
Uaoer the Patronage of Lord and L idy C aringtoo,
In Aid oi the Oity and Suburban H xspitals,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park
OPENING DAY, SEPTEMBER 12 3 b, 1889.
The Honoraiy Srcretar’ei wruld be pleased to
receive the names of persons willing to assist the
ladies by promises of help wish contributions to
the various stalls. Flower*, plan"*, &c., for the
Flower Pavilion; presents of D ills for Do'l-
S all; Hand-Painted Articles Ac . for Art-Stall;
Fancy Needlework, Ac , lor Misc Ilaneous Stalls ;
Perfumerv and Cigarettes for Perfumery Siall;
Gifts of Cake», Confection*ry, Jams, Jelhe 3 , Pre-
serves, Tea, ‘fcooa, Muk, Butter, Hams,
Ac., for the Dairy and Refreshment S nails Coa-
m Out ions of Prizes for the “Grand Aro Un on ”
in connection with the above wcuid he thankfully
acknowledged. Toe whole of the proaeeds to be
devoted to this Hospital Fund. This object is a
noble one and worthy of true assistance.
Tickets, 2s each, may be had at all the City
Warehouses and by lettitr addresscd to
MR*. ALFRED ALLEN, \
MISS JULIA BELLSARIOJ
lion.
StC3.
Town H»ll, Sydney.
ACK THOMPSON,
Member of Tattersall’s (Sydney), and Victorian
Club (Melbourne),
Desires to warn the public of Anstral'a that he
has no oonn'otion with any advertised or other
consultation promoted by a p°rson u*insr the name
of “J. Thompson.” warnings have
boon given but the swindle is still being carried on
successfully.
Books opan on forthcoming events. Country
communications dealt with promptly.
N.B.—Jack Thompson’s only addbesser are
220 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
TATTERS VLI/9 CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention thi* pnptr ]
Slating Mj |
Mflgkst
gating Kink
B. •!. A<ihTO\ - . Miiutigcr.
I iie Largest and B:st in tie World, Remember, seven
times round oce mile. Everyone Delighted.
THREE SESSION*:—
10 am. to 12 ncoo, I, v DIES and CHILDREN ONLY.
Admif-sion (FREE). Sk*'es (i I
2.80 p.m to 5p m. }
7.30 pm. to 10 p.m. /
MTU, BAND IN
ATTENDANCE
Admission ' wnc Shillings
SEASON TICKETS arj NOW READY,
Terms: Ladies’ Tickets, 30s; Gentlemen, 355;
Floorage Tickets, 15s.
Special Pi ices can be arranged fur Family Tickets.
A Gigantic C .rnival is in Pr< paration, which will
edip-e any thine- ft she kni ever att mpted by ary Rink
Company in the W orld for Corny ittemss and Magnificence.
*TROCADERO*
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia.
000 l and Refreshing Atmosphere 1 tt
The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters!
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
* Skates Unequalled in the City I*
tSS- TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR.
Future Norelties! Future Korelties!
Open Dally. Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... Genebal Manages.
MmomiM SKATING RIHE,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Nearest Rink to Redfem Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony, "S3l
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.:
Ladies’ & Children only
}
Admission, FREE;
Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.: Ladies)
~ Gentlemen/
Admission, 6d.; Skates, 6d
.. Is-! .. 6d‘
7.30 to 10 p.m. : Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d.
Double Ticket of Admission, Is 6d.
Weekly Tickets—Single, Bs.; Double,
say FLOOKAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
YORK-STREET.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate the loe Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
kating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many*
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
well known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
Jjl LITE SKATING RINK.
The Rink baa the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs,
Admission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling ; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen 455. ; Ladles, 40s Season Skate
Checks for ail Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 355.; Ladies, 80s.
Roller-bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. fid. Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford street, opposite the Rink.
EPPS’S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
FOR SALK.— Two Grand Water Frontage*,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bpr.trrtN Office.
8. Freeman & Sons,
Importer* and Manufacture,
Batin'! Bakin; Pniirs,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
*«.. fee.
Swam Worn and Bbe wests
amis street, ultimo, stdrst
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
# Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent Consultations.
“All the Yeab hound.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
Melbourne Cup Programme Now Beady.
One tenth of Adam Bede’s commission on all
future event] wLI be devoted to charity.
NOW OPEN,
Coronation Handicap,
Bun at Canterbury Parkj Sydney,
June 29, 1889.
2,000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 2,000
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse 300
Third Horse 200
Starters, £800; Non-starters, £400; to be
divided amongst them.
July Handicap,
Run at Rosbhul, July 20, 1889.
1000 Subscribers at £1 Each.
First Horse £1 00
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £6OO ; Non-starters, £BOO ; to
be divided amongst them.
Li in Bede's is the tilj fair aetkod of drawing.
The names df the holders of the Winning Tickets
will oh no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Beds until alter the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
Is. exchange to cheques.
Address
M ADAM BEDE,"
dare of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
HAWKBSBUBY BIVBB,
SEASON.
BUMMER
BANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
■pot. Is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
•superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr«m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains lor the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
(charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, fto.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor,
i
SQUARE & COUPABB CLUS.
Bfl. CONSULTATIONS. s*.
An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE 60 per cent.
SECOND HORSE 30 per cent.
THIRD HORSE 20 per cent.
BT.B.— The Sqttarr and Compass Club closes all Con-
trcfftsftions at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
■results half-an-hour before each race—thus showing the
'hona fid's of the affair. Toe rooms where the telegrams
■are wasted can be visited by subscribers only. The full
■results of every event are always advertised In the
flbNDav Timbs and Rkfkrkk following the races.
Motto : “ Fair and Square
€SF Look at the Dividends we have paid on the
Donoastkr Handicap Rossley, £96 Bs. 6d. ;
Plutarch, £7 2s. 9d,; Lady Kinarsboro’, £l23*. lOd.
Consultations on Every Event.
Note the address of the Original—
Square—and—Compass—Club,
Ca r i or M. Fain-
•M «F,«R«E STREET «M
COLONNADE.
If
BWIOH AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Room and Manuvaotoet i
SPRING A O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites (or dining-room.—side*
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton ft Lamb.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple yet Ingenious In Its
construction | works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s. | without Stand, 365.
Packing In canvas, If required. Is. 3d. extra.
Drawing-room suites. Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in aii woods, immense
variety of designs i also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plush, fto. Newton ft Lamb.
■'•TTBI
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
oub sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
_ _ Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks, Outside Drawers divided Into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required.
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
p*=«
m
Drawing room oabi
NETS.
’ Eablt English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFOR ES by R. LIPP and BOHN.
OARL RONISOH, L. NBUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makera at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and T.amk
I
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vert Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bad-
rooms. New Designs covered Do order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHaIR and COUCH for
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKINQ EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
i
X>KDBTEADS t all alaea
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great r&rlecy.
[Bedding.—All description!
at lowest rates.
Nxwtoh Lamb,
ì
SPRING! MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
maket also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from lls. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
IBs. fld. | Dining Tables, from 30s. | Kitchen
Dressers, from 975. fld. j Waahstands, from 19s. fld.i
Chests of Drawers, from 40s. j Wardrobes, from
80s. | Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.) Cedar Side*
boards, from AS 10a.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. fld. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 80s.
•Jj'KWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTBBBES
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mandsaotort t
SPUING * O’CONNELL STREET!.


A Notable Australian
Invention.
In Den’s Patent Smoke Preventer and Fuel
Economiser Australia has given to the world an
invention which makes a great advance in the
application of steam to machinery— an advance,
probably, of greater importance to the world than
any improvements introduced since the days of
Watt and Stephenson. The project has got be-
yond the experimental stage, and the ascertained
remits claimed by Mr. Don for his Invention and
demonstrated by a series of careful t xperiments,
are— (1) Complete consumption of smoke ; and
(2) The securing of an economy in fuel of not less
than 10 per cent.
Before proceeding to describe the invention, a
few words about the in-
ventor, whose portrait we
have much pleasure in
giving, will not be out cf
place. Mr. Don, then,
is an Eaglisbman by
birth, and learned his
trade of engine-fitting
at the Government
workshops at Deptfcrd.
His early life was a bard
one, and for several
jears he trudeed five
weaiy mile] to his work,
through the snow in win-
ter and tbe heat in sum-
mer, tut alvajs carry-
ing in his breast a lr*ve
heart and that determina-
tion to make the most of
his advantages, that is so considerable a factor in
the life hia'ory cf successful men. Even in bis
boyhood he waged war against the sioty masses
cf smoke that curled upward from the long
chimney-stack] of the Deptford workshops, and
with stray bits of metal frequently experimented
in the hope of solving tie problem of smoke pre-
vention. A smoky chimney in his mother’s house
he puzzled over frcqiently, but although occa-
sionally a small measure of success attended bis
investigations, light did not break through the
darkness and tie secret still remained hidden In
his early manhood he emigrated to New Zealand,
and for a number of years be was employed on the
N.Z. Government steamer Luna—a blockade run-
ner of the American war, by the way—and mere
noted for ler smoking than her steaming qualities.
Thus always in his daily work he had an incentive
to further endeavours and slowly acquired a full
knowledge of the natural laws that govern the
draft of a boiler furnace. The year 1880 found bim
in Newcastle, N.S.W., where he established him-
self in business, but was swindled out of his
savings. Then be came to Sydney and got work
at the railway workshops at Redfern. His
endeavours to exorcise the black ghost cf King
Goal continued all the time, and about five years
ago he bad grssped the great fact that the s< cret
of success lay in tbe injection of a strong current
of air into the furnace. Three years of hard work
followed before the questions cf force and quantity
and means of application were decided on,
and tbe invention was still in an imperfect
form, though theoretically demonstrable when
Mr. Don made the acquaintance of Mr. Hctf-
nung, Mr. Jacobs, and the other gentlemen
composing what is now know as “ Don’s Smoke
Preventing and Fuel Economising Proprietary.”
They were not only men of enterprise tut men of
good commercial standing and business integrity,
and though, through Mr. Don’s ignorance of the
real value of his great discovery, they might
have reourtd all his rights fer a few hundred
pounds, they took no such advantage. He his
already received large monetary concessions snd
retains a large interest in the invention. Mr.
Don did not know that imoke was uronsumed
carbon, and that as a cot sequence of smoke pre-
vention by his invention economy in coal was a
direct result. His apparatus, too, was crude and
unscientific, and the "injection ” of the air created
a noise wlioh was probably a greater nuisance
than the smoke itself. The proprietary took two
SECTIONAL VIEW OK FURNACE WITH APPARATUS
AT WORK.
eminent Sydney scientists into their confidence
Dr. Storer and Mr. Key—and frem their labours
the perfected apparatus was evolved.
The unscientific reader may better undeiotand
the principle by an explanation in simple language.
Broadly speaking, it is this A jit of s'leam
in the shape of a hollow tube is injected into
the boiler furnace and diffused over the surface of
the fire, carrying with it a constant and terrific
rush of air from the outer world. The steam is a
mere vehicle—the air do s the work, and tbat
work is by supplying a ceaseless current of oxygen
to the top surface of the coal to produce a combui-
tion so r*pid and heat to Intense that the gases,
which under ordinary circumstances would gene-
rate slowly and as slowly liberate themselves in
smoke, are caught and in their turn burnt as fuel
before they have time to escape. And thus we
have at ones both smoke prevention and economy
of fuel.
At a meeting of the Engineering Society of
N.S.W , held in May last, an able paper on the
invention was read, which describes the Invention
much better than we could hope to do, and we
therefore take the liberty cf makirg the following
excerpt
In bringing under your notice this evening
Don’s Patent Smoke Preventer and Fuel Econo-
miser, it is not to much with the view of simply
describing this patented appliance as with the
object of laying before yon some remarkable
results on coal consumption obtained by its use,
and to endeavour to explain the reason « hy these
results must necessarily f oik w tbe application of
the principle involved in it. When it is men-
tioned that the quantity of coal consumed in Great
Britain alone for manufso’uring industries during
last year was over 50,000,000 tone, any new facta
brought to light that m»y have tbe effect of caus-
ing an economy in the consumption of coal must
be of great interest to engineers; and if, in
THE APPARATUS.
addition to economy, smoke can be prevented, they
will have a greater interest, and one also that tbe
public at large can quickly appreciate. From tbe
first introduction of tbe steam boiler as a generator
of steam for industrial purposes up to the present
time, no advance has been made in the method of
burning the fuel. The land boiler and marine
boiler furnaces (as far as their arrangement for
the turning of coals is concerned) are practically
tbe same to-day as they were fifty years ago, ard
yet every point onward, after tbe generation c f
the steam, has advance 1 in a wonderful degree
during that time. The steam boiler itself and tbe
steam engine are very d fDrent to day to what
they were fifty years ago. Compare tbe engine
and boilers cf one of our latest mail steamers, work-
ing on the triple-expansion principle, with boilers
carrying steam pressure of IOO.b to tbe square
inch, with the mail-steamers that traded here 30
years ago, with their cumbersome, slow-speed
engines and boilers, carrying only steam pressure
MR. ALFRED DON.
of 151 b. per r quare inch, and then the wonderful
prt grrss will be apparent; tut yet tie coal was
banded and consnmrdin tbe older vessel precisely
as it is now in the new. Combustion being purely
a chemical action may account for tbe reasons why
engineers lave failed so far to make any practical
improvements in its application to the burning cf
coal in furnaces. The theory of combustion is,
however, well understood by icientificmen. Great
minds, such as those cf Laplace,
Rankier, Dulong, F&vre and Silbeiman, Joule,
Thompson, Tjndal, and others, have devoted
much time and labour to ascertain by experimental
research the beat obtained by combustion and tie
laws that govern it, and have conclusively demon-
ttrated the exact quantity of beat that can be
obtained from coal and other fuels under perfect
combustion. Mention may beie be made of one
practical engineer who investigated the subj ct
thoroughly, and whose writings on it are«ven now
the standard —that is the late Charles Wye Wil-
liams, for many Tears director and engineer to the
City of Dublin Sseam Packet Company—and in
this paper references will be made to bis work to
explain the theory, and an endeavour will be made
to show where he and others have failed to apply
in practice the conditions necessary to fulfil it.
Before entering into the question of prevention of
smoke and proper combustion, it may be well to
first describe the invention the subject of this
paper, and the results so far obtained by its use.
The drawing now exhibited shows tbe appliance
and its application to an ordinary land or marine
boiler furnace. It may generally be described
as an air inj“otor, so arranged that it draws
the air from the atmosphere and de-
livers it into the furnace above the fuel
Mora particularly, the part A is an annular air
injector, complete in itself, which deli’ ers the air
into a bent pipe, B. The lower limb cf that pipe
D arranged at snob an angle and with a specially
shaped distributing exit, O, that tbe air is directed
to reach with force every part of the fire, both in
length and breadth. The points in it which come
specially into play are : The quantity of air deli-
vered, the velocity at which it is delivered, the
time when it is used and the equal and forcible
distribution of the air c var every point of the fuel
surface. In the appliance mw illustrated, which
is a size suitable for an ordinary sized furnace,
having a grate bar surface of 18 »quare feet, or
6ft. long by 3ft. broad, the size of the opening for
the admission of the air is in diameter,
equal to an area of 1,767 square Inches, The
action of the injector ia such that the current of
air passing through it is equal to sustaining a
cVumn cf mercnry cf 14in , or about a velocity t f
39,660 ft. per minute, so that 480 cubic feet of air
can be delivered on to the fuel every minute It
will thus ba seen that if the current of air follows
the lines of the distributeg exit, the velocity being
so great the air will strike every point cf the fuel
with immense force ; in fact the atoms of a<r will
be projected on to the fire like a shower of incon-
ceivably small bullet shots from a gun. The pape r
further explained that immediately the apparatus
was applied to the furnace the issue of smoke from
the stack ceased, it being at once consumed in the
ordinary prccees of combustion.
The report of a number of experts cn the inven-
ts as follows ■
Sydney, 27 0 h March, 1889.—A. Hoffnuno,
Esq., Chairman, Don’s Smoke Prevention and
Fuel Economising Proprietary Co.—Sir,—We,
the undersigned, have much pleasure in submit-
ting to yon the results obtained by us cn two fx-
hanstive trials made to test the merits of your
Patent Smoke Preventer and Fuel Eoonom'ssr.
Some time ago a number of us submitted re-
ports on the action of the same invention during a
two days’ trial conducted cn board the steamer
Mermaid. The results then obtained were highly
satisfactory as to smoke prevention and economy
of fuel; but as the sizs of the vessel was com-
parat vely tmall, and the boiler bad only ore
furtace, an opinion was expressed that a tritl on
a much large scale would le advisable, as from tie
use of a larger quantity of c >»1 errors of c bserva-
tion would be practically eliminated and the test
be mere reliable.
The trials now reported on were conducted on the
pasfeuger paddla wheel steamer Na»n»heen, a ves-
sel 160 feet long by 24 feet beam ard 10 feet deep,
having compound engines of 450 indicated horse
power, supplied by two through tubular boilers
8 feet diameter bv 19 feet lore, with four corru-
gated steel furnaces 3 feet diameter by 7 feet 6
inches long, with a total grate bar surface cf €6
square fret.
The trials extended over two days, the 22cd
and 23rd irst. ; six hours continuous steaming on
each day ; the first day being with the apparatus
apnlied, and the second day without it.
We first note that ’he instruments need differed
greatly from the original one tried on board the
Mermaid, presenting features that commended
themselves to us at ones, although embodying tbe
same principle in working- The chief differs nces
being an annular opening for tbe steam—a smaller
instrument discharging the air with greater
velocity, and in its working using very much less
steam and producing a great deal less noise The
noise made by tb» original instrument was de-
cidedly objectionable, tut in this case it was of no
practical moment
On the trials, observations of steam pressure
vacuum, evolutions, temperature, measuring of
water, &o , all ss per appended tables, were taken
every fifteen minutes ; tbe coal weighed and firing
watched in the continuous presence of two or more
of our nr mher.
Manipulation —This is so simple that on the
day ot test the apparatus was worked by the fire-
men themselves without assistance
Smoke Prevention —This is effected in such a
way as to thoroughly fulfil every condition of all
Smoke Acts.
Economy. —The accompanying table of observa-
tions gives the results of the two days’ trial, from
which it will be seen ’bat, by using tbe apparatus,
a net saving cf 1125 per cent, of coal was
obtained.
CUTTING OFF OF SMOKE AS WITNESSED ON BOARD THE NARRABEEN.
General.— We are perfectly satisfied that these
trials were carried out impartially and that tbe
results obtained are so satisfactory that we can
with confidence recommend its adoption both for
smoke prev-ntlon and economy of fuel.
William D Cfuick»hank, M.I M E , Engineer-
Surveyor to N.S. W Government; George Andrew
Key, MINA. Consulting Kngineer ; Robert
Pollock, Engineer Surveyor to Lloyds’ for N, 3. W ;
Norman Selfe, M 1.0 E., M I.M.E . M I N.A,,
Consulting Engineer ; James Richmond, Superin-
tendent and Consulting Engineer, Engineer-Sur-
veyor to Bureau Veritas, &o , &o ; John Wild-
ridge, MIME, M.T.B. and S., Scotland, Con-
sulting Engineer to B. A. Coy., &o. ; John blorer,
Fh D, C< mulling Chemist and Chemical En-
g neer ; William Htnry Warren, M. Inst. CE,
Wh. So., Professor ol Engineering, Univarsity cf
Sydney.
Oil a muggy Saturday in the middle cf May a
public demonstration of the invention took place
cn board the p.s. Narrabsen on the waters of
Sydney harbour. There were ever three hun-
dred gentlemen cn be ard, including one hundred
members oi tbe N S.W. b ngineering Association.
Within ten minutes cf starting the Don apparatus
was prepared for work ; word was ya sad round
that the furnaces would be fed with fresh fuel and
derse volumes t f smoke issued frem the funnel,
a r d at one stroke of tbe bell the apparatus was
applied and tbe funnel emitted only heated air ;
tbe effect was remarkable, and the dense cloud of
smoke was sweeping slowly across the water and
'fliß.H 0()
Ef>
TURN ON AND EMISSION VALVES.
over the stores and wharves at Dawes Point,
while around the steamer tbe air was perfectly
clear. In the next mile the preventer was applied
and withdrawn a dozen tim<s in rapid succession
with instantaneous » fftet. Tbe vscsel was steered
arcu» d Biloe a ar d the ts’n graving docks when
fresh firing on the most abundant principle was
applied and the smoke hung uoon the water and
over Long Nose Point like a black pall, the pre-
venter was again applied, when tbe greate t
volume of smoke was issuing from the funnel and
instantly tbe air was cleared as before and showed
a remarkable contrast to tbe ol J ctional appear-
ance of tbe smoke cloud sweeping across the
villas of this porticn of Balmain. The steamer
was then headed down the harbour and hove to
iff Bradley’s Head. Visitors adjourned to the
saloon where refreshments were seiv-d, and Mr.
A. D. Nelson, president of the Engineering
Association, said that it was incumbent upon him,
(□behalf of the members, to offer their hearty
thanks to the proprietors of Don’s patent for the
opportunity they had afforded them of witnessing
its most satisfactory operations that afternoon.
He reminded them that an engineer’s quail*
ficaticm lay in hard thinking rather than in
words, atdbefelt himself at some disadvantage
in expressing himself on this important cc]
caston. (Ones cf “ No, no, and cheers )
The patent was an Australian one, and on that
account he was proud of it and hoped it was de-
stined to make marvellous and beneficial changes
in other parts of tbe world than in their own
harbour and Sydney, and if he might judge cf
probabilities from the well known gentlemen who
had taken tbe matter up (bear, heat) he thought
he might predict that future for in. It was a
branch of engineering science which had received
a good deal of attention, but hitherto been at-
tended with comparatively little success. He
alluded to the paper they had heard read at their
last meeting on the subject, and hoped tlat they
would all be present at tbe next meeting to dis-
cuss it. He hoped Mr. Hcffaurg, on behalf of
the proprietary, would say something about it to
them that afternoon.
Mo. A, H iffnun? on rising was greeted with
applause. He said he took it as a great compli.
ment that their invitation has been so largely ac-
cepted by engineers, and iuoh a numerous gather-
ing as they had about them fairly indicated the
interest taken in this invention. He might say
for himself and other proprietors, that they had
given the matter careful and searching considera-
tion from the first. They had been engaged for a
couple of years in experiments and in assuring
themselves that there was no similar application
in any other invention in any part of the world,
and he might state that thousands cf pcuads had
been thus expended, and they stood pos-
sessed of an absolutely new idea, and an
absolutely Australian invention. The tests which
bad already been applied to it by leading engineers
were proofs of its great merit, and he hoped to
realise from their investment in this invention an
ample reward. (Hear, tear.) A most important
feature of the investment as far as the public of
New South Wales was concerned, was that the
gaseous coals which were so abundant in New
South Wales and which cn account of their smoke-
producing quality were not the best for steam-
producing in furnace use, whereas under the Don
patent it would be as smokeless as anthracite coal,
and emitted from the first the greatest amount of
heat which could be secured from them daring any
p ri of tbe process cf combustion (hear, hear).
Mr Don (hear, hear and applause) was there ia
their midst; he was a man of modest words and
modest presence, but he had made a valuable dis-
covery to scionc". (Hear, hear )
Cries for Mr. Don were responded to by tb e
appearance of that gentleman. Mr. Don said b e
thanked them for their
kindness in thus noticing
him; his patent would
have been useless without
the timely money help
oi these gentlemen.
(Cheers.)
Mr. Sydney Jacobs
having bean called ou, said
that he could add very
little to what Mr. Hoff-
nuug had said ; he had
followed the teits from
step to step, and had
the invention suc-
cessful in every circum-
stance and trial to which
it was subjected, having undoubtedly demon-
strated with this appliance the theoretcal teach-
ings of the laboratory in their application to the
practise and ex pedence of the furnace. The Narra-
been then proceeded to Manly Beach, and during
the trip many subsequent experiments with the
appsratus were made, each one of which was suc-
c;Btfu . We are informed that the invention has
been patented in 39 countries, and that Messrs.
Sydney and Louts Jacobs proceed to America
and England per R.M. s s. Alameda in a few days
for the pnrpoeo of arranging for the disposal of the
right to use the invention.


JiARBERS’
—Hairdressers—
rll yon want EVERY or any REQUISITE fo»
Fitting out or Furnishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
CRAIG & AITKEM’B
H, Si Wales Sarbsrs' Supply Hours,
Where you can get, at lower prices than
at any other House in the Trade :—
Hairdressing Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPE'S HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (In Bottle Sc Bulk),
SPRAYS, ANTIQUE OIL,
COSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISB,
And Every Other Necessary*
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial „ from £2 10s.
SOLE AGENTS far the CELEBRATES
“ ”
«r RAZORS and SCISSORS -«fe
Complete Saloon Outfit
FROM *lO UP WARDS!
!+S+J
Assistants Engaged for Tows A Ceuntry
Customers,
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco &. Cigar Merchants
And IMPOSTERS,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORB-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Price*, which will compare favourably with any
la the Trade.
All the Leading Brands d
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
-»
BOLE AGENTS ro* thi
ARMY & NAVY
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
MI SWEETHEIET cibasbtts,
An Immense Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, etc,, etc.
Silrer-aounted Ueerschatnn and Briir Pipes
ty A BARGAIN. "W
Bend for onr Price List and Judge (or yonrselves.
Note Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tobacco «ft Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET
(next to Priddt A Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
as
m
m
Miss Penelope Peachblow : “ lam sorry you were quite so jolly, as it is considered '
bad form now for girls to drink much champagne.”
Miss Polly Fuckek : “It may be bad form, but it’s good taste.”— Life.
Old Poet, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Roupillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hockings of 410 Gaorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.*
Pearls in the Mouth —White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
a chemists.*
E. C. ELEY
4t>
i
fb
4
<y
*
&
r
V
&
<?>
*
&
o
V
t:
*
r\
O
$
x*
O
O
SC"
O
v
©
A
x>
o
390 a GEORGE S T
sYDNEnr 3
TATTBRSALL’S
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal races through-
out the year.
See Evening News Brevities for full particulars,
or write to “ Tattersall,” care of Geo Adams,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
DR. SPEER
42 MARGARET STREET, WYNYABD SQUARE
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U S (tor confirmation see New Z aland
Gaze te, January 21st, 1886; also New South Walts
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to tte study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospi'als of ths United States, which enables him fo treat
all complaints with excellent results. All tpplying to
him will receive his honest opinion cf tAeir complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury uted. He will guarante e
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or fjrfeit
£2OO. His reas n for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disea : e, and nothing bnt an inorganic trouble, or
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producirg
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with tte proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly unde:stocd that he does not claim
to perform impossili ities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims on y to be a skilled and suooes : ful physician
thoroughly intrmed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and AVOMEN. Peop’e
residing at a distance oan, by explait ing their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in anyway interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate H. J.
Spkkb, M D., 42 Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post ODce Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 am.to 12 a.no. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a in. oaly.
tj.it
0 P
fell
tI L 1
. i
111
EJ4CI4ID PUOTfI-ENC. CO-. 8 BBIDCE-ST.. SY-OMEYL*
Tha Oxford Hotol, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... Proprietor,
Tones’ SuTsiclb.l3a.es,
fOR CHI 8001 AND lAILORING TRADES. ——
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now perfected , the NEW No. S and No. 4 MACHINES on an entirely New Sys'em.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
FULSISB, HSTTBEIM I Co., laanere tod leather Xerchaoie,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
DR, RICHARDS.
fiO o jj:
CO
D? RICH ARDS
Thla eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
solved his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
In the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably marry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY, Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, It would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. AH communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Jb cure to mention this patter when writing,
OOHSULTATIOE Fui,


The Anjlo-Wralias Msent, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. _ £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) _ 250,000
Ebsbrvb Fund ... _ 60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman — HENßY GORMAN, Esq., J P.
Vice-Chairman— F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office s > 31 Lombard Street E.C,
Chairman — Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES. Manager.
Egyptian C
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO \
MELACHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO j
M. Mclacliriuo A Co-,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe ;
All the leadlnir British and Contineata
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
13P“ Have the 6AKGKOT SAXE In the World.
Universally Aoknowldeged to be the Best
Solb Agents i
WAMISOWII, It Sarrack Street, Sriaej.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100 1
No. 8 „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, If aooom-
n itd by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
receive prompt attention.
He Imperial Land, Stilling & Deposit Co.
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors!
Alex. Milbop, Esq , J.P., Chairman.
H. L. Summbrfikld, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P.
B. V. Manning, Esq. Wm. Bthnhs, Esq.
General Manager!
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
n g Society Business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Int rest allowed
at the following rates;—l2 Months, 7 per cent., 6 Months,
6 per cant., 3 Months, 5 per cent Advances to Muni-
cipalities on the Sec rrity of rates on very liberal terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Properties at lowest
current rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
principal, or both. D.vidends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
More Mian TO,GOO Oaaea already Oared 1
Ike Greatest Success \
el Modern limes. /
OOHSUH
/ All Ohronlo Disc use
\ ue Curable.
It, S. E. IDHUUII, timltiv Etlftlic,
BKILIiID Sfioialui fob all Ohbokio Disiasis,
M WlMlil ITIBIT, ■ ÜBOVBH.
Any caterers a sable to call oan write (or a list of ques-
tions (fbib) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mi Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
ydn are suffering from any form of disease do not fall to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
samplete cure. Tou oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
need by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands mors l
lOOPT.J
Glenhope, 19th July 1880
St H. I. Komlmamh, Ksq., Professor of Natural
Science, Ac. 1
Dear Sir,—This Is to certify that I, Frank B. B. Knight,
•I Glenhope, was taken 111 with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking It was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although 1 failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com.
■lete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor In Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
-attendant, when he informed me that I was In a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
(or five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medf-
lines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months Was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
rery reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
surable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
psotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did In March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse; expec-
torating very muoh, and throwing up several pieces of
■kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my band |
but after this crisis I commenced to Improve very last.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mlra-
onions, as all expected I would soon die : and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until 1 was given up to
die.—l remain, over thankfully yours FRANK B. B.
Witness—J. 0. DANIBL, Qlenhope.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1880, kt
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. SWING, J.P.
Mr All Consultations Ifror.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whisk
provides that No Con II Incurred Id the event et Gum
not sim Birioin.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary,
F. G MICHOLLS & CO.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners and Pastrycooks,
City Buildings,
736 GEOEGE STREET,
IE! A.TZ" 3VE A.IR ISZ E/17.
Steam Works :
617, 619. 621, 539, 511 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, etc., Made to Order.
Australian Roller Flour & Grain Stores,
«BANYILIE.
Sydney Office: 17S CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
BRURTON’S
Patent —Eoller—Flour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation ” of the iurors of the Melbourne
International Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9.
A S. GAS. GAS.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
wate, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Sirept. Sgdney.
F. W. CUE NOW, Manager.
Office Hours ; 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
(3^
LaJ
at
oo
O
co
C/D
5-
Sir
QC
O
Q-\
O
X
G-
o
c
G<C/D
R
a
o
o
UI
sfl
o
uJ
z>r
e-
-c
cQ
O
X
f?
K
ki
&
*7
/ tJ Xw Oy
CJl©xera.d.©n. ISotel, 2v£©.M.l3r«
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
f\ served on the shortest notice In the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherohi
tinner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country }
tere also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can 'fibly make one
lOmfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! nrovided. Tabls
St H6t* at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense la spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
rlaitora comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
■rs. KILHIN3TER. Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH. MANLY.
TUB
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
ì
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
F
OR PRIVATE USB la Unanrpaaaed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 la. Send F.O. Order.
CRAI6 & AITKEM, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Halroutters always Employed 1
880 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic «» Stock «» Importers,
Kate Uektur <t £•„ 33 O’Ctiicll Rtmt,
LIOHTNBR & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal Into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hdntbb Stbbbt and thb Gbnbbab Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavour to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN.
818* QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Can’t B Beat.’
“CANT B BEAT.”
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
Tlie k, 3 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered}
pT° Smoker’s Companion I
containing the following ;
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
11b, Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 111 8 Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber;
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
| Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
ISg 5 " Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf oq
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub,?
Stituted. Cross out what 3 7 °u don’t want and state what
you require in its p’ace. All can be accommodated. 5Q
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address :
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Sydney
í
Fashion,
r IT, and
Finish,
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES
We have in Stock
AND
Hake to Order
THE FINEST
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition I
A Visit will Prove the above Assertions.
î
íï
m CO-OFE&ATIVE BOiT MAKING CO.,
376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Oo).
FISH. FISH. FISH..
Colonial Ice Company, Limited,
TO FISH CONSUMERS in TOWN AND
COUNTRY.
WE are prepared to simply FISH FROZFN
in SOLID BLOCKS of ICE, the blocks
containing 301 b , 15. b , and 101 b Assorted Fish.
Price : 3J., 4i , and 5 *. pir lb , according to the
kinds of Fish desired.
Toe Gratis. Ice Gratis.
Blocks delivered free at Rail way Station, packed
so as to carry to any part of the colony for 2i. 6d.
per bloik extra
Instructions sent with each package how to treat
the fish so that they wiil keep for several days.
The fish are obtained direct from the fishing
ground, and guaranteed perfectly freehand sweet.
Sample blocks will be forwarded on receipt of
post office cider for the amount.
AH orders to be sent to the Works,
KENSINGTONSTREBT. SYDNEY,
T. D. KYLK, Manager.
H. HILDER,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Importer of
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &0.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
639 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FREE
PRES CRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chubb & Praeger,
PHOTOGRAPHERS,
(Late of Regent steeet, London)
“ Empire Galleries/’ Beale’s Chambers,
GEORGE STREET.
■\[ OTWITHSTANDING the loss and incon-
J3I venience caused by cur premises being
damaged during the late heavy rains, we beg to
assure our Patrons, and others who may visit us,
that we have made arrangements to prevent delay
of business, and will in a few days be in full
working order again.
We invite Inspection of Show Oases and Rooms.
All orders entrusted to us will receive the greatest
attention, and as the firm are Practical Artists
themselves we can ensure our work being properly
done.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
m now
the time to Invent your FEW POUNDS
t&T TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
The eyes of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich discoveries of GOLD, COAL, SILVER, TIN, and other minerals have been made, and with
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT (a certainty) it may, with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES 1" BE WISE IN TIME! Call on the W. A. Agents (G. W. DENT & C().), and
secure an allotment in or near the CITY OF PERTH or POR'D OF ALBANY, while you can get in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOU.
buyers, SYNDICATES, &0., from *lO to *20,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
Numerous Properties for Sala to suit LARGE and SMALL
119 a Bliza-Toetla. Street, Sydrresr
Lady K u ora won a race at the Adelaide
“ Birthday ” (Qaeeo’s) Meeting. This is a dread-
fully loyal coincidence.
“Tom” Alootk purchased Luoretla and
Eed R 88 at J. J. Miller’s s»P of trotting stock
in Melbourne for 6CO and 450 guineas respec-
tively.
Am t'rer Sydney man locked np for alleged
drunkenness, and next removed to the Hospital
only to die from natural causes. Qa er place,
N.S.W. Tte authorities can discover Madcnna-
-1 ke virtue in a strumpet and yet only see an
abandoned drunkard in a dying nun Such are
the fruits of being ruled by the police. Too often
the Australian policeman is a man who whether
yon stand up or fall down—but espscially if you
fall down—takes it for granted that you have com-
mitted a crime.
A youog Mtloou v ne lady, who labours In
the noble cause of fear ale drapery, carefully wi i es
in a Melbourne weekly that 1 Srci-ty.welcomed
Lady Hobimon by attending her reception in un-
usnally large numbers. ... I noticed that
some ladies took the unpardonable liberty of
bringing nosegavs and posers forL'dyßobinsrn ”
What can ba tha matter? Has Mrs Tallowfat
thrown a “ bucketat T.aOv R tbinsrn ? Has the
wife of Beconrkd, CMC, ol Toorak, shocked
t v e vica regsl mind with apresent of gill? fi nvers?
Or can it be that Guvnab Wobinson has inter
prete-’ the meaning of that present cf Pinny
Royal ?
“Adam Badr,” who has tof»r f ilthfuly
performed his promise to g’ve to FyJney charities
three tenths of hi» gross racir g const Itation com-
mission on four o* the rr nc'pt' events of the year
has demonstrated to The Bulletin that, averag-
ing bis ku iness on past results and ms king
liberal adowanca for his profits on the large
ev nts, it will pay the ch rities at lea«t as well if,
instead of giving them a comparatively high com-
mission on four big races only, ke devotes to them
a smaller c mmissim on every event on wh’ch he
promotes a swe i p. Here forth he will pay ever
to charity one tenth cf his gross commission cn
each of his coasultath ns throughout the year.
The consulta‘inns on the Coronation Handicap,
t eJnly Hsndicao. Spring Handicap,
bury Handicap, Metropolitan Stakes, Caulfield
Pup, and Melb urne Cap come under this ar-
rangement The Melbourne Cup prognmme,
which includes three menster sweeps and o ntains
many novelties is worthy cf peics l. We have
r<c ived from Adam Bede the mm ( f £5 si. asagra
tulty to Si. Vincent’s Hospital and have forwarded
it to that institution. Adam also bands us £5
for Sidney Hospital, frrm Mr. J F. OSiea,
Bcurke and Quern street, Melbourne, who held
Centaur in the Birthday Cap consultati n.
A Negress la sniag Fan Ti i, a Oi l isma”,
for breach of promiie. She wants FuVs tir.
Doyle’s New Hall, Janee, the best on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escaper.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Jtnse. Price
Moderate
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
June 1, 1889,
BNDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For conditions see “ Government Gazette.”
Erection of Stable, &o, Police
Station, Adeline
Additions, &c Public Buildings,
Dubbo
Bridge Karuah River at Wash*
pool Crossing
Newtown Court House, Paint-
ing, &c.
Erection of Two Wea'herbcard
Cottages for Surgeon and
Engineer, T<ial Bay (lime ex-
tendtd)
Er-otion of Three Weatherboard
C .ttages for Warder", Trial
Bay (time ex‘ended)
Bridge, (-'along Greek, road
Galoog to Burrowa
Ereoticn of Shed and Moorirg
Piles at Wharf, Tweed River
Heads
Crane for Bowra Wharf, Nam-
buccra River (fresh terdere)
Wednesday,
J une 19
at 11 o’clock.
Reoair’, &o Police Buildings,
Wagga Wagga
Goulburn Old Court He use, Re-
pairs
West Kempsey Gaol Alter-tioas,
&c.
Ulladulla Police Buildings, Re-
pairs, &c.
Courthouse, Mornya, Rppiiis
Bridge Darling River at Wil-
oannia. Ironwork Contract
No. 1
Bridge Darling River at Wil-
cannla. Ereciicn, Contract
No. 2
Brewarrina Post Office, Repairs
Erection of Stablss, &c., Hospital
for the Insane, Newcastle
Wednesday,
Julv 3,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
\\
s
v\y
I
v
T- V
J -
jr
~v.
rz
W
/
c
t:
A Skin Without Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
nud pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
tic-cumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticuka, the great skin cure, and CrnctrtiA
Hoax*, an exquieto skin beautiller, prepared from
it, externally, and Cur i cub a Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, euro every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been afflicted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sore for over
n year. ' I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of Over being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the (TTIOOHA
Hkmehies. T used one box of ('rrtcuiiA, one
l>otile of Hesolvknt, and one cuke of HoAf, and
am now able to do all my own work.
Mho. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
t old everywhere. Price, Cutioura, oOc.; Soav,
2ac.; Resolvent, SI. Prepared by the Potteu
J'nuo AM) CUEMIt AI. Cl) , Boston, Mass.
/fiyScnd for “ How n Cure Hkin Diseases, f * C 4
pages, aO illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
I have Buffered nil my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Clticura Remedied. I gave them
a thorough (rial, using six bottles of the Cuticura
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticura, and seven
cakes of CuTlct'KA Soap, and the result was just
what I hud been told It would bo a complete cure.
I’ELLE WADE, Richmond, Vn.
Reference, Q.W. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticura Remedies on
one of my girls, and found It to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out 0:1 her head and body, and the hair commenced
to cni'jo out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she lias only used one box of Cuticura,
one cake of Cuticura Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticura Resoi.ve.nt. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. 1 am willing
to i lake affidavit to the truth of the statement.
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
T’or the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on rny face to which I
havo applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily cud en-
tirely oft red by the CtmcunA Remedies.
Miss. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
i
rtkln. f f-aln and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cctic’ura Soap.
Dj Wl
I I 111
PRES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped nnd
oily skin prevented by CCTRURA tfOAP.
Address : R. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, New South Wales.
peapes & Shaw's New Establishment
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
TO BE
The L W 5 IST COMPLETE GENTLEMEN'S OUTFITTING MEUSE AMBEEE,
Either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES and SHA.W are now showing the whole of the Gxds contained in the Two
Beautiful Cases recently shown by
WELCH, MARGETSON & CO., at the MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Stylish Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in Hats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts.
For Cheap and Good Beady made Suits.
VISIT
l*capes
A
Sbaw
For Boys’ Beady made Clothing.
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys’ and Youths' Eton Suits,
Visit Peapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
—REMEMBER 1—
The Largest and Choicest Selection of Goods
FOB
MEM, YOUTHS and BOYS,
Peapss a,:n<3. Sla.a,T77“’s
Right opposite their Old Shop In GEORGE STREET.
m
THE PREMIER TOBACOOMSTS.
y Our Only Address: 0 PARK STREET, SYDNEY
George Street).
American Cut Tobaccos.
Long Cat ] 2 zs., 01,
R.O. Ruby 2 9 I
Whi‘e Cak 2 z*. 111.
GoldLaf 2zs,9J.
Mix’ure 2
Nfiil-ol 2 zi., !H,
Barrett s’ 2 z»., 8 I.
Cavendish 2 a , 8J
Colonial and English Cut Tobaccos.
Fine Cub (dark)
Fine Out (blight)
Gold leaf ...
LoccLn Siag 2 z» , fij.
M x*iure 2 z*, GI.
Br’etjl Bud s Eye ... 2 z 6J.
These Tobaccos Cut Fresh [very Day Special Reductions for lib Parcels
Xote the Address: 6 Park Street (only).
i
EVERY LADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER BY USING
Madame Weigel s Cut Paper Patterns.
“Weigel's Journal ami C ata'ogue of Fashions,"
Containing Illustrations of all the Nrwkst Stylus, sent to any part of the
country on receipt of (lOd.) Postage Stamps,
Madame WEIGEL, 161 King Street SYDNEY
(Near Tramway).
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MAD*
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
849 PITT BT., BTDSET (Near Tatlersa's.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Ttoice as Long as
any other leather.
i : y
They ara noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
iy LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight!
Trade supplied wholesale at a (treat advantage.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth etbkkt, Mklbockne.
TENTS, Tarpaulin?, Wool, Drav and Waggon
Covers (greased or oiled), Canvas Wator Bottles,
C »lers, Whim Buckets, Baker's Cart Covers;
Horse Hogs, Nose Bag?, Oi'ed Loin Cloths, Cab
Aprons. Send to, or call at
JOHN Itl 4'kll,%ll'S,
44J) ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Oldest Established House in the Trade.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Strrrt,
OOLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
WESTERN HOTEL,
WARRNAMBODL.
THIS old-eela 1- lished and well-knoirn Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First C.acs Hotel with home
comforts.
Id is in fall view of the s»a and within a short
distance of the Picturesque Scenery cf the Hop-
kins’ Hirer, which sHerds the finest Rod and
Fiy Fishing in the colony.
Arrang-ments made for the hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fuhing Tackle. Bait, Ac.,
mpplied. Shooting in the immediate neigh-
V urhood. It is also within Two Minutes’Walk
f the Hot and C Jd Sea Water Baths, which are
msurpamd in the colonies.
LIVERY AND JETTING STABLES.
Booking t flise for COBB and Go’s Coaches.
Thomas Cook and Sons’ ITjtel Coupons Taken.
GEORGE W. CLAii: • . Proprietor.
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THB BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthub Gatll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BT
"The Bulletin’e" mU. known Artitti,
L. Hopkins and Phil. Map.
Peiob ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. Bd. (except Queensland.)
HO LB AQBNT FOB QUBBNSLANI) 1
J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.


ows
V - \SOLD ■'«'
'\f.V ERY.WH ERE '\ft
I'-'I
.J X
ì
giBBLB & COMP ANT,
ll« WKITISI
AND
‘ART ++ DECORATORS—
N OMtlenach Strati.
Onh Doob from Kino Stbbns.
ROU ’ S INJJSUTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Oures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs
Sold in Paris by
J . IB 1 ZED 3R R HI ,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue RioheHw
MUSIOAL.— PATENT SCALE INDIO a.
TOR, for pupils learning the PI ANO
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIO,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
SIDNBT Aboads. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’*
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Emzabbth Strhst (near Hunter St.), Stdnnt.
ONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
rRIIBOWOtNS
JOSEPH C. BOWDEN
Proprietor
Toowoomba.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
fhe Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NOOBPORATED UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 187 S.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices —283, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by Instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
3 months, 6 per cent.
6 H 6 (•
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 13 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, IJj per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 13 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
Robert butcher * 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BRERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
d A W-MILLERS,
Timber Knchuts, til Stem Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &0., In
Queensland
Builders’ Ironmongery A SPECIALITY.
Country <t B‘ation Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Oastlereagh Street.
Tbe Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is.now carried on at our new premises,
245 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and tbe
public generally are Cautioned atrainst any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited—
F. 0. HEDEMANN \
L. 0. HENDERSON /
Trustees.
The federal reversionary
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200.000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PIXT-STREET,
Agencies in London and throughout Australia,
Immediate Advances granted. Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit:—3 Years, 10 per
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent. ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. ; 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
ì
PIPES
Tin Boat In fthn World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS s
Jilin Bilistki & Co.,
CLARENCE STREET.
RETT AN’S
ZE3lb#c3£Z Oils
OB
EWBROCATIOiIp
FOB
losses, emu s is.
Will make Hair Grow orei Oldest Beats,
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1881.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRHBH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES. GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE)
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAIBS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
WHOLESALE!
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hoflnnng
and Co., J. Brash, Son and Co., W. H Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Bntlei Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbanb ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Bedlernj
PRICE , M Ss. 6d. Per Bottle
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), CaW Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
W t-ter Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
Inga, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, It seems almost impossiUe.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address— LAWLEß, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER - A SONS,
General Importers and House Furnishers,
SYDNEY.
Established ISIS.
US UiiliiliiJ iJ Yams
BourkeS t
M
ELBOUME
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
N®?glL
BJ
VS
V
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
G.W.CLARE
\,gf MANACIg I
Thb PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE
is
cr NOW OPEN.
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxl
mlty to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fizbd Lavatory Basin, Hot andjOold Watkb, and Shampoo Spbat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modem Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
IT TWO PABBEK6EK OTIS LIFTS.
LADIES BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS
Terms I LIK&LE SEDEOOM, 2s. 21. isr HI6IT
/ Entitling the Ocrnpler to the privilege of
I using the Public Booms of the Hotel.
«T MEALS can he had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL. GRILL-ROOM or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, Ac., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR fattbuino ALL kinds of
Stock and Poultry.
Beetroots from Testimonial* ;—
Report by Chaelks Watt, Esq., Lati Goviuuonnrr
Akaltot
"I have tested a sample of the ‘ Maqio Meal’ foi
poisonous metals suoh as'Antimony and Arsenlo and
nave to report, after a most careful examination, that I
have been unable to detect a trace of anything that
would be injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion
that this article should fulfil all the conditions specified
In the handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Oroydon I “
tynd It greatly increases the flow of milk from my oowt, at
the same time keeping them In good condition. ,r
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. Sa., IJflba. 6a. 6d., 66lba.
18a. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 861 be., Freight Paid, to anjr Railway
Station of Fort within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS.
17 Victoria Ohambibs. Oastlrbraqh Strut.
SYDNEY.
pUBLIG NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel ail Central Snsinees Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his Intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
Wf He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


Tom M‘Crakan, till lately a leading m°m
ber of the Oarlbon (Melb ) football team, died the
other day. Typhoid fever, of course. In other
words, public filth.
In responding to the toast of the “ Book
makers ” at a recent jollification in Brisbane, the
other day, one of tbe poor down-trodden bookies
mournfully declared that “ unless tie totallsator
were done away with no honest man could make
a living by betting ” What’s the matter with the
fish-hawking industry now ?
Dr. Macgreg >r of JSiew Gui e», has put
in force in the territory subject to him a tariff
that is stiffly Protection! t Red ribbons, little
hatchets, and bone penknives have 10 per cent,
put on them, and tobacco pays Is per lb The
missionaries cry out that these duties interfere
seriously with the spread of the Gospel The
inference is that these zealous souls trust mere to
the influence of haberdashery, ironware, and
tobacco than to preaching and grayer.
This is the dally rontliie •• f champio 11
sculler Ssarle when in trabaing: Out be'ore
breakfast and go for a ruu of a mile or a mile and
a half; than breakfast—a plain meal, eggs, steak,
or chop, wi ih stale bread, sni, perhaps, a cup of
Pry’s cocoa After breakfast a good four cr five
mile walk, followed by arov on the river Dinner
in the middle of the day—always a plain meal-
then a short rest. After that a walk and more
river work. Then tea—a simple meal—a good
walk, and bad about 10 o’clock.
A moat remarkab'e i- stance of “Maktra
or Maori witchcraft, occurred not Png among
the Uriwer* triba at Waikaremoana An old
Maori, having a great reputation in this line, bad
two sons, one of whom had occasion to go to £
distant village leaving his wife and child wioh the
grandfather. On returning, the husband found his
wife crying, and ascertained that the old man had
taken the child away, and the wife protest! >g, he
had threatened her with the power of his Makntn,
The father consulted with his brother, and they
stalked their ancestor as they would have stalked
game, armed with guns and tomahawks. Keep
ing carefully under cover, they saw the old man
digging away in a potato plantati >n and the child
sitting in evident contentment alongside o’ bim on
a mat, crowing in infantile glee at the songs which
were being crooned to him. The sight might
have melted anyone’s heart, but not that of a
Maori, half mad with superstitious fear of be-
witchment, so, crawling stealthily along this brave
Maori split his father’s head in twain, and then
seizing the still crowing child fhd for his life,
fearful that in the old man’s last moments he
should be cursed
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS W.
“No Medicine introduced to me paoiu
has ever met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitter-
It stands to-day the best known curativ*
article in the world. It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues It does all that «
claimed for it."
•• Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-mut
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for your medi
cine"
“ I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of in
digestion, debility, weakness, and in all
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and lost
of appetite, with the most perfect success "
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
•trengthener, and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters."
“ For all cases of diseases of the liver,
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, I daily recom-
mend the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters ’’
“ In my practice I am constantly present)
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found every
case relieved by their use."
“ I can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“ Gentlemen. —Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail."
OAUTTON.— Bee that each bottle
has genuine label, bunco of green
hops on white paper
Evtrybady s»ys —snl what < vs»ybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow wititb Patknt Roc.i.kr Flour la the
best in the market
Laud at Perth, W.A., the beat investment.
Plana from Intercolonial Investment 00.. Lid..
06 Bathnrstatreet. Sydney
Bona Fide announcement. Highest cash price
even for all kinds of gent’s lift oil clothing,
ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTKNTON BROS., 11l
Russell street. MELBOURNE.
Dlngmau’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cadimeres, woollens, flannel*,
muslin de lain s, and the finest fabrics J v re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
p g A f*yyy '**
It Is a decided feather in the exp of young
Australia that out of the sixteen tren who fo-med
the rival crews in the last Oxford-C»m> r : dge b nit-
rate, no fewer than eight (or half the total number
of competitors) were Australians, There are np
wards of 7000 s udertsa' t.h*- two gost Baalish
universities net mcra ihan 100 o whi m are of
Au lralian fir h !
•iii/
WiSSg'*?. v? s >
P&t -i
b .:.
3*
' '<%
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “Nervous Complaints,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially ■written to show
a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring Ms medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of Ms great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to Mmself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willing to
give a Whitten Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz.. Dizziness,
pecks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains M a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same.
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled m the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he mvites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimomals published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher's treatment is both simple and effective, and
withm the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance :
Da. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence : “ Clonmel.” Waverley.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral re-
sources are being opened up, and property is
hardening in value.
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
PERTH
The Capital City.
Allotments right in the City !
er* FROM KA.<U. MS
Allotments close to the City 1
From Ten Pounds each L >fc.
Good Lind. Wtll Situated. Esy Terms.
Title ladispu a tie,
Pamphlets and Marked Plans PO iT FREE to
any address on app't.oaEi.ni to the
Intercolonial Imestat Ccnpany, Ltd..
90 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas, Manager.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL
GAMATXNG. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY. OF SYDNEY
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Oppiosi 46 CASTLERKAOH STREET. SYDNEY.
I 'IRRCTOBS ;
Jambs Flui-curr, M.P., Sydney; Jamks A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Hbnry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney; T. D Mhrton, CunnlngarWorks, Harden; Charlbs
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large oust for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description.
The application of chlorine ga« for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(out unworkable and unpayable by the old process
cf treatment) opens up a now field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the moan.? of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by toe latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on eaca parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold-saving •ppiianoes lor amalgamating and
ohlrsrlnation, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr, T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Ounningar, near Harden.
For further Ini... n, apply
W TV FTiFtnHF.R.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:--
9
TJS B.
liebib COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
m
IB
o
OR
AIR,
ROWLANDS’
[MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A TURK, non-gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Rem ves Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
American Jsdunje Hotel,
{Come’- ot '•korok Streeti
and Queen's Place, /
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc , etc.
The BEDROOM: ventilated, and
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
The DIMIHS-ROOM £
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
AND
Reading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, See.,
may be obtained on application
at American Eu chanue Hotel.
Telegrams ( 'ommunicatiohs
promptly attondHd 10
&
HOT
lIISECI
V.
m
■=
O
ROLLER
CLUB
AMERICAN
■
0
-
■
Mils
iUiQpP
Laver Clamp.
• Amerlcau Club Roller Skates.
nTTF ao-e for Cheap Inferior Skates Is past, and no skater of to-day oan become expert onwheels, r enjoy an
I on Skates without thev are on some securely-fastened, smooth-running Skate, such as is ofleredin the
•< A,.fJriLn K Plub ” It is aeknowleduert bv all sksters on loe than the “ American Club" fastening as us»d uwn the
nooular Skate ln Amer^. England and E,!rope for the past 13 years is more quickly adjusted, and more
than anv other mode of fastening ever invented. Roller Skatimr has now become a popular amusement, and
secure tha ■ has caused tine production of a first-class Roller Skate with the American Club
the demand for a Skate for experts
fastening. Sizes, 7J to 11J icohes
iar Spkci au Pricks to Rinks and Clubs.
I*) II
fly,sill; i 5, am, 5 Sridft-itMfll! Retail: 3EBBLEWHITE & CO., Eeorge-straet, Srlw>
nrri Some
) <
fine Lithograph Carnival Posters


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
M
BK
m
EUREKA
C-(/ELECTRIC BELTs
m
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains m the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full inf ormation and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. R. 0., Sydney.
Dr. HI DOE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
is now being introduced into the colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
Dr, EIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IFE PRESERVATION
"by
Dr. J. D LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
nformation that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. Gd. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A 1 Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
COLEMAMEsSOHS
THE TREE. OF LIFE.
piJr£
Eucaiypte OILSa.
Victory Ointment^
The only i*nre Eucalypte in the World*
WARDED Gold Modal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euoalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makere of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice, Manufactory—Cootamcndra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies, Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,'
Beeclmm’s Pills
C MA
&
m
PATENT
UJ
PILLS
*■>
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings" of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cps-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth, a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no .medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS' for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If takep ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC”’ and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite* and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physica
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Gough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pm*
stand unrivalled. They are-the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
ERYOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Boos Free. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
rpO SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Dr. ANDERSON
(Late Cowan and Anderson),
—SPECIALIST ON—
CHRONIC NERVOUS DEBILITY,
SKIN CONTAGIONS,
And all Diseases of the Genito Urinary Organs.
sar- Consultation Eree.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all Cases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, securely packed, to
a 1! parts of the Colonies.
Note:
Dr. ANDBKSON,
165 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose's Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling
Bandy might. Inflamed Byes and Lids, lUnui
of eight, etc. It will be found very benefioW and ooolm
to those who have weak eyee, or whose work compels the
to strain their eyes. Highly recommended by the leadin
Oculists.
iTI I The public are requested to notice th
UaUtlOn ! wor< iB, “ ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYI
LOTION,” with the Trade Mark (a Rose ) on Dark Blu-
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing Hi
Lotion, without whioh it is a forgery.
Ask
ROSE’S mum m lotion
Not for Bose Eye Lotion.
H vou will get a Lotion composed of Rom Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser lor the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
8 L B.OSE, Dimnsim iUisufictof Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, B*. 0d )
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN’SJOOUT sod
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
rUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL’, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS. ,
It contains information most valuable in Nbr
votrs and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rujjflf
are worth Ite weight In gold. Send your ful
address, and w© will send Post Free One Copy
given away for the next Hix Month© Only, WiTw
to Professor R, T, SELBY, Cleveland Street
Surry Hills. SYDNEY,
Business Announcements.
—We Can Recommend —
B. EUGENE’S
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
Hairdressing 1 Saloon
As the most Central and Well-Appointed
of sny in the City.
J : -?r WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK. Tr*
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address:
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
The bank oe new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Leti ers of redit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. P. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
R ley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBHD
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH. OF -ROMISE,
and all i inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
,: vate enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
copies of W LLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
“ For F mill a Picture Seat and Well"
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in che Colonies. thotos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASES, BREWERS’ CASKS, YATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &C-, &c-
Cooperage ;
387 KENT STREET & 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
ì
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
m
'//•‘i'iiU'.y
: :'r.*
'“H'ViHff, i ~
t~~
HANUFACTURED RV „
Cx/imob SarLovrS* ’
Sold Iru all S*oc**ja 4 S*ore*fJ>e*a
Business Announcements..
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents ;
BA L 0 HIN, JOHNSTON and On.,
Ask for kupfers elberfield
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia.
ABSOLUIE Y free from sediment.
S Y D JSt E Y.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
aid
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
E ual to New, at
J. BUJLjI.IV AN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool <£ Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
i
n
■ &
manufacturers
ft IMPORTERS
or
HATS CAPS &
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY 3
Opposite Laesr tiers
[Ap
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDN E V
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.- The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. inscription (payable strictly
in an van e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CONSULT
iOORE &
H
OGG
M
At i the eminent
| SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases rffthe Genlto-Uplnary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of Georg e
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane,
OOI.SULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 3d, stamp.
Hotels,
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Propribtob.
RINOE OF WALES' HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This ■well-known Sporting House Is conducted
In First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
FOR BALE, —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Omn


MASON BROTHERS,
(limited,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sals
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AIS'D
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GtENEKAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
i
Brittenberg & GO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wtnyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
M2O
Js2o
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
Rerular shipments ”of the beat Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Fassanger Buckboards with pole,
&c., C 27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Worki in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ;or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
P. Xfe, IiARKIM,
IMPORTER OF
tsr WINES, SPIRITS, jB JEi TRi R S «teo. 9 <SsO.
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerao a Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L .
tST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champ gnea £3f All B ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alk and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Beorge Street, Sydney.
tar SEND EOR A PRICE LIST. IS*
mmmi ladies' siTmHmf soon and nnmi
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
•( :
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
NEW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
York Street Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY,
NOW SUPPLY THE GENERAL PUBLIC AS WELL AS THE TRADE.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000. Reserve, £270,000l
Wool Season, 1888-89.
REGULAR SAtEB OE WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wools
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether from
large or small clips
AST Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and r er Pro-
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins,
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
Genuine Swedish made ‘crown
BRAND” HORSE HOE-NAILS j
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ircamongar%
or from
O. A. FALSTUJDT,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the oiivlised world where
ths healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneflcient action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for thetr use
in every disease IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 7S Nkw Oxford-st., London, at i ui-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes anc Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
pnurons
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
▲I THE
Wertlieim
SEWINC MACHINE DEPOTS
V I C T O K. I A.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PABTOEALIBTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AfIBITSi
T, S. GEDDBS dc Co.J
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
m t. m & DO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Finishers, Plumbkbb,
Brass & Bell Founders, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art and MEDiiEVAL Metal Workers.
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices-11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance*.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmorc Road, Petersham,
Perdrlau <S& Co.,
RUBBER GOATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, Ac.
TENNIS SHOES and BAILS,
AUSTRALIAN RUBBER WORKS, 270 GEORGS STREET, SUBNET.
AMERICAN WALTHAM
M
SIZE
r»*
a***.
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
ny
Of Have obtained GOLD MEDALS* and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very heat materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. 4,
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The ‘‘No. 1 Size”.iust introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales; Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading linos of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Ketail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
i
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
