

Aik your
Grocer for
Frys Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SOJSS, Bristol London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cap contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the beet Ale or Porter. I’—LANCWEg 1 ’—LANCWEg
TAILORING COMP/
ARE THE
LARGEST TAILORS IN THE COLONiw
Write for Patterns and Self-Measurement Chart.
/ -
Fit Guaranteed or Money Returned.
ZBxaxiclx in. 3iTe-w Sea.tlx ‘VTa-les
CORNER OF
a&d Qeorge Street Arcade, SYDNEY
■
JP
ALSO AT
and 99 Bourke St., North Side.
96 Bourke Street, South Side.
Corner Eastern Market, Bourke St.
64 Lonsdale Street.
DIME
7 and 99 Eourke St., North Side.
96 Bourke Street, South Side.
Corner Eastern Market, Bourke St.
84 Lonsdale Street.
HEAD OFFICE •
29 Basinghall Street, London.
a r
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
IXSOPSONS
£
&
o
V
o
i&ZZn
m
PAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN
The best"known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAfNS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &c.
and taken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
DYSKNSRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
internal aches and pains, o.«™ y ‘ ,M l L
PRICE, 2s, ... SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
PAINT
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
i mil others for its lasting and natural
fragrance
Three Gold Metals—
yAßlS.lB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson's celebrated
SATJ DE COLOGNE.
Is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses tiie numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
Th's world-renowned soap is superior to all
otters for cleansing and softening the skin.
T* is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
Of eU Beaten, and of the Manufacturers
J & E ATKINSON,
M, Old Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—“ White Bose " on « Golden
L. Lyre.” A
0,
cm
«p»jv
-*V
WALES
:*±3r s ,
/ate Oil:'; ?fs, 1
{«]]. rracjifliw !>avi
view or tit 3i di m
''Parties, etc,, tan
a mm--,
'jwudieg oottia~>-y
'*£»•« '• '• ~?-‘i ip* SJtfr * w«* -ue
Jifc..; i Vide*-. S&jtfd
" toy to looko tie'
Mrs. KILMNSTER, Clarendon’ Hotel, !
Opposite [OCEAN BEACH,' MA-
M'IiUAJN JBKOS., KUjU, & 6 U<J.,
IRONMON GEES,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
(12 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
&
%
81?KOIAliTiTW* •.
Btvts* Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT. #
m BYBET HOUSE.
’9
if M
AT THE SAME T M!
harmles r, to as Km ± jl $
fowls QRorm rt ' ?
ANIMALS
TOtafe in ' jvTouS tfkcr
FLEAS.FLIES B r L f C ’
COCKROACHES*# - NO lb .
s
c
i
i i
i$7A O:
>'
& A ' «s'eV'AttllHfMSTs
tfc. aV' cit' ’ «S*AN
y s * •<» 4SV L^
FELTON* GRIM V
-MELBOURNE t
WANTED ffl imi : e tm
sm mf xnussrs m
the numerous imitations.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Opital ..
Fald-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received
Airuoei Made .. • *
fetal Income - -
Year ending
Oot., 1888.
£180,426
01,630
93.581
123,248
200,106
Year ending
Ofati, 1886,
£350,000
120,005 ,
261,500 .
247,840 ,
451,085
Year ending
Oot., IWT
£431,125
206,686
391,366- ;
307,828 .
787,5)90
r «,«'
. £580,000
251,015
1,123,949
625,826
, 2,048,951
Daoositfl received at following Rates 12 monthe, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 3 months, 6 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
~ SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon, mchmims at a FAIR RATE,, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AMPLE FUNDS **»r Borrowers. TERMS LIEESAL
ii I/*,;
jjglfr*, -it ifflilpjß
,- j, 4^-.j gLsfei
mfcv! ii^
Bfeafei it-iS-
■;| j ,g* • [I; i\}, '*
if HS I
n
~..,
\m,
-iPnV
, p
LiC| pi
•• **t£/c ,-
it ' SiSSE
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST-
£2S Contributing Shares
2 AN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. P®
re Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares aM I*
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Inter®***
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received in Ootob®*’
1886, £26 Is. 9d., towards whioh sum they had Contributed otM
£l4 65., at the raite of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
■on. JOHN NIHMO, H.P., J.P., - - Chairman.
Will'Ll AM DOHBKrv ... Acting-Secretary.
'Sal.%:‘u.v, .
•J.I
15 f .- v "" : 1
iVuif staPiH; -- ;v.;'f' : ||||
V:\ I; X Slk !!i! i, •!, | := i 5 'll «••
-XT • ■ •«frr-, - ris* : - -jr
.Hill
THE
Federal Coffee Palace
oouon or
3KZln.gr Collins Streets, lv£el"bo-a.xn.e.
Containing 800 BOOMS, k now replete with every eonrenieno# foe the eomfort of Vkltors.
" * 1 - ——■——— - \
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Famished.
SPEOLAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Ouisine and <ti&
Appointments Unequalled in the Oity
m
.*.V%
mrrui mm^B
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL » GROUND FLOOR,
With axoellsnt r«»id»d over by an experience* (W, neeiefce* by e HtH ea 4 ebUstas
.DING and RECEPTION ROOM* 1 '
end KHOWEB BAIHh
*>
KIGHT 3 -


The Bulletin
yol.[9—No 464
SATURDAY, 5, 1889
Price, 6d.
“Exhibition” Joubert!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’"
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(piayable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 6
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
ARCHIBALD.
The Editor ivill carefully read and acknowledge in the
'‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are'uot. responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This ofer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Zfcr%u2Ze£m.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 5, 1889.
Sunn[?]erdom and Slave-owning.
“The solid South voted for Cleveland and
the revision of the tariff,” and solid squatter-
dom in New South Wales shrieks for Free-
trade, and sets all the hireling orators it can
buy to denounce “the creature Protection.”
Both squatter and planter have the same
game to play, and both set about it In the
same manner. Both are interested In the
growth, on the largest possible scale, of a
purely natural product at the lowest possible
cost, and both look back with regret to a
past in which their gains were increased and
their outlay minimised by their command of
Involuntary labour. In both cases they look
to a distant market for their return, and are
too short-sighted to see the extra profit they
might gain by helping to create a market at
their doors. Both alike fear the uprising of
a free people rendered Independent of their
patronage and outlay by the development of
manufacturing industries. Both alike dread
the time when the increase of population
shall compel them either to abandon vast
tracts of land they hold at nominal rates or
to pay something like the real value for the
use thereof, and both, therefore, greatly
prefer that their expenditure Bhould enrich
the manufacturers of Belgium, Britain, and
Germany, rather than that it Bhould stimu-
late and maintain manufacturers nearer
home. What cotton is to the Southern
planter wool is to the New South Wales
squatter, and the wool-king and cotton-king
alike are ready, in the interests of cheap
labour for their broad acres, cheap exchange
of their bulky produce, and cheap supplies
of the goods they take in exchange, to grind
the bones of their countrymen for bread, and
to tarn the land itself Into a wilderness.
• * *
The squatters’ paradise means a country
divided into huge sheep-walks with Its
towns, as few as possible, peopled only by
importers, shippers, brokers, agents, clerks,
shopmen and labourers. He hates farmers
because they compete with him for the soil
and raise the value of it on his hands. Hence
there Is no wrong he can do them that he
leaves undone, no contumely he can bestow
on them that he does not display. . He
destroys their fences, trespasses on their
selections, drives his cattle Into their crops,
involves them in expensive law-suits, and
dubs them “cockatoos.” He detests manu-
facturers because they raise the value of
labour and prevent him from creating a
purely subject population whom he can
compel to work at starvation wages, and
keep down to the level of the beasts of the
field. All forms of progress are hateful to
him, and he looks back mournfully to the
golden time when a hutkeeper’s wages were
£2O a year, and a carpenter’s earnings
were 3s. Od. a day. To keep labour
down, to crush it oub, drive it away, and
do without it, are his chief objects, and
that policy is dearest to his heart which re-
duces its bulk to a minimum, and its wages
to the lowest possible fraction. It is but a
little while ago since one great squatter pub-
licly expressed his hope “ that the Austra-
lian labouring man would Boon come down
to the level of the English agricultural
labourer who thought himself fortunate if
he could get for his dinner a sheep’s head
after the tongue had been taken out ©f it,”
and another avowed his belief “ that Aus-
tralia would never be really prosperous until
the workmen’s wages came down to two
shillings a day.”
« * *
Squatter and planter alike have another
reason for fearing and hating Protection.
They know that the logical and inevitable
outcome of Protection is the sufficiency of
the country’s manufactures for the needs of
the inhabitants, the consequent comparative
decline of the proportion the receipts from
Customs duties bear to the national expendi-
ture and the resulting necessity for a resort
to direct taxation. The income-tax is the
bugbear of the Freetrader of the town ; the
land-tax is the nightmare of the Freetrader
of the country. A system of taxation which
levies the bulk of the public income from
articles of general consumption suits the
squatter and the great importer exactly. It
makes the rich richer and the poor poorer.
It leaves the wealth of the first to accumu-
late and diminishes the purchasing power of
the earnings of the second, and it casts the
cost of the protection of property, not upon
the owner, but upon the general consumer.
The bulk of the earnings of the working
classes are expended upon food and clothes.
Necessarily, therefore, taxes upon articles
used as daily food fall very heavily upon
them. A workman whose tea, coffee, cocoa,
rice, sago, arrowroot, beer and tobacco are
taxed pays far more in proportion to his
means than his richer fellow citizen does
simply because a far larger proportion of his
means is devoted to their purchase. Indeed,
It may often happen that under a Freeirade
system, whereby the taxes are laid on the
food of the people and the expenditure of
wealth abroad is unchecked, a workman pays
more in reality, as well as more in propor-
tion, than a capitalist. A labourer with
half a-dozen children and a wife would use
actually more tea than a bachelor mil-
lionaire, and therefore pays the State more
money in the shape of duty.
* •
This state of things is productive of such
enormous advantages to the richer classes of
society that it is not wonderful they strain
every nerve to uphold it. But, fortunately
for the general welfare of mankind, the eyes
of the wealthy have been so blinded by the
continual unfairness by which they have
profited that they are unable to manage the
situation properly, commanding as their
position is. They fail In two ways. The
one is the greediness which, impelling them
always to ask for more, compels Inquiry into
their title to.the immunities and privileges
they already enjoy. The other is the parsi-
mony which prevents them from taking the
necessary steps for their own protection.
This is based upon their being so accus-
tomed to have their work done at the
country’s expense that they cannot bring
themselves to put their hands Into their own
pockets for any purpose whatever. The
land-grabber draws attention to the amount
of his plunder and the unfair advantage he
has obtained by constantly yelping for rail-
ways to carry his wool to the sea, and for
compensation for the Improvements he has
made for his own benefit on the land which
he wrongfully and, in many instances, frau-
dulently obtained. The importer cries out
for facility of transit and for all sorts of
coßtly provisions in assistance of trade, and
both these people forget that the country
profits nothing by their operations, and that
the ordinary bricklayer’s labourer contributes
aB much to the revenue as the biggeßt of
them, while both of them grudge the neces-
sary expenses of the support of their own
institutions. The selfishness of the Free-
trade clique was never better shown than in
the poverty-stricken state cf the Freetrade
Association in Sydney which has to
foist its chief official into a newspaper
in order to lessen its expenses and
cannot even then gets its balance-
on the right side of the ledger. The
Freetraders do nothing for the country but
expect the country to do everything for
them. They never think of providing the
commonest accommodation for themselves
and they are eternally crying out to be
assisted to develope a trade which yields
nothing to the revenue and does its best to
stifle the manufactures which struggle and
strive to establish themselves in the country.
• »
The Victorian Freetraders made exactly
the same blunder. They, like their friends
in New South Wales, thought the world
belonged to them, and they did not trouble
to be civil to it. Indeed, the attitude of the
shoddy aristocracy of Victoria in 1874-’7o
was singularly like that assumed by the
corresponding classes of New South Wales
to-day. They would not listen to any pro-
posal for direct taxation, they would not
hear of any favour being shown to local
manufacturers. When Mr. Service pro-
posed a perfectly fair and exceedingly
moderate income-tax Sir Samuel Wilson
wrote to the Argus saying that if such a tax
were levied the conditions on which he had
bought his property would be violated and
he would be swindled. He omitted to state
bhat he had secured and gained all he had at
that time In Victoria and that the people
From whom he had gained it had some right
to charge it with the cost of its protection.
He and his friends succeeded in defeating
the income-tax, however, and the immediate
result was that a very stupid and very un-
equal land-tax was forced upon them a year
or two afterwards. Neither squatter nor
importer could be brought to see that
the people wanted employment, and
when they were forced to acknowledge
the fact their only idea was that roads
should be made to and around their
properties by cheap labour, at the public
expense, in order to give work to such of the
people as they could not themselves induce
to accept Hservlce as station rouseabouts on
half wages. When these positions were
seriously assailed, they formed a Freetrade
Association for their protection, and straight-
way starved it to death. It made a feeble
splutter for a little time, and then died as
its Sydney successor seems likely to die.
The truth is that the Freetrade theory and
practice are wholly inimical to the develop-
ment of native industries, and are, conse-
quently, only upheld by people who, like
the “solid South” and the defunct Vic-
torian Bquatters, aim at no other operation
than the growth of cotton or wool and their
exchange for foreign commodities. The
basis in each case is the desire for the
practical enslavement and absolute im-
poverishment of their fellow-citizens.
• * *
It is almost forgotten now that the great
American Civil War was really the outcome of a
strife between Freetraders and Protectionists.
Yet this is actually the case. There had, for
some years prior to 1860, been a cessation of
hostilities, and a practical compromise,
whereby the South accepted the Morrill
Tariff and the North permitted “ the
domestic institution ” of slavery to remain
untouched, provided its boundaries were not
enlarged. The presidential election of 1860
really turned upon the question as to
whether the tariff should be increased in a
Protectionist direction, which was certain
to occur if the Rspublicans won, or
whether the South should be allowed to ex«
tend slavery into the newly-organised Terri-
tories, a measure the Democrats were deter-
mined to carry If they carried the presidential
chair. The North won and the South seceded.
The North won again and Protection was
firmly established. It has been once more
assaulted and has once more come out
triumphantly. The result is that Great
Britain and New South Wales remain the
only Freetrade countries in the world.
Great Britain has hitherto been able to stand
the expense because of her matchless Btores of
coal and Iron, and her consequent advantage
in the race for the application of steam to
manufacturing industry. She is now no
longer first In that race, and her resources
are rapidly giving way under the pressure of
Freetrade, whereby her manufacturers,
beaten out of the world’s market, are under-
mined and exhausted In her own. New
South Wales bears the drain upon her forces
because she has been selling her magnificent
public estate and making up her deficiencies
with the money. She has still a public
estate worth 160 millions, and as long as a
foot of this land remains so long will the
landgrabber try to obtain it at nominal
prices, and his accomplices use the proceeds
to save him from the onus of taxation.
• • *
One of the chief sources of strength the
landsharks and importers who make up the
Freetrade party in America and In Australia
alike enjoy is the absurd belief entertained
by the professional classes that Protection
must needß be ruinous to them. They
have been Industriously told that “ it will in-
crease the cost of living to persons with
fixed incomes,” and they swallow the false-
hood without Inquiry. They forget that
even if this were true the increased demand
for their services must increase their in-
comes in a greater degree. The Australian
medical man cannob go to England to attend
the sick-bedß of the men who make
his chairs and tables and carpets and
crockery. If those commodities were made
here he might at first pay a little more
for them, but he certainly would be more
than repaid by the profits he would reap
from the births and burials of the work-
people. Supposing, for instance, that a
manufactory located in the Parramatta dis-
trict supplied all the bent wood chairs we
now import from Austria and employed, as
it probably would, five hundred men in that
manufacture. Those five hundred men
would, with their wives and children, repre-
sent a community of two thousand five hun-
dred persons. They would require houses
to live in, and so would employ carpenters,
joiners, plasterers, bricklayers and brick-
makers before they could be sheltered. They
would want food to eat and clothes to wear,
therefore bootmakeiß and tailors, and seam-
stresses and hatters, and farmers and
butchers and bakers would be set in action.
They would want teachers and preachers
and doctors and lawyers, and all these and
their children would at least add another
500 to the settlement formed by the fac-
tory. Thus we have 3000- people added
to the population. We have the land for their
homes reclaimed and cultivated, we have
their expenditure added to our total of
national outlay, their earnings added to our
total of national income, and their savings
added to our total of national wealth.
Would it not be worth our while to pay,
say, threepence each more for Austrian
chairs to bring all this about —to set a thriv-
ing township where before had been only a
paddock,. and to grow men, women, and
children instead of wool? The policy of
Protection will give us the factory, the town,
and the people. The policy of Freetrade
will give us the solitary sheeprun, the wool
king, and the land-grabber. The policy of
Protection is the policy of the people. The
policy of Freetrade Is that of the squatter
and the slave-owner whereof the first is but
the Australian edition of the second.
Louisa Collins.
What has to be faced, if the determination to hang
Mrs. Collins, the Botany husband-poisoner be per-
sisted in, is the probability that the woman will be
executed, not necessarily because the community
desire her to be executed, but because there is on
the New South Wales Statute Book the letter of
a law under which crimes such as her’s are
punished with death. We admit that it is diffi-
cult to speak positively as to the sense of the
community in a case of this kind. There is a
party that on each and every occasion protests
against the employment of the gallows. There is
also a party that rises to abjure the gallows on
particular occasions, such as when the circum-
stances or the sex of the condemned make that
form of punishment more than usually hideous.
At the present time, both these parties appear
together. There is, on the other hand, a party
who believe that death should pay for death. If
a man kills a man this party refuses to close the
account until the killer is himself killed. That
theory is rudimentary, but intelligible. It belongs
to the era of social contracts when services and
disservices were paid for in kind. This party cer-
tainly wants Mrs. Collins hanged. We know
that; we accept that. But how numerous is this
party? We maintain that the party is so small
that it will be outvoted in every municipality and
every electorate in Australia, if the straight ques-
tion be put on a ballot-paper. But the party,
though small, is largely supported by another
party, who do not believe that eye should go
for eye or life should go for life, but
who find that a law to this effect
was passed before they were born, or before
they had sense, and who have not time, or inclina*
tion, or capacity to ascertain whether the law was
a right one or a wrong one. These supporters do
not think at all. Had they been horn in China
they would to-day support the execution of the
Chinese code to the letter. Did they live among
Ashantees, the barbarities of the Ashantees, if
they were sanctified by custom or sanctioned by
written law, they would jealously defend. In
considering the feeling of the community the influ-
ence of this party has to be carefully valued. In
our mind, the influence is valueless. We give
nothing for any opinion which a man gives us
because he was born with it, or because he “ got ”
it before he had sense. Unless he made it, unless
he evolved it out of the contradictions, the conflicts,
the combats, the maddening warfare of his own
and the existences around him, we put his opinion
down among the jellyfish where the stream of life
is sluggish. These people simply know statute
law. They don’t know the living, breathing,
thinking lives around them. Such support, then,
as the S.M. Hebald and other papers give to the
party who, on intelligible grounds, want Mrs.
Collins hanged, is to be put aside when the
direct question is raised. Such papers and persons
would be equally energetic on the other side, if
the other side happened to have got on the Statute
Book before they were born or before they had
sense. Now then, what is the subject narrowed
to? It is brought down to mean a conflict of
opinion between the party who, surviving on the
same plane as those who demanded an eye for an
eye and a tooth for a tooth, demand that Mrs.
Collins shall be killed, and those who say that
the same ends, punitive and deterrent, will
be attained by putting the woman in prison.
Which of these parties represents the larger
numbers, the fuller reason, the riper judg-
ment, the truer, the newer civilisation ? We in-
sist on taking and keeping this ground. We say
that in this case we represent what is best in the
community. We represent those whose repute as
to the philosophy of law is highest and those
whose minds as to active exercise in the applica-
tion of law are most on the watch. This claim is
supported by recent proceedings in Parliament.
All the argument, all the conviction, was with
those members who pleaded for a reprieve. Not
one argument, not one expression of opinion ad-
verse to that plea, as far as its merits were con-
cerned, was forthcoming. The Premier endorsed
the plea From Government benches and from
the Opposition side of the House the plea was ap-
proved. One thing only stood in the road. There
was on the Statute Book the letter of a law
saying that the woman must die. We appeal to
human reason to face that fact and Bpeak with
the tongue of heart and brain. Are there not, on
that Statute Book, laws that have fallen into dis-
use? Laws of the reigns of Henby and of
Richard are, as far as the letter of law goes, still
unrepealed and still capable of being sprung on
the community, but if they were so sprung the
Executive would interfere and annul their effect.
We admit the whole of the difference that lies
between the case we have in hand and the cases
we refer to, but we contend that out of the cases
referred to comes the conclusion that the Execu-
tive is not tied down to the letter of law as written
in the Statute Book. Sir Henry Parkes declares
in exprets terms that, so far as the philosophy of
law is concerned, the woman should not die. He
declares that so far as supplying a deterrent in-
fluence her death is not demanded. He declares,
in effect, that the woman should live. He is
supported in the declaration by voices in front of
him and behind. Actually he has the House with
him. Then, instead of saying that she shall live,
he turns around and says because of the letter of
a certain law on the Statute Book the woman
shall die ! To the winds with this letter of the
law ! Where life is at stake no letter of any law
should avail. Unless the present sense of the
community wants Mrs. Collins hanged her blood
is on the heads of those who order her t xecution.
This is no plea for mercy. This is a demand that
the Executive shall do its duty. It is at, a pasß
where written law and current feeliDg stand
divorced. Where the decree is death the Exe-
cutive is, by the intention of civilised life, under
oath to the mind of its time and not to the mind
of a past time. High public duty is above
Statute law. The Executive has not alone the
power, but is under the obligation, of making a
choice, at certain junctures, between written law
and high public duty. What man of healthy fibre
would undertake the duties of a member of the
Executive in a civilised community and look upon
himself as a mere automaton through whom
written law, much of which has descended from
barbaric times, is interruptedly to flow ? Of
course, there are obligations to obey law. But
the Executive is, we contend, bound to look to
obligations rising from the present as well as those


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house),
Directors i
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. 0. Y. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq,
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 months 7 per oent.
T. S, Richardson .. .. Mannglug Director.
falling from the pasb. The test question is—
What is the want of the present time? A ready
answer to this is-Shall we be condemned if in
this case we set aside statute law ? Will not the
House support the Executive if the sentence on
Mrs. Collins be commuted? If ib does, then the
Executive cannot warrant her death. There is
daDger in this line of Executive action, we admit,
bub there is danger in the discharge of every high
duty. The danger belongs to the function. To
eschew the danger is to voluntarily abdicate duty.
We have here the spectacle of a Premier who,
rightly, controls his Cabinet, condemning capital
punishment as out of date; we have a Parlia-
ment, in part repeating, and for the rest cheering
the condemnation, and yet the corporate body
making up its mind to let capital punishment be
enforced —and upon a woman I The execution
must be pinned down to this fact. The moral
force of the Premier will, if he be not smothered
by bad arguments, inspire him to break away
from the blackletter law. It is not mercy, we
repeat, that is solicited. It is courage, manhood,
duty, character. To the Executive the law is
dead. Will Sir Henry Parkes kill with this
dead or dying law ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
72 - 13.
The Manchester Chamber of Commerce has
adopted, by 72 votes to 13, a motion declaring
that Protection is the only thing that can raise
England from her present state of depression, and
consequently we appeal to Parkes, Wise, Puls-
Ford, Hay-and-corn Roberts, “Honest” John
Sutherland, Alfred Bennett, Editor Curnow,
Banker Abigail, and all the rest of the
Foreign-trade assemblage, and point out that
there is in this something that badly wants ex-
planation. Manchester is the stronghold of
English Freetrade, and the “ Manchester school ”
of politicians have always been the backbone of
the English Freetraders. The Manchester Cham-
ber of Commerce is, therefore, the representative
voice of the city which has hitherto led the Free-
traders of the only alleged Freetrade country of
any importance on earth —and now this same
august gathering declares by an 82 per cent,
majority—we go into percentages out of deference
to A big ail —that Freetrade is a delusion and that
Cobdenism is not what it Beems. Such a resolu-
tion from such a quarter is almost equivalent to a
vote of censure by the College of Cardinals on
popes, saints, and virgins all combined, or to a
motion by Pastor Madgwick, of Sydney, that
William of Orange was a melancholy sham.
It is a case of the high-priest being the first
to kick the altar of his faith, it is the Chinaman
rounding on his Jobs and the African jumping on
his Mumbo-Jumbo. For years past the Foreign-
trade party of New South Wales have urged a
hungry nation to keep its eye on England, and
particularly on Manchester as the centre of Eng-
land’s commercial enlightenment, and now Man-
chester moves for Protection against the world,
its own sycophantic admirers among the rest. The
vote of the Manchester Chamber is the saddest
thing which has befallen the extinguished Puls-
ford and his party for many a day. No one took
any pains to soften the blow. Nobody sent out
any premonitory intimation of the falling-off
which was about to take place, so that they could
gently tail off in their admiration of the en-
lightened Foreign-traders of Manchester. The
news of this awful act of apostacy was fired out on
a staggered nation from the columns of the S.M.
Herald and the Telegraph, and the suffering
public were left to do the best they could about it.
So far, nobody has made any serious attempt to
explain the matter away Parkes, who
is a Freetrader because he has done no
useful work for a generation and who
has, consequently, no industry to protect,
has kept silent. Wise, who, as a lawyer, is
sufficiently protected already, has stiuck no new
attitude on the quesbion of how nobody should
enjoy Protection but himself. Roberts, who has
£l5OO a year and Protection for his public-house,
Abigail who has 1500 good reasons per annum
for refusing to acknowledge that Protectionist
speech on the strength of which he lost a wager of
£25 to The Bulletin and never paid the same,
and all the rest of the party have lain low, and the
listening world still waits for an explanation.
Even Pulsford has refrained from constructing
any nine-jointed diagram to prove that the 13
members who voted for Freetrade are really
greater in point of numbers and importance than
the 72 who voted for Protection, and when Puls-
ford can’t construct a diagram things are in a
bad way indeed.
“Held in Reverence.”
Speaking on the case of Mrs. Collins, the Bobany
poisoner, Premier Parkes said the other night in
the New South Wales Legislative Assembly (we
quote from the official report)
“Well, then, afber a fair trial, this woman is convicted
by a jury of her countrymen. Having been ably de-
fended, the trial extended with wonderful patience befoie
one of the ablest, most humane, and accomplished judges,
she is condemned to death for an atrocious murder.
What is murder? Let me call to mind a case concerning
which I think I made an interjection when the hon
member for Monaro was speaking- that of Mrs. Brown-
low It took place not so very long ago, because cue
iudge, who refused to listen to mercy, is stilt living,
and living in the respect of this community. Mrs.
Browni.ovv was a young and beautiful woman. She
had good cause for reelings of j -alonsy against
her husband, and in a moment if passion—her
husband ocoupyiog the position cf a butcher she
seized a knife and stabbed him in a paroxysm of jealousy.
She was taken up, tried for murder, and sentenced to be
hanged ; and though the whole colony rose up to implore
mercy on her behalf, the judge refused to fay a word in
her favour, and the dread sentence *as carried out.
That unfortunate woman took her little child and suckled
it on the step 3 of the scaffold, and then waked up and
was hangfd. I Hon. Members: Horrible!] Sir Henry
Parkes : That took place, and the judge who presided at
that trial is held in reverence by the people of this c .un try
to this hour.
“Held in reverence !’ ; What a magnificent satirist
is Sir Henry Parkes !
In a recent issue wo observed tha life
“beggar opposite ” had bvn accusing heady
O’Kane, of the Northern Miner of havirg ex-
changed the goose-quill for the tcissors, and we
ventured to predict that there would be no scissors
work about Thady’s reply. There wasn’t, either.
Here it is “The reflection of our local con
temporary, the Herald, on Thursday relative to
our issue of the previous day, and the low, mean
innuendo thrown out, was unworthy of the veriest
sneak who ever crawled in by some back door to
the ranks of the Fourth Estate. No true press-
man ever yet thought of hinting at such a thing,
and we cannot bub feel sorry for our brethren of
the pen when we think that we have amongst us
a sneak who would descend bo vilify a brother
scribe by such a low, mean, skulking subterfuge
Faugh ! Our gall rises, and our soul sickens at
the thought.” Corners ! oto4 on Thady.
Who Killed Michael Peter Collins ?
Christmas, 1886, was approaching. In
Botany, one of the suburbs of Sydney, Charles
Andrews resided with his wife and family. He
was a man turned 50 years of age, and was fairly
sober and more than fairly industrious. His life
was insured for a couple of hundred pounds, and
he had ten pounds at his credit in the Savings
Bank. His family was large, there being five
children, and his wife, Louisa, in addition to
caring and cooking for these, boarded and lodged,
with her husband’s consent, a man named Michael
Peter Collins. Although, like her husband, she
drank alcohol occasionally, she was sober, thrifty,
and industrious as a general rule. She was 15 or
16 years younger than Andrews, but they agreed
fairly well until three or four months after Collins
entered the house.
Michael Peter Collins was a young man com-
pared with Andrews. He was more given to
drink than Andrews, and less given to work. His
mind was low in tj pe, and he had no conscience.
He paid court to Mrs. Andrews in the lather’s
absence. As Andrews went regularly to work
and Collins went seldom, opportunities of pursu-
ing his objeeb were plentiful.
Andrews noticed an estrangement in his wife,
he noticed also an undue amount of freedom in
Collins’s manners. He reproved his wife, who
told him to send Collins away. This he was
taking steps to do, when, on his entering the
house one day about the middle of December, he
found unmietakeable Bigns that Collins, at any
rate, had no wish to leave the house. He rushed
at Collins. There was a fight between the men.
Collins was ejected.
Collins did not leave the neighbourhood. He
Bimply took lodgings a few doors down the street.
He was thus able to see Andrews leaving his home
for work, and pay visits to his old quarters with
safety. He and Mrs. Andrews continued the old
relations which had subsisted between them for
two if not three years. But he had to pay in his
new lodgings. He could not run long accounts as
at Andrews’ house. He found himself compelled
to consider how he could raise money. His in-
clinations were set strongly against working, as
work would take from him the hours he desired
to spend with Mrs. Andrews. Some other means
of providing for the future had .therefore to be
devised.
And he had anxieties in addition to those pro-
ceeding from the want of money. His illicit love
had become an infatuation. Unstable and con-
scienceless as he was, he was held as firmly by the
crime of love as good men are by its virtue. He
desired Mrs Andrews to be freed from her hus-
band—from the husband who had thrashed him.
He wanted money.
He wanted the woman.
* •
In his now more stealthy criminal visits to
Andrews’ house these thoughts filled his head.
Entering once by the back way he perceived on a
shelf in the kitchen a small box. On the lid was
the trade emblem of “ Rough on Rats.” What l
A whisper went through his brain. It alternately
chilled and burned. The criminal instincts,
ctiminal propensities, criminal habits, and crimi-
nal wants of the man gathered themselves up and
listened. The suggestion fascinated him. He
approved, applauded, determined.
By this means the woman would be his !
And the money !
Curses, as well as blessings, fly in pairs. Crimes,
as well as virtues, are born twins The act that
gave him the woman gave him also the £2OO in-
surance-money and the sum lying in the Savings
Bank. He knew that portion of the family his-
tory. That portion of it was known to several
neighbours
But care would have to be taken. He knew
little cf the action of poisons in general. He did
not know what the constituents of this “ Rough
on Rats’’were, but scores and scores of cases cf
suicide and accident, reported in the Sydney news-
papers of that period, told him that the mixture
was deadly, and that its taste was sweet rather
than bitter.
Would he ask Mrs. Andrews to be his accom-
plice ? She was bad certainly in one direction,
but that was no guarantee that she would be bad
here. And if she were unprepared to take a share
in this wickedness, his suggestions would entail
her instant aversion. These two points were
clear. Further, if she fell in with his scheme
what security would he have that in the event of
detection she would not betray him to save her-
self? This reflection settled the matter. In what-
ever way he went about the hus'ness Mrs.
Andrews was to be kept as much in the dark as
the victim.
He took from the box a small quantity of the
powder and walked on.
He and Mrs. Andrews met as usual. Occa-
sionally they ate and drank together. Sometimes
he brought in drink and at other times she pro-
vided it. Two bottles of stout were opened. Lest
Andrews, smelling the drink on his return, should
suspect the illicit companionship, half of one bot-
tle was reserved for him. Mrs. Andrews thus
made it appear that she bad drunk part of that
bottle when tired during the day.
On this occasion Collins, while re-corking the
stout, drepped in a small portion of the powder
while the woman was in another room, and,
standing the bottle cork down, left it for Andrews.
When Andrews r turned the position of the
bottle was reversed, and thus the arssn’c which
had sunk returned to the surface, and Andrews,
pouring out the porter, consumed both the powder
and the liquor.
Andrews became sick that night and remainei
sick next day. But he did not lie in bed. He
was frequently restles; —fie was up and down, in
and out. Gollins took an opportunity to ascertain
the state of things. So far, he had succeeded and
there was no suspicion. He looked around the
vet sels which were taken from time to t ime to
Andrews, and determined to complete the crime.
Why not poison Andrews at once ? Collins felt
that that would defeat his object. In the
place, his relations with the family might, owing
to the recent quarrels, be minutely inquired into.
The danger was great, the proof of his guilt pos-
sible. In the second place, the exposure which
the inquiry would cause would, even though he
escaped unscathed, make the immediate marriage
of himself and the woman wholly impossible He
wanted to own the woman and he wanted to be
master of her money, and it was, therefore,
absolutely necessary that Andrews’ death should
appear to be natural.
His course, then, was to visit the house at safe
intervals and avail himself of any opportunities
that offered for communicating small quantities of
the powder. Perhaps he had enough arsenical-
ready in his possession. If, however, he fell short
he knew many places where he could get more.
Half the houses about him had boxes of ‘ ‘ Rough
on Rats.” The box from which he had extracted
the powder he determined to leave where it was.
There was something to be gained and nothing to
be lost by leaving it there. If this scheme mis-
arried and Andrews were found to have been
killed by poison the presence of the poison in the
house would concentrate suspicion on the per-
manent members of the household, and he would
be the more safe. Accordingly on the lines on
which he had commenced he resolved to complete
the crime.
* *
Week followed week and Collina was satis-
fied with the results of his clandestine visits. The
chief difficulty he had bo cope with was Mrs.
Andrews’ persistence bo have a doctor called in.
Andrews was averse to this, partly because he
wanted to avoid expense and partly because he
thought he could pull through without anything
more than single remedies. Collins was nob sure that
if a docborjgame, he might not be discovered. At
last Mrs. Andrews insisted on bringing a doctor.
On the 29th of January she went to Dr. Thomas
Morgan Martin and, having described the case,
requested him to vis't Andrews. Dr. Martin went
and proceeded to treat the patient. Collins was
at this period apprehensive, but he soon ascer-
tained that the doctor was on the wrong scent.
This was better than if there had been no doctor
at all. Jf the doctor would k>' op astray the crime
would be completed with absolute safety.
If the case were protracted to any length the
doctor might, and probably would, have his eyes
opened to the scheme. Therefore, it was necessary
to be expeditious at this stage. J- ence, on the
2nd of February, Andrews died, and much to the
relief of Collins tbe doctor certified that death
arose from a natural cause—to wit, gastritis.
Collins was now daily in the company of Mrs.
Andrews. They drank freely together. Thirteen
days after Andrews’ death they attended a dance
in an empty house, and Collins there said that
they had been married. In a fortnight after the
death of Andrews, Collins was living in the dead
man’s hous 3 .
Andrews, while lying on his death-bed, had be-
come morbidly anxious as to the realisation of his
insurance, almost Ihe only money he could leave to
his wife, for whom, rot with standing the lightness of
her conduct during his latter days, he in his last
moments cherished a strong affection ; he tent her
to the office to see 1 hat the premiums were duly
paid and that the money would really be available
in the event of death. He had also become anxious
as to the making of his will, and seemed tp fear
that if any loophole were left his family would be
deprived of all. To put the matter beyond doubt
he urged his wife to say plainly that he was dying
and to learn from the office precisely how they
were tp act.
All this came rour.d naturally, and Mrs.
Andrews became sole owner of the £2OO and, in a
similar way, of the small sum depot ited in the
Savings Bank.
Thenceforth Mrs. Andrews is Mrs. Collins.
Twelve months passed. Collins did little work
during that period. He loafed about and drank
where he could. Mrs. Collins, though her habits
were less regular than in Andrews’ time, still
stuck to her children and tried to keep a roof over
them. Collins was, in a way, anxious that his
wife should not want. And now, too, there was a
baby of his own in the house. But he would not,
could not, work with any steadiness. The vices
he had given way to unfitted him for steady
labour The crime he had committed gave him a
disgust for honest toil—for himself, for every-
thing. If he worked one day, he wanted to idle
three.
What would be the end
Almost all the money made by the murder of
Andrews was now gore. This side of the adven-
ture ceased to profit him. But his wife and child
remained. In tbe badness of him and the woa an
there was an abiding warmth for one another.
And the baby bound them closer.
But what could he do to help ? Physic*lly and
' morally, owing to continuous debauchery, he was
a wreck If he held to the house, physical, moral,
and financial wreckage was imminent for all.
In February, 1888, he got a couple cf days’ work
at Botany. He might have kept at that work had
he been sober. He got suddenly “sacked,” how-
ever. Then he idled about for eight weeks. One
Saturday he asked bis wife for another pound -out
of the small sum that remained from the blood-
stained insurance-money. He said that he had
discovered a new way of making money Sue
gave him the pound and he went to a Chinese
gambling-den in Lower George-street. He came
hack late at night and put £4 10s on the table.
He was brighter for the next week. Perhaps
afber all he would be able to pull himself round
and make a living for his wife and family.
He kept saying throughout the week that wish
£2O he could make £lOO.
The entire sum now in their possession was £24.
Mrs. Collins feared to part with it, but being
pressed, complied. It is easy to induce a woman
to gamble. She gave him £2O, and on Saturday
night he revisited the gambling-den.
He returned on the last tram Mrs. Collins
was in bed and the house was dark. He entered
the bedroom. His wife spoke to him, but he was
slow to answer. He struck a match and lit a
candle, and was still silent. At last he cried:
“ I’ve lost all the money ! ”
• • •
The following week he said he would look for
labouring work up the Illawarra line v His wife
gave him a pound and he started off.
That night he returned. He had spent the
pound and had sold or pawned bis watch and
spent the proceeds a’so. He told his wife he had
had a fight with a station-guard, but the facts
that stand are that money and watch were gone;
He at last got a job of work at Botany. He
was there onlv two weeks, however, when his
bab7 died. Mrs. Collins borrowed £1 2s. Gi
from a neighbour to pay the expenses of inter-
ment
Collins now broke down completely. He said
that there was no use in his attempting to work
any mote. He found the world against him The
money for which he had sinned was gone, bis baby
was gone, debt surrounded him, energy was dead.
Once again a whisper went through his brain. He
was sick, disgusted, on all sides baffi d. Drink
and drunken idleness had wrecked his brain. The
memory of his crime had planted itself firmly on
his bad conscience and a year and a half of bad
drink had given him an irritable stomach and
twanging nerves He was down in the world
now and his daily and nightly companion was the
shade of the murdered Andrews.
Once again he thought of the “ Rough on
Rats.”
Day by day mind and body grew worse. He
went to the doctor in a mechanical sort of way
—he had a cold, he said. But it was a cold
in his mind. Internally all was irritation.
Externally, debt that he could not lighten, and
labour that he could not and would not under-
take, stared him in the face. Even drink was now
an aggravation of his disorders. It produced fits
of deadly nausea.
While half-dressed one evening, the agony
became almost unbearable. He mixed a large
dose of the poison in a glass which he had been
using for other purposes, and swallowed it. He
put the rest of the poison into his trousers pocket,
lay down in bad with the garment on. In a
short time all his trouble would be over
Bub he had not estimated his condition. His
stomach instantly rejected the poison. He now
suffered more than ever. The doctor called and
prescribed, but neither the vomiting nor the in-
ternal pains were stopped.
On the 4ih of July, when this had been going
on three days, Dr. Marshall collected some of the
vomit, and submitted it fo tests for poison. Pie
did not find a trace of arsenic or any other poison.
The fact was that the dose which Collins took
had passed away, and the vomiting pains now
were the results of the combined effects of a long
course of drink with arsenical irritation super-
added. On the Gbh of July the doctor again col-
lected some of the vomit, but with the same
result.
Collins had thought that the dose would kill
him. From the time he took it he thought that
every spasm would be the last. Still here he was
in agony, his future growing darker with every
hour, his present torturing him more and more in
mind and body, and the unhallowed past with his
murdered victim more persistently crowding in
upon him. It had been ordained, he felt, that he
should die as Andrews had died.
When the doctor left that day Collins put the
remainder of the poison in the glass and drank it.
Next day he was in a state of collapse. The
doctors were in and out. Mrs. Collins, who was
in constant attendance upon her husband, took out
the glass and refilled it with milk. On the follow-
ing morning Collins died.
Mrs. Collins took refuge in drink. Soon after
Collins’. death his trousers were removed, and
thrown into a tub of water. The glass was allowed
to stand as it was.
Collins was found to have been poisoned with
arsenic. Three grains of this poison were found
in his body. The tenth of a grain was found in
the glass at his bedside. Bis wife was charged
with the murder, and is now under sentence of
death.
• •
We do nob seriously say that the foregoing
story is the true story of Collins’ death. We do
not say that Collins had any fault whateyer
beyond being weak and drunken. We do not say
that we are certain about anything on earth ex-
cept that death comes tp ad in the end— and
as nothing but death is certain, capital punish-
rr ent should, we hold, be abolished. The theory,
as here set down, that Collins murdered Andrews
and afterwards committed suicide, may not be
primafapie as strong as the elaborate and well-
woven theory on which the Crown, after
four _ trials, has obtained a conviction, but
still it is one of many hitherto unconsidered
explanations of this mysterious crime. The
Grown perfected its theory as it went along
from trial to tria', and the theory now presented
could, under similar circumstances, be rendered
more and more circumstantial from trial to trial.
Little incidents which would be meaningless out-
side the Crown’s theory or which would pass as
the words and actions of a half-tip3y woman,
grew under the light of the case for the prosecu-
tion pregnant with significance. Under the light
of the assumption that Collins (whose life
was uninsured at the time he died) poisoned
Andrews and then poisoned himself, these
incidents disappear, and others present them-
selvcs with as much force in confirmation of the
new view of the case. Stronger motives can be
assigned to Col ins for poisoning Andrews than
can be assigned to Andrews’ wife for a similar
act. The story on wh ; ch the woman has been con-
victed is admittedly strong, and if it is close to
the evidence, so also is the present story.
And all this do we say while lelieving Mrs.
Collins to be guilty—even as the English judge
and jury who convicted Brannigan and Murphy
ten y»ars ago of a crime of which they were
innocent and for which, had it been committr d in
N.S.W. instead of England, they would haye
been hanged and nob merely imprisoned, believed
tjicni to be guilty. Brannigan and Murpby have
been declared innocent, released from gaol, and
awarded by the Crown a gratuity of £BOO each.
We have lived to be disillusionised of many ideag
just as strong as > hat which we enterbain concern-
ing the guilt of Mrs. Lour a Collins
Closed at last, the Atlas Iron Works,
Sydney. Hurrah for foreign trade !&
Sir Henry Parkis siya the h e Mr. Dal'ey
was almost his life-long friend This indeed, is
news.
Macdonald - Patterson, the ex-Commis-
sioner of the Melbourne Exhibitior,
is a solicitor in Brisbane, and was Postmaster-
General in the late Griffith Ministry.
Let us utilise our legislator?. In the
Keeley mobor sound is the source of power. How
many thousands of horse-power N.S.W. lost over
the Parliamentary tram debate we a e afraid to
estimate. Here a brilliant thought strikes us—
let the vibrations emanating from the Sydney
Legislative Assembly propel the motors.
Boyd Morehead, the colonial-born Premier
of Queensland, is following in. the footsteps of ex-
Premier MTlwraith in the matter of prompt
punishment for anti-national sins. If there is
any .one who still follows the tranquil flow of
Melbourne Exhibition affairs he will have noted
the sudden removal of one Macdonald-Patterson
from the Queensland Commissionership. This
was Morehead’s answer to a speech in the Argus
with the Comnussi mer’s double-barrelled name at
the head of it. In that speech the pibroch of
loyalty (co England and even to Toryism) was
pitched in its shrillest key, and the national
works and pomps of recent Queensland politics
were referred to with as much .shuddering
horror as white-waistcoat respectability would
permib itself to use. Of course the Macconald-P.
spoke at one cf the M Bain’s little gatherings,-
and everybody knows that Scottish nodes am-
brosiana, when they are offishuland respectable,
will account for anything. Bub, due allowances
being made, still the M‘Duga?d-P. should not
have permitted himself to yearn too publicly for
the O’Blake and all that his coming implied. At
least so thought Boyd Morehead. Non-, perhaps,
the M‘D.-P. thinks the same.


PERFECT HEALTH !
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. HiCURDT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List o) Contents.
Note Addresß—
-319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fanoy Goode. Inspection Invited.
The
Keferee
It is cabled from America that “ Black ”
Jackson, of Sydney (a native, by the way, of the
West Indies), has easily lowered the colours of
the giant M‘Auliffe—who is 6 ft. 3in. tall and
weighs 15 stone —and that he now proposes to
challenge Kilrain for the world’s pugilistic cham-
pionship. It strikes one as a marvellous thing
that a man with a pair of legs like Jackson’s
should ever be able to even aspire to such a dis-
tinction. As far as the upper part r f his
frame is concerned, Peter is pretty nearly per-
fection ; but a more sorry sight than Mr. J ,
from the hips downwards, has never been be-
held in any fighting-ring sine i the world
began to. revolve. Nevertheless, his success
abroad will be hailed with genuine satisfaction
wherever he is known, for “Black ” Jackson is a
good-hearted and manly man who has never hit in
anger an antagonist who could not properly take
his own part. For instance, in Sydney not long
before he left, a big hulking half-drunken
“flash” personage, who was “champion” of
some bush town way back, and who
fancied he could fight, but whom Jackson
could have pretty well killed in a couple of blows,
suddenly hit the darkey in the face and cut him
badly; Jackson, instead of making reprisals,
took the blow and quietly pushed his assailant
away with his hand. In addition to being
a very quick and hard hitter, Jackson is
an excellent sculler, and perhaps the best
diver that Australia has ever seen. He went
away from Sydney with very little in his
pocket, but he has been splendidly treated by the
Miner leans, who have given him an absolutely
fair field. After our experiences of the manner
in which certain representative pugilists from out-
side have been treated in Sydney in the hour of
hard and fairly-won victory, we blush to think of
what would have happened had Jackson come to
N.S.W. and proceeded to take down the local
favourites as he has taken down his opponents in
San Francisco. This we know, is a very nasty
and unpatriotic thing to say, but isn’t it true ?
What do you say, Miller ? And, Sand all, what is
l/o ur opinion ?
• •
The Russian man-of-war now in Sydney
harbour has a number of very smart ship’s gigs,
the crews whereof delight in displaying their
prowess as oarsmen. The Russians are evidently
throwing out a bait for a challenge, and it is very
likely that they will be formidably represented at
the Anniversary Regatta. Their boats are said
to be perfect wonders.
* * •
Where are the cold-water men ? Rumour
has it that a horse which recently came to grief at
Randwick had no less than three bottles of
whisky poured into him before the race to try
and put a bit of Dutch courage into him. He
came a cropper, and, it is said, he was led in as
drunk as a fiddler. Who wouldn’t be a race-
horse ?
• e .
“ Pendragon,” in referring to Veracity’s
fast mile A.F. Newmarket, states that lmin.
42sec. on an Australian course is not equal to
lmin. 44sec. on an English course, taking into
consideration the standing start, the moisture-
laden atmosphere, heavy going, and the “ups
and downs,” hills, hollows, rut 3 and long grass of
a “ natural course.”
# Ak • •
Libeller, mat grand little son of the
defunct Traducer, and half-brother to Musketeer,
is dead. Although Libeller never trod an Aus-
tralian course he was well known for his prowess
in N.Z. Kir Hercules Robinson ran him out for
an Auckland Plate when opposed to the great
Templeton and Ariel and accepted three fifties
that Libeller won from Mr. H. P. Lance. That
the pot was overturned by the son of Yatterina
is now a matter of history.
* * •
Well-grounded belief in the honesty of
Baronet Clarke’s turf intentions prevents the
public from kicking against the in-and-out per-
formances of his good-looking horse Menotti, an
animal which might ruin the reputation of many
another owner. On December 15 Menotti finished
nowhere in the Victorian Club Handicap at Caul-
field, won in a canter by The Skipper, Maroney
being third. Eleven days later the same three
horses ran in the Summer Cup, over the same
identical course. On this occasion Menotti cer-
tainlymetSkipperon Impounds and Maroney on five
pounds better terms, but the difference in weights
was not sufficient to account for a complete re-
versal of the previous result. Skipper (well
backed) finished an indifferent third to Sir W. J.’s
despised outsider, who galloped gaily home in
front of Malua. It is usual to speak of Menotti
as a “thief” or a “cow” or anything which
denotes his propensity for cutting up badly when
the public are “ on,” and vice versa, but in many
analogous cases those terms of reproach are applied
to owners who may be as innocent of turf guile as
the Victorian Croesus. Anyway, there is no rea-
son why this Menotti—“thief,” “cow” or other-
wise—shouldn’t be handicapped on his very best
form, instead of being invariably dropped into
handicaps at weights which make him an almost
certain “ turn up ” for the ring every time he runs
“kindly.”
• • •
The best report of the baseball matches in
Melbourne appeared in the Herald, but they had
a real live K ankee on the job.
* * «
That unsatisfactory start for the Nursery
Handicap at Rosehill, on Dec. 22nd, reminds us
that some of the two-year-old races at Flemington
Spring meeting were also decided by the fall of
the Hag.
* »
There is a rather amusing tendency on
the part of Young Australia to gloat over the vie-
torles of the Maori footballers at “ home.” Care-
fully considered, the pluck and skill shown by
these sons of savagery are rather a cough-drop for
white men in general.
• * *
Mr. Nlcoll, one cf the N.Z. representative
four oar-crew, thus epigramatically describes the
Intercolonial race, in an N.Z. paper :—“ From the
start Victoria and New Zealand struggled for
first place; while Tasmania and New South
Wales fought like demons to see who wouldn’t be
last—also from the start.”
Th 3 clever victory of the crack two-
year-old, Montalto, and the “ spinning ” of
Malua for the Summer Cup gave a tone to Box-
ing Day meeting at Caulfield. Mr. Inglis proba-
bly lost his race on Malua by keeping back his
champion for that one great final rush which the
old horse is no louger quite equal to, and the
public had a somewhat sorrowful clay in conse-
quence. Otherwise some good sport was provided
for a pretty big crowd, and Caulfield only wants
more grand stand to make it a formidable rival of
Flemington.
In speaking of Searle’s recent victories
the London Referee states that if his form is
judged only through Beach it is likely to be some-
what beneath first class, believing, as it does, that
Beach only resigned the championship to Kemp
on account of failing powers, and that Kemp’s
late alleged “ wonderful improvement ” is inex-
plainable. First we were told, says the writer,
that Beach was the best man in the world, that
was credible, then that Kemp was better still,
finally that Searle is best of all. This i 3 incredible.
• *
How’s this for a coincidence ? The Singa-
pore Grand Stand Cup was won this year by Too
Too in 2 min. 2sec.
Recent rowing exhibitions confirm the fact
that William Beach was about the whitest,
squarest, coolest-headed, and best “ professional ”
champion who ever sculled a boat along.
William’s brains might not weigh any more than
Searle’s, if both lots could be scaled, but they
were matured before he attained the position in
which Searle, a hobbledehoy, has so soon made a
fool of himself. If that ungainly youth were now
to go to England, and appear at music halls every
night, as Beach did, he would come out of the
ordeal in vastly different condition.
* • *
First sport ; “ He can’t win, I tell you !”
Second sport: “How so.” First sport: “Too
slow—3low as a hearse !” Second sport (relieved):
“Well the other joker’s slower than that. He’s
as slow as a fire-brigade.”
* *
Mr. William Matterson, father of Neil
Matterson the sculler, is an Australian native,
and was 56 years old on Christmas Day. He has
a family of fifteen, twelve of whom are living, and
he has not a grey hair in his head. Mrs. Matterson
is also a native, so Neil is every inch an Australian
oarsman.
* # *
The Y.R.C. will add £lOOO to the Eext
Newmarket Handicap, for which entries close on
January 7th. How about Cranbrook ?
* • •
Ormonde, the unbeaten champion of the
English turf, has been sold to go to Buenos Ay res.
O’Connor and Teemer both claim they
can beat Searle, and Hosmer says Searle has got
his reputation on the decay of Beach. Talk is
cheap in the United States, but it takes money
to buy whisky and more than blowing to win a
championship.
* * *
Kilrain’s diamond champk n-belt was re-
can tly exhibited at an American church bazrar.
It Is rumoured that M‘Garrigal, by his
wins in the two big Sydney pedestrian handicaps,
has absolutely made his fortune.
Prado, the Parisian murderer just exe]
cuted. was a Mexican and brotber-in-law of Diaz,
President of the Mexican Republic.
The Bulletin congratulates Dr. Cortis,
M.P,, on the vigour with which he is now bidding,
per medium of his letters in the Sydney D.T , for
the Bathurst Orange vote.
Lord Salisbury says Federation of the
Empire to his mind means nothing more than the
ten letters that spell Federation We agree with
him. Independence goes two letters more and
looks ever so much bigger.
Mr. O’Neill, of Qaeenbeyan, who has
been incarcerated in Darlinghurst prison for libel-
damages, was released last week at the instance
of his judgment-creditor. Hilder, the other
journalist, who is in very bad health, still remains
in gaol.
The cable announces that Gladstone lias
had a magnificent reception at Naples. Italy has
always been the Grand Old Man’s second coun-
try ; “ Dante ” was one of the three books which
most influenced his life, and it was in Italy also
where he first made the acquaintance of his wife.
It is cabled that Letty Lind, the dun-
seuse, now plavinf? in New York, will soon be
married to Mr. Reginald Bell, “ who is described
as the Australian Silver King.” “ Described ”is
good. We have heard all about the fascinating
widow Letty, but who is Reginald Bell, Esq , the
Silver King?
Sir John Cecil Read has finally retired
from the governorship of Darlinghurst Gaol, and
has been presented with some testimonial plate
by the officers of the establishment. As Sir John
has been the most hospitable man who ever lived
in Sydney, and as most of his guests have never
yet returned his hospitality, it is now proposed to
give him a little dinner as a send-off.
The town of Grenfell (N.S.W.) has hadita
third big fire. There is a peculiar odour about
this last one. It occurred in the little, old,
crooked, narrow street known as “ George,” which
was built on, and followed the “ lead ” line in its
zig-zag course when the “Weddin” broke out..
Many of the buildings were unoccupied ; all were
old and well-insured. We venture to predict that
few, if any, will be re-built on the old sites. It was
on the site of Grenfell, then a part of Mr. Wood’s
Brundah run, that Gardiner and his gang first
halted after robbing the Engowra gold-escort.
Judge Windeyer, like the other judges,
rather went out of his way in stating, when sit-
ting in Full Court last week, that in his opinion
Mrs Collins was guilty. Most people think so,
too, but as the matters before the Court at the
time were not questions of opinion or fact but
abstract points of law their Honors’ expression
of opinion seems somewhat uncalled for. By the
way, we once heard of a judge who was cock-
sure about the Mount Rennie case, but we are
thoroughly certain that not two per cent, of the
population will agree with him now —if he still
maintains his former opinion.
Thousands of persons in Australia will
be sorry to hear of the bankruptcy of Mr. W. K.
Thomson, merchant, of Melbourne, whose liabili-
ties are set down at over £lOO,OOO and his assets
at under £5OOO. The causes assigned are losses
in sugar and in trading in Fiji and advancing
moneys to assist friends who have been unable to
repay. As Mr. Thomson in prosperity was a
most generous man and a good sportsman, there
are many who will wish to see him on his feet
again. In Sydney Mr. John Hurley, another
man who was once on the road to being a mil-
lionaire, and who in his salad days kept no greedy
clutch on his money, has been declared bankrupt.
We have received a copy of “ Pets of the
Public; a Book of Beauty,” beiDg a tastefully
got-up collection of smartly-written biographical
notices of popular Australian actresses from the
pen of Mr. Edward Ellis. The book is illustrated
by twenty-five excellent portraits of leading
favourites of the footlights; including Miss Nellie
Stewart, Miss Maggie Moore, Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner, Miss Leonora Braham, Miss Carrie
Swain, Miss Pattie Browne, Miss Kate Bishop,
Mrs. Bland Holt, Minnie Palmer, and others.
The book is published at the democratic price of
one shilling. It will be invaluable as a theatrical
record and should command a large sale every-
where.
On dit that a sapient gentleman who helped
to get up a certain powerful syndicate to purchase the
Sydney tramways learned that a rival association
had offered a higher sum than that named in the
tender he had forwarded So, after consultation
with his partners, he waited upon the head of the
rival combination and offered them £20,000 to
withdraw their tender. They declined, but the
pertinacious gentleman who knew well the power
of perseverance tried again, and this time more
successfully as he secured by the unconditional
payment of thirty thousand pounds sterling, the
withdrawal of the tender he knew to be
higher than his own. He thought himself secure,
but the adverse division spoiled his little game,
and he had a very unhappy hour with his partners
when the tender-box was opened and the tenders
returned. The story is very good so far, but it
has a big moral.
Writing on the Louisa Collins case, the
Christchurch (N.Z.) Telegraph, under the head
of “ A Miserable Spectacle,” says :
In Sydney they are rather prone to carrying out the
death-sentence. A year or two ago several youths were
hanged in that city for a crime which, if committed in
England or in this colony, would not have been a capital
offence. But—what made the matter worse—after the
execution of these youths doubts arose as to the guilt of
some of them. The case was reinvestigated [lt was not re-
investigated—all enquiry was carefully burked.— Ed. B.J
and an effort made to convinoe the public that the verdict
and sentence were justified by the facts. It was wise, of
course, to do this. There would have been no use what-
ever in seriously shaking the confidence of the public in
the justice of the decision arrived at by the Supreme
Court, But now they are going to haDg a woman. She
was found guilty of murdering her husband, but then it
must be remembered that the first jury before whom she
was arraigned did not agree, and she had to be put on her
trial a second time. If justice in Sydney demands that
she shall be hanged, it is to be hoped that after the
tragedy is over no doubts will arise in the minds of
the people of Sydney as to her guilt. It is by
no means certain public morals will be benefited by
the miserable exhibition of hanging a woman, however
great her offense may have been. Punishments in civi-
lised communities are not inflicted for the mere purpose
of vengeance, but as a deterrent to other evil-doers.
Looking at the matter in the latter light, it is question-
able if, in the interests of society, it is necessary or
desirable to hang a woman, even if she has committed
murder. The requirements of society would, we think,
be sufficiently conserved by letting her live, and never
again giving her the opportunity of injuring others. By
adopting that course the publio would be spared the re-
vulsion of feeling which must arise from so tragic an act
as strangling a female.
When next you bake try Pemell'B Snow-white Patent
Rot,her Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
The "Dead Bird”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Translated from the Sporting Vernacular of Botany Bay,
“ I’ve got a real red-hot dead bird,
I know he’s sure to win.
Upon my siv. and sacred word
He’ll make the spielers spin.
He’s on the job, but keep it squat,
He gave three yards to Roy,
He’s done six under even, Mat,
Fair dinkum, my dear boy.
“ His stable planked their shiny pounds
At ten to one they say ;
We’ll make some on his first two rounds —
The first one’s run to-day.
What he can do no one has heard,
I got it from M‘Loy ;
A moral, cert., a real dead-bird,
Fair dinkum, my dear boy.
‘ 1 Ri’ buck, old man, I’ll meet you there,
We’ll make a hundred quid,
And do the grand in Wynyard Square,
They’ll stare at Mat and Sid.
We’il get among the office toffs,
With snowy vests, oh joy !
We’ll take them into Andy Gough’s—
What’ll you have, deah boy.”
“ Even monish ! the field I back !”
The gong sounds for the start,
The tape is stretched across the track ;
The dead-bird, dressed so smart
In blue and green, with sash of red,
Trips gaily down the way,
The “ talent ’ loudly cheers the “ ped ”
“ He'll win—mere trot,” they say.
A Hebrew takes our hero’s gold
Quickly at threes to one ;
The crowd then rush, both young and old,
To put their dollars on.
The peds prepare, each on his track,
The judges take their place ;
And with the pistol’s ringing crack
They start at flying pace.
“He leads !he wins ! He’s first! Good lad 1”
A thousand voices cry.
“He wins ! He’s last! he’s last! Begad
The doodah did not try.”
“ He was not on the job,” they said,
But our misguided wight
He tore the bookie’s card to shreds,
And cursed with all his might.
For he had promised Laura, sweet,
That she should see the tank,
And Rignold leap full twenty feet
Down from a giddy plank.
But now, alas ! his money gone,
He needs must break his word,
All through putting his dollars on
That real, red-hot dead bird.
F. CHANDOS.
The Building Fiend.
Editor Bulletin,—Man was given the earth to
live on, but in the city Greed demands that he
should live above it and beneath it, because one
square inch of land costs gold, and gold is dearer
than human life. Man can live a certain depth
below the surface of the earth, and Greed de-
mands that he should do so. Hence the thou-
sands who live in the cellars and dens of our great
cities. The day has yet to come when dwell-
ings may be dug so deep that mechanical
means may become necessary to supply
the dwellers therein with air. We may yet
have to pay for the air we breathe or have it
cut off like gas. But Greed is never satisfied; a
house may be twelve storeys high, and yet the
very space within the roof is coveted. The in-
genuity of the architect is taxed to save every
inch that can yield rent, and thus we have rows of
garret windows with the sinister look of evil
things. It may be contended that garrets are
not a source of danger in case of fire, but that on
the contrary they often facilitate the escape
of such inmates as may be cut off from
below, by affording them a passage to the
roof. This is very true in cases where the
roofs are provided with parapets or other means
of escape, but even as we write we can see a row
of three garret windows that would afford to fire-
imprisoned inmates a passage to a more damnable
trap than Satan could invent. A roof so sloping
that a cat could not climb on it, with three garret
windows out of reach of the ridge and of one
another. This roof, unprotected by a parapet,
goes down to a line of flimsy guttering that would
scarcely bear the weight of a hen, let alone afford
a footing for a man. Beneath this is a wall 40 or
50ft. high, unbroken by a balcony or roof of any
kind. The number of garret roofs and walls of
this description is unlimited ; you may see them
in every Sydney street. Adjoining the house of
which we have just spoken are the blackened
walls and rafters of the buildiDg that was the
scene of a terrible fatality on Christmas morn.
The incident is not likely to fade quickly from the
minds of those who witnessed it. The sun is just
rising on our sunny Christmas Day when the
people of Church Hill are aroused from their
slumbers by terrible cries that ring out clear across
the house-tops. A man, surrounded by fire and
smoke, is clinging to a garret window, caught
in the awful trap that the carelessness
of landlords and builders has made for
him. In voice that sounds like the voice
of a madman he calls on man and God for aid.
Men who see him there shudder, and women faint,
or wrap clothes about their heads to shut out the
terrible cries that shall sound in their ears for
many long years to come. The poor fellow on the
roof gallantly endeavours to draw up the other
man, who has just climbed out of the window. A
parapet or a bar of iron connecting these windows
with the adjoining roof would now save two lives,
but these things cost gold, and gold is dearer than
human life. The last man slips and falls head-
long. The other, stupefied by the shock and ex-
hausted by heat and smoke, soon ceases his mad
endeavour to tear up the slates and is seen to
totter. Turn your eyes away. They are carried
out limp and crushed and bleeding, but if their
death will be the means of bringing architects and
builders to a sense of their responsibility, or the
Government to a sense of theirs, it cannot be said
that they died in vain. And now a word about
the Fire Brigade. The Brigade people will prob-
ably shirk the responsibility of their late arrival
and of the absence of the fire-escape by saying
that the people of the boarding-house failed to
report the fire in time—that they wasted time in a
hopeless endeavour to extinguish it. But do the
Fire Brigade people always expect to be informed
of that which it is their duty to know ? Where
are the watchmen, the look-outs and the alarms ?
Is it not a shame that in these days of mechanical
science a house may burn for half-an-hour without
a single Brigade being aware of it! Let the Brigade
people and their admirers say what they like, the
facts are the same : two men had been killed at
the burning of the Wentworth boarding-house
and a woman saved before a brass helmet was
seen in the distance It’s time people got to know
that it is sheer nonsense to expect the inmates of
a burning house to do the right thing at the right
time. But it is hopeless to expeco the Govern-
ment to attend to these matters in days when the
citizens have to roll up in a mob and threaten
Parliament House in order to make their repre-
sentatives do their duty.—H. L.
How was it that when the New South Wales
Supreme Court sat to hear the appeal made by
a condemned prisoner against the admission of
certain evidence taken at her trial that three of
the four judges who had each tried her separately
appeared on the bench to constitute - the Cour
which was to determine the final issue ? The
judges, through their chief, admit that prior to
the fourth trial they had met and discussed the
character of the evidence to be admitted and each
of the judges declared that at each trial he had
made up his mind that the prisoner was guilty.
Notwithstanding this, they meet finally to sit in
judgment on their own acts, and with what result?
Why, the conviction is, of course, sustained. The
Bulletin thinks that in common decency alone
the “ points ” raised or to be raised should have
been heard by three judges who had not previously
taken an active part in the trial. There were
three judges who had taken no part —at least in
public—in the matter. No objection could be
taken to either Messrs. Stephen or Owen, and
although not known as a oommon law judge we
have little doubt Mr. Justice Dkffell would be
found perfectly competent to occupy the third
chair. As it is, the fate of the unfortunate woman
is now in the hands of the Governor.
Louisa Collins will be hanged in time for
the first edition of the evening papers.
Mr. J. M. Ives, the popular manager for
H. H. Warner, of Safe Cure celebrity, left Aus-
tralia by last ’Frisco mail in response to a telegram
from the head of the firm It is an open recret
that the business done by Mr. Ives in Australia
for Mr. Warner has been such as to render the
local rights of the Safe Cure preparations worth
yearly at least 15 per cent, of what is annually
yielded by Mount Morgan.


"My Tailor,” 161 King-street, Newtown. Don't forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s
** The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
sad amative on earth—Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.’’
Uniform a Bpeoialtv; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man, "Mr Tailor.” 154 Kinsr-street. Newtown.
GAIETY THEA T K E.
The Daily: Telegraph says
“ Frank Lincoln’s Entertainment is as At-
tractive as Anythinj Now in Sydney.’]
“ lie kept his Audience Laughing for Two
Hours.”
THIB AND EVERY EVENING,
FRANK LINCOLN. FRANK LINCOLN.
Prices; 55., 45., 35., Is. Box Plan at Nicholson's.
Doors open, 7.30, Commence, 8.15.
L. T. LOHR, Manager.
QOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
More Star Artists !
HATH HUAI NEXT I'M US' SATI RI»AV NEXT !
At 4 o’clock, on the Stage.
The Wonders of a Century ! Supernatural and
Physiological Marvels !
T
II
E
DONALDSON BROTHERS !
T
II
E
Demon < ontot tlonists,
N.B.—Leon Donaldson positively without moving his
feet turns his entire body and faces the opposite direction.
The Medical Faeulty Dumbfoundered I
SW Wait for Coogee Trams to the Doors.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. —Hands Across the Sea ”p. 14,
Heb Majesty's.— “ Youth”
Obitebion.— “ Hans the Boatman "
Haymahkkt Music Hall.— Harry Rickards „
Gaiety Theatee.— Frank Lincoln ~
“Hans the Boatman,” a drama of the
American pastoral description, is booming at
Sydney Criterion. “ Hans,” in the first act, is a
duplication of “My Sweetheart,” and in the last
he is “Struck Oil” over again, with the oil 1 n
out and a dog inserted instead, but the middl. ut
him is comparatively original. The scene is laid
in the land where the American eagle hangs out
screaming on the topmost peaks, and where the
stuffed snipe of the valley answers back his song
of liberty ) and the hero is the ordinary, simple-
minded stage German person who speaks in
broken English of the flowers and the sunshine
and the caterpillars and the other beauties of
Nature, and spends the rest of his time basking
in the sun, until he wins the heart of a rich
man’s daughter and bears her away to be his
bride in old clothes and a scarcity of boots, and to
taste the simple joys of love in a ramshackle cot-
tage with earwigs and other crinkly insects craw-
ling on the roof. When the wealthy old father
sees his daughter give way to this new species of
lunacy he dances a fandango and chokes with
rage, and when he recovers he announces his fixed
resolve to disown the young lady and leave his
money to the Society for the Proseoution of Clerks
who lift the Petty Cash, or the League for the
Annihilation of Policemen who Come Round to
the Back Boor after Pie, or some other equally
worthy object, and his insurgent offspring replies
that he can do as he dashed well likes with the
money. But after living for seven weary
years on clams, the grass of the illusion withers
away, and the flower of the heroine’s girlish
dreams is trodden underfoot, and, in des-
pair, she starts home to her pa and never
gets there. At this stage of the proceed-
ings the author strikes an ingenious device by
which calm happiness is blasted once more into
the cottage by a gunpowder explosion, and joy,
repentance, reconciliation, and the peace which
passeth all understanding are brought back by a
canine at the end of a string. The animal acts his
part to perfection, and we could name a good
many men of our acquaintance whom we would
sell, if they belonged to us, that we might buy
Hans’ dog with the money. Attached to it by a
rope is Mr. Charles Arnold, who is honestly worthy
to be found in such company, and when we con-
sider how very few men deserve to be seen
along with an honourable dog this is praise
of the highest order. Mr. Arnold’s Hans suffers
a little, but only a little, by comparison with
Tony Faust as played and sung by Mr. Roberts,
of the Minnie Palmer aggregation, but despite the
memory of the other and more tuneful German of
two years ago he is destined to be a general
favourite. He is strongly supported by Miss
Myra Kemble, by Mr. W. H. Leake an artist
who deserves better appreciation than he has re-
ceived in Australia, that reliable old father,
.1 F. Cathcart, and W, R. Bernard. Miss
Pattie Browne, too, as Jeffie Thursby, a
bewitching maid, filled with Yankee sauci-
ness and Yankee slang, makes the greatest
success which she has yet achieved, and
sundry infant phenomena bring up the rear of the
procession. The one awful fall of the show is
Mr. Geo. Lash Gordon who seems to have struck
a part which does not suit his style of beauty.
Somewhere about a year ago we saw this gentle-
man rouse a lot of public enthusiasm as a broken-
baeked, water-logged, villainous old pauper who
was full of fight at the age of 75, and where this
kind of hoary ruffian is in request we can con-
scientiously recommend him as having few equals.
Well-dressed sliminess, however, is not altogether
in his line, and at present he is wasting his sweet-
ness on the desert atmosphere.
## # *
“ Hands Across the Sea,” a drama which
is beneath derision, has been piled up at Sydney
Royal to celebrate the re-appearance of Mr.
Charles Warner, and after viewing it in all its
aspects we are fain to confess that Mr. Warner
would have been better advised to stay away
rather than exhibit himself as a melancholy spec-
tacle under such circumstances. Mr. Pettitt’s
“ entirely new ” drama seems to have been
burdened with the name it bears in order to make
room for a scream from the bird of freedom, be-
ginning—
“ Hands Across the Sea,
Feet on British Ground,” &c.—
but as the drama developes itself it proves that the
“ hands” are in Australia, and then the reflective
auditor begins to contemplate the awful dimensions
of the feet which could preserve their balance in
England under such circumstances. Like all Mr.
Pettitt’s original dramas, the present woe is built
upon the story of a large, moral young man,
against whom a dark and fiendish conspiracy is
erected. Coming out of a building at night his
feet get tangled up in a dead body, and while he
is trying bo shake off the remains he is denounced
to the police, and falls back in horror a distance
of IS feet. He is then sent into penal servitude,
according to precedent, and escapes in a boat as per
sample, aid is picked up, as he can’t avoid being,
by the customary British ship which couldn’t help
being about there when it was wanted even if it
tried. Scraps. of some half-dozen other dramas
by the same author keep turning up unexpec-
tedly in “ Hands Across the Sea,” atd altogether
it is the sort of piece which makes us feel very
much exhausted. If Mr. l’ettitt is capable of
viewing his own production with an unbiassed eye
he will either go out and jump at himself, or he
will throw green apples at his head at a range of
50 yards, or take some equally adequate measures
to express his grief at his own conduct. Twenty-
three valuable artistes and about GO miscellaneous
attendants are wasted on the new production,
and the worst item of waste in the whole
lot is Mr. Warner himself in his capacity
as an awful ploughman in evening dress.
Messrs. Albert Norman, Frank Oates, and Richard
Stewart are so good in their respective parts that
we are tempted to give way to grief that they
should be seen under such circumstances, and we
Mop dismally when we meet Misses Ada Ward and
Isabel Morn* lost on the heaving wastes of “Hands
Across the Sea.” We intend to remonstrate
seriously with Mr. Pettitt in a future issue.
Something must be done with that dramatic
Choctaw at an early date, for even the lavish
scenery at Sydney Royal is not sufficient of a
mitigating circumstance to make his latest effort
endurable in the present hot weather.
*# * *
A brief, emphatic advertisement by Shake-
speare, in the morning papers, announces that
gentleman’s fixed resolve to retire from Sydney
Opera House after a short but tempestuous
season, which —to judge from appearances—has
barely paid for gas. “ Hamlet,” even when inter-
preted by one of the very best Shakespearian
actors who ever struck Australia or anywhere
else, has fallen in a heap, and Mr. Geo. C. Miln
hands in his resignation to a wooden-headed and
idiotic public, and retires to some field where
the popular soul does not yearn so badly
after Ecenes with convicts and burning ships
and railway accidents in them. Even Miss Maggie
Knight’s excellent performance of Ophelia did not
seem to haul the public in worth a cent, and
Hamlet had to curse his mother under more
drawbacks than Hamlet’s mother has been cussed
under for a long time. One consecutive night of
“ Richard III.” is announced as the close of the
season, and then the Opera House will be aban-
doned once more to darkness and dust, gophers,
rats, and other non-paying tenants. of the like
description.
## # *
Obher Sydney shows stand very much
where they stood previously. Clark’s min-
strels and contortionists are doing their last
nights at the Academy At the Gaiety, Frank
Lincoln still turns on the tap of his joyous
drollery, but the results, so far, are calculated to
make him imagine that the Australian can’t see a
joke unless he is chained up to it for forty days
and forty nights. “Youth,” at Her Majesty’s,
requires to be abolished by Act of Parliament
for blocking the thoroughfare, and it is as
unprofitable to argue against such a success as it
is to hold a lighted cigar to the tail of a boa-con-
strictor, or to strike a match on a lion. Harry
Rickards plays “ Ma in-Law ” at the Haymarket
Music Hall —there is no rest for the mother-
in-law on this side of the grave—and other
poor, miserable sinners are doing their best in
their own weak way to amuse the public in various
directions.
Barry Snllivan, who is said to be dying in
England, was, when in the colonies, extremely
jealous of sharing the applause with any other
performer. At the Princess’s, Meltourne, when
playing with Mr. and Mrs. Robert Heir, he
answered the ‘‘calls” alone on several evenings.
“Bob” Heir was in high dudgeon at his not
taking Mrs. Heir on with him, and one evening
went before the curtain and made his complaint
to the audience. Sullivan immediately came ( on
and made the amende honorable , and every even-
ing afterwards the lady shared the honours with
the tragedian.
*# # *
“ The World against Her,” at Melbourne
Alexandra has carried its moral lesson over
Christinas, and continues to demonstrate the
financial possibilities of a direct appeal to man-
kind’s better half. About 70,000 ladies, or there-
abouts, have already gloated over the spectacle of
Lily Dampier clearing her wifely character frr m
the horrid imputation, which hangs around its in-
herent innocence during a large number of long-
winded acts and blights the persecuted girl’s life
in several strong situations. Alexandra audiences
are mixed in the proportion of three ladies to one
man, the latter being reduced to the shallow
device of sniffing contemptuously while his three
fair friends glare at him, and drop insinuations
touching the disgraceful jealousy of his brutal sex.
For the sake of the big theatre, and more
especially for the sake of Mr. Dampier, everybody
experiences comfort and joy at the success of the
“ ladies’ drama,” which will be played next Satur-
day afternoon for the benefib of the Alfred Hos-
pital. That estimable and badly-charred Institu-
tion is to take the gross receipts.
## # #
Other Melbourne shows are having a large
time. Some new entertainers have brought their
fresh and startling features from America to the
Victorian Hall, where their countenances meet with
general approval in a blackened condition. Large
attendances revel in a vitiated atmosphere of acute
delight at St. George’s, and the Vivians—whom
the thunderbolt of Heaven and the half-brick of
earth are unable to wipe out —have been perpe-
trating “ East Lynne ” at the Hibernian Hall.
They are now following up the crime with “ Col-
leen Bawn.” But enough of such sad memories.
Fain’s long expected “Siege of Sebastopol” has
come upon the city in a blaze of splendour and a
burst of fiery passion. This moving representa-
tion of British valour takes place at the Friendly
Societies’ Gardens. It includes a picture 300 yards
long, in front of which the allied armies dance
hornpipes and waltz across a tight rope previous
bo carrying several Russian fortresses at the
bayonet’s point. Thisentailsanighbly consumption
of 16 tons of gunpowder and a shocking destruction
among Pain’s 400 soldiers, who are mosbly in a
dying state ere they hear the cry of victory o’er
and o’er. Pain’s warriors are chock full of the
pomp and circumstances of war, and they are con-
sidered by great military authorities to make the
finest heaps of slain in the world. Further detail
of a pyrotechnical nature are held over. Th
American baseballers have also aroused a passim
interest in their misdirected skill by the aid o
Mr. Bartholomew, who plays the great nationa
game with a parachute, and produces a genera
impression that baseball is connected with
balloon ascent. For several hours previous to
appearing in a match the American athletes drive
around town in full uniform. Their barouches
and pairs wear a gala aspect, and they only wani
two trombones and a drum to make them into a
travelling menagerie.
## # #
A record of Melbourne shows which erred
and strayed like a lost sheep in the mazes of last
week’s business arrangements probably men-
tioned that “ Faust ” was excellently sung at the
Opera House by Mr. Simonsen’s company.
Signor Buzzi, of the previous Italian combination,
came up from the bowels of the earth to take part
in this work, and played the very devil with much
force and feeling. On Boxing Night and for the
remainder of last week “Satanella” was pro-
duced to dreadful business, but “Un Ballo ” on
Monday probably brought some balm to the
management’s wounded spirit.
** * *
On January 12th, according to present
arrangements, Mr. Simonsen will introduce his
Italian-English operatic venture to a Sydney
audience. There are a dozen fine voices among
the crowd, the orchestra has acquired a certain
amount of polish in Melbourne, and the chorusing
and mounting of operas will necessarily be regu-
lated by financial results. If Sydney wants a good
show the city must signify its desire in a practical
manner, in which case the fresh young Lilian
Tree, the soulful Louise Lablache, the majestic
Aj mo, the dulcet Dimitresco and all the other
people with mellifluous names (not forgetting
Signor Bill Verdi) will sing among surroundings
and etceteras worthy of such clever artistes. They
open proceedings in “ II Travatore.”
** # #
At the Bijou, the whole strength of a com-
pany recently arrived from Sydney is heaping
more indignities upon “The Private Secretary,”
and that poor, downtrodden insect looks more
fearfully hungry than he ever looked before. The
sufferings of the reverend sardine began on Box-
ing Night, and, according to present appearances,
Mr. Thornton will be dodging the fury of his
awful uncle for some weeks to come. “ Private
Secretary” is a fair “swop” for “Hans, the
Boatman.”
## # #
“Dorothy” Is going more than ever at
the Princess’s, and herds of disappointed mortals
are cast violently down the marble staircase every
evening only to sit on the bottom steps and swear
at the soft strains of distant music which mock
their blighted hopes of being there. Cellier’s
opera has sunk deep into the soul of Melbourne,
and the present revival loses little of its old grip
from the substitution of Mrs. Bryer for departed
Alice Barnett,
## # *
J. L. Toole, who was considerably broken
up by the death of his son a few years ago, has
just buried his only surviving child, Miss Florence
Toole. Typhoid took her at Cork, where the
comedian was playing an engagement at the time.
All Toole’s best hopes and interests were centred
on his pretty young daughter. He is naturally
a domestic character (despite a weakness for
Tummy and “fine” company) and never visits
any of his poorer relatives without staying to tea
and asking for winkles. Fashionable actors, as a
rule, are apt to forget the humble winkle of their
early, struggling days.
*» # #
A great-uncle of Frank Lincoln, the
American monologue entertainer, who has come
here with the baseballers, was a missionary to
New Zealand, and made his last mundane appear-
ance as a side dish at a cannibal banquet.
#* # #
The first real opera company In California
hailed from Australia. It was in 1859 that Fred.
Lyster, Rosalie Durand, Georgia Hodson, and
John Gregg sailed from Sydney for ’Frisco, and
planted the lyric drama to the westward of the
Reeky Mountains.
*# # #
It sounds like a romance to hear that
Emily Soldene, with her awesome mouth, is still
alive, and still singing in London.
«* * *
C. P. Williams, late chief clerk In Mel-
bourne Insolvency Court, has taken to theatrical
management. The Alexandra Theatre has been
his first venture. Williams, who, by the way,
wields a vigorous quill, is not a bad amateur actor.
He has played the Duke in “The Merchant of
Venice ’when “Charley” Taylor, the barrister,
took the part of Shylock with great effect.
Williams is nephew of W. H. Archer, formerly
Registrar-General and afterwards Secretary for
Trusts in Victoria.
## # #
At latest dates there was hope that poor
old Barry Sullivan might linger on the land for
some time. But he was still unable to articulate
and will possibly never speak a line of Shakes-
peare more. Let us hope that the veteran will
regain his mental powers sufficiently to be able to
go right through “ Hamlet ” in his mind, a feat
of memory which solaced Macready on his death
bed.
** # #
In one part of the “Private Secratary”
the Rev. Mr. Spalding piteously asks for a ham-
sandwich. A few weeks ago a certain conccctor
of the article in Sydney waited on Mr.
Thornton, and modestly asked him if he would,
Eor a consideration, alter the text so as to run :
“ Will you get me a ham-sandwich from Mr-—’s
shop in street ?” And — do you know —the
Rev. Mr. Spalding said a most awful word when
jhe request was made, and wanted to give the
ram-sandwich man a “ good hard knock.”
Now is the very witching time of Christmas,
Alike on island, continent, and isthmus,
When oldsters yawn and youngsters, on the loose,
Keep h’eating till they nearly cook their goose,
And, after feasting upon /are that’s fowl,
Are apt to finish with a midnight h’owl;
This metre's dry, and frosty is our rime
Of Melbourne Royal and the Pantomime,
“ Sinbad the Sailor. ” It's our practice been
To assail a sin-bad in The Bullyteen ;
The “ leading firm ” have looked at us askance
When, bull-dog like, we mauled their summer
pants;
Not hardy have their annuals been of late,
And want of triumph left the firm irate
(Who sees that point his shaking sides will split—
And if he don’t it matters not one ivhit).
This year unuttered be the usual curse ;
The Royal “Sinbad ” might, no doubt, be worse ;
Without a plot and destitute of reason
That salted sailor rides the festive seas on,
And gale ly weathers storms of loud applause
Which greet effects regardless of their cause.
Caught by the gorgeous cunning of the scene
(Blues, reds, and yellows, dancing on the green)
No patriot bold who loathes Imperial gu"h
Would “ cut the painter ” wielding Brunton’s
brush.
A cheaper show had speedily been killed
By leading lady tuneless and unskilled—
For, in accordance with an old tradition,
A dame unsuited fills the chief position ;
Yet Clara Thompson, void of vim and voice,
Is carried through by Gourlay, Benham, Royce :
There’s joy in hearing Ida Osborne sing ;
One Sophie Harris seems a smart young thing,
And Baby Nicholls booms—an infant wonder
Who’s more than ninety, or a little under :
Fair Florence Harcourt’s image haunts our
slumber—
To be continued in a future number.
CORRESPONPOICE
“A Woman”: Capital punishment is not a
deterrent against poisoning. The woman who is afraid
to ohanoe the gallows would probably not have the nerve
to poison at all, and we presume that you will concede
that the idea of taking human life is abhorrent to women
and to human beings in general. Louisa Collins, if she
poisoned her husbands, did not expect to be found out*
Just as “all men think themselves immortal,” so all
secret murderers think themselves undetectable
“F. 8.”: The Bulletin's opponents regard with dismay
the change which its persistent advooaoy has wrought in
the minds of the rising generation with respect to capital
punishment, and also they cannot shut their eyes to the
fact that it is The Bulletin’s agitation which has brought
about such signs of a coming change in the method of
trying accused persons as is indicated by the action of the
Crown in feeing counsel to plead the case of a condemned
woman. Very shortly an accused man or woman who is
poor will on socialistic principles be given by the Crown
as good c; unsel and as good legal assistance as would be
procurable by the rich ; by-and-bye, too, a condemned
citizen will be able to appeal for his life to a properly-
oonstituted tribunal empowered to review both law and
fact. When these ohanges shall have been accomplished
The Bulletin wiil rejoice, but it will not cease to
point out that capital punishment is useless as a
deterrent, and is merely a relic of barbarism
“ Jonah ” (Belltrees): Vou poetic “Wail” is very like a
whale. If you went on like that when you were in the
fish’s epigastrium, we think the whale had very good
cause to evict you “P.P." (Wentworth); When you
have satisfactorily got over Christmas, please write and
explain....“ Curious ” : We do not know their maiden
names “Bose A. D.” (Bourke): Your poem fulfils
most of the requirements of decent verse, but common •
place rhyming about commonplace thoughts you had in a
commonplace twilight in a commonplace, one-horse town
like Bourke are unacceptable “M.8.G.”: We oaDnof,
without his permission, tell you the name of the author.
That his nom-de-plume and your name should be iden-
tical is a curious coincidence ; but, anyhow, you need
not be ashamed of his verses... “ Trotter Bethune ” : You i
artiole is held over because it will keep. Hope to print
soon.R.M.”: Many thanks. Will use...“ J.W. Keys
Every citizen is presumed to be of sound mind and dis-
cretion unless proof be brought to the contrary
“ J.A.": Sorry to say your “ode” is crude and unmelc-
odious “Leicester”: Very bad “Sans Souoi ” :
Many thanks. Send along the mushroom yarns ; we are
tired of snake stories “H.J.M.”: Many thanks
“A.W.": No woman has ever been hanged in Darling-
hurst gaol, and there is no reoord of a woman having
been hanged in Sydney since 1842 "E. 5.8.”: If the
prerogative of meroy has altogether passed out of the
hands of the Governor, how oomes it that Governor
Carington, purely of his own motion, reprieved two of
the Mount Rennie oonviots although advised by the Exe-
cutive to hang the lot ? It’s mere nonsense to say that
the Governor has not the power of reprieve. It ij the
only real power which he has got “Zumniy”: Your
" humours ” are hopelessly dreary. We really didn't
think there was so little humour in any business
“ Sunshine ” : (1.) She is not his sister. (2 )It is pro-
nounced “ re-shershay.” (3.) The cards are indeed very
amateurish, but with practice and tuition you wiil do
much better work.... “ P.W.C.” :We owe a lot to the
mother country , just as we owe a lot to the pawnbroker.
“Wager”: A lady’s salary, like her age, is strictly
her own affair “ J.F.” (Wentworth): Thanks for your
kind enthusiasm on behalf of “ the Bushman’s Bible ” and
its staff "R.K.” (Melbourne): Good “TS.” (Gee-
lODg): In writing to your mother, address letter care
of Lloyd’s Weekly, London, and mention The Bulletin. ..
"New Zealander’’ (Sydney) writes: “With reference to
the fatal fire at Wentworth House, I think that we should
adopt the N.Z. practice of compelling every boarding
house keeper to provide two or three long, strong ropes on
each floor for the safety of thj inmates.” Yes, but N.Z. is
a Protectionist colony. In Freetrade N.S.W., where so
many men are in a state of desperation through want of
work, the rope idea would convert the boarding-houses
into hot-beds of suicide “ Thos. Roberts ” (Inverell):
Write to Editor, Lloyii s Weekly, London, mentioning
this paper “ A.A.11.” (Camden): Thanks “J.
Walters ” : We don’t think there is much to “ answer ” in
the letter written by your idol, David Buchanan, to the
Herald urging the execution of a miserable woman.
David Buchanan, a barrister of the Supreme Court, ought
to have had the deoency, like other advocates, to keep out
of print on suoh an oooasion ; if he could say nothing in
favour of giving mercy to a woman he need not have
gone out of his way to urge vengeanoe, especially as ho
would no doubt have gladly defended the condaram:? for
a £2O note, or whatever he is accustomed to charge for
such jobs.
“ Prado, the Parisian murderer, met h’s
death with great coolness.— Cable. Parade xical,
this. A guillotined man usually loses his head.
Very few, even among professing Chris-
tians, know what they are celebrating at Chri> t-
mas time. The event on which Chris bmas is
based really occurred about June or Julf. IX4B
years ago, and the only public event <- r , fi-
ance that ever took place on Christina* was
the discovery of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Ib more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And la »
Pure Refreshing Beverage
Bo Careful you obtain Wolfe's.
Messrs. Mokt & Ciiandon are now shipping: to the
Colonies their 1884 Vintage " Dry-linptfrial” Cham-
pagne. This is the produce of their own vineyards of
600 acres of the choicest growths around Epernay. The
" Dry-Imp6rial ” has never been shipped to the oolonies
before. It is very dry. Ask for Moet's *' Dry Imperial ”
at all Wine Merchants
Even body say s— and what everj body say a n ust be (rue
—that Petneli’s Snow-white Patent Rom,or Flour is the
beat in the market.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Perfumery Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition- All Melbourne
is on this Soent.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaoonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea level.
N.F.—Only two hours from Melbourne,
[?]
816 Macquarie-street North, Sj dney, Jan. 2nd, 1889.
Dear Moorabinda, —
“ The course of trus love never did run smooth.” I
am told on excellent authority that Mrs. Collins, the
poisoner whom they are going to hang shortly, hap, since
her condemnation, had addressed to her mora than one
letter containing an offer of marriage, said offer to he
conditional on her getting out of gaol. What venture-
some lovf rs some women have, to be Eure, and how these
men must pride themselves on their digestions ! Poor
wretch ! ehould she ever again marry, which I am much
inclined to doub’t—though she has as good a chance as
lots of women I know —I sincerely trust she will get a
husband with whom milk will agree.
Do you not think it very disgusting that any woman
should be so indecent as to write to the papers urgiDg that
another woman under sentence of death should be killed '!
It is a well-established axiom that every man is very hard
and unrelenting in punishing his own faults when they
exist in others, and'l presume that the principle holds
good also in regard to us women. Ido not say that be-
cause a woman is so indecent as to publicly advocate the
killing of another woman whose fate is in the balance
that she herself would necessarily be a poisoner, but I do
say that it is amongst the ranks of such cold-blooded, un-
sympathetic and renorse'.ess women that, granted tempta.
tion and opportunity, the poisoners will be found.
By the way, lam (o'd that Mrs. Collins, at her last
trial, exhibited daily a sprig of heliotrope, which, in the
language of flowers, indicates "devotion," or “1 turn to
thee.” Wonder how many of the jury were verstd in the
floral tongue ?
The next bishop to shake the colonial dust from eff his
feet will, I hear, be Doctor Daniel Sandfcrd, of Tasmania,
who, having been appointed coadjutor to the Bishop of
Durham, intends returnirg to England shortly', after a
very few years’ residence in the Tight Little Island. This
move was not altogether unexpected by his flook, as Mrs.
Sandford and family (except one daughter) have lived in
England for fome time past in consequence of a strorg
aversion entertained by them for Hobart and its EOciety.
The Bishop himself is a genial, liberal miided man, well
iked in the diocese. A friend of mine who was on the
Bengal when Bishop Moorhoutc arrived at Glenelg on I is
homeward journey, bapp-ted to be standing alongside
“ Manchester” and “ Adelaide” while they were engaged
in earnest conversation. Manchester was saying in his
fat, jolly v«.ice, “One great objection I have to the
bishop’s costume is (he lack of pockets. Fortunately we
wear aprons, c r we should appear very ridiculous with
the heterogeneous mass that ve are compelled to cram
into our treusers pockets ” Bithcp3 are evidently human
even as we are, for the great Manchester consoled himself
with a short black pipe, while D. F. Tasmania is an in-
veterate smoker.
At a ball given at Cooktoven by Governor Douglas, of
Ne v Guinea, Mr. Hely, the Private Secretary, intent on
doing the honours for his chief, asked a very stout lady
known by a noble sobriquet whether he cou’d briDg her
Bom e refreshment. “ Let me get you eome elareteup,”
quoth the gallant aide. " No, thank you,” said the stout
oD e—“ I’ll trouble you for a little claret hin a tumbler.”
C.llapse of Hely.
I hear that Sir Julius Vogel was the only man of note
in N.Z. proof against the fascinations of Mrs. Gordon-
Baillie. And very likely Sir Julius was about the only
man against whose fasoinations Mrs. Baillie was proof.
A London paper tells the following incident about the
Duke of Edinburgh:—"A story of our Royal fiddler
when he was visiting lhe Antipodes. A friend of ours
happened to be suppiog at an hotel in M , after the
opera, when Alfred and his equerry strolled into an ad-
j fining room, the door between the two apartments being
ajar. There was also a very pretty young lady present,
and by-and-hye the lardlord came and whispered to this
charming damssl that the Prince wished for the pleaeure
of an introduction. The lady consented, and went into
the inner room ; but presently there was a sound as of a
soulfle, followed by a resonant slap, and the fair one re-
turned hastily to her former seat. When asked what was
the matter, she said, ‘ lie wanted to kiss-me, and I boxed
his ears for him well!-that ie—of onrse, I mean the
equerry !’” Who was the lady, I wonder?
Beauty and brains are departing. Mr and Mrs. Estie
Jenyns leave Sydney for England by the Ma'siliatbis
Saturday. Among the passengers is Mr. C A. Good-
ebap, who arrived in Sydney as a mere boy and has not
visited England for twoand-tbirty years. By the
Orient last Saturday there departed Mr. Harry
Chambers, a young Sydney pressman, who goes to
England to join his brother Mr. Haddon Chambers, the
clever Australian playwright, whose “ Captain Swift” we
are shortly to see.
A stylish wedding took place at St. Andrew’s, Hobart'
on the 12th inst. when Miss M. A. Hull, daughter of the
late Clerk of the Tasmanian House of Aseembly, was
married to Mr. W. A. Kermode, of “ Mona Vale,” Ross
(one of the finest private residences in Tasmania). The
bride wore cream-satin and moird, and was attended by
ten bridesmaids dressed in white, some relieved with
yellow and others heliotrope. Their bats were anything
but en suite, each “maid” having evidently followed her
own sweet will as to shape and garniture. Contrary to
the usual order of things, the bride on this oooasion was
perfectly composed, while the bridegroom was so nervous
that he actually carried his walking-cane to the altar, but
was relieved of it by his best man before the oeremony
began.
On the last Dight of a bazaar held in a Northern town
rfcently there was to be a dance. The cards had been
printed and everything was in readiness when one of the
lady promoters and another committee-woman (vho hap-
pened to be the leader of the opposition) acoually came to
blows over the proposal that an invite should be sent to
someone obnoxious to the former. The ball consequently
fell through, and there is talk of a scientific display
shortly between the two ladies “under the Marquis of
Queensberry’s rules,” whatever that may mean.
The long-handled parasols were, it appears, speaially
designed for the requirements of the squat woman, who
affects the lank and stalky variety of masher. Your
Sappho has often observed the trouble that a short woman
in a short-handled “gingham” has to get close-enough-
to-be-nice to a tall man, a-.d you will see that the new-
fangled “husband-beater” does not inconvenience its
bearer in this way. I am, as you know, rather on the
small side myself, and I thiok that the man wh-> invented
the En tout cas is a regular old darling.
There must be a dark place in the prison-system
of Queensland, for it has just been discovered that there is
a man in Brisbane Gaol who was “ run in ” 15 months ago
because he refused to marry Louisa Jane Kimmins, who is
now in N.S.W. His name is Keller, and as he had not
the £5OO which the Court fixed as the equivalent of the
damage done to her heart, he was handed over to the
SCENE: DRINKING FOUNTAIN, BRIDGE STREET.
1st BUMMER: “WHY, YOU DON’T MEAN TO SAY YOU’VE COME DOWN TO
THAT, HAVE YOU?”
2nd BUMMER: “WELL, IT LOOKS LIKE IT.”
1st BUMMER: “WELL, BEFORE I’D FALL AS LOW AS THAT, I’D PAWN THE
BLOOMIN’ COAT OFF MY BACK.”
sheriff, and appears to have been practically forgotten till
the other day,
The fair and portly Mrs. Gould, the Melbourne vocalist
(widow of the late Dr. Emery Gould, of Wollongong), has
returned to Victoria, after an ab?ence in Europe of nearly
four years. She has obtained all kinds of diplomas and
certificates, and can write ‘2O (more or less) letters after
her name.
I have as yet seen no word in the papers of the recent
death at Deniliquin of Janet Carroll, who succumbed to
consumption. This promising authoress was a native of
Victoria, and was one of the women that the Australian
democracy can ill afford to lose.
Even during these hot, glaring day s, the Sydney Block,
and wherever else girls most do congregate, is a perfect
blaze, so great is the rage for red dresses. And red
dresses of such ugly bhades—varieties of what used to be
called crushed-strawberry mingled with the brightest and
most aggressive of pinks. As it is now not at all uncom-
mon to see a girl wearing a skirt of red with a jacket of
flaming pink it is a positive relief to turn to the few
pretty, cool-looking white dresses visible. However,
Borne of the paler and subdued pink tints are charming ;
one exceedingly elegant costume I noticed on Saturday
was most tastefully trimmed with creamy lace.
Gowns show a deoided tendency towards simplicity,
even plainness, except for the elaborate smooking which
has now become so general. Any girl who has a little
skill in dressmaking can appear in a fresh gown each week,
if she pleasep, so cheap are lhe lovely summer materials to
be had. If the walking-dris;es if tc-day are not like
Nora Craioa s, “ floating lcoae as mountaia brei zck,” they
certainly “leave every beauty free” enough to the gaze
of the beholder from a contrary reason : they are drawn
so tightly in front as to display the outlines of the figure
with startling distinctness. The full sleeves are quaintly
picturesque, and the hats turned up behind in all sorts of
fantastic shapes are also intended to be quaintly pictur-
esque.
Speaking of hats, the large Leghorn and fancy straw
ones contrast curiously with their rival in popularity, the
gem, or narrow-brimmed article. The former are pro-
fusely tiimmed with ribbons and flowers, some having
lorg streamers behind; the latter, which are of high-
crowned sailor shape, have only a simple band of white
ribbon round the crown. A few bonnets are worn out-
rageously high ; thus, a gorgeously-attired Jewess ap.
peared on Saturday wearing one of exquisite white lace
and flowers quite a foot and a half in height ! Another
maid of Judah wore a mantilla of black lace, lovely
enough to make any woman long to break the tenth com-
mandment. By the way, three most elaborate Jewish
weddings are among the events of the near future in
Sydney.
What sights you do meet on the Sj dney block 1 One
misguided creature turned out the other day in a green
dress, buttercup-tinted hat and bright yellow gloves ;
while an extremely massive lady wore a white muslin of
gauze-like texture, the unlined sleeves whereof revealed
a pair of lobster-coloured arms, shaped like and nearly as
big as bolsters. Another equally well-developed form was
clad in a pink and-white zephyr of a huge checked pattern,
with a white satin waistcoat-front adorned with a large
bunch of gold chain and trinkets ?
Lord Carington having just received from England news
of the death of his aunt, the Baronesr Willoughby
D’Eresby (properly speaking Lady Aveland) wife of Baron
Aveland, absented himself from a number of social func-
tions—did not appear at the races, for instance. The
deceased lady was §0 years of age when she died.
IJread in a Murkan paper that in the etiquette of the
parlour or the ball-room it is quite the fashion to wear
shoe-laces that will not stay lied, in which emergency it
is not only pioper but chic to say : “George, please tie
my ehoe,” or “Mr. Hauteur, won’t you tie my laces again,
and knot them this time, please?" Of course he is de-
lighted as he climbs down on the carpet, a knee at a time,
and makes a little bow-knot warranted to hold just live
minutes.
I told you in my last that the new girl was expected
this week, Well, she came—and talk about Connaught
beauties ! Begins Id Smith called tho morniDg she arrived
with some lovely flowers, and told her to “give them to
M iss E litb, please.” “ O the divila know I know whioh
one is Miss Adith. Is it the tig red headed gyurrl ye
mane?” Just fancy! what a description cf my sister!
But that is not all. On that very wet day Smythe, the
bank-manager, called and enquired if Mrs. Smith
was at home. " Shure she is, where every dacent
person should be sitoh weather ss this "—saying
which she slammed the door in his face. Of course ma
was terribly annoyed with her and said she would attend
the doer herself. Presently another knock and a
pleasant-lookiDg young Irishman confronted us. " Could
you lend me the loan of Bedalia V” “ What did you say ?''
enquired ma. “ Could ye lend me the loan of my sisther
for a whoile—I want to shpake to her.” “You can take
her away altogether to-morrow. We’ve had the loan of
her long enough.” So, thank goodness, farewell to
Bedalia.
Yours affectionately,
FAITHO SMITH.
The average American is a quaint com-
promise between the sentimental and the utili-
tarian. The present mania in the lard of wooden
nutmegs is to have one’s corpse pitserved—the
aspirations of those who can afford it being centred
on rmbalming with “a love o! a mahogany coffin”
as an accessory. In less gilded circles the corpse-
elect dies in the glorious hope < f beiDg salted
dowD, and the tender little voralsentiment, “See
that my grave’s k* pb green,’ has disappeared
b fore a rbjtLtnio v 6 arn entitled “See that my
pickle is kept fresh.”
“ A lion story, with the same delicate
flavour of veracity that makes M. Bidel’s memoirs
so delightful, is of a lion and a lioness who had for
many years dwelt together in one rage, and whose
mutual endearments wtre incessant, demonstra-
tive, and touching. A bachelor lion came to live
next to thsm, ana one day the door between tho
two cages being left open, the lioness slipped
through to visit the bachelor. The betrayed
husband was beside himself with passion ; there
was anguish and hatred in bis face, and it was
plain that his heart was broken. When the
lioness was driven back to her own cage she was
instantly killed by her husband.” There is here
a mighty moral ft r the married woman who drives
to Coogee with the masher in a hired buggy.
At the time Andrews died he and Mrs.
Andrews (Louisa Collins) kept a boarding-house.
Such being the case, it is extremely likely that
Andrews was poisoned by hash. Hash-poisoning
and arsenical-poisoning could not be differentiated
—no, not even by Dr. Neild. We once lived at a
boarding-house for a fortnight and then felt
dreadfully ill ; and as we grew worse day
by day we consulted our medical adviser. He
felt our pulse and looked very grave. Then
he opened our mouth and looked down our
throat. “ Great irritability of the mucous
membrane,” he remarked. “You probably feel
great constant gnawing pain in the epigastrium ? ”
We faintly nodded assent. “Ah! ” he exclaimed,
“ you are being slowly poisoned. How do you
live ?—What do you eat ? ” “We live —at —Mrs.
’s —and—we— eat —hash,” we faintly mur-
mured, feeling ourselves growing weaker and our
life slowly ebbing away. “ Great Heavens ! ” ex-
claimed the medical adviser —“ are you not aware
that twice-cooked meat is deadly poison ? Did
you read in the papers that of eight Maori chiefs
two of them members of Parliament, and all of
them immediately descended from cannibals
whose stomachs were capable of digesting even
raw human teeili and old fried missionaries—did
you not read that six out of those eight Maori
chiefs died not long ago in consequence of eating
hash at a dinner given by an Anglican Archdeacon
at Parnell, Auckland ? Hash corrodes the
stomach, engorges the liver, poisons the blood, and
causes the reason to totter on its throne.” What
ho ! without there, Ludovioo, the Evun Noose
bear unto us that we may hunt up a quack
ad. or a Whitechapel murder report and
refresh cur memory as to the internal
economy of the human animal—“ Yes, hash
weakens the heart-action and predisposes tosyncope
by inducing flatulence and consequent pressure of
the stomach on the pericardium ; it conduces to
fatty degeneration of the heart and liver and kid-
neys, and never fattens any organ which would
not be all the better for being lean ; ib brings
about a morbid craving for stimulants which in
their turn again bring about a morbid craving for
hash on the part of ths degiaded victim, who at
last sinks into a dishonoured ” ——in short, wo re-
spectfully present this aspect of the case to Pre-
mier I’arkes and the N.S.W. Executive.
A New Year's Eve Roveric.
They speak of “ music of the spheres ”
That falls on well-attuned ears,
But shall it e’er man’s triumph bt
To piece earth’s broken minstrelsy,
And sing, amid the storm and strife,
The perfect, tuneful psalm of life ?
Lark-like, at morn with spirits free
We deem the world all melody,
But, panting ’neath the noon day sun,
Faint ere the song is well begun ;
Then spend the evening of our days
Sighing and chanting sadder lays,
As to our purblind eye appears
Far less of smiling than of tears.
One hears life’s diapason roll
And quiver through his trembling soul;
Distraught with doubt and racked with fear,
The thunder only can he hear ;
He knows no song of Bethlehem,
To him life’s all a requiem.
Another smites a lute, and brings
An ecstasy from out it 3 strings,
But finds, ere he can smite again,
The tender strings are snapped in twain ;
So, bastbing to Life’s sombre verge,
His only solace is a dirge.
Should great Olympus ever smile,
And send a favourite to beguile
The few sweet hours that light the gloom
Between the cradle and the tomb,
He’ll mock us with his witching lyre,
And, like a swan, sing and expire,
To leave us in the shadows dim
Mumbling a half-completed hymn.
Perchance then turn we in despair
To swell the discord laden air,
And laugh to scorn the sage who sware
That harmony is everywhere,
Reverberating far and near
Save but to those who will not hear.
Whate’er we miss of Earth’s great song,
Gold-lusting as we push along,
The better, if we catch the sigh
That welleth up from poverty ;
The tenderest chord we then shall know
That flies to Heaven from below ;
For children’s cries and women’s moans
Make up the anthem’s minor tones.
Of all the joys and grit fa and staro»
That Time has wrung from human hearts
(Although we catch but broken strains^.
And warble meaningless refrains),
Somehow, I ween the end will be
A cadence full of harmony.
At least, I did right up till now :
On second thoughts, I ween, somehow,
Although ’tis happy New Year’s Eve,
The whole affair is make believe.
For now I curse the horrid din
Of bands that play the “New Year in,”
And lay my blundering goose quill down,
For all the inspiration’s flown.
The “ music of the spheres ” is not
A fact, but simply Tommy-rot,
I now retract one-half I’ve said,
And wish that German bands wero dead,
Though nob a kindly wish, tbat’s clear,
To send them for the “ glad New Year.”
H. O’D.


JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Ayents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List off Businesses for Sale lssned Dally.
All Lists posted Free on application.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. S& Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
Personal Items.
The new German Emperor has been nick-
named “ Fidgety Bill.”
Mr. Josiah Austin, of Caulfield, Victoria,
left behind him £173,921.
The French army has now only two
marshals—Canrobert and MacMahon.
The late Sir James Martin commenced
writing for the newspapers before he was 18.
Lady Ban dolph Churchill Is the daughter
of a Yankee compositor. Her mother was a milk-
maid.
The ex-Empress Eugenie has given In-
structions that her body is to be cremated afte
death.
The “divine” Essie is not Jenyns, afte
all —Elizabeth Jennings being the correct cog
none en.
On dit, Sir Robert Burdett-Smith
K.C.M.G. The Bulletin suggests “Baron
Hornsby.
Mr. Petter, of the great publishing firm
of Cassell, Pebter and Co , who died the othe
day, left £520,000.
Haddon Chambers, the Australian drama
tist, has made a couple of thousand pounds out o
his successful drama, “ Captain Swift.”
Among the cadets in the Postal Depart
ment of New South Wales (attached to the dead
letter office, perhaps) is one Ninian Melville.
Gladstone was presented with a cameo oi :
himself at Birmingham, and a Tory paper men-
tions this as an evidence that his best friends cut
him.
Captain Riou, “ the gallant, good Riou,’
of historic poetry, commanded a British man o’-
war in Australian waters at the end of last
century.
Mrs. Is-Marriage-a Failure-Mona Caird
has written an article called “ Ideal Marriage ” in
which she advocates absolute liberty in the
married state.
Premier Parkes says he never reads the
Star or The Bulletin. And yet he knows when
the former commits a breach of privilege and the
latter is “personal.”
Sir F. A. Weld, who is likely to be the
next Governor of Mauritius, commenced life as a
sheep-farmer in N.Z., and was subsequently
Premier of that colony.
The ancestors of King Milan, of Servla,
were swineherds, and he has “thrown back” to
them. No, that’s an insult to his progenitors—to
she swine they herded, let us say.
We regret to announce the death, from
typhoid fever, at the early age of 23 years, of Mr.
Curnow, a promising young solicitor, a son of Mr.
W. Curnow, Editor of the S M. Herald.
General Norm&n, the new Governor of
Queensland, is sixth on the active list of generals
in the British army, which gives him the right to
draw pay at the rate of £9 17s fli. per day.
Our dear old friend, Prince Albert Victc*’,
has got the “straight griffin” to be extremely
English in his tastfs, and he therefore objects to
spe»k in Continental languages—German, in par*
ticular.
Judge Mokswonh, of Mtlbourne, aged
about 45 years, had the measles a few we-drs ago
Peter Lalor, late Speaker of tbo Victorian
Assembly, had the sanre complaint a few years
ago for the third time.
The legislative body of N.S.W. i i 184!),
consisted of 3G members. Of these only two now
live, Robert Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke) and Sir
Charles Nicholson, one a lawyer the other a
doctor, and both resident in England.
The Immediate cause of Sir Charles
Warren’s resignation from the London police wai
an article he wrote in a magazine. He should
have known that a man loses his right bo tell the
truth as soon as he becomes a policeman.
Mr. G. W. Newcombe, of the Colonial
Secretary’s Office, Sydney, who has just retired
on pension after 40 years’ service, had during his
term of official life seen twelve different indivi-
duals come and go as Colonial Secretaries, com-
mencing with Macleay and ending with Parkes.
That clever and genial pressman, the Rev.
W. H. O. Smeaton, formerly of the Melbourne
Daily Telegraph, is now editor of the Rock-
hampton Argus (Q.) When Smeaton came
from N.Z. a few years ago, Joe Melvin and
Jack M‘Whir ter undertook to change him from a
parson to a pressman. These two censors held a
conference on each article of apparel worn by the
Rev. W. H. O. S., and unreservedly condemned
them all, from the white choker ana soft hat to
the black pants and vest buttoned up at the side.
Smeaton has been writing novels of late.
Levy, the founder of the London D.T.,
was a manly old fellow, proud of his Hebraic
blood. “I remember that,” recounts a journalist
who knew him well, “ after being introduced to
him, he embarked on a long conversation -1
might almost call it a soliloquy, as it was all about
himself and ‘ the paper ’—and, after awhile, some-
thing fell from me concerning his son’s change of
name upon inheriting the fortune left him by his
uncle, Mr. Lionel Lawson (whose real name was
likewise Levy). I inadvertently addressed the
patriarchal journalist as ‘Mr. Lawson,’ where-
upon he remarked, with a wag of the head and a
knowing smile, ‘No—not Lawson ; Levy. Ted
is Lawson, but I am Levy— old Levy, the Jew !' ”
The late Sir Redmond Barry, Judge of
the Supreme Court of Victoria, who is being
honoured with a statue, was a most dignified man
and withal a humourist. An insolvent, filing his
schedule in forma pauperis, presented the docu-
ment to the Judge for acceptance as was then the
custom. Sir Redmond scanned the paper care-
Eully, and in his usual gorgeous style asked the
applicant what he wanted “To surrender my
estate, your honor ! ” “ Estate ! Estate ! Why
pour assets are nil, you have no estate, sir, to sur-
render.” “What am Ito do, your Honor?” “I
am not here to advise you, sir” (with great
dignity) “ but if I were I should say, buy a shill-
ing razor and set your assets down at a shilling.
The razor might be useful afterwards.” The
razor was purchased, the assets set down at a
shilling, and the surrender of the “ estate ” ac-
cepted.
POLITICAL
POINTS
What has become of the Parkes testi-
monial fund ?
It ia estimated that £7,000,000 worth of
landed property changed hands in N.S.W. last
year.
The leader of the Victorian Opposition is
Bent but not by any means broken, according to
all accounts.
New York branch of the Irish National
League have forwarded £15,000 for the Parnell
Defence Fund.
“You unmitigated grub!” “You igno-
rant rough!” “You low common gut-boy!”
Gems o/N.S. W. Parliamentary oratory.
Mr. Vaughn, M.P., who complains that
he has had a notice on the paper of the N.S.W.
TOM ROBERTS, ARTIST.
Assembly for five years, was a Minister of the
Crown in ’B5. Why didn’t he push his resolution
through then ?
Captain O’Shea, who has gone back on the
Parnellibee, had the reputation of being the
wittiest man in the House of Commons.
The Brisbane Trades Council propose to
start a local paper. The local journals which have
been making trade news a specialty, combine to
denounce the project.
The statue to Dr. John Danmore Lang is
to be placed on the site of the old West Sydney
Hustings, where the Doctor in his palmiesb politi-
cal days launched his heaviest artillery against the
abuses of the time.
The P. M. Gazette says that “ the objec-
tion taken by the Queenslanders to the appoint-
ment of Governor Blake is a notable illustration
of the way in which Coercion acts as a disin-
tegrator of Empire.”
There are 103 members for Ireland in the
Imperial Parliament. Of these no less than (52
Nationalists were returned at the last general
election unopposed, including John Dillon now on
his way to Australia.
A little pleasant exhilaration was lately
created in the British House of Commons by Dr.
Tanner, who rose to state that Chief Secretary
Balfour was a swindler, a thief, a liar, and a
coward. Tanner was suspended.
Mr. Land-syndicate Cocky Burns does not
hold a high opinion of Partner Withers’ judg-
ment. Mr. Burns says Mr. Withers’ “geese are
all swans.” All Burns’ political supporters are
“ geese,” all his commercial ones are “ swans.”
The Argus, always unhappy in its similes,
says that “ the use of strong language in the
Assembly is liko the habit of swearing at bullocks
—natural bub meaningless.” There is nothing
meaningloss about the habit of cussing an M.L.A.
The N.Z. Property Tax Department draws
the line sharply. Ireland Brothers, a leading tan-
nery firm, at the eleventh hour paid their share
of the tax, which amounted to a good sum, hut
they inadvertently omitted, in filling up the
cheque, to include a certain 19s. 6d. Next
morning, first thing, came a sharp note by post
demanding the 19s. fid. and with interest added,
Is. lid.
The S.M. Herald's championship of the
Burns-Wibhers-Smit>h-Sutherland-Holb, &c, crowd
can hardly be regarded as altogether disinterested,
since one of the leading authorities of the paper is
or has been largely interested in the ground im-
proved at the public expense.
With the bursb-up of the Melbourne land-
boom little James Mirams made a temporary dis-
appearance from parliamentary life. But ib is
impossible to crush the spirit of a very little man,
and the chances are that the big financier will bob
up serenely in the next Assembly, bringing his
umbrella with him.
Is that Melbourne man of Sydney tram-
way syndicate disclosures notoriety identical with
the Victorian M L A. who “ went bung” for fid.
in the £ some three years ago ? If so, we presume
that he has become a capitalist in the meantime
and we sincerely trust that his former creditors
have received the remaining 97| per cent, of their
old accounts.
An hon. lunatic in the British House of
Commons—which his name was Gorst —rose the
other day to state that when in Melbourne “he
had seen a man with his hod of bricks”—not a hod
of whisky, mark you, bub a hod of bricks—“on
his shoulders lay them down and take his place in
the Legislative Assembly.” We want to see that
man. Where are his bricks ?
Glads 1 -one has written an article for an
American paper on the English-speaking race.
He says that 100 years ago 15,000,000 spoke
English, 105,000,000 are speaking ib now, and in
128 years more 840,000,000 will speak ib. The
pity of ib is that 700,000,000 Americans will speak
it through their noses, and 40,000,000 Britishers
will misuse the harmless, necessary “h.” Pure
English, however, will be spoken by 100,000,000
Australians.
The Hon. “Billy” Swanson, M.L.C., of
N.Z., was fined the other day at Auckland for fight-
ing in the street. Swanson is a rough old Scotch
carpenter of strong radical tendencies, and when a
gentleman named Gonnop said as how Billy didn’t
earn the £2OO a year honorarium given to him for
his legislative services, the irate lawmaker “gave
him one-two on the boko ” and *■' erected a syna-
gogue on his bugle” with a tradesman-like alacrity
that would have done credit bo Mister Slavin.
Here is one of tho silly little things the
cable did not tell us. Early in November a
curious and nob unimportant discovery was made
with regard bo the forged letter-which the London
Times has been passing olf on a confiding publio
as a genuine article. The lobter was enlarged
photographically for magic-lantern purposes,
when it was discovered that the pen stopped at
least 20 times in forming the characters. It was
further discovered that, in the case of genuine
letters, Parnell’s pen travelled up and down with*
out stopping.
Umbandine, an unclothed black gentleman
who wears the hide crown of Swazieland (South
Africa), is at present in search of an Attorney-
General. There is no Parliament in Swazieland
and no written code of laws, but Umbandine has
ascertained that most white potentates have a
legal adviser and he thinks that there is a good
opening for one in his native land. Attached to
the billet is a tmall salary payable in b ills and
cows, and the official is to have the run of the
royal larder, the one stipulation being that the
appointee must be able to “ talk plenty and talk
big—very big—lingo ” We respectfully recom-
mend M‘Elhone for the job.
Sir James Macintosh wrote from Bombay
in 1807, thus : “If something of this sort be
not done (i.e., if transportation be not regulated)
I venture to predict that Botany Bay, which must,
in spibe of fate, speedily grow strong and
populous, "will in 50 years become the greatest
nuisance on the face of the earth —an unmixed
community of ruffians, who will shake off the
yoke of England, and, placed at a distance which
makes them inaccessible to conquest, will become
a republic of pirates, the most formidable thab
ever roamed the seas. England, in rearing such a
community, is preparing not only conquerors for
India but enemies to herself and all mankind.”
It was reported in the Sydney morning
papers, some days ago, that Bishop Barry, in the
course of a Cathedral discourse had remarked
that: “If Socialism simply meant a change of
the social system by the union of labour, and
the instruments and opportunities of labour,
rent and capital, under one common rule and in-
terest, it was clear that it might well command a
hearing more than respectful.” On the same day
Pastor Jefferis asserted that: “Socialism might?
attain its ultimate aims in a constitutional way.”'
Socialism must be coming into popularity, when
two respectable, intelligent clergymen advocate
it, or at least do not denounce it, from the pulpit.
What will the usual drawling, watery-headed
parson say to. this, whose sole argument against
sccial reform is—“ Well, you see, as my governor
says, only those beggars go in for these things
who have nothing to lose.”
If the cablegram speaks truly, which
states that Henry George declared from a London
platform thab he approved of the execution of the
Chicago Anarchists, because “they were mur-
derers,” then the term “corkscrew - reformer,”
applied to him by an American Socialist, is nob
an inapt one. Nob only are the works of George
written in such a sympathetic spirit that one
would imagine that he warmly disapproved of the
taking of human life under any circumstances,
but he actually championed’ the 'cause of these
alleged murderers at the initiation of the struggle
for their release. His change of front can only be
accounted for on the ground that prosperity and
flattery have spoiled him as they, have many a
treater man. Those who have read unbiassed
accounts of the Chicago police-riot will be aware
that these men were hanged because of their
opinions, because of alleged (reasonable con-
spiracy, nob' because they directly or indirectly
took human life.
S-me one ia P«»ria has ralaed tho qaarber-
of a century-old tradition that the ex-Empress
Eugenie was not the mother of the Prince Im-
perial. Before Mile, de Montijo became Empress
of the French she was much admired by the Duke
d’Ossuma, who, however, refrained from propos-
ing to her on the express ground that “his con-
science forbade him to wed a woman who, it was
well-known, would never be a mother.” The
Duke’s allusion was to an accident which occurred
to the future Empress while bathing in stormy
weather. She had been thrown violently against
a breakwater, was dangerously ill in consequence,
and the doctors who attended her were of the
opinion that the shock to her system would debar
her from the privilege of maternity. Not even
the birth of the Prince could shake those convic-
tions, and several reasons were alleged to prove
that the circumstance did not materially alter the
case—the time which elapsed between the mar-
riage of the Empress and the announcement that
an heir was expected; the cropping up of the
fashion of paniers and crinolines, compared to the
old vertugadins of the court of Louis the Fif-
teenth, then called cache-cnfants; the summoning
of twelve wet-nurses, with their infants, from
England, secreting them for several days and
nights in the Tuileries without other communica-
tion, and the summary despatching of them,
save one, as soon as the declaration of the
birth of the Prince was made; the sex of the
child, who, it was foretold, would ever prove the
only one.
THE NEW CONQUEST.
That History repeats itself over and o’er
Is an axiom that’s true to the loiter,
Old England was harried by Normans of yore,
And Australia is faring no better.
Even Ireland was preyed on by Saxons and Danes,
Who ruined both Murphy and Gorman :
How will Queensland get on when her Govern-
ment reins
Are gripped in the hand of a Norman ?
Here Is another proof of the “continued
prosperity of the colony.” A few days ago the
following notice was posted up in the Sydney
High School“ The pupils are informed that on
Monday next each one will be required bo bring a
stamped and addressed envelope, that a copy of
the report may be sent to the parents, as no funds
are available for that purpose.” For a High
School, this is about the lowest depth of meanness
that even a Hitidoo tea-pedlar could bring it
down to.
GLADSTONE.
Above the crowd he stands, a looming figure—
An aged oak, yet sound and gr«ea of leaf,
That mocks decay to pr< y upon its vigour—
“The forum’s champion and the people’s chief.”
The potent tongue that weaves a spell entrancing,
The master presence, witching fOol and sage ;
The forceful will, the e e of magic glancing,
The lusty mind and frame of virile age.
lie shall prevail. Nor Tory power,shall stay him,
N r Facti m’s foil that feads a dubious might
I hall stint the fullness of the praise we pay him,
As hoary champion in the van of Right.
As some white swan, with golden beam upon her,
Serenely gliding o’er the mirrored wave,
So the rich sunset glo w of Fame with Honour
Shall crown his way of gliry to the grave.
GAMBUSINO.
Tasmania, 22ad Dec., 1888.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, JANUARY 5, 1889.
Not to be taken down by the “Clown and Gumtree Jemel,” we proceed to give Portraits of
Soaacie of tlie ZESCigpli.-Ijig'iaLts of “ Tlx© ITewspapex ma-nt. ’


1. — ARRY J. SNIGGERSPOKE, the Office Boy.
2. —Mr. P. SWOGGERTON LONGS HOT, Sporting Editor.
3. —Mrs. AXMINSTER JANE HICKEY, as scrubs cut.
4. -Miss SAPPHO SMITH, Fashion Gossip, etc.
5. -Mr. SWAGGERTON DOCKER, Fighting Editor.
6. —Rev. BELIAL BANGS GUDGEON, Chaplain.
7. — Mr. TENNYSON P. LARIAT, Born Poet (our only
surviving one).
8. —Mr. GOTTAKOFFSKI TUMSK, Assistant Anarchist.
9. —Sig. ALERTO HENRICO WALKERINI, Captain of the
Night Watch.
10. -Ap-THOMAS, the Harmless Necessary Office Cat and
Mews-ical Critic.
11. —Mr. RAGALETTO T. THLIMMOUTH, Rag-Broier, who
takes over all our waste-paper.
12. -Mr. IKE CHUMP, Machine-Oil Caterer.
13. -CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER AND OFFICIAL
LIQUIDATOR.
14. —Mr. T. OCTOPUS GLUE, the Office Bore.
15. -Mr. M. TOOFERTUPPENS KREEP, our Official Under
taker.
16. —Mr. CHOWLEY MONTROSE GRUMBLETHUMP (alias “The
Belluses”), Chief Anarchist.
17. -Mr. W. BISMUTH KISSAM, Head Masher (only we wish
he would stop where our artist put him)
18. -(H IEF ENGINEER OF THE CARTOON MACHINE..
19. -BOSS EDITOR, Who (modest man that he is) requeued
the artist to put the Office-boy in the place in-
tended for him.
There’s a lot more of us, only —space is valuable.


gWKKT BOROWIA, the New Perfume. Mann
factored from th Wwt Australian “ Boronia
Meffist4ff*ia," Bold Bverywhere. Price. Bs. Bd ,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure jrou get the genuine.
FRANOIB LONQMORB. 188 Bonrke-st.. Bast,
WMOPiIH.
Thu 1884 Vintage is one of the best of this century
Moct and Chandon are now shipping their “ Finest Extra
Quality ” Champagne of that year (with 1884 branded on
oork and label), styled " Dry-Imperial.” It is very dry,
and is the produce of their own vineyard of 2600 acres of
the best growths In Franoe. Of all Wine Merchants.
High Abt Photography. --For artistic posing
and effective lighting oombteing Boftnesa with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CH ARLE MONT
& GO., Koyal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Bxoellenoy Lord Oarlngton
h By Appointment."
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1858.
THE LEADING HOUSE
roB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Speolal attention 1b called to the followln
Exceptionally Flrat-claßß
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-prloed Plano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, whloh cannot be ex
oelled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
oost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-oalled
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work>
manßhip and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY FART OE
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME PAYMENT BYBTEM.
W- H. PAI IHfi ft BO- Ml
356 GEORGE STREET, two doora from P.O.
Society
Bott[?]
[?]
The rank and perfume of the Mongolian
section of Port Darwin (N.T.) sowciety—the
Ohowciety, in fact—gave Quong Tart, the Sydney
boss Chinaman, a grand reception when he was
passing through the Sheol-like capital of Equa-
torial Australia. The radiant light of 27 compo-
site candles fell on fair saffron women and brave
saffron men, and the centre of attraction, of
course, wa3 Quong himself, whose health was
drank in bumpers of something with a polysyl-
labic name and a dreadful smell. The toast of
the Emperor of China and the Queen of England
was then honoured, but when the proposer alluded
to the possibility of a matrimonial alliance be-
tween a scion of the Tartar dynasty and the
House of Guelph there were low “ Ah-ki-la’s ” of
dissent and derision Quong made a diplomatic
little speech regarding his mission to China, and
exhibited his Highland costume to his astonished
fellow-countrymen, who, of course, there and
then insisted upon him dancing the Highland
fling. Quong had subsequently to promise that
on his return he would form, at Port Darwin, a
branch of the Highland Society of N.S.W.
•
Primate Barry has been liberally driven
out of his See by the Sydney Low Churchmen,
headed by one cr two commonplace persons utterly
incapable of appreciating his high mental calibre.
* *
Swell smoke concerta are becoming very
popular in London. Good music, and good
tobacco ascend to heaven entwined in perfect
harmony, glees and glee abound, tenor singing
and tea, contralto and chocolate or coffee, bass
and Bass go down well in company, While a
mellow baribone adds bouquet to a buittper of
Burgundy, and the warblings of a soprano blend
deliciously with sillery and sandwiches. There’s
money in it in Sydney. Picture it ! Open air,
moonlight, marble- topped tables, grassy lawn,
waitresses tripping round with trays, and smiles,
platform, band, fountains, nightingale-like notes,
smoke curling gently through the cool air, a big
drink at your elbow, and for a back-ground a
beautiful bay. Isn't it irresistible ? Oh, there’s
money in it.
* * «
At a recent examination for the solicitors’
11 Pinal ” one of the examiners lifted up his voice
and said : “If the gentleman who is copying from
his ntighboul- will leave the room no notice will
be taken of the matter.” Then five embryo Solons
hastily aroie and walked hurriedly to the door.
• * •
Oat of 1598 Christmas odes alleged to
have been forwarded to the editor of the Clown
and Gumtreb Jkrnel for competition in the £25
prize distribution, only 14 have been adjudged
worthy of publication. Lookirig at the quality of
the accepted cont*ibutims, the 1584 rejected
“pjems” must, indeed, have been hideous pro-
ductions. Evidently our best verße writers do not
ewe to c unpete under such conditions, or else
Pegasus is not to be hired for tea shillings a line.
• •
Man’s honour wears ar.aour and carries a
mace—woman’s honour has only sofa breeds and
perfumes. At the theatre, woman has very little
beyond those things honour.
• *
The new Emperor William is so antl-
Erench that he has forsworn champagne. This
belittles him considerably in the eyes of The Bul-
letin. Were we a Prussian king we would drink
champagne—aye, even if the country which grew
it had to be conquered and made German. Where
is the fun of being a fizzless despot! As well be
a diamondless pawnbroker or a frockless woman
as a monarch sans Moet and Chandon.
• •
Mr. Joseph Clarke, brother to the Bart,
opposed the granting of another hotel license in
Armadale (Melbourne). Under cross examination
Joseph admitted that he liked a good glass of wine
himself, and the court immediately broke into a
loud smile. We are authorised to mention that
Bacchus was much amused at this little incident.
* * •
The Church Emigration Society of London
are shipping specially-selected girls cf superior
morality and religious training to Australia.
They come under the care of experienced matrons.
We hope the matrons are very experienced,
because the religious training of young girls
doesn’t go for much on an emigrant ship. Those
officers have such winning ways and dangerous
uniforms.
* * *
Out of 18 typhoid cases reported to the
Mellourne Central Board of Health the other
week, eight were fatal Out of 1C diphtheria cases
only five lived to tell the tale. If these figures
fairly indicate what may happen to a man in Vic-
toria, it is about time that the medical faculty of
that thriving colony went for a trip to Europe
and gave their patients a look in.
# - •
A Victorian Baptist fund of £25,292
(raised at the instigation of a well-known “un-
known donor,” who undertakes to add a cool
£25,000 thereto) has been subscribed within the
last two years. The total expenses debited to the
fund—including travelling, printing, postage,
stationery, &c ,—only amount to £243. This is
a lesson in religious economy, showing how pious
zeal can, on occasion, be tempered by honesty and
strict attention to petty details. Oood business !
• * •
Melbourne sassiety—denied the pleasur-
able excitement of “slumming” for want of any
slums worth mentioning—is expending its per-
fumed philanthropy upon the local newsboys. As
things are going at present, any Melbourne father
Who is anxious td give his boys a good start in
life had better send them dut with the ’EralD.
The rather opulent urchins who sell ’orrible
murders at a penny each ate the fashionable
objeCbs of hysterical charity. They appear td be
clothed, fed, educated, and amused by public
subscription, and from time to time Governor
Loch comes forward to hear bhem sing Comic songs
of a harmless character. Rub sassiety does no-
thing in particular for those broken-down adults
whose melancholy fate it is to hawk the morning
Argus. This is cruel and unaccountable.
• * •
There haa been bat one woman hanged in
Victoria, aud she would not have been execubed
but for the fact that the murdered man was her
husband, and two men—one her paramour, the
other an African black—were implicated in the
crime. Sir Charles Darling said that under the
circumstances they dll had to go. And so they
went.
• • •
A new way of putting it. From a New
Zealand contemporary
Advertise. —If you get married and are ndt ashamed
that you have been and went and gone and done it,
acquaint your friends of yoilr happiness by haviiig full
particulars published under the heading of Marriages in
the OpOtiki Hußalil.
Just so ! And if you have been born and aren’t
ashamed of it, the OPOtikl; Herald offers a
favourable opportunity for mentioning the fact.
Also if you have died and don’t mind the public
becoming aware of it, another first-rate chance for
advertising in the Opotikl HkraLd looms up in
front of you. In fact there is hardly any social
crisis in which you can’t adverbise in the Opotlki
HkUalu if you feel that way, and there is no
stage of human progress at which that paper
won’t be ready bo insert a libtle notice at current
rates. This free puff is born of a feeling of sincere
sympathy for a struggling contemporary. We
have been there ourselves in the stormy days of
the past, and we know what it is to watch the
gradual decline of Jenkins’ baby and calculate on
the half-crown obituary which is likely to ensue
i sVoice5 Voice of
j gU*?deif
Ibextr® Cpr^plaiiJ?
a >614 npafe,
c ] fpust ty&Ctj? agaii? - *
when it peters out, and then to find the infant
return to a disgusting state of health and grow up
after all.
• • •
Here is a little poem about Mr. M‘Vtcker,
of Melbourne, who was strolling along the banks
of the Yarra the other day, when who should he
see floating about in the water but his dead
brother ! It was a great blow for Mac , and his
grief has been intensified by Coroner Youl s re-
fusal to vote him the 10s. “ which it is customary
to pay to any person giving information as to the
finding of a dead body.” A little music, please
An Albius writer starts his weekly sermon
in this style ‘ 1 should like,’ said Sir Henry
Loch, on a recent occasion, ‘to see large areas
permanently reserved as people’s parks.’ How
singularly Was his Excellency in accord with most
other men who have taken high and broad and
iiiipartial views of Australian matters during their
period of governorship, or administration, or
other active life.” What an emetic !
• • •
A far Northern preasman, who has had a
spree every three months or so, has written a tem-
perance-bale which he is about to publish. The
author knows at all events what he is talking
about. lie has been there.
We acknowledge with thanks the receipt of
a copy of the Salvation Army Almanac for 1889.
We notice that the Salvation authorities are very
particular in giving at the head of each month all
particulars concerning the full moon.
* * *
On Christmas morning, at St. Mary’s
Cathedral, Sydney, Mr. John T. Toohey, the
well-known brewer, was invested by Cardinal
Moran, just arrived from Rome, with the Knight
dommandership of the Order of St. Gregory.
The Revd. Gonsalvo Kavanagh, O.P. (which
doesn’t mean over-proof), was not present. The
Rev. Gonsalvo is the priest who not long ago de-
clared in the same Cathedral that he believed even
a murderer would have a better chance of going to
heaven than a brewer or a publican. Knight
Commander Toohey will have to be passed in,
however, or there will be a nice old turn-up be-
tween St. Gregory and St. Peter.
* * *
The carriage out of which Lady Mary
Fitzroy and Lieutenant Masters, A.D.C., were
thrown and killed at Parramatta in 1855, is still
doing duty as a hackney in Sydney streets.
• * •
The tolerably old nobility having either
“ gone broke ” or got tired of entertaining
the Prince of Wales, the coming K. has now
to fall back on rich Australians who have for-
sworn their country, and on ennobled brewers, for
adulation and entertainment.
It la now the fashion for a damsel to give
her lover a few drops of her blood on a cambric
handkerchief as a token. In Australia, so far, it
has been the girl’s old man who has been bled.
» *
The human chimpanzee in England Is
called “ the masher ” ; in America, “ the dude ” ;
in Vienna, “the gigerl”: and in Paris, the
copurchic.” The ethics of gigerlhood are very
precise. A Hi-stone man may be a masher or a
dude, but a gigerl must not exceed 7 stone, and
must look delicate and exhausted. He must
shake hands feebly, offering the last two fingers of
the hand. # #
A distinguished visitor at present in Mel-
bourne has made a remarkable discovery. He
says our sdrvanb-girls are forward and don’t know
how bo keep their places. Were he to go to the
servants many of them would tell him that their
places are not worth keeping.
* • *
A Melican man has been jugged for four
years for marrying 32 wivo3. Yes, marriage Is a
failure.
* * *
The Bari of Kintore, who succeeds
Wobinson the Troubadour as Governor of South
Australia, comes of pious stock. The late Earl
had a weakness for expounding the Scriptures in
dreary style at the Agricultural Hall, London,
and other public buildings. If this one suffers
from the complaint he ought bo become a great
favourite in Adelaide, where a Governor who will
stick up “Let us prey” ever the viceregal
mantelpiece, is a long-felt want. Wobinson, ac-
cording to all accounts, is not quite as prayerful
as he looks. No—“ not by a whole jug full.”
« * •
Amongsib the passengers by the Oroya at
Albany are Lord and Lady Abingbon and daugh-
ter and Hon. A. P. AUsopp, M.P.—all probably
consigned to the hospitable care of Lord Oar*
ingbon, “ who is spending £15,000 a year in excess
of his official salary.” What appetites the no-
bility must hatfe !
t t *
Actor Kyrle Belle W, well known in Aus-
tralia some years ago, has been getting himself
disliked in America. It appears that he entered
a swell club and yelled to a messenger “ Take this
letter to Misß , and see that you pive it to her
alone.” The Murkans present declared this con-
duct caddish, as it “implied an intimacy with a
laiy of high social position and unblemished
character,” and the upshot of it was that Curl was
told that he wasn’t wanted at that elub any moah,
• - *
Lady Willoughby D’Eresby, the news of
whose death prevented Lord Carington from
visiting Randwick Racecourse the other day,
leaves 26,000 acreß in Lincolnshire, 77,000 acres in
Perthshire, and 31,000 acres in North Wales. Her
son, Lord Aveland, is now the 21st Baron
Willoughby D’Eresby. Her brother was satirised
some years ago by the late Grenville Murray in
the “Queen’s Messenger” ns “Chilperic Loos
Fysshe, Lord Scamp-callous.” The news of her
ladyship’s demise was apparently not cabled out,
"Various causes are assigned for the pre-
ference exhibited by English noblertien for “ I'd
belle Americdine,” but perhaps the real reason of
this sympathetic accord is that the girls of Eng-
land are too woefully slow and prudish—too inno-
cent, in fact—for a set of men who, from the time
they leave college until the period when a thinning
of the hair on the top warns them that the time
has come for matrimony, have been associated
with the smart Phrynes and Daises of the ballet.
The American young lady, unlike her English
cousin, has a free way about her, and talks about
things which were imagined only, and then biush-
ingly, bv her grandmothf rs. She tells shocking
tales, and learn°, Heaven only knows where,
those rattling good, but fearfully loud, tales which
young men, and old om s, too, exchange at their
clubi. “La belle Americaint," when she hears
something “ real good,” rushes madly off to her
female alter ego and declares that she is the bearer
of something magnificent. Is it naughty?
Naughty ! too naughty for anything ! “ Then go
on and tell it, dear,” i ays ihe alter ego, “ but first
let me put the dog out of the room.” So averreth
an English writer.
* * *
Mrs. Sb. Jones: “ What is it this time,
Edwards?’ Edwards: “Mrs. Kerr-Bristow’s
card, ma’am.” Mrs. St. Jones: “Did she leave
any message?” Edwards: “Yes, ma’am; she
said as how she was always finding you out.”
Mrs. St. Jones : “ I hope you replied gracefully,
Edwards?” Edwards: “Yes, ma’am; I said as
how I wasn’t aware that you’d done anything to
be ashamed of, ma’am.”
There were two brothers named M'Vicker,
The one was dead, the other quicker ;
When, strange to say, the latter found
The former in the Yarra, drowned.
He thought—“ This is a shocking job,
But, luckily, it’s worth ten bob.
“The price,” considered Mac , the quick ’un,
“ Of any body's ‘half a thick ’un,’
And, though this corpse may be my brother,
He’s just the same as any other—
It doesn’t make a bit of dif.,
Provided that he’s cold and stiff.”
When Mac. put in his little claim,
The Crowner murmured, “ Fie ! for shame !
And shillings ten declined to pay
To one who fished his brother h clay
From out the Yarra’s murky tide.
Mac’s sorry, now, that brother died.
But in a better, brighter sphere
He'll get reward denied him here.
An angel fair, he’ll fly around
When brother Billy (who was drowned)
Explains to Peter, up above,
“ He brought my corpse ashore for love.
tr Nenry Loch, upon our knees
e thank you for such views as the3e,
Quite singularly in accord
With other fellows’, praise the Lord !
For had you made a few remarks
Condemning schemes for people’s parks,
Your views had not been broad and high,
Nor yet impartial, by-the-bye.
What gratitude that Gov. deserves
Who’d like to see some large reserves !
Great Scott! we never did suppose
You could express ideas like those.
Twinkle, little star,
Etow very good and kind you are !
Your every view, so broad and high,
Is like a diamond in the sky.
What is the reason of casting rice
In the face of a wedded twain ?
Is it a hint that the marriage state
Goebh Often against the grain ?
What is the reason of casting shoes
Or slippers ? It cannot be this :
Their friends would tell the deluded pair
That marriage is slippery bliss.
Fxchange


„ ion town has been laid out by Mr. Surveyor Stephen with due regard for mating the most of the natural beauties of the place, but while doing so, every attention has been
feoveiei o nt • - settlement ( f what before long must be a thriving Township, in anticipation of the l'ne of railway that is surveyed through the property. Besides
given to the _ , on foot by the enterprising firm of Ciiaffey Brothers, to form an Irrigation Colony, completely surrounding Sovereigntown.
winch there ■ ghs num bcred The streets are all 66ft. wide, and special sites have been reserved for a Town Hall, Market Hal', Masonic Hall, Good Templars’ Hall, Oddfellows’
surveyed, peggea a Hal j and p u bli c Baths. There is already a Public School, and Sites have also been reserved for each Denomination of Church. Of course, at the price
Hall, Library ana < ® . c ’g- e red it must be perfectly clear to the public that it would be utterly impossible for the Auctioneers to take persons indiscriminately over the estate,
tor wincli tins props y * willing to take one person who may be representing others, v;ho can be appointed to inspect on their behalf, and in the event of such inspector,
either or Tor those he represents, purchasing Five Lots, his railway fare will be refunded by the Auctioneers.
n TW .„ _ TTll ij ko niost properties placed in the market, this is cleared, and presents a park-like appearance, pleasing to the eye, and of immense advantage to the settler, as in
instances the expense of clearing land is actually more than the cost of purchasing. This being obviated, all the settler has to do is to start building his house at once.
Tm-u.—The title to the property is a Certificate under the Real Property Act, or what is more universally known as Torrens Title.
Persons desiring to secure one or more of these Township Lots for themselves or their children, can call at the office of the Auctioneers, BOYD
)S given im i,nwu.u. , * thrown away on horse-racing or sweeps, for which nothing can be shown, whereas with Sovereigntown, a Broehold Building Site, in
'T"b' , XS3 W iownship? for a simple £1 can be absolutely secured. Your child has a nice little nest egg ; a start in life for the boy ; a wedding dowry for the
which must evemuanyj > ™.. rs. Such an opportunity as this ia not likely to occur again, therefore call or send at once for a sovs. worth of Sovereigntown. Further
trirl • or may be a home for your declining years
information can be obtained from the Auctioneers,
BOYD & KING, 96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WOTNGIEREVO.
CHRISTMAS TIDE.
OF all seasons of the year Christmas is one that induces a feeling of generosity
and goodfellowship, more especially is it a time when all men open their
hearts and endeavour to please those fcr whom personal connection or kinship render
it incumbent upon them to present a tribute of their love, affection and esteem.
At such a time is it that parents like to present to their offspring some-
thing that may benefit and interest them.
The age in which we live at such an express speed imbues the minds of even our youngest off-
spring with ideas that years ego would have been thought madne?s. In fact, “ Presents of Toys,” that
in our youthful days would have interested us at 10, would not now be looked at by our children of 5.
This rapid progression requires something more advanced than, the ordinary Christmas present, and
in terms of contradiction we may say that now Boys are Men before Men were Boys of 30 years ago.
It has occurred to the owner of the delightfully situated tract of land, now appropriately named
SOVEREIGNTOWN, in the interest of which this notice is published, that if the price of blocks of
good land were brought within the reach of all classes, thousands of persons of foresight and
frugality would embrace the opportunity of becoming freeholders, and instead of wasting pounds in the
purcha c e of toys and useless articles that amuse for the hour a d are then thrown away and useless, they
would seek to acquire for themselves and their children a tangible substance ia the shape of Ereehold
Property. A celebrated American speculator once said, “ Had I invested the money I have lost in
mining speculations, and otherwise fooled away, in Freehold Land, I should to day be the richest man
in America.” The object then of this notice is to induce parents who have the interest of their children at heart, and friends
who wish for the future welfare of their proteges t'* make an Investment of the trifling sum of ONE POUND, for which amount
they secure absolutely a BLOCK of FBEEHOLD LAND in SOVEREIGNTOWN, which must eventually become a thriving centre,
and certainly Buildmg Sites in the Township form a Christmas, New Year’s or Birthday Present, worth giving to the youngsters.
Fancy a Building Site, 20 x 100, in the very heart
of Sovereigntown for One
vested in a Block of Land
not eat anything, there
It is absolutely yours or
will shortly become very
Bear in mind the
£l, on payment of whe h
fer under Torrens Act is
and can at any tinrn be
Titles Office in the name
daughter, or friend.
It may perhaps be
details of tie nature of
town, or as some w.\g
Town,” is situate in the
fully located district of
Great Southern andWes-
frorn that extensive Go-
PENRITH on the Main
tern Ilailroad of New
men who have travelled
this district, exclaim —
of Australia.” Charm-
fertile meadows greet
Starting from Byd-
train to Penrith, which
the Main Great Western
VIEW OF CHURCH AND PARSONAGE FROM SOVEREIGNTOWN.
Sovereign. A Pound in-
can not run away, does
is no Interest to pay.
your child s property, and
valuable.
total cost of the land is
a Memorandum of Trans-
handed to the purchaser,
Registered at the Lands’
of yourself, your son,
as well to enter into some
the property. Sovereign-
termed it “Quid Pro Quo
salubrious and delight-
Mulgoa, (n the Main
tern Road, t even miles
vernment Depot Centre,
Trunk Li in of the Wes-
South Wales. English-
the world over, on seeing
“ Surely this is the Kent
ing, undulating tracts of
the eye cn every hand.
ney the traveller takes
is thirty-four miles <n
Railway, and is noted
for its extensive Government works, its prosperous and busy town, and its extensive surroundings, not only of agriculture, but of the
aristocratic mansions of Sydney’s monied population. Referring.to an official “ Railway Guide,” published by the Government in 1886,
we find that Penrith is described “ as surrounded by broad pasture lands and alluvial plains, of great extent and singular fertility,
bounded westerly by the Nepean River. The population in 1881 was about 9000, but has since nearly doubled. It has 45 miles of
streets and lanes. The course of the river runs parallel to the town, and is crossed by a boldly designed and admirably constructed
bridge* supported by four huge piers of solid masonry ; altogether it is one of the finest works of the kind in the colony, and is worth
o-oiim to see The views are unrivalled. The basin in the river is an immense Natural Bath, the depth of which has never yet been
ascertained ’ It would be difficult to conceive scenery more beautiful. The celebrated Blue Mountains close in upon the river, while
the latter winds around all the points and corners, as though loath to leave places so pleasant. The place of places adjacent to Penrith,
is Mulgoa • here we find a district of astonishing fertility, settled on by industrious agriculturists, all thriving and prosperous.


A RADICAL REFORM.
e, /"VH! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurc
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yel
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set, aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “ washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
ahxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality' the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “ Steam Washers, ’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“boiling” washer, and the clothes--are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or, “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
\
r
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The two above-described “ Steaming ” , and
“Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly .to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours oalls the ohange, " Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
oharge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
488, 484, kvv 486 Grokoi Stksit,
9YDNWV.
£1 HRIS T M A S HOLIDAYS.
JYJKLACHBJNO!
]VTELACHBINO !
This world-renowned Egyptian Cigarette is
made from the finest Yenidge Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Largest Sale in the
WOBLD J
M. MELACHRINO & 00., Cairo,
And 21 Cockspur Street, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
leading Tobacconists in Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily. F resh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
ON D I
AQUARIUM.
B
The most popular plonlc and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY - , conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission,
Is. j Children, 6d. Trams ran to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE,
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon,
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
A HAPPY NEW YEAR !
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
Mr. CHAS. ARNOLD
IN HANS THE BOATMAN
GRAND MATIN FE PERFORMANCE.
SATDED AY J. 5.1889.
ADMISSION—Ss., Bs., Bs. and Is.
Box Office open dally at Nloholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAYIS.
■VTEW HAYMARKET MUSIC TTAT.T.
J3l Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Acknowledged by Press and Publio to be the
Best Company of
OOMBDIANS, SINGEBS, ACTORS, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Everything New, Obiginal, and Rbfinbd.
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission—Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John 0. Leete.
A L.
Theatre roy
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Immense Success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by
A MOST POWERFUL
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION IN
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
Prioes as usual. Tickets for all parts [at Mackay'b.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
Tremendous Success of
The Grand Christmas Production,
YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH.
PRICES, 55., 35., Bs., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
G
A S.
GAS.
G A S.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
THE ITALIAN BEE 00.,
Pabbamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Oomb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
110 000
given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbani
Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
B.
00.,
RITTENBERG &
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyabd Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings,
DR. GEORGE ON LEE,
31 Caelton Terrace,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Consultation Hours: 10 a.an. until 2 p.m.
"Mr Tailor," 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suite to measure for £8 Sr.
8. FREEHAH A SORE,
IMFOBTERB
AMD
KARUIAOTURIRBi
Orient Washing Powder.
HGG h CUSTARD POWDERS.
Extract of Soao. Sola Crystals.
SALAD ft OASVOR OILS.
Batho’s Baking-Powder. Orient Square Blue.
Blacking. Vinegar.
CURRY A PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILS! OILS, PERSIAN SHERBET,
RBii Ike.
STEAM WORKS s
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
Western Australia is the Coming Colony.
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
“ The very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those places,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gate, to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will he the beginning of a new
era.” —Extract from Governor Broome’s speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTOR ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO EACH LOT. £lO
EASY TERMS. Freehold Land. Torrens’Title.
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result ? A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
uptime like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN'S"
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthdb Gath.
MT PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED Hft
BT
The Bulletin's well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Prior . ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. Bd. (exoept Queensland).
ALL AGEKTB.
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
81(11 WRITERS
AND
—ART ++ DECORATORS
96 Castlereagli Street,
SYDNEY.
Jg2o BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Prloe. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
It Is suggested that to start the work of
clearing Sydney harbour of sharks, a dead horse,
with a can of dynamite attached thereto, should
be anchored out in the stream. Then when the
man-eaters have assembled at the feast, let the
dynamite be exploded by electricity.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Prloe
Sven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
ress Salts for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., ill
Ramil •%«««*. MELBOURNE
Jj’BWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDINO MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS}
tbh. ■wiH 111
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Nkwton & Lamb.
[ELF- AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
*? i iv Patented,
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Prioe, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in oanvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
JQR AWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &o. Nkwton & Lamb.
—
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned artiolesfor the Library
or Ofllce yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
EWBiW
05
1!
-
; r 't
Drawing room oabi>
NETS.
SilW Bhskibb
CBIHBHDiU Dlilllßl,
Niwwm ft Lamb.
PIANOFOR» ES by R. LIPP and SOHN.
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
'£
M
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair ai^TcoucHTTor
lnvalids and Medical Men.
X> OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
JLt ful— a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
\> I' 1
T>EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring,
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
13a. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitohen
Dressers, from 27a. 6d.; Washstands, from 12a. 6d,j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Room and Manotaotoby i
Sp&IPGI » O'OOHWEIX STREETS,


Horsford's Acid Phosphate
RELIEVES TIIK FEELING OF LASSITUDE
so oomtnon in mid-summer, and imparts vitality.
The Wollongong Salvationists have bor-
rowed money from the ratepayers of the town to
supply powder and shot for acivil action against the
council. This is on a par with the case where a
complainant borrowed money from a defendant
in order to take out a summons against him.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whits
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the oolony from the
best ooionial wheat by the newest patented maohinery.
The quality is exceptionally good and the prioe very low.
THE
Sydnij and Pwiasiil Land aid Building Co.,
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Ohaibman.
Capital ... £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £57,460.
Uncalled Capital and Reserve* .. £39,987
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK. — Withdraw without notice.
Interest, 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. 6d. a week.
How to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
GID. PIPES
The Best in the World,
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mis UscWt l Ci..
231 CLARENCE STREET
Perdriau «S& Oo. 9
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets &0., &o. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
ALLAN AT MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfittebs, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appl iancea,
BON ACCOFO WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Herb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cube fob Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address— ~ t
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Qrosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
mHIS Magnificent Hotel is now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, . Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J, ROWAN, Manager.
3*
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
BIRISB-A-iEriE § HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
■«Aaiia 't
**■ ttwrmw -w»3tmra» i *w i wn»citw< omißiHi
y. -i
%■ -Jbmm
IHV
••/•.••V
11,
-
m
HU'°v
iO
MS
Wines,' Frail Liquors i Saraaaa Cigars a Speciality *. Souse. Cuisine Fraaeaise.
The Blighted Barmaid.
(AN EXHIBITION TBAGEDY.)
At an Exhibition wine-bar in the cellars calm and
cool
(Where you sit and sip your poison on a sturdy
wooden stool)
One j served the dear Lavinia, a maiden fair and
youutr,
And pro'sjs of her beauty were on everybody’s
toigue.
There was metal most attractive in the manners
of the las»,
A sweeter girl than Lavy never polished up a
g’as3 ;
She Wrts modest, she was gentle, she was soberly-
i dined,
Awl she never kissed a masher in that little room
behind.
Not to vulgar, common people would she con-
descend to speak—
No artificial colour lay on Lavy’s pretty cheek—
v And never did a customer detect her do a wink—
And of telling giddy stories—well, she wouldn’t
even think.
Alas! for human nature and the power of the
Press,
We sing a song of suffering, and sorrow, and
distress;
No more in shady cellar fair Lavinia is seen —
She’s an Exhibition memory of something that
has been.
Perhaps you’ve heard of Scribbeller, who repre-
sents the Sphinx
(He has a trick of looking up to heaven when he
drinks),
And Scrawler, too, a writer on the penny Morn-
ing Bleat
( As a literary boozer he is difficult to beat).
Of all the many gentlemen who drank at Lavy’s
bar,
And felt they’d like to eat her as she lighted their
cigar,
1 here never were two customers more dangerous
than these—
With their sentimental “thank you,” and their
fascinating “please.”
For little did Miss Lavy know of journalistic
vice,
She used to think that Scribbeller was very, very
nice;
And once (this is a circumstance we mention with
regret)
She told a lady friend that Mr. Scrawler was a
“ pet."
She still remained a theme of admiration for the
crowd,
Who got as close to Lavy as the counter-strip
allowed;
But she never once encouraged any visitor’s
caress—
Her heart was won by Scribbeller and Scrawler
of the Press.
. he villains both pursued her with intentions very
base:
When one had left the cellar, sure the other took
his place ;
While either wrote his copy in the Press-room up
above,
The other gay deceiver was declaring of his love.
Those Exhibition wine bars, in the cool, seques-
tered shade
O the cellar ! O ! what misery and trouble have
they made !
(This verse has little bearing on the subject of our
rhyme,
Nor any sort of purpose but of spinning out the
time,)
Now Scribbeller (as artful as a pantomimic gnome)
1 nveigled lovely Lavy into visiting the dome ;
She was “ off ” one summer’s evening, when, un-
happily, she went
On that fatal expedition with her literary gent.
They leaned upon the parapet and talked about
the stars,
They wondered if the Firmament was fitted up
with bars;
Then Scribbeller, in language that was passionate
and terse.
Asked Lavy if she’d marry him, for better or for
worse.
He told some awful lies about his industry and
thrift,
He never dreamt that Scrawler was ascending by
the lift;
But, when upon the point of coyly giving her
consent,
The blushing Lavy saw her other literary gent.
We sing a song of suffering and sorrow and dis-
tress :
A fearful fight ensued between those members of
the Press;
They fought as fought the warriors (so mythical)
of Rome—
Big drops of human blood were spluttered all
about the dome.
When Scrawler laid the other fellow silent on the
ground
With a cunning blow delivered in the thirty-
sec< >nd rot i nd,
He apologised to Lavy, who’d been weeping at the
strife,
And neatly put the question—would she like to
be his wife.
A tender “get away with you,” a brief ecstatic
squeeze,
And Lavy’s loving “yes” was being borne upon
the breeze ;
She took the hand of Scrawler and fidelity she
swore
While Scribbeller, his rival, lay a-weltering in
gore.
A little sob of happiness, another squeeze and
kiss,
Ere Scribbeller awoke to put a damper on the
bliss;
Recriminations followed (far too terrible to pen)
And Lavinia discovered she’d been spooning
married men.
The victim of those villains gave a shudder and a
groan,
A shriek and—left ’em standing in their wicked-
ness alone;
She overleapt the parapet and landed on her
head —
In the Exhibition Gardens poor Lavinia lay dead.
Then Scrawler said to Scribbeller: “Let strife
forgotten be—
A scandal would be troublesome for you as well as
me; % « f
No hatred any more in our respective bosoms
reigns—
So let’s go down together and discover the re-
mains.”
Now Scribbeller was sensible, he took his com-
rade’s hint,
Next morning saw an “ Interesting Tragedy ” in
print;
No other Melbourne papers had a story so com-
plete
As was published in the Sphinx and penny
Morning Bleat.
They told of how two journalists when slowly
walking round
The Exhibition Gardens, saw a body on the
ground—
The body of a barmaid whom they both knew very
well;
Then followed “ later news ” of how the tragedy
befell.
The Sphinx’s “own reporter” found the dome
besmeared with blood,
The Bleat was sure she’d fallen with a dull and
sickening thud;
And both agreed that circumstances all combined
to show
That someone somehow killed the girl and dropped
her down below.
That fiend who did the murder has been hunted
for in vain
(The police are pretty certain that he got away to
Spain),
Poor Lavy’s place was taken by a forward little
minx,
Whose heart is lost already to the Morning Bleat
and Sphinx.
The judging of exhibits at the great Mel-
bourne show is its only humorous feature. After
official awards have been announced the un-
successful competitors submit their exhibits—of
beer, buns, or boilers, as the case may be —to a
special jury of experts, who generally grant extra
particular first awards to firms which had passed
unmentioned by the official judges. Under these
circumstances it would be interesting to know
how fees in these matters are arranged ! And
what is an Exhibition prize award worth, any-
how ?
King Bomba (Ferdinand the Second) of
Naples, who played the great monarch over the
Kingdom of the Two Sicilies in 1859, alternating
burlesque with shocking cruelties, was very proud
of his troops, who were said by military critics to
be the worst soldiers in the world, as they after-
ward proved themselves to be. One day his
general-in-chief, having planned a review for the
king, determined to surprise his royal master with
a new military command. When he saw the car-
riage of the king driving up toward the line of
troops, the general shouted the order : “ Tate
la facia feroce!” (Make a feroiLus face!)
The soldiers thereupon put on a highly dis-
mal, sour, and disagreeable expression. The
carriage came closer, and the general again com-
manded : “Fate la facia piti feroce!” (Make a
still more ferocious face !) Then the countenances
of the long line of soldiers took on a more savage
and forbidding expression. As the carriage
stopped the general commanded : “ Fate la facia
ferocissimo!” (Make a most ferocious face!)
The king, alighting from the carriage, promenaded
up and down before a line of fierce and horrible
faces, with moustaches sticking up in the air,
foreheads and cheeks wrinkled, and eyes glaring.
“Ah, general,” exclaimed King Bomba, “but I
am pleased ! Magnificent! Beautiful troops !”
The once-famoua Caledonian mine at the
Thames (N.Z.) has jusb been disposed of for a
trifling sum to an English syndicate This mine
had the reputation of being the richest quartz-
claim in the world. In two years over £2,000,000
worbli of gold were won from one reef, and
in one year the shareholders had £572,000
divided amongst them. The shares went up to
£212 each, but, strange to say, many of the
original shareholders hung on to their stock after
it had passed the meridian of prosperity. One
man named Farmer, who was a heavy shareholder,
was so much excited at his sudden acquisition of
wealth that his intellect began to totter, and by
the advice of his medical adviser his shares were
sold right at the top figure; Farmer realised
£100,000 and is now alive,, in good health, and
still hanging on to his “little bit.” It was
in the Caledonian that “ Tom ” Russell,
C.M.G., at one time a crony of the
Prince of Wales, and well-known on London
Stock Exchange, made his first big rise. For the
past 10 years he has resided in England, and a
few years back, when the Russians were threaten-
ing an advance on Constantinople, Russell got an
early tip that the British lion was going to wag
his tail and checkmate the Czar, and he thereupon
rooked the market of Turkish bonds and netted a
cool three quarters of a million. And writing of
the Caledonian mine we are reminded of a funny
incident. Thousands of pounds worth of speci-
men stone had been pilfered from the mine and
crushing battery, and the directors were quite at
a loss how to check it. “ Amalgam ” —that is
the gold mixed with mercury, was also known to be
disappearing in large quantities from the battery,
and thoueh detectives were imported and disguised
as “feeders” and “blanket-boys,” no detection
followed. Just when the rifling was at its height,
Mr. H. A. Severn (father, by the way, of Mr. A.
M. Sev rn of Sydney) and a man of high character
and great scientific knowledge, was appointed
manager of the battery. A day or two after
Severn took charge he ordered the engineer to stop
the battery right in the middle of the shift and
summoned a’l the employe j into the engine-
room, where three enormous Cornish boilers
were in full blast. He then marshalled them
in a line in front of the boilers, well within the
action of the heat, and closely scanned the clean
iron floor on which they stood. Presently, at the
feet of several men along the rank, little shining
globules of mercury began to appear, the heat
causing the stolen amalgam that they had con-
cealed about their persons to “sweat,” and the
mercury of course found its way to the ground. A
good maoy of the thieves were weeded out by
this clever device. Poor Severn died seven or
eight years ago at Madras, where he held the
post of Government Inspector-General of the
Wynaad gold-mines.


.Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOCI
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN'S
NEW SOUTH WALES
irbirs' Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American anil Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
«r ivekv KEdiinm n
AT
7HICEC WHICH DEFT COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND Of
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
FROM
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
FOB
Town and Country Customers.
Not® Address—
Craig & Aitken,
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Pif ice List Posted on Application
EY
£
$
O'
o
*
<<
A
$
o
£>
&
V
V
O
£
o
X s
A
S*
v
S>
$
o
v-
Q
A
<s
<<;
A
O
<3
&
&
A
v*
<d
O
<< x
v
A
<3
r.
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY,
t> O
■ t+ T
, N O
A S J*
(1
Agents,
DELISSA&. PHILLIPS
Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STOREY.
7 Sr,
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce.
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
•I-H-H-
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tc23.es’ Se-wlo3.gr lvCa.cl2.ines,
for the boot and tailoring trades. '
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLSIGH, NSTTHEIU & Co., Tanners and Leather Merchants,
1-6 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
_ Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland. ——
AIBO Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Tr in all Details, includmg Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &c.: and of the following Special Lines : PEERLESS OLObS, SA TIN I OLISH,
NUBIAN BLAOkINd. Tanners Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms.
DJEt. RIOHAKDS.
OM
P.O
LT
teas*?
‘RICHARD
•>>
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the-leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He haß devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
oombined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practioe
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
oannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to In-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. In
stamps he will send secure from observation In a
plain wrapper, postage
LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
FREE, A
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private 01
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced Incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medica
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
-jd courteously, a candid and straightforward
o’/i’fion of your case. If you do not think
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enc
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treatod nearly 26,001
cases slnoe ooming to Australia, and haß permit
■lon from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
1 Spring Street, Sydney
d Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention ihis paper when writing.
Consultation free.
EVOLUTION.
Laßt year New Zealand sent New South
Wales a quarter of a million pounds wo th of pro-
duce, chiefly oats.
The report that Sir Samuel Griffith is
inclined to coalesce with Sir Thomas M’llwraith
is stigmatised by those most intimate with Sir
Samuel as utterly baseless.
A Danish officer has invented a portable
bullet-proof shield for two soldiers. It may be
easily carried and fixed, and the men can then
coolly blaze away from behind without being
picked off by anything less penetrative than a
cannon ball.
Pbarls in thk Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pbari, Dbntifricb. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
Old Pom, Olaret, Hook, Sherry, RoußlUon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled Hlgh-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near Klng.etreet.*
A Melbourne lecturer, discoursing on a
religious topic, stated recently that Charles I.
died of decapitation of the head. The audience
accepted the fact in silence.
Another Christinas episode. At Brisbane
a man named Harrison mistook his brother for a
hen under the house and shot him in the leg.
Fortunately Christmas only arrives once a year.
William's Australian Ineeotlold la death to all lnaeota.
dimple In application—anre In effleot. This la the only
genuine Inaeot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds ol Insects, while it Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaoeutloal Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Meaara Elliott Brea. (
and E. Proaaer & Co.*
Woman is
In infancy a tender flower,
Cultivate her ;
A floating bark in Girlhood’s hour,
Softly freight her.
A fruitful Vine when grown a Lass,
Prune and please her ;
Old, she’s a heavy charge, alas !
Support and ease her.


Buiines* Announcements.
BBUITO N’S
HOYAL PATENT BTIHI. EOLLBR
FLOUR
GftM be obtained throughout New Bonib Waled,
Queensland, and Vletovia.
SYDNEY m m m 84 PIOT Bmm.
BRISBANE... hm „.Bdwabd SfIHBB
MHBBOUBNI ._ . Bpiwd@b Brih
E PP S’ S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
■aSEsMsr} { A " sr*
Hi, S, £, EBSELHffI, Cmnltiv Eclectic,
Skilled Sfboialist foe all Cheonio Diseases,
H WilllilAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any Buflerers unable to oall can write for a list of ques-
tions (fees) by whiota they oan be treated equally well at
any distanoe.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of ail Chronio Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the oost for a
complete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
° S the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1888.
10 H. E. Kuoblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe oough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe oold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expeotorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a dootor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the oure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medioal
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my oase was
Inourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
1 then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluotantly informed me that I was suffering from
Uloerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ourable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and deoided to oonsult you, whioh I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to oure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medioines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very muoh, and throwing up several pieoes of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very last.
After three months’treatment the expeotoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
% result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my oomplaint, and my lungs
ere as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die. —1 remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ff All Consultations Free. *M
Notloe.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is inourred in the event of Odes
hot being Effected
T
O
SUFFERERS.
CONSULT TKU;
BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
THEY Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
A. B.—Medicines fonearded, free from observation and
securely yacked, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
132 Elizabeth Street, Hvde Park, Sydney.
FREE
PBJSOBIPTIONa »re to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” lor bhe Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of
this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address —
B. WARD & 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Bydney.
Hope for the »eaf.-NiOHOMON’s Patintmd Art
yioAi, Ear Drums. Cures Dealness in all Its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been efleoted. Send lor 182
paged Illustrated book oontalnlng “ Essay on Deafness,’
Illustrations ol the Drums, ooples of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
■mad by these Drums, and whe reoommend them.—Dr
mOHOLBOW. SI William Btnsw. IVelfceveae
0-XZj£l. 35T3D | HOTEL,
' 1 M i , OOBNBB 01
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
0. COSOROvK
Co s
I
KM
m
r'
a r^i
pit
m
* * i
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) Propbibtbiss.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR.
<{:}.
FOR PRIVATE USE is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
t G-ra/pe J
TRADE MARK —“THE QRBKNWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from RIPE FRUIT, and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON'S GRAPE AEINE.
n
o m
ii'Ai
m
Muttl
SAtIC
SlTSrr®:
in consequents §f Jmii&iiews 2CHK WOMCE&2
SA £/€.S which ate gsktslaUi to dmtim the Milk, Lem <mi Pmdm
have to request! tikes# Pursk&s&ffi tkmti sh& kisih'
hears their Sigpwfam
witikmtt ■ whisk m Settle »/ §M esigiml WOM. €MSTMMSMIfM3
SAUCE s k gsnwtm*
Ask/or LEA mnd PERRXMI? Sexes, swd m Nemo <m £bßjMff> £sM, MMa <mß
Stopper. Wholesale end foV Mssport &y ihi Prsprisisrs, WvemsSsr; Grssss a~rr
Blackwell, L<mdon, &£,, amd kp end (Hfawm &sp»w£ : k®&yl the W&r&!k ~
PHOTOGRAPHY !
LICHTNER & CO.,
32 O’Connell Streef, Sydney;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
Cordially acknowledge the satisfactory relationship which has been established between
them and the Photographers of Australia, and so largely extended daring the past
Twelve Months. It will be no fault of theirs if the
COMPLIMENTS of the present HOLIDAY SEASON
are not continued throughout the coming year. They
have now issued a New and Comprehensive Cata-
logue, profusely illustrated, and ask all old friends
to send for one, whilst extending the same invitation
to those we have not yet had the pleasure of meeting.
:++:
A visit to our Establishment will give proof that
we have the and Best Assorted Stock in
the Colonies at Reasonable Prices.
MCHTNER & CO.,
f
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
ANB
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Assurance Oompaniei.
TUB AUSTRALASIAN TRUS £ '
IIBNT ASSURANCR and INVKSTMKNT
COMPANY, Limited.
(InMeporated by Aot of Parliament, IT ▼!•«,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital
Paid-up and Subscribed
51,111,111
SIS,III
Sir RDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKKT, Ran., W.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company reeelves deposits at the following
rates of Interest
For 8 yean 7 per oent.
For 8 mouth* t per oent.
For 1 year - 6 per oenl.
For 8 month!— I per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the oorporate Beal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its unoalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwardr,
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed termi and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotlon and
Private Oontraot.
Hssfi Ovvioa—lV, &11 HUNTER STREET
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manages.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Aet, I*ll.
CAPITAL, «M,o§a.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices—lo, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS i
8 months, 6 per cent,
8 ii f ii
18 ii 8 ii
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 18 month
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
Karin era Amneaneememtr.
HISS'S
AUSTRALIAN
Christmas Card Series.
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THE MOST ABTISTIO SERIES PUBLISHED.
n. King, Photographer, 316 George St., Sydney*
BBTWBBN G.P.O. AND HUNTBR BTRBBTS.
TATTERSALL’B
ioism coxmmioii
Are open upon all the Prinolpal Racing Event?
throughout the Year. For full particulars see*
“Town and Country Journal," also Brevities ln>
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," oare’
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per.
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one*
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
Ak
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In’ l
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites--
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
90 ELIZABETH STREET
(» few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank) ••
MELBOURNE.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontager,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera Addlv;
BnitMir Ofhr


BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL la the be it Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Solatioa Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Tnroat, &o. Preserves fora from
moths. In the stable it is valuable tor broken
knees, outs, &0., whilst it keeps off the attaoka of
flies. Ask for Bosiato’s *• Parrot" brand, and
avoid imitations, whioh can only <ead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Boaisto’s " Pavvot sand.
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD & DECEIT.
In oraer to protect the people from
being defrauded and cheated, the
American Hop Bitters Company offers
the above Reward for the arrest and
conviction of any person or persons
refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any
vile nostrum or compound as the
genuine and original Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, or for counterfeiting
the Company’s Label a Bunch of
Green Hops on a White Label, with
Black Letters.
DR. SOULE'S
AMERICAN
HOP * BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A ORINK),
CONTAINS
HOPS, IHX HU, MANDRAKE,
DANDGLION.
And this Purkst and Best Medical Qualities or
all otiirr Bitters
they cure
All Diseases of the Stoinaoh, Bowels. Blood, l.ivei,
Kidneys and Urin&ry Organs, Nervousness, Sleepless-
ness, Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures, volun-
tarily sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not
make the cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soules
American Hop Bitters, that makes the cure. It has
never failed and never can. TVe will give reference
to any one for any disease similar to their own if
desired, or will refer to any neighbor, as there is not
a neighborhood in the known world but can show its
cures by Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters.
NO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
■Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Snow-white
Patent Rollkr Flour. It is the greatest success of tbs
a e.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article , and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
*3T TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. *^|
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
By Authority :
READY IN JANUARY,
Demy Bvo., cloth, 650 pages, illustrated with Maps, Portraits,
and Sketches. [Price, 10s. 6d., including postage.]
Volume I of
11 THE HISTORY OF NEW SOUTH WALES”
From the Records :
By G. B. Barton, of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-law.
This volume will contain the History of New South Wales
from 1785 to 1789, founded on the letters and despatches
written by Governor. Phillip during that time, and many other
records of great historical interest, never before published,
which have recently been obtained from the Pablic Record
Office in London, the Record Office in Sydney, the collections
of Sir Joseph Banks and others, &3., &c.
CHARLES PATTER,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 21st December, 1888.
THE
WOLSELEY SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
A GENTS:
T. S.
0-B3DIDBS Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
A LOVELY SKIN,
complexion, soft, smooth Mid delicate neck, faos, ihauds end arms era beat lie obtain*!)
w discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, mot feting SkStoWW te
-jUMiM ®m 4K* skfa cannot possibly have any good effect on it, and by using
Rowland a'
n ’ fcalgaor
a Moling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and arms oif all!)
ikxpoeed to the heat and dost of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
Han, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
Water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves
burns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
pleasant. Gentlemen after sharing will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin;
ft is warranted free from any lean or mineral ingredients, can b® used with impunity on th*
akin of the most delicate lady or child, ... „„ „ „
M 3d. and «s, ML. per bottle, [bottle* etf half the mm/-
idle at Im. 3d.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promote* the growth oif th* hair, rat’
Is also sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired p*opl«.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whiten* the teeth, prevent* decay, and rtjvea o
pleasing fragrance to the breath Ask anywhere for BOWUINDB’ article*, oil 30, WiSUb!
eute. Iljoudou. and avoid cheap, worthies* imitation*
iWkoleahle rad Retell. A kimU-H won Bioa . radjl. Pbobbbi 1 Oo.^BydHey.
Publishing Extraordinary.
Perhaps the most marvellous penny publication
ever produced has just been issued in London, by
the well-known proprietor of “Beecham’s Pills.”
It is called “ Beecham’s Christinas Annual.”
Printed on superior paper from new type, and
profusely illustrated by capable artists, it contains
in its 70 pages contributions by “ Ouida,” George
R. Sims, Jessie Fothergill, Manville Fenn, and a
host of other celebrated writers, besides the laßt
tale written by the late Hugh Conway, and a
quadrille specially arranged from all the popular
tunes of the day. A special edition has been
issued for Australia and New Zealand. The
work, of which the first edition consists of a
quarter of a million copies, is intended to com-
mence a new departure in penny literature, and
well deserves all the success it will undoubtedly
secure. Those who know Beecham’s Portfolio
Edition of popular music, of which five million
copies of various pieces have been distributed
gratis in all parts of the world, will be pleased to
near that the enterprising proprietor is now re-
printing the first thirty numbers in book form.
This unique collection of popular music is published
at twopence.
Most members of Assembly when dating
their letters from Parliament House use the
abbreviation “Leg. Assembly.” This is presumed
to be short for blackleg assembly.
The “ alleged ” philanthropic scheme of a
“ Sydney-cate,” formed for the purpose of erecting
artisans’ dwellings, has fallen through, chiefly
by means of Press opposition. The philanthropy
which is fostered by fat dividends, is too seldom
unmasked.
One of the neatest advertising “ notions ”
we have seen for a long time is a pamphlet setting
forth the excellence of the Sovereigntown town-
ship, issued by Messrs. Boyd & King, auctioneers,
of Pitt-street, Sydney. The pamphlet is got-up
in the form of a well-filled pocket-book, and the
appearance of the counterfeit presentments of a
couple of bank-notes sticking out of the end
heightens the deception. The pamphlet is beauti-
fully illustrated and is well worth securing, if only
as a unique and clever specimen of advertising.
Pretty nearly the whole civilised world
seems to have combined to take an ugly rise out of
that doleful though well-meaning fossil, the Royal
Colonial Institute. In a recent issue of the heart-
broken pamphlet which serves as the “ horgan ”
of the institution the management desires to
acknowledge the receipt of a number of books for
the library, and the list is the saddest joke of the
generation. It begins with the “Votes of the
Legislative Council of the Bahamas,” and trailing
wearily behind that sorrowful publication comes a
literary catalogue four columns long, in which the
“ Report on the Adulteration of Food in Canada ”
weeps alongside the “Blue Book of Trinidad,”
and the “Ceylon Coffee Soils and Manures” is
shored up by a volume on the “ Caves Containing
Edible Birds in Borneo.” The “ Hospital Reports
of Georgetown ” are propped up by a thrill-
ing work on “ Shells from St. Kitts; ” and
the “ Report of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion ” roosts dejectedly beside the “ Corres-
pondence relating to the Seizure of British Vessels
in Behring Sea,” and the “ Second Annual
Report of the Yarmouth Free Library.” Yar-
mouth, by the way, is generally known as the
place that bloaters come from. Then there is the
“Iconography of Australian Species of Acacia
and Cognate Genera,” the “Bye-laws of the
Winnipeg Board of Trade,” the “ Laws of British
Guiana,” the history of the “Episcopate of the
Right Rev. Frederick Barker. D.D.,” and —horror
upon horrors—a ballad by Douglas Sladen (a bit
of stirring verse, we admit) concerning the
Spanish Armada. Altogether there are some 200
works in the heartrending accumulation, and
Sladen’s ballad is the only one in the lot which
rises above the dignity of a catalogue—unless the
“ Photograph of the School of the Epiphany at
Levuka ” can be classed among the light literature
of the period, or the “ Minute and Departmental
Reports of the Mayor of Durban ” may be con-
sidered as rising to the status of thrilling fiction
and soul-stirring romance. Perhaps, however,
the literature of the Colonial Institute is of the
kind which is best calculated to appeal to the
souls of the members. The chief end and aim of
the incorporated fossils seems to be to gather
valuable uselessness from every zone and to accu-
mulate dust-caked facts from afar off. The
library of the poor old zoophyte is in keeping
with its own smothered dismalneßS, and the
thankfulness with which it acknowledges Douglaß
Sladen’s ballad and fifteen almanacs —sent all in a
heap from Victoria—is strictly in accordance with
the hazy lunacy which it unjustly terms the
M objects ” of its existence.
A pretty Christmas anecdote comes from
one of the far-back regions of the Northern Terri-
tory, where the mosquito walketh in the darknesß,
and the frisky Baurian leaves his footprints in the
slush of the hot and muddy rivers, and spiders the
Bize of a belltopper hat reach out their claws amid
the foliage of the tropical bush. The scene of the
outrage was a little settlement tied together with
planks and dropped loosely down just where the
Hies are thickest and the spiders largest and most
ferocious, and where the alligators wear ice on
their heads to save them from sunstroke as they
moon beside boiling lagoons or take their fried
and blistered way across the dismal swamps.
There was a lock-up in the settlement, and in the
lock-up a solitary drunk and disorderly was singing
his pensive hymn as he leaned against a slab. Out
on the motionless air there rolled the notes of the
interminable melody which, as far as the huskiness
of the singer made it possible to understand any-
thing, was built to record the trials and troubles
of a ladydescribed as Ann Elizabeth Mary Sarah
Jane. There was a chorus of 27 lines at the end
of each verse, and at the conclusion of the 178th
verse the singer paused for a moment to damn
his eyes. Then he went on again till 22 verses
more were completed, at which stage of the pro-
ceedings he observed that it was dashed hot. The
sun had tottered up to the meridian while the
epic was in progress, and had sloped wearily down
towards the other horizon until it shone straight
on the Blab against which the patient was leaning,
and he was gradually taking fire in consequence.
He reflected on this ciroumstance for a period
roughly estimated at 25 minutes, and then he
crossed the apartment on all-fours and leaned
against the other and cooler side of the premises.
“ Thish,” he observed thoughtfully to nothing in
particular, “ iah —Wo—awf’l shirk—shir—shi— hie
—whash thatsh ? ” —and as he uttered the last re-
mark in a frightened scream the whole side of the
premises fell out and dropped him into a paddock,
where he sat and glared around and feebly asked
himself what in the whole land of Goschen had
happened to him. “ Tbishyer’s nicest* way treat
— hip— whi mansh," he said indignantly to a horse
that was flicking the flies off itself near the fence,
and then he waited for an answer but no reply
came. “ Can’t ye shpe— hie —eak, ye beasht ?’’ he
howled indignantly, and the two animalß regarded
each other discontentedly for five minutes or there-
abouts, at the end of which time the roof of the
faol fell in and temporarily buried the prisoner.
'wo minutes later he emerged from the ruins
with an indistinct idea that the horse had had
something to do with it “ You’re no shenkl’in’n,”
said the prisoner, shaking his fist at the perspiring
animal. “’N I dish— hie —dishownsh you Ger-
rout.” After this there was an animated pau«e
lasting an hour and a half, till the utter shadr less
ness of the place bte tme unendurable. “I’ll we
who thishyer dashed gaol b’iongs to,” moaned the
captive at last, and he started ac-oss the paddock
to the policeman’s house 100 yards distant. The
officer’s wife was Bleeping ia a chair with her
mouth wide open, and an inseeb with eight legs
was sitting pensively on her front teeth. She
woke with a start, and stated affably that her hus-
band was “out on the booze,” but when the
prisoner suggested that she should lock him up in
the front bedroom, she grew distant in her
manner and declined to have anything to do with
the case. The arrested one then camped for a time
in the yard, but being presently ordered to get out
of that he started off once more, this time
heading for the pub There he found the officer
in a glorious state of intoxication, and when he in-
formed him that he had come to give himself up,
the gaol having fallen in on him, the guardian of
the peace merely looked at him with a glazed eye
and told him not to bother as he was disharged
wizzout a shtain on his cat-er. Then a moment
later, he assumed an aspect of Roman ferocity and
stated that the prisoner was “k’mit’d f’r trial”
and ordered him to be instantly executed for
aggravated body-snatching complicated with homi-
cide,'and added that he was his long-lost unole
and that he was a Duke. Finally they settled
down to harmony, and about 2 a.m. the pair went
to sleep together in the stable, the local magistrate
being put to bed with a head on him in the only
spare room in the house, and three plaintive snores
floated out on the stillness of the night. A
swagaman came in and searched the constable’s
pockets early in the day, but found nothing in
them, and about noon the prisoner woke
and trod on the officer’s jaw before he
quite realised where he was. They quarrelled
after this, and became reconciled again and
had some more drinks together, and about
3 o’clock in the afternoon a large insect stung the
magistrate and roused him up. The case was
then laid before him, and he organised a court in
the bar and sentenced the prisoner to repair the
gaol without the option of a fine; but on the
victim explaining that he had no knowledge
whatever of carpentery the Bench discharged him
and denounced the constable as a low-minded
ruffian and a disgrace to humanity. After this
there were more drinks, and about midnight the
policeman and the prisoner went along? and tied
the remains of the dungeon together in an up-
right position once more, having accomplished
which they parted with expressions of mutual
affection and esteem and lurched on their several
ways A revulsion of feeling came over the
released one when he had got a dozen yards away
and he threw half a brick after the officer, but
without any visible effect.
The miserable stuff that passes for wit in
Punch and other alleged funny English pub-
lications, is sufficient proof of the odd lack of
humour of John Bull in his native lair. And
here is another evidence of the national character-
istic. The OORNHILL Magazine publishes a very
passable skit on "Donnelly’s Baconian theory,
attributing Dickens’ novels to Gladstone, where-
upon hundreds of its readers wrote to the editor
to enquire what foundation existed for the state-
ment, and Mr. Gladstone himself has been the
recipient of numerous letters on the subject.
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
BROWN (of the Lands, meeting his tailor): “I was indeed surprised to hear of your
failure. Why, I thought you had secured nearly the whole patronage of the
Civil Service.”
BANKRUPT TAILOR (loq.): “That’s it! It was the patronage of the Service.”


Hotels,
WOODS’ HOTEL,
HELBOURE.
Onoarra Rahway Taaminus, Spinobb Stbur.
\r IBITORS patronising the Above hotel, which
▼ has lately hod An Addition of over 100 roomß,
Will find All modern Improvements, such as light,
lofty, And well-ventilated bedrooms, large publio-
nom, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
Md needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
Mephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
—passed In Anstralia. Visitors can rely upon
being called for early morning trains. Letters
And telegrams promptly attended to. Prioes very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
g-
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET *
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr]
■peer Is a regular Graduated Physioian, eduoated at
Harvard College, U.S. (lor confirmation see New Zealand
Basette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Musette, April 17th, 1888). The dootor has devoted 14
Tsars to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were In the leading
hospitals of the United States, whiob enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will reoelve his honest opinion of their oomplaints.
Mo sxperim anting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
A positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
■lOO. His reason for doing so is this —when there is no
•rganio disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
hi other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
A oertaln result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
■roved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Re wishes it distinctly understood that he does not olaim
• perform Impossibilities, or to have miraouious power,
he Maims only to be a skilled and successful physioian
thoroughly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
IPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
Maiding at a distance oan, by explaining their troubles in
■stall be treated at home. The course of treatment will
JWt In any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Bnn, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
■treats, Sydney. Post Offioe Box, No. 920. Offioe hours,
U a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
U to 11 a.m. only.
i 80VEEEIBI BEHEST
*• all Afflicted with Rheumatic Bout, Tio
Doumnux, Aching Pains in the Limns,
Faon, or Hbad,
Why nffu those excruciating Pains whan ins
bottle of
DR. SOUTH AM'B RHEUMATIC PILLS
•til giro Instant Relief and Cure In a few days I
*ho Australian Remedy. No change In diet
*M—ary, Xn Bottles, la., Bs. 50., 5a., and 111.
(JURIS FOR BLIGHT,
KOBE'S CELEBRATED EVE LOTION,“
•hi* Lotion la the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
™Pae. it not only oures Swelling and Sandy
■aght, bat strengthens the eight. Numerous tea-
Mmenlala from those who have recovered through
JJOmency oan be seen. Admitted by the Medleal
waoulty te be the safest and beat manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
!• L IOU, Fhamaoeutloal Okmbt,
681 Geonra-Etraet. only.
Tt/TESMERIC, MAGNETIC, and electric
AVA INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
J* De. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 2ft years’ practice in Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
•“Oerican Remedy Company. An Dishabes
Cored, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
•teatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
®®ly, his motto being “ Nature cures Nature’s
decay.” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
■onr days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
■•U In being the only person known in the world
jjho will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Wongue without Surgical Operations of any kind;
j® fact, the Dootor guarantees to cure All Diseases
tealdental to suffering humanity, even fcwhen all
Ojher treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
«* cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where medicine Is used, Dr. Vincent dls-
b®®Bes his own. This is a surety you get
Mthing but the genuine article. AlEaot.—This
•• the only Institution of Its kind In the World
•here all Kinds of Cures are Effected Iwith little
•* no medicine.
Please Copy the Address —
DR. ST. VINCENT,
(J 7 Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park),'Sydney.
r-r-i
[EMANE
&
3
ss
o
V
o
mi
tree of ufe.
the
root
t(/CAC
Business Announcements.
SKATE BOUERg,
rpURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the beet in the Ameri-
can market, at the following low prices:—
13 ga. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots .. 816 per lot
2 „ P- » „ 10,000 „ .. $l7 „
13 “• >. „ 60,000 „ ... 812 „
2 in. „ .. 60,000 „ .. 814 -
Through rate to Australia about 81 60c. per 1000 rollers.
Address—
JOIIM T. I,OXO,
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
•m
mvr
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
460,000 to Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN &; CO., Stoob, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pltt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable la
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For Its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
gold. Send your full address, and we will send Poet
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on saie every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners in
the street.
1 MAKUffICTURING HATTERS
CEURGf STREET
SYDNEY
PORTERS OFAII THE
f EWEST,SHAPES.
31 And ftt ALBERT BTREBT, BRISBANE.
ORIGINAL
r
BA me
P Ofo
%
WAUGH’S
*
&
AN °IV« OOHSOWW
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST IN.THEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGHS
RECEIV-EDTHE INTFR^ATI ON AL
PRIZE £ l DA Lf^
‘M A NUFA CTUR EO B AME § CHANNQN
Harbour S t Sy.dnek
Sold by All Crocers and Slortlepers
Medical.
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
<0
VP
PATENT
s
PILLS
s
*
<5
3
vte
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such am
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Doss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Oostiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
Kac Sensations, Ac. The first doee will gire relief
fat twenty minute*.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
hex of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Tor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
M a few doses of them carry off all humour** and
brine about all that is required. No female should
b# without them. There is no Medicine to be found
eqnal toi Beecham’s Pills for removing any'obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
Tor a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doees will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BMOHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sala of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Fills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bnmohial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
WheeKbog, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and wiß
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly demive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
OOUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
Will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, T.^ n .
oeshire, England, in boxes Is. ltd. and 2s. fid. each.
Bold by all Druggists and Patent
Dealers everywhere.
NJB. —Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sidney Branches;
84 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial ana
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. STiVi,
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained ,on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
gOIENOE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
•wording to the Laws of Nature and theCJ
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobb MERCURY OB othbb NOXIOSM
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WHISHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., ftc.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Speoial oomplalnts; registered by
the Medical Boards ol Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising Ih Australia who
holds, the Diploma ot Physician and Surgeon, hat
established the
1 Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,"
18, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE/
for the eolentlfio and effectual oure ol all phases of Net*
vent Debility, Ohronio and complicated Affections.
1 Dr. Wright cures Fite, Spinal Oomplalnts, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Deoay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genlto Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, oall or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it Is curable, he
will tell you eo i If not, he will tell yon also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
•ore.,. It will ooet you nothing for oonenltatlon, so satisfy
yews that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I olalm only to be a skilled and euooeesful Physician
thoroughly Informed la my speciality.
Note Address—
uonmivs medical ihtitoti,
68, Fundhbs Btbbbt W., Mwbodbn*.
MT JTo tonneetion with any other Medical Institute in
Australia Box 168, ft.P.O.
i
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
Gtainess’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney
Robert butcher a c a
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
099 A GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D"* RIDGE’S
FOOD
ran INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
C. STEPHENSON
HAS OK BALK-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, fc WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, JtO.
COOPERAGE,
IBT KENT STREET, and ITt SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Streeta.
uouiMkiuiWUiktti.
.Beyd’e Beard BUvir did thie,
land teOl doit ok either bald
'head or bare foot- Forme
heavy Mfouetaehe to from 9 to
-b teeehe and never faile.loflOO 1 .
, ww»« unu twwrymwi« . -
Ovyyriykloi. young mm already wear full OeyyriyhML
beardt, having ueed Ito 3 phte. Xo infury, eaetty applied, OM-tota
to afeet. Fabhete.U.Od. each, 3 for Se.Bd., poet paid, tent under
tover, free from obeervation. Addreee, Jtruvdt BengUa, dole Agnate
Boa TSO, Q.T.0., Sydney, X.B. W, .
m
s.
WAIiDBR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin'Maker,
IBS PITT BTRBBT, fc >"»S
Marquees on Hire. ?
II BREL LAS
RE-COVERED.
s
TP DT
PrhbreHa fnwfe £>
cirreml, and 7 "*
PerakM* rebuffed and
to-New. a!
•T. ST7LLIV
341 Georg© Street
Brickfield Bill, beta
lArerpOol afid Batbon*
JParaaola niade to nv *
turnoa Repair! neatly
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAI
AND WELL.”
D BERNARD'S Piotubb and Moulding
• SffOBB, 899 George-street (opposite Roy a!
Hotel), la acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest In the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Blounts sut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid Bohool Drawings. Plush
work a speciality, Inspection Invited.
T IPS PRESERVATION!
mMmM BT
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
II Lohbdaib Stbbbx Babb, MbbbobbiM
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and eonolsely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from exoesses, in-
discretions and other enervating Influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advioe
on health, wad replete with valuable and tangible
Information that la of In calculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit ef all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid ol
quacks.
Price per mall Bs. Id. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21a.
249 FITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tattersall’s.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh. Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL H * ROW ARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. It. LAJtKIN,
IMPOSTER OF
tsar "W i isr s, spibits, & c., &c„ tb*
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES^
J°hn Jameson s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Henn<-ssy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The, Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies fin wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
ISST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. g£f All B ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesa 6 an! Sinaia Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 lieorge Street, Sydney,
IST SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES 1 EBIuHMHT ROOM and LAVATOR7,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Black Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
BOSSES, CATTLE i BOBS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESO
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE I
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only bp
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Go., S. Hoffnußg
and Go., J. Brush, Son and Go., W. H. SimpsoO
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Broft..
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power.
Eagle Street, Brisbane; E. Fletoher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
«I. BEHAN, V. 8., 33 Pitt Street, RedfetW-
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Stort keepers*
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMESg
There is not a country in the ciivlised world whe* 6
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficient action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 7S New Oxford-st., London. KST Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pot*-
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they at®
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AI THB
Wertlieim
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
in
VICTOBI A.
MELBOURNE
Richmond
WINDSOB
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA
BEEOHWORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL...
SALE
MARYBOROUGH...
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Boorke street.
69 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyoenm Stores.
66 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
Oamp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Co
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROURHOUT THE 6SE.BHY.
sr?s
saws**? e? <
.T* tde
* r • •
0
THS BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
-•HI-
irOLD MEDALS and EIIIBT PRICES at -’.'cry L?utJ Exhibition where they have competed^
Th© AMEMCiy Waltham • Ate® >..3 s**r '-iin&tnictsci i/sie sp-. inTie st nrincipies of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand th, *rear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring," hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of thehair-sprmg so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinaxyflat hair-spring. No other watches
m th, world can be obtamed with Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs,.the patent for same being the exclusive property
of th i American Waltham Wateh Co. J
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A,
Waltham Watches can be obtamed in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs Infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies atches. The No. I Size ’ just introduced in Australia is ita most e*
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Waichks. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minot'S Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Colonial Watchmakers and Jewellers.
Australia is the most exquisite gem of horologies!
T?s7"alt-b-axso. TXT"atoll. <**> Company
— Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
