

Ask your
Grooui for
•voooq pofrein & t £x&
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter,’ ’—Lancet.
AMEEIOAI WALTHAM WATCHES.
SfZE
e rs*
Tlxe Best Timekeepers in the "World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
he very best materials throughout ; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
able to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coding of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
of the American Wahhamwltch c 0 g Crated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being tL exclusive property
• All Paft 8 ' of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass USA
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
or value U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Wal" am Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
, . altham Ladies W atches. The “No. 1 Size ” jusfc introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, ana all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders, Unequalled as marvels of constructive trenius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferablh to all others. B
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
M I IX
rrtmwiw ■’■•AiTr.
mu/
v
v.
CHRONOGRAPH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond street, Sydney.
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
ďf
THE
it
PLUM
Vi'S
FOR PRIVATE USE IS UNSURPASSED.
Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use. Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each
Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor, 10/6 ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is.
Send Post Office Order.
• »■.»«» ■
CEAIG & AITZEH, Potosi Hair-Cutting Saloon,
Nine Haikcdtters Always Employed I
680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
ƒd
ďf
XJSIB
liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea. Souds and Entrees
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbrs, Art & Mediaeval Mrtad Workers.
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOOHEIf WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices— ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
dfs
EVERY RADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BY USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S J)UT PAPER PATTERNS.
• “WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OE FASHlONS,”contain-
ing Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of the country
on receipt of (XOd.) Postage Stamps. *
Mlaciame WEIG-EL,
161 KING STREET. SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BT TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Plow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Cold Medals.
SUPERIOR to all OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
TAKE ONLY KHTTSE’S—
X X
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
m
rfi
DIXSON^SONS
'P
*
o
o
X
0
9ovk.
SIR ROGER
<v
Kjg&k c»
r
«. "I ■»
liOl
ißi
DIXSQNS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
an enormous sale in England
and is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LEA & PERRINS
Hit
fit- Consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERSHj ftJH
SAIfCE 'which an calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrin*
have to request that Purchasers see that the s Label on every bot/0
bean eh fir Signature thus •
Os
without which no bottle of the original 'WOICCJS3f£RS MTfnt'
■SAUCE is genuine,
Msk foigLEX aftX PERRINS' Sauce, and see Namc-tm Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
'Stopper,' y, r holesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Mladnhelli Lyndon, 6re., cVv. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughput the World.
— wr—»
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
Coeoa
MAY Bromm'DirCABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT TH£Col<l|H
WILLIAM --- CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
‘ ‘ Can’t 3 Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of ( heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
Xlic £3 I’achage. “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Companion! TO
containing the following :
11b. Williams’, -Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
lib. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Bough Out Ruby,
American
ilb. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
riceipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
vou require in its place. All can be accommodated, all
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address;
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
BR ITTEN B E R G & O 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St , Wyuyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
UnriVrflled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
. Trade Mark—“'White Rose"on“Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building 1 Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 01,630
Deposits Received .. 93,581
Advances Made .. .. 123,248
Total Income .. .. 200,106
Year ending
Oct., 1886.
. £350,000
120,000
2(11,500
247,840
451,085
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Year ending
Oct., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,049
025,820
. 2.048,051
Deposits received at following Ratos :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Tntkiiks'C
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAI 1 HEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five PER CENT. PER Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
miWilia
m
m
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
MELBOURNE.
£ 2s Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 94., towards which sum they had c a-
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
—
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
*
i U
S 3
the federal Coffee Palace,
CORNER OE
King’ stn.c3L Collins Streets, MellDOiirne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Pnrnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, mmptnoudy furnished, miO, Cuisine and Table 'Appointments Unequalled in the Oily.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mc’ml, presided over, by an experienced (Mf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS
Hot, Cold, and Shower Baths.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Colien


The Bulletin
Vol. 10 No. 490.
SATURDAY, JULY 6, 1889.
Price, 6d.
l' L
Ex-“Kins” Casey.


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians;”'
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South A ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only);
Per Annum ... ... ••• •••
itdlf-ycarhj ••• 0 6
Quarterly •••
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and alt Dimness Communications
fa he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to lie addressed to J. I
Archibald.
The Editor unit carefully read and ackimdedgc in .the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political. Social Or other Ai tides,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two dolUnlmi in
length, of sat) 3000 words, are specially acceptablef
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin ” will return all undvUitdUe MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are. enclosed-. But tee
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undostand that
■ice are, not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office. Order, One
Pound -Note, f»* Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tiite BrLtEtIN posted regularly to you every wed:
for a year.
This offer is not Open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The niT.i.ETix is not delivered by mad, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere*
(SATURDAY, JULY 0, 1889*
Judge and Jury.
KkArlY 700 years have gone by since
Stephen Langton, Archbishop of Canter-
bury, backed by the barons, secured from
King John a charter whose most famous
clause reads Ko freeman shall be taken,
or imprisoned, or . , . . or outlawed, or
banished, or in any way destroyed ; nor will
we pass upon him, nor will we condemn him,
unless by the lawful judgment of his peers,
or by the law of the land. ’ Of the monarch
himself, who was obliged to swallow this
extremely bitter pill, a contemporary chroni-
cler wrote Foul as it is, hell itself is
defiled by the fouler presence of John.”
That ruler is further alluded to in the follow-
ing manner by one of the ablest and most
impartial of recent British historians “He
stands before us polluted with meanness,
cruelty, perjury, and murder. . . Arro-
gant in prosperity, abject in adversity, he
neither conciliated affection in the one, nor
excited esteem in the other,” But for the
priest Langton, who cheered the nobles
when their hearts failed them, Magna Charta
would not have seen the light when it did.
As it was, the concessions wrung from the
foresworn monarch in his abjectness would
have become s > much waste paper but for the
providential interposition of gluttony or
poison, which afforded him an opportunity of
testing the truth of his brother’s, CVkur de
Lion’s, statement ;—“ We came of the devil,
and we shall go to the devil.’’ For the knave
John no sooner escaped from the barons’
clutches than he induced Ins over-lord, the
Pope, to rescind the Charter. He then in-
vited t he sweepings of the Continent to come
to England for a little relaxation in the
throat-cutting business, much as his ancestor,
the Conqueror, had done 150 years before.
He would probably have succeeded in his
criminal intentions of destroying both the
Charter and those who demanded it but for
the providential interference already men-
tioned. In an article dealing with modern
judges and juries in British colonies, it is
necessary to make some reference, however
slight, to the circumstances from which the
“ palladium of liberty ” originated.
Down almost to our own day the clause in
the Charter which asserted “ We will sell to
no man, wo will not deny to any man, either
justice or right,” was all too frequently
honoured in the breach rather than in the
observance. Under the Tudors and the
Stuarts trial by jury was often a farce,
ending in a bloody tragedy. Indeed, for
nigh two centuries State trials generally
meant judicial murders. For acquitting Sir
Nicholas Throckmorton in the reign of the
bigot Mary, five of.the jury suffered eight
months’ imprisonment and a fine, in our
money, of £2lOO apiece. Bacon, the
“wisest, greatest, meanest of mankind,”
never refused a bribe, while the justice
meted by Jeffrey will keep his name in-
famous for all time. During the last century,
too, and even well into this, the manner in
which juries were sometimes addressed by
arrogant judges goes far to show that human
institutions, however theoretically admirable*
fail in compassing the objects for which
they were established when the men who
preside over or govern them are arbitrary Or
corrupt. It was long thought that the
dignity of a court, and justice between man
and man, could only le secured by investing
the presiding official with almost plenary
powers ; by allowing him a wide latitude in
the performance of his duties and by sur-
rounding him with the tawdry tags and
trappings which were supposed to impress the
vulgar with a sense of aw e. This accounts for
the fantastic tricks played by men who, placed
in positions whence removal is next to ini-
possible, deck (hemselves iii the bizarre
habiliiiiont.s- of medievalism and frequently
shock the public conscience by the eccentrici-
ties of their behaviour or Die capriciousness
of their sentences. From various manifesta-
tions of a high-handed arbitrariness shown,
by the Australian Bench it wmild appear as
if the time had fairly arrived when the whole
subject of the appointment, powers and
duties of both judges and juries should re-
ceive a thorough overhaul.
That a radical change is imperative will bo
denied by few who have paid any attention
to recent judicial doings. To begin with,
tire method of appointment is fundamentally
vicious, it is not meet that a mean and
scheming politician, hoisted for a brief period
into place by a Parliamentary intrigue, should
have the power to reward a firm supporter
or remove a dangerous opponent by kicking
him up-stairs, so to say, and lauding him on
the judicial lobby for a life-time. M st
colonial judges are men by no means dis-
tinguished for exceptionally high attainments
or rare moral qualities. Many of them have
been politicians who entered Parliament to
benefit themselves. Nor can.it be said that
in the majority of cases their departure
from the Legislature seriously injured tins
cause of progress. Had they retired into
private life on leaving, the country would
have had no cause for regret. In some
instances, indeed, their descent from one
bench was not so much to be welcomed as
their ascent of another to be deplored.
Human nature is pretty much the same the
World over. Ambitious men arc frequently
Unscrupulous and will continue so to the
end. Let us suppose, then, a Premier who
was at once ambitious, vain, and unscrupu-
lous—the combination is not so rare as many
imagine—“and the question naturally arises :
“Is it prudent to entrust such a man with the
power of rewarding a friend or removing an
enemy by raising him to a position where
practically he can flout public opinion during
the term of his natural life ?”
=» # #
There is a growing belief that the theory
of life-appointments to any posts is intrin-
sically unsound. That the practice is fre-
quently attended by grave irregularities the
experience of centuries goes to show. For a
long time Monarchy was thought superior to
Republicanism—it is so still by the idle ai d
ignorant—chiefly because of its assumed
stability. With a throne in the possession
of a particular family—a scat to which none
but certain members of that family could
aspire—it was thought that no bad men
would aim at the supreme power which was
out of their reach ; that there would be no
civil brawls and few foreign ones. The
incorrectness of this view is notorious.
Most of the wars which have desolated pro-
vinces and arrested the advance of civilisa-
tion have been caused by dynastic disputes
engendered by the minority of princes or
by the intrigues of favourites. The assump-
tion that society is more stable when the chief
magistrate holds his position for life than
when his tenure of office is limited is contrary
to experience. As with monarchs so with
judges.
# * #
It is unwarrantable to suppose that justice
would suffer if those who administered it
were appointed for specified terms, which
might bo renewed in the absence of legiti-
mate dissatisfaction with the administrators.
It may be said that judgeships of limited
duration would not bo sufficiently attractive
to induce able men to leave the Bar for the
Bench. To this it may be answered that
even now it is not the foremost barristers
who secure the higher appointments, and
that the highest skill in advocacy does not
necessarily carry wit h it a judicial mind; that
many of the leading advocates firmly decline
to go up, and that a limited tenure by no
means precludes re-appointment should the
judge desire it and his conduct while in
office justify it. Some of the highest
officials of the Crown, the (Governors of vast
and populous colonies, have to content them-
selves with commissions which arc only good
for a certain number of years. The tenure
that satisfies the superior officer should cer-
tainly be good enough for the inferior.
%
The present method of filling vacancies in
the judicature is therefore faulty for two
reasons. In the first place, the Premier, for
the time being, practically makes the appoint-
ment, and, in the next, not only is life the
limit of the term of office, but the difficulty
of getting quit of an incapable or unjust
judge is well nigh insuperable. Both ob
jections would disappear by relieving the
Premier of the great responsibility now im-
posed upon him and by restricting the tenure
to a definite period. The latter could be
accomplished with no difficulty and the
former with little. By electing the judges
as in America a stop would be at once put to
any possible favouritism or prejudice on the
part of the person who happened at the
moment to be the Crown’s chief adviser.
Upon the details of such elections it is un-
necessary to enter. Once grant the principle
that no office so high as that of a judgeship
should be at the disposal of a single politi-
cian. and means will quickly be discovered
for securing the best man willing to under-
take the duties;
* i *
Close upon the method of appointing
judges comes the equally important question
of their powers and duties. Indeed, in some
respects the subject of power and duty is of
far greater moment than that regarding the
mode of appointment. So superstitious has
been the reverence hitherto paid in legal
matters to everything emanating from Britain
that the plcurtry authority delegated to the
English Bench in times gone by and so
rarely exercised to-day has been copied ill
Australia and is not suffered to fall into
desuetude; The grave scandal arising from
the unwarrantable imprisonment of a
citizen for a long period at the caprice
of a bad-tempered public servant is un-
known in the tiny island of whose imperial
mantle we Australians are still content to be
the hem. That an official, in consequence of
occupying a raised seat in a medium-sized
room supposed to be open to the public, and
privileged to wear a mantle whose high
colour is brought into aggressive relief by
the character of the droll head-covering
above it, should possess the further privilege
of combining in himself the quadruple offices
of judge, jury, prosecutor, and witness, is
absurd on the face of it. Why such an
obvious abuse has been tolerated so long is
incomprehensible, except on the ground that
what is everybody’s business is nobody’s.
Three cases have recently occurred, in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and Queensland
respectively, which illustrate in a forcible
manner the inexpediency of placing the
citizen’s liberty and good name at the mercy
of any one man, however distinguished.
For it should never be forgotten that to
individual or clique ever yet obtained un-
fettered power without abusing it. In Vic-
toria a man of good character and report was
sentenced to a month’s imprisonment and a
smart fine without trial. In New South
Wales a person, whose tipsiness was possibly
the result of a conspiracy, secured a year’s
incarceration to think the matter over. The
monstrous Wilsox-CooFer case in Queens-
land need not he dwelt upon. In all these
cases the verdicts of juries should have pre-
ceded the sentences of the Courts.
# # #
The conviction is growing apace that the
duties of a Judge should not only be greatly
circumscribed but should be confined to ex-
plaining and deciding law-points. With the
jury would rest the dual offices of find-
ing verdicts and apportioning sentences
Within prescribed limits. As matters stand
at present a convicted prisoner’s punishment
not infrequently depends on the Judge’s
digestion or temper. ()n the one hand
Rh ad am axthus may lie the victim of a
bilious attack, on the other, his wife may
have been unconciliatory at breakfast, or his
daughter too demonstrative in her attach-
ment to roller-skating. In either case the
prisoner will probably obtain a few extra
years’ servitude owing to causes with which
he is quite unacquainted. All this would
be obviated by throwing on the jury the
responsibility, not alone of deciding the
question of innocence or guilt, but of record-
ing the sentence in the latter case. Sentences
so recorded would almost certainly he conso-
nant with the prevailing public opinion, and
not violently antagonistic to it as they so
frequently are at present. The body to
which the momentous question of guilt or
guiltlessness is referred might safely be en-
trusted to affix an appropriate penalty in the
event of conviction. At any rate society
would be saved from the capriciousness so
common now —a fitfulness which to-day
astonishes by the insufficiency of its punish-
ments and to-morrow disgusts by their
savagery.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Open Courts.
Mr. Justice Stephen, of the New South Wales
Supreme Court, lately took occasion to in-
veigh against those who contend that others
besides barristers and attorneys should have
audience on behalf of suitors in the courts
of justice. Wisdom, Q.C., belonged to this
class of legal reformers, and Robertson, Parkes,
and others admit to leanings in the same direc-
tion. Judge Stephen says, however:— “l wish
people of that way of thinking were hero to-day
to regard this as a specimen of what may happen
if such a suggest’on. were adopted. If the
change does come I hope I shall not be
a Judge of the tfourt, as not one-twen-
tieth part the business will lie trans-
acted. it would be unnecessary to canvass
Judge’s words. Now, it does not follow
that if the Bar were thrown open, as Parlia-
ment is, advocates would be, as a rule, worse or
more tedious than they now are. The prin-
ciple of free choice would still rest with litigants,
and the most effective advocates would be most
in demand. Inasmuch as the candidates for
employment would be more numerous, in so much
would it be incumbent on them to put forth their
best powers in the best form. Men given to waste
the. time of the Court, men given to needlessly
bait the presiding magistrate, men with loose
tongues, ribald tongues, or vulgar tongues, would
all. by the law of intellectual gravitation and com-
mercial competition, go to the wall. There would
be no need to frame a rule of Court for their
suppression. There would be no need to ban them
out by Act of Parliament. They would cease to
appear in cases simply because they could not get
litigants to employ them. The man who goes to
law either as plaintiff or defendant goes to win ;
the risk is purely his, and if he employs an advo-
cate at all it is one who will help him to win that
he will select. Therefore Judge Stkiuikn’h words
are not to be taken as an effective argument against
this branch of legal reform. At all events, Parlia-
ment, when called upon to consider the subject will,
if it determine to leave the arena of advocacy the
privileged and protected ground it is, have to rely
on better reasons than dread of incoin potency and
fear of wasting time.
-»
Power’s Safe Cure;
Ik Mu. Vm;u, Power gets his Legal Reform Bill
through the Queensland Assembly the local bar-
risters will have to attend to their business a
trifle more closely than is their present custom.
The Bill among many other startling and radical
innovations, provides that barristers and clients
shall contract without the intervention of" solid-'
tors, and that the barrister shall be legally answer-
able for negligence. Under such a law the common
incident of a Q.O. neglecting to attend to each of
three cases simultaneously would not occur very
often. Work would be better distributed than
under existing circumstances, and the client would
be sure of getting value for his money. And as
the intervention of a solicitor would be avoided;
the expenses of litigation would be decreased to an
extent alarming to the profession. These, in public
estimation, are substantial advantages, and such
radical reform will also be welcome to all
except the popular seniors at the Bar. Only-
one argument has ever been advanced in favour of
the existing irresponsibility of counsel. It is said
that the barrister is really not to blame for want
of attention to a case and should not be held
liable for his neglect ; that he cannot tell when
oases may be called on, and can’t help being
engaged elsewhere. The answer to this statement
is that if counsel take briefs in all courts indif-
ferently such a clashing of cases is bound to occur.
If attendance were necessary under penalty of ac-
tion for damages barristers would practise only in
one court or in one jurisdiction. If a man had 30
cases, say, in Equity, he would be able to attend
t > all of them in turn ; but if lie had one in Equity
a id one at Nisi Prius the chances are that both
might come on at the same time, “ Equity
men ” are always there when their cases
ai’e called on, for they take no Common
Law work, but the “successes” at Common
Law accept briefs in all courts with careless
freedom which nothing short of absolute irrespon-
sibility could engender. And there would be no
injustice in such a limitation. A man cannot
honestly sell his time twice over, and there would
be nothing in the new scheme to prevent his ob-
taining employment for all his time if suitors
chose to retain him. Mr, Power in this matter
seems to have hit upon a remedy which secures
the advantages of amalgamation, while it tends to
maintain the barrister as a specialist in his parti-
cular work of advocacy. We hope to see his Bill
pass, Queensland is close enough to New South
Wales and Victoria for the latter colonies to
borrow therefrom any measures that solve pro-
blems which vex them, and in several clauses Air.
Power, who is as good a Radical as he is a bar-
rister, seems to have struck rich patches in the
matter of law reform.
<,
“TO Him that Hath,” &c.
Australia is talked about, ludicrously enough
sometimes, as a glorious country for the working-
man. Every new country is that—to the working-
men who arrive first. We Anglo-Saxons, however,
so kill a country’s value to the people. Without
anything of profit to ourselves, or rather with
everything of profit to a very small fraction of us,
we introduce a system ready-made, which has to
be in operation only a few years to produce the
extremest types of fabulous wealth and abject
poverty. One of our first acts is to dispose of all
the land, then the later comers have greater facili-
ties to tramp about the country without work, or
starve on wharves in the city. Next we look
around anxiously for Capital. For the questionable
privilege of inducing men with money to specu-
late in Australia with a first-class chance of whole-
sale spoliation we make concessions to the foreign
syndicate and propitiate a distant aggregation of
hostile money-bags. We barter a province for the
dubious advantage of a railway. We part
with the fee simple of rich tracts of country
for the fictitious privilege “ settlement.”
We shoot onr gold-fields on the lease-grant prin-
ciple into the lap of Lombard-street. Then we
sit down in the wilderness of fraud and commer-
cial stvindledom and chant golden epics com-
memorating progress. A great mineral “find ” is
no longer a benefit to our own people. The load-
stones of Sandhurst and Ballarat and Beechworth
that attracted to Victoria the adventure and en-
terprise, the pluck and poverty, the brawn and
brain of Europe have been eclipsed by the great
mining companies who are worked to “exploit”
the continent for the purpose of building up
private fortunes ! What are private fortunes ? --
public misfortunes, public curses, public pestil-
ences. A private fortune is what ? Why, a lien
on the endeavour of our children. It is a draft at
sight oh the labour of futurity. It is* the stored
sweat and blood of the present which entitles
the storekeeper to live without sweating; hiji
children and great-grandchildren’s children after
him ' to feed and batten on the labour of
our descendents. A private fortune is that
thing which accrues by Labour giving its
munitions of war over to the enemy to Vie
used some day of future battle against itself,
Labour, tlie creator. A gold-field is now no longer
the rallying-poiut of independent Labour. It is
prey for Capital. Wherever there is anything to
spoil, there half-a-dozen are gathered together
fleshing their talons and pointing their beaks for
the banquet. The gold-field of to-day is the car-
ease where the eagles gather and the kites of com-
merce congregate. Mount Morgan, in Queensland,
is a case in point. It is “managed” by four or
five men. Its mere managing director - a com-
paratively small shareholder — draws £5000 a
month in dividends, and there are others who
draw four, five and six times as much.
This Mount Alorgau, this Ossa o-£ gold, which
has just yielded a dividend of half-a-crown
a share for this month of June - equal to £125,000 !
—is then a boon only to the people who have been
fortunate enough to get into the swim. To the
country at large, to the vast area called Queens-
land, it means next to nothing. Yet the half-
yearly balance-sheet which has just been adopted-
by its directors, shows that-the gross receipts for
the half-year, including a balance of £15,494 19s.,
lid. from the previous half-year, amounts to
£707,735 7s. 2d. ; the resultant of sales of gold,
£691,839 17s. 4d. ; other receipts, £399 9s. lid.,
together with the aforesaid balance. This sum,
divided amongst a “ field ” of 6000 miners, would


average close on £5 per week {it would thus pay
the current wages to 12,000 men); but in conse-
quence of a law, which is now no longer in opera-
tion, the mountain of gold—discovered but a few
years since—is a monopoly locked up against the
unfettered operations of Labour and employed
only to enrich the already wealthy, regarded in
the country in whicly it is situated as a curse
rather than a blessings inasmuch as the enormous
power lodged in the hands of the management
(viiables them to put the screw on ,J whenever
they may chose to sue for paper purchased at £15
and £16 which is now fluctuating between £8 and £9.
In the business circles of the North it lias passed
into a proverb that * 4 Rockhampton could be made
insolvent at a moment’s notice.” And this, not
because the mine at Mount Morgan is not a
bonanza, but because men in the insanity of
11 booming have gambled into the hands of
syndicates and have given them a hold upon their
future. A few months ago the people of New
South Wales were invited by a kind and paternal
government to enrich Lombard-street by parting
with their tramways. The scheme was blown
upon and retracted. When things are quiet again
it will be advanced under the rose and perfected
without ventilation. Upon its becoming known
it will create no indignation, no noise, no discus-
won. It is only the preliminary outrage that causes
the public snort. You threaten to kill and then
apologise. Before the apology is cold you draw
your knife across the victim's throat and its erst-
while incensed parent assists you to carry the
corpse to the boneyard. The history of Mount
Morgan contains the germ of a big lesson—only
nobody will heed it for a century or so !
"A Chemist Named Marshall, I Think.”
The Sydney D.T. is a very enterprising news-
sheet. It has taken part in various “ booms ”
relating to various types of metal and mud, slag
and syndicates. At present it has taken in hand
the burglary boom, and has distanced all other
(Sydney papers in ‘ ‘ working up ” the recent clumsy
attempts to operate on the connubial hash-em-
porium of an official wig-wearer. It gives a four-
column account of the campaign, an impressive
bulletin from the seat of war, a stirring description
of the night-attack, with groans of the wounded,
alarm of the besieged, shrieks, shots, reports of
firearms and the relief of the garrison, together
with a plan of the battlefield with the outworks
and mam defences of the citadel done in zincotype.
Had it been an account of the battle of ( iravelotte,
of Gettysburg, of Waterloo, of Batrachomyo-
machia it could not be more impressive, it
could have occupied no more space, it could
have received no more wrapt, earnest, enthusiastic,
rapturous, religious attention. Sub-heads abound.
One of these reads thus :— “Statement by Me.
Justice Stephen.” Under this three-line caption
appears the following precious remark :—
The sounds appeared to me to come from the grounds
of my next door neighbour—a chemist named Marshall.
I think. ’
Mark, he did “think”—he did not know —that
his next door neighbour was named Marshall.
Transpose the case. It is Mr. Marshall, chemist,
who speaks : —
The sounds appeared to me to come from the grounds
of my next door neighbour—a judge-man named Stephen,
I think.
Oh ! the brutal arrogance of the shopkeeper who
would sneer at a man because he had to earn his living
by wearing a meaningless and ugly wig constructed
of horsehair, who was compelled for the sake of a
daily allowance of bread and butter to hide his
mans form beneath a fantastic domino appro-
priated to the needs of his legal “shop.” Seriously,
Mr. Justice Stephen’s remark is a reminis-
cence of the convict days of the past
when the “officers” and “gentlemen” of the
New South Wales Corps were accustomed to
swagger about the streets of Sydney getting no
end of amusement and horse-playish fun out of
“ the feller that kept a shop.” It is a delicate little
hint that we ai-e still associated with the “dear
eld Mother Country.” It is a lovely reminder
anent the advantages of the Imperial connection.
It is fragrant with the perfume “ that sheds itself
around the throne and the altar.” It is the
apotheosis of the gilt-edged voice of the official
turtle crying in the wilderness and proclaiming
the advent of that day when the “masses” shall
be gathered like goats on the one hand, and the
“classes,” in the guise of sheep in wolves’cloth-
ing, shall dance rough-shod on their plebeian car-
casses. Oh ye blind and foolish shopkeepers, who
attempt to propitiate the god of Respectability by
gathering, in your picnic clothes, at Government
House levees, the very “Society’’you are so des-
perately anxious to force your way into is ruled by
the people who sneer at your avocations, and who
regard the man who “ keeps a shop ” as beings
utterly apart from themselves.
♦
The Unprofessional Magsman.
The burglar must have professional protection.
He must Vie allowed a share in the privileges that
"live hitherto conserved the existence of those
other and kindred professions whose operations
have been so disastrous to humanity and so fatal
to progress. Twice within a few weeks policemen
have been fired at and wounded. Twice within a
tew weeks delicate “ jobs” have been bungled by
prentice hands, and aristocratic nerves have been
hideously unstrung without their upper-crust pro-
prietors having had the compensating consolation of
being decently “burgled. ” It is the fate of man to be
rubbed ; it is his birthright and his privilege. This
marks his differentiation (more, far more, Than
syndicate-swindling or fraudulent land-booming)
iroin the lower animals. He is born with the
u gh and lofty destiny of being diddled ; the
mrglar is a necessity, and, being a necessity, his
railing must be protected. We know, that some-
body will object that the acknowledged branches
m the legal profession are more than sufficient to
r «heve humanity of all its wealth—superfluous and
otherwise. But then who is to rob the lawyer if
here be no burglar. Besides, man is human, and,
'mug human, he thirsts for variety. He desires
sometimes to be robbed quickly, neatly, and with-
out delay. Who can do this like the skilful, deft,
'Useless, adroit, and delicately-fingered burglar ?
fj°ok at the antiquity of the profession, too. Why,
'. ar 'tedates the authorised legal; and then, where
. oukl the law itself be without the burglar ? He
A the cause of all the heroism—exceptional we
<anut--o n the part of the police. He has given
any and many a judge an opportunity of airing
/ occasional eloquence. He is the hero of one
.the greatest of modern novels. ( He has in-
nf p pearly all the alleged masterpieces
. ./• .II- Sims. And this is the man whose
session is threatened by all the evils of
]® e V‘ om I )e ti fc ion. His very existence is chal-
, ?ged by the minnows of incompetence who
awk g disgrace upon his calling by shooting
r . • . ar djy at fine handsome policemen whose
n l' si ° n in, life is to be beautiful like the Apollo
p Vldere in white pantaloons on a broad asphalt
miH ei?e L nt ~ nofc to k® s h° fe at a dark place where
eo ai §nt prevents the fit of a uniform being
a 3 > ar, d noted. ' Before a man can call himself
and get a licence to kill at sight he must
pay a lot of exorbitant fees and purchase a number
of expensive instruments of slaughter. The
amateur burglar, the unprofessional magsman
attempts to encroach even on the doctor’s domain,
ihe beastly unemployed ” have ventured even to
kill policemen without a diploma. The lawyer
not altogether unalhed with the higher branches
of classical crib-cracking, has his particular privi-
leges securely fenced around and guarded against
The burghr only is »t the m™ “ it
the ignorant neophyte. He must bo protected,
ilis professional privileges must bo secured against
incompetent competitors. Otherwise delicate bur-
glary will become one of the lost arts. Xo man can
sleep m security with a sense of being burgled bv
an artist. On the contrary, his slumbers will be
disturbed by terrible visions of reports of police-
men and the shrieks of wounded revolvers Xo
coiistabJe will be alde to take his beat without an
ambulance-attachment. The ranks of the profes-
sional loafer will be deserted and the competent
Johnny Warder will disappear in the bungling
burglar. Thus another branch of high-class Z
fessional industry will be lost to this progressive
country, hor Heaven’s sake, as it is our lot and
our privilege to be robbed, let us be robbed in
peace ; let; us be burgled ”to the sound of sweet
music and singing birds ; let us be relieved of our
worthy gear while slumbering softly in the lap of
MORPHEUS—Iet us protect the burglars !
*. „
Thk ‘'loyalists ” of Melbourne are suggesting that
a short sketch of General Gordon’s career, drawn
up by a good old Tory hand, should be introduced
into the class-books used in Victorian State
Schools. The idea is that the little boys and girls
can thereby be taught to regard the crankv nigger-
butcher as a martyr to the-wicked Liberal policy
and a special victim of that Grand Old Man who
wanted to burst up the glorious Union of Great
Britain and Ireland. The military psalm-singer
Killed at Khartoum (because he was obstinately
determined to drag England into more bloodshed,
and wouldn’t leave when ordered) has been turned
to quite enough base political uses already without
being made into a Jingo sermon for infants. If he
must figure in class-books let it be as “Chinese”
Gordon, who spent some years of his inconsistent
life in educating a swarm of leprous heathens in
the murderous profession of arms.
That “ journalist ” whom the Duke of Cambridge
assaulted turns out to have been no less a person-
age than G. R. Sims, and the peculiar reticence of
the cable on this interesting point indicates a
downright conspiracy to ignore the celebrity of
any man associated with a radical paper —such as
the Referee. If fat old Cambridge had put his
royal paw upon the special reporter for an obscure
constitutional ” rag the name of the assailed one
(hitherto quite unknown to fame) would have been
sent to us for a certainty, but the author of the
Dagonet Ballads ” and a dozen little books
dealing with Outcast London is set down as “a
journalist. '’ At the present moment G. R. Sims
is undoubtedly the best read light litterateur in
the whole world. His verses are recited and his
plays are acted in every English-speaking
country, and his weekly three columns
have given the Referee a wider circulation
than that of any other newspaper ever printed
Such a following has he among the millions that
it had been fitter to head the aforesaid cable an-
nouncement ; “G. R. Sims assaulted by a duke.”
The journalist could _ make things uncommonly
warm for the Queen’s inflated cousin if he chose to
use his pen to that end, for such a pen is mightier
than the sword, especially when the sword is
wielded by a stuffed warrior who never went to
war but once, and was then taken ill immediately.
A leading San Francisco paper gets on its
hind-legs thus
War with England is inevitable. It will be of short
duration. England will have the advantage of the United
States, because the United States is unprepared for war
It is proper in one sense that America should be unpre-
pared for war. England will bombard our coast cities and
Play havoc with our commerce. All this we can stand
hut as sure as God lives, this republic will never pav one
dollar of indemnity to England. England may bombard
every coast city and destroy every American ship which
sails the ocean, but America will never submit to defeat
and never acknowledge that it lias been conquered, for
conqured this nation can never be. San Francisco may and
doubtless will be blown to smithereens, but all the same wo
can thrash every English soldier off the American con-
tinent. IV e shall take the Dominion of Canada and the
whole line of British America whenever this little
incident of war shall occur. Canada will inveigle the two
great powers of the English-speaking world to this inevit-
able and disastrous conflict. Six millions of small-
minded, jealous neighbours, half of whom hate England
because they are Romanists and Jesuits ; 10,000,6(10 of
Irish-Americans who also hate England ; 4000 miles of
border line, with a open Behrings Sea ; the fisheries
question which will never he adjusted ; a competive rail-
way from the Atlantic to the Pacific ; a fortified navy’
yard at Vancouver Island, with the Straits of San Juan de
Fuca protected by English fortifications ; English pride,
English valour, and English trade, render it altogether
impossible that England and America should avoid war.
Looking upon it as inevitable and unavoidable, we wel-
come it as hastening the time when our soil shall be
lighted by the aurora-borealis, our country bordered
by two oceans, and bounded upon the - south by
a cordon of republics with whom it will be our
and their interest to maintain peace. We shall
pick up Canada as we would a plum. Whenever this
vexatious neighbour provokes us to a war with England,
or, what is a better expression, whenever it provokes
England to make war upon the United States of America,
we will gobble it up and annex it, and, after holding it for
a term as a conquered province, we will make half-a-dozen
States of it, and admit them to the family of the great
republic. We are friendly with Canada and do not want
an inch of her sterile soil, nor any part of her very
curious and cranky population. We are friendly with
England and do not desire an acre of her colonial peg-
sessions. We have land enough and people enough,
but we cannot stand vexatious, arrogant, and imperious
neighbours. We have money enough and soldiers enough
and enough of courage and pride to guard and protect our
own country. We desire to be let alone. We desire to
maintain friendly relations with all the world. We wish to
avoid the necessity for a standing army. We desire to
avoidjfche expense of a navy and of coast defences, but if it
becomes necessary in defence of our soil to resist foreign
invasion, we would summon an army as numerous as that
of Xerxes. We would fight as did the Greeks at Mara-
thon. If coast defences are inevitable, we would sur-
round our shores with impregnable defences. If a navy
becomes a necessity, it should not alone rival that of
England, but should be equal to the combined fleets of all
the nations. Not a cent for tribute, but a thousand mil-
lions for defence should be the ultimatum of any proposi-
tion of war. Nor would we delay navy and coast defences.
If England fortifies her Canadian frontier, we would erect
a fortress commanding it by its strength of guns and its
power of resistance. If England builds a naval station in
our waters we must establish a more powerful one. Con-
sidering a war with England as unavoidable and inevi-
table, we would make friendly preparation for the en-
counter, looking our friend steadily in the face and being
ready for the conflict whenever England shall choose to
.permit Canada to provoke it.
Mr. Anderson, the Freetrade candidate for Red-
fern, New South Wales, when asked whether he
would favour the importation of English labour
to work on colonial contracts, vaguely replied that
all he had to say was that he would give every in-
telligent British subject an opportunity of obtain-
ing honest employment. This is the keynote of
Freetrade. Mr. Anderson is either an advocate
oi foreign pauper labour, or else he is a temporlser
who is afraid to disclaim sympathy with the capital-
ist as against the Australian workman. His reply is
tantamount to saying that the intelligent (?) British
u orkman, on the occasion of a labour crisis, affords
v aiua lie material to enlist against the intelligent
Australian workman. In the event of a struggle
between Labour and Capital, Mr. An person'
is very evidently one of those who would
import any sort of labour, intelligent or other-
wise, that would enable Capital to beat down the
price of wages and thereby euchre local industry.
Ihe regime of the Andersons means the displace-
ment of free Australian workmen by Chinese,
■Kanakas, Belgians, Germans, and sweating-den
material generally. The electors of Red fern
ought to be grateful to Mr. Anderson for being
f? ® x P llol t. . His reply contains the germ of all
that I rotectionists are fighting for.
*
Mr. I rank Stuart, who ousted Coppin from his
venerable seat in the Victorian Legislative
Assembly, went off with a magnificent bang in
his maiden speech. Xew members, as a rule, eon-
hne themselves to negative remarks of an apolo-
getic character, but this East Melbourne firework
determined to start his political career by adminis-
tering a strong dose of marmalade all round the
Senate shop. He therefore proceeded to mention,
m a vigorous baritone, that he and his colleagues
were immeasurably ahead of those other old rag-
shop legislators constituting the House of Com-
mons in power of debate and capacity for work,
as well as in independence and general intellec-
tuality.” Bravo ! our side. Compare Duncan
Gillies with Gladstone, for instance. Glad-
stone can t debate the Irish Question in the same
street with Gillies, who just says it’s an “insult,”
straight out, and gets on to the next business.
And as for capacity for work —well, the
Grand Old Man certainly does rise six hours
earlier than Duncan, but he is only chopping
down trees and fooling about with papers while
the v ictorian Old Man is lying in bed thinking
i' V I' 0 ass i s f his Governor. Then compare
the English Government “whip” with Jack
Gardiner for intellectuality. It makes us smile,
it do. If they both went into training we would
back Jack to kick 350 goals while the other fellow
was merely getting shoved over. Very likely he
doesn’t know the meaning of securing “another
behind silly old unintellectual Britisher. But,
without further harrowing the feelings of the
House of Commons by calling its attention to the
mental superiority of Jock Aim mo, Tommy Bent,
and Hell Hell Smith, let us rejoice that another
bounding kangaroo—for Frank Stuart is a native
—has made up his mind to give the Mother
Country fits.
Melbourne Public Library contains 111.000
volumes and over 100,000 pamphlets and parts.
A Sydney weekly paper makes a present of
a packet of cigarettes to-.every newsboy who sells a
certain number of copies. The Connecticut Legis-
lature have just now passed a bill prohibiting the
sale of tobacco to or the use of the same by “ any
person under 10 years of age. ”
Mv. W. Small, ex-gaoler of Berrima
(N.S.W.) prison, has been interviewed by a Sun-
day paper reporter. Mr. Small, being six feet
high and of powerful build, objects to coercive
measures; lie finds himself equal to any underfed
refractory prisoner, and condemns flogging.
The Centennial Exhibition balance-sheet
discloses many amusing little items. Sir Graham
Berry seems to have disposed of £2261, in an airv,
incidental way in London. The staff of that ex-
pensive suite of offices (which one passed on the
right before reaching the main entrance to the
show) absorbed £13,613, in one way or another.
The music ’‘boom” was carried through with a
net loss of £26,ooo—being £lOOO per week for
Cowen and culchaw. The jurors drank £972
worth of liquor beyond what they “sampled”
free, while stray “refreshments,” charged to no
particular department and consumed by the Lord
knows whom, cost the colony £744. These two
guzzling items are quite independent of cere-
monial expenses, £4468, also of miscellaneous ex-
penditure, £3923, both of which must include a
good deal of champagne and chicken. Then
there is the “Secretary’s emergency account ” of
£5OO, quite apart from'office expenses. The Sec.’s
emergencies must mean drinks and cabs, if they
mean anything, and the fact that they amounted
to exactly £soo—there being no subsequent rebate
on this account—is very, very humorous. Sir
James M ‘Bain’s £lOO a week for luncheon pur-
poses is not specially set down on the balance-
sheet, so it is presumably included in ceremonial
exs., or among that vague and uncertain miscel-
laneous. And if the Victorian public troubled
about anything except that the Exhibition has
swallowed up £250,000 (The Bulletin’s original
prediction) in round figures, they might want to
know whether M‘Bain spent the whole of his
£2600 in President’s weekly luncheons, or only a
part, and what part, and why they don’t give
particulars, and why the whole official drink,
food, and flummery expenditure is spread about,
instead of being massed into one appalling lump
sum.
Dear Bulletin’, — The cable to the effect
that our poor old friend, H.R.H. Field-Marshal
the “Shook” of “Gampridge,” has assaulted a
journalist, is certainly either a hoax or a fake-
up against the biggest poltroon in the British
or any other army. Cambridge began his
illustrious military career in the Crimea, where,
at the battle of Balaclava, he entirely lost com-
mand of himself when he got under fire ; wept and
howled and drew his pistol, swearing he would
shoot anyone who tried to stop him going away
home again. After that a medical board “sat”
on him, and reported that “the air and climate of
the Crimea were not suitable to his Highness’
health, ” who promptly returned to England. He
lias for years been renowned as the biggest old
fool and obstructor extant, and about 10 years ago
he was pounded by an officer in Piccadilly for one
of bis amorous vagaries. After politely defending
himself with his celebrated umbrella he took
refuge in a lollypop shop, where he entreated the
help of the damsel behind the counter, feebly
ejaculating to his assailant, “ Don’t, don’t, please
don’t: you really mustn’t, you know!” The
writer rises to add a personal reminiscence. He
chanced to be located in the same hotel and in an
adjacent room to the “ Shook’s ” bedroom at
Brighton on the occasion of one of the big annual
reviews. Cambridge and Prince Edward of
Meiningen slept in the same room, and during the
night the old Crimean hero got a sharp attack of
the colliwobbles, the result (doubtless) of a more
than usually hoggish stuffing of himself at dinner.
All that night were we kept awake by his moans
and groans, which every now and then burst out
into agonising entreaties to Meiningen: “ Oh,
Edvard, ton’t leave me ! I’m tying, Edvard !
Ton’t leave me, Edvard ! Yor Got’s sake, don’t
leave me!” And such, dear friends, is “Gam-
pridge, tire Gommander-in-Sheef of the British
army. ’’—Yours, Pboteos.
The Luckless Loafer.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He came up in the usual style,
All ceremony scorning,
A ragged coat, a ready smile,
A hearty, frank “Good morning ” ;
A loafer, thought I, by his look;
But there —if I could doubt it,
Out came his pipe, his finger took
The usual “ rake ” about it.
“ ’Ave got a match about yer, boss ? ”
r _ 1 had. and so I gave it.
Then, “ Just a pipe o’ bacca, boss ? ”
I had, nor did I save it.
Their little wants they ne’er conceal,
E’er frank and open-hearted.
Had I “ A tanner for a meal ? ”
And like a lamb I parted.
One touch of nature, so they say,
The wide world makes akin;
Beside me on the grass he lay,
And thug he did begin
“ Ah ! well! ” —two sighs (and one long puff)
As if with life he’d sever.
“ I’ve had such luck—it’s jolly rough,
I have sir, s’elp me never.”
“ You’ve been unfortunate ?” I asked,
My sympathies ne’er slumbered.
He then his recollection tasked
And poured out woes unnumbered.
“ Unfortunate,” said he, “Ah ! well! ”
(These “ Ah wells ” kept recurring)
“ My luck’s that bad —well—I can’t tell.”
He did though—ne’er demurring.
“ Ten years ago—near this ’ere land
Ah ! money then was made, sir,
I took a turn and tried my ’and ;
Ah ! then I’d got a trade, sir,
A hundred 1 quid ’ or so I got,
Then —just my luck—l ‘ loosed ’ it;
That summer came in bloomin’ hot,
My luck —I went and boozed it.
“ I once backed Ilex —and he won,
Got ten to one about it,
The smartest ‘biz ’ I ever done ”
(Indeed I did not doubt it),
“ Won fifty ‘ jim —it all got ‘blown,’
In "arf a week I spent it ”
(This in the most self-pitying tone) —-
“ There's "beastly luck f”—he meant it,
“ I then gits spliced—like silly men,
And formed a n ice connection;
I’d not got hitched at all, but then
I thought the gal perfection.
But, bless yer ’art, the blessed brats
And wife made such a rumpus,
I cuts the lot —I tell yer that’s
My sort o’ luck—it’s scrumptious.”
I waited quietly till he’d done,
Yor casting doubt, nor blaming,
Thought I—my mission, if I’ve one.
May be such men reclaiming.
I thus commenced : “My friend, you see
It’s your own fault —you know it.”
Said he, “ Xow don’t go blamin’ me,
It’s beastly luck, sir—blow it !
“ I’ve had no tucker these three days”
(His well-fed look belied it),
“ And not a drop o’ booze no ways ”
(His fragrant breath denied it)";
“1 don’t care now,” said he, “a jot,”
And then —as if to brave me,
“ I’ll h ave two long beers now I’ve got
That tanner what you gave me. ”
‘ “ You’ve health and strength,” I then replied,
He shrugged his brawny shoulders,
A pair that could, had he but tried,
Have shifted trees or boulders ;
“ And as for vxrrk, my man, you sec
There’s plenty—who can doubt it * ”
“ I’ve lost all ’art for work,” says lie,
“ And so I does without it,” "
One final effort then I made
To bring this man to reason :
“The summer gone, and then," I said,
“You’ll feel the winter season - ■
Xo food—you’ll starve ” —then did I see
His cunning smile—a cynic’s.
“Oh ! no,” says he—“ I gits a free
Blow out at the ‘Mechanics’.’ ”
We parted then, my hand he shook.
In frank and hearty manner,
Another pipe o’ bacca took,
And —yes —another “tanner.” •
Then left alone I sat forlorn,
While in my mind revolving
Why some are so “ unlucky ” born—
The problem still I’m solving.
W. E. IMESON.
44 Gore-street, Bitzroy, Melbourne.
Stone-dead—The petrified man.
Artesian bores—Teetotal lecturers.
Sir Richard Webster, leading counsel for
the Times before the TiMES-Parnell Commission,
has been banqueted and addressed by 5000 solici-
tors —in order, no doubt, to soothe his feelings
wounded by brutal Press criticism. There is a
Scotch proverb that says : “ Ae corbie winna pick
out anither corbie’s een.”
A magnificent goldfield has just been dis-
covered up North. According to a local paper
there is gold in the water, there is gold in the air,
gold everywhere. It is so plentiful that even-
miner carries his own gold-belt wherever he goes.
Some carry the metal in their teeth. The barmen
at the local publichouses make large sums every
week by brushing off and saving the gold-dust
which travellers bring in on their clothes The
handcuffs of the local police are gold-bands. The
most wonderful discovery of all is that the river
which runs through the camp is simply liquid gold.
Nets are set in the river over night to catch the
nuggets which come floating down, and these
miners make their breakfast off the gold-fish which
get caught along with the nuggets. Wash china
in the stream and it comes out gold plate. A
“ whaler” went in swimming and came out com-
pletely clad in gold armour, but not being satisfied
with a thirteen-carat suit, he went in again for a
second coat and was drowned by the weight. A
half-caste baby was changed into a golden cherub
by immersion in the water so that its mother
refused to own it. Cattle driven into the water so
that they may drink walk out on the other side
gilded and watered stock. Calves walk in and, on
emerging at the other side, get worshipped. To
obtain a rich golden butter it is only necessary to
kill and throw in a goat. People with the jaun-
dice have it turned into gold-fever right off. Is
it any wonder that people have the gold fever when
they live in a region so permeated with the stuff as
this is ?— Yankee perjury.


CORRESPONDENCE
“S.L.”: We consider the appointment of Mr.
Vale, a fanatical teetotaller, to the post of arbitrator in
the matter of compensation to publicans, a monstrous
job. Mr. Vale being an honourable man would, no doubt,
do what he considered fair, but no man is a competent
judge in his own cause, and there are canons of decency
which should be observed by even Mr. Duncan Gillies.
What happened when boss-teetotaller John Davies was
appointed by Parkes to the N.S.W. Licensing Bench is a
matter of history “ L.E.A.”: Because a revolver is a
most uncertain weapon in the hands of a man who is un-
practised or who can’t keep cool. At 15 paces it would be
safe in the loir/ run to back an average man with a heap of
road-metal beside him and who was only a fair stone-
thrower, against a man with a loaded six-shot navy revolver
“ Baldhead Write to G. R. Sims, Referee Office,
London, and he will tell you all about it. We don’t take
much stock in this matter ourselves ; so far, we are only
partially haldheaded 9 We’ll he rushing for the paraffin
when it’s too late. However, it can’t be helped. The paper
must be got 0ut.... “ J.L.” (Adelaide): Thoroughly so
“ J.C.B.”(Melbourne): In the words of Charles I.ami), “If
he is sober, he needn’t be so cursed proud about it.”
" Republican ” : Read Roman, French, English, and
American history, and it you are not then stocked with a
sufficient number of arguments to show the superiority of
a republic to a monarchy, go and join the Primrose League
at once. Parkin will take your name. We doubt not
that he has “the irons” about him “J.D.” (Mel-
bourne) ; John Price, the gaoler, was the original of Mar-
cus Clarke’s “ Maurice Frere,” in “ His Natural Life.”....
“Truth”: You are evidently a scandal-mongering busy*
body “ J.T.” (Lewis Ponds) : The thing, with all its
connections, is at a discount.... “ M.J.W.” : No, we do not
purpose publishing his portrait. Ho was disfigured before
death by the disease to which he succumbed “G.A."
(Burrowa): It certainly appears that the theatrical
manager concerning whom you write is a double-dyed
rascal, hut it would probably cost us half-a-million to pub-
lish your exposure of his alleged conduct. Why not get
him arrested and thus place the matter before the public ?
“ J.X.F.” (Duhho); Not quite up to the mark. ..
"F.W.1.”: Metre good, hut the rhyme—well, force
docs not rhyme with cross. The second poem is
much better, hut is unsuitable to our columns....
“An Orangeman ”: Yours is not the first complaint The
Bulletin has received regarding the administration
of the Police Super-annuation Fund. The practice
of supplementing this fund with half the fines is
wrong in principle, as it renders the police beneficially in-
terested in securing convictions “A.L.”: David
Buchanan is in favour of capital punishment, is he?
M el), this is only natural in a man who brags of the
numerous murderers whom he has (for a cash consideration)
“snatched” from the gallows “Xerxes” (Melbourne);
Every Protectionist should opi>ose Imperial Federation,
which simply means a scheme to force Freetrade on
Australia in the interests of British manufacturers
“ John Wahlron ” ; Many thanks for the suggestion....
“Pacha”: Will consider “F.A.8.”: When we print a
story we print it because we think it s good—and your
story is excellent—not for the sake of giving anybody “ a
turn.” If a story is good about a man at Cape York
whom Melbourne people don't know, it is also good if told
about a Melbourne man whom the Cape York people
don’t know. Mr. Benjamin Trovato is our man... “ A.W.”:
The thing is spoiled by the fact that in trying to find a
rhyme for “joy ” you select “ Pommeroy.” Now Pommery
is the name of the wine.... “ Cecil W.P.” : Thanks. Hope
to use it one of these days “A Sufferer ”: Will appear
next week “E.L.A.”: We often say we’ll put a con-
tribution “in” but we don't say where. Sometimes on
consideration we find we mean the basket.—[Many letters
held over.]
The (threepenny) Sydney Tribune, which
was started by the Sydney D.T. proprietors with a
view to, among other things, “ putting a head ”on
the nasty (sixpenny) Bulletin, is dead. It died
last week, aged seven years. Its proprietors—who
alone made the post-mortem, bossed the inquest,
and reported the “case” —say that they found
they could not, in these day's of quick communica-
tion, run from one office two competitive news-
papers ; and as it has teen with the D.T. and the
Tribune so it will, we predict, ultimately be with
all publications occupying similar positions with
respect to one another. But the public had also
found something; tluit the Tribune was a weak
imitation of The Bulletin ; that it was a “comic ”
paper without savee, which was owned by people
who advertised that “ Its illustrations are really
funny” (so they were); that it was not an indepen-
dent paper, but a paper altogether subservient
to the views of the bosses of a syndicate.
The extension of railway communication and
the ever-increasing area over which the daily
newspapers are delivered daily, instead of at
intervals of several days as in times gone by,
have in no way interfered with the progress of
The Bulletin, which has been run on lines that
will enable it to flourish when all its rivals are,
like the unhappy Tribune, in the cold and silent
tomb. Thefactis tliattwo general newspapers issued
by one proprietary can’t have a separate individu-
ality, and in a newspaper you can't have life without
individuality; you cannot journalistically serve
God and Caesar, unless you serve them with com-
pletely independent staffs. Look at the Fairfaxes,
for instance : with all their colossal wealth, they
haven't teen able to make their later-established
newspapers successes in the same sense as their
original paper, the Herald, is a success. Look at
the Argus ; their evening newspapers have teen
dismal frosts. The Australasian has only lived
because, unlike most weeklies issuing from a daily
newspaper office, it has teen run with a separate,
competent and expensive staff ; The Bulletin
has only lived because, dependent on no daily
paper and on no daily - newspaper proprietary,
it has fought for its own hand and has
teen nobody's slave, nobody’s enemy, and
nobody’s pal. > The average newspaper staff
hasn’t enough ability to go even half round
one newspaper, and yet its pig-headed pro-
prietor generally starts three or four. Within the
next few years most of the newspapers now in
existence in Sydney will be dead as the Marble
Man, and nobody will trouble to make a section of
their carcases. Any pious fool who wears a black
bell-topper and a shaved upper-lip can prosper as a
newspaper proprietor if you only give him 20 years’
start of everybody; and even the thickest-skulled
boor who inherits a big newspaper from his hard-
working, brainy predecessor cannot easily wreck it
utterly within 20 years. , .
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Theatre Royal “ New Babylon.”
Her Majesty’s “ Amos Clark.”
Opera House “ Moustique."
Criterion “ Money ”
Gaiety “Two Lovely Black Eyes.”
Exhibition Building Silbon-Stirks.
The Cyclorama The Battle of Gettysburg.
School of Arts Frank Lincoln.
Darlikghurst Skating Rink Darlinghurst.
Elite Skating Rink Redfern.
Trocadero Skating Rink Newtown.
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal.. “ Bells of Haslemere: ’
Princes,s’ “Jo.”
Opera House ", “ Old Curiosity Shop.
Alexandra “ Crimes of Paris.”
St. George’s Hall Rickards Company.
Victoria Hall Frank Clark’s Company.
Cyclorama “ Waterloo.”
“The Beggar Student” who became a
count has retired to live on his title, and “Mou-
stique ” took possession of the Opera House on
Tuesday. York-street is inflated with the new
boom. Kowalski chuckles to himself inside his
shirt-collar, and wipes away the graceful tribute
of a tear to the memory of Marcus Clarke with
the only disengaged cuff at his disposal. “ Mou-
stique ” deserves more attention from The Bulle-
tin than any piece produced for the first time on a
Tuesday night can possibly receive in the same
week. More anon.
% Vii -jfc
When Galileo asserted that the earth
moved and the sun stood still, the Inquisition took
a contract for his board and lodging until the old
man changed his opinion. When Manager Black,
at the Gettysburg Cyclorama, says : “I will leave
you to determine for yourselves, ladies and gentle-
men, where the real foreground ends and the
painting begins. Half of the medicine-chest before
you is a real box ; one of the bottles is also real,
the other one is painted, ” the hearers sigh as one
man and woman, and mentally congratulate him
that there is no Inquisition now worth talking
about outside the oeial Purity Society.
# Iff Hr
A suppressed but unmistakeable titter
escape ! the audience at the Sydney School of Arts,
The lecturer had let himself loose to glorify the
beauties of the Jenolan Caves with a lantern
accompaniment, and as a general view of the little
township was projected on the screen, the descrip-
tion of the excellent hotel accommodation and the
grandeur of the scenery was harmoniously illus-
trated by a magnificent front elevation in the
foreground of one of those {esthetic temples which
almost invariably occupy a prominent place in
photographs of Australian bush scenery. Photo-
graphers suffer in the effort to avoid these obtru-
sive incidents, but builders are inexorable. The
lantern did its work faithfully as the lecturer
drove ahead, and the outrage that should in the
interests of art have been a picturesque ruin,
defied the gravity of the spectators in its weather-
board rigidity and all the pomp of a fresh coat of
paint.
# # « *
The sombre respectability of Sydney School
of Arts isonce more disturbed by the sniggers of the
worldly at the instigation of Frank Lincoln, who
lias a lease of the building and a loan of the
Sydney people, and is making his hay while the
westerly winds blow and the nights are dark and
gruesome.
■ *- * * *-
The everyday cyclist who wobbles into
town with his shoulders humped up into an outline
of Mount Victoria, easting the shadow of a great
calamity on his track, can make a study of Baby
Stirk who came into the world like a country
newspaper to fill the blank of a long felt want.
As the glories of Mormonism were revealed only
to J. Smith, of pious memory, so to the Stirk family
alone has it been given to convert the highest pos-
sibilities of the bicycle into the current cash of
any realm they mark out for loot. The whole
Silbon-Stirk show travels southward next week
levying contributions at Wagga and Albury on its
way to Melbourne.
is
Anson’s benefit at the Sydney Criterion
gathered them in from all corners by land and
water on Saturday afternoon. A block of the real
“drammer” chopped from the solid, some re-
baptised splinters from the French, a chip from
“ Money,” with songs and a recitation, made a
big bill and a positively last appearance for Myra
Kemble, to whom good luck !
-*- #- *-
At Sydney Alhambra the joyous old flap-
doodle “goes on for ever ” to the strains of comic
minstrelsy and the chink of accumulating coin.
This week sees the advent of Kate Howard, a
London music-hall star.
•£- «-
A week devoted to futile attempts at
horse-stealing and a loose sort of interference with
other men’s wives and daughters, and Bland Holt
closes his season at Sydney Royal with the “New
Babylon. ” Most of the vices which brought the
old city to grief are so adulterated with modern
scientific developments and accessory virtues in
the new that it becomes as hopeless to attempt to
discover just where the ancient historians ran
short of facts and began to depend upon their own
resources so as to connect any incident of the plot
with the secret of England’s greatness or the in-
toxicating effects of crumpets concealed on the
person of John J. Lamb. “New Babylon ” is a
materialistic seance of heroes and heroines from
Ouida, Zola, Susannah and the Elders, the
Police News, Jules Verne, and the Pink ’Un,
ballasted with some extra cadavers and live horses.
Any of them might have appeared with eclat at
the Court of Nebuchadnezzer himself prior to the
grazing episode, except, perhaps, Aunt Crazy,
who gets too tight for toleration anywhere but in
a Parliamentary refreshment-room. At the end
of the week “ over goes the show ” to make room
for-the “ Yeomen of the Guard.”
* He * ■*
“Amos Clarke” at Her Majesty’s runs for
the week only, and makes way for the revival of
“In the Ranks” on Saturday. Amos is dignified
by the name of semi-historical with too much semi
and not enough history to take a prize at a dog
fight, albeit there are few characters in which
George Rignold has appeared to greater advantage.
The thin houses and the absence of applause which
have marked its career mean nothing more than a
reminder to managers that they alone are to blame
for educating the people’s taste up to a standard
in which pistols, vitriol, public ablutions and
parricide are as common as perjury in a police
court, and suddenly allowing the whole fabric to
collapse by an appeal to emotions which have
almost become extinct. Moreover, there is nobody
connected with the fortunes of Amos Clark to
corral public sympathy. In his villainy Amos is a
“ hatter,” and the only element of fun in his sur-
roundings is the drunken Patrico, who wants, at
least, two more “nips ” to qualify him properly as
a contrast to the dark shadows of the plot,
“The Bells of Haslemere,” a drama that
ran for 300 consecutive nights in London, has made a
commonplace start at Melbourne Royal. Generally
speaking, it is much more wildly impossible than
“ The Pointsman,” and two or three of the leading
characters in that strong, uneven work are but
inartistic replicas of their old selves in the present
trouble, the comparisons being odious and obvious.
Heroic interest is supported by a young squire
who allows himself to be chowsed out of his pos-
sessions under circumstances which arouse con-
tempt for his intelligence, and prepare the
audience for his subsequent miserable inability to
hit a bar of red-hot iron with a blacksmith’s ham-
mer. Also when he goes to America—as the mer-
cantile dupe of a frisky villain who fishes for trout
on a high road—and nearly gets lynched for his
imbecility, nobody watches his escape through a
rapid succession of scenes without wondering
why the authors didn’t allow him to be
wiped out of existence long before. In
the course of these American experiences the
feeble-minded squire does appear to die on a
swamp because he hasn’t strength to hail a passing
cardboard steamer that is pushed along the flowing
river by a stage carpenter in defiance of all aquatic
precedent. Later on, however, it transpires that
the squire didn’t die, for he pops up again in Eng-
land, together with the frisky villain, whose dead,
rigid features he had previously put under a red
silk handkerchief before he expired himself.
They both return from their lonely graves in order
to burst up the boss villain who has been travelling
round the globe to assure himself that they are no
more, and annex the squire’s girl, but they need
not have resurrected at all because the boss villain
is shot by a doddering old criminal while in the act
of trying to drown a woman he was once married
to, but has never seen since the bridal morning.
It is particularly noticeable that the boss villain’s
decease is taken for granted directly he tumbles
into a mill-stream. Nobody looks for his body or
wonders where it went to, and the chances are
that he recovers like all the other people. How-
ever, the bells of Haslemere ring, and it is vaguely
understood that things are set right again. This
entirely stupid drama gives a big show to Mr.
Bucklaw, the exponent of persecuted virtue, and
Mr. Bucklaw, a bright, sympathetic actor with a
manly voice and bearing, is barely strong enough
to support his heavy responsibility. Mr. Edward
Sass made his first appearance as the airy wrong-
doer with every possible success. Mr. James
Stevenson and Miss Chambers rattled through
comic characters, but most others of the excellent
company had better opportunities in the better
play just withdrawn. “Bells of Haslemere” is
not up to anticipations, except as a beautiful
spectacle,
% % * %
On Saturday night, too, a disconnected
delirium called “The Old Curiosity Shop ” was
produced at the Opera House by Miss Katie
Putnam, that all-pervading lady appearing alter-
nately as Little Nell and the Marchioness after
the manner of Carrie Swain and other variety
artists from the Far West. Considered as a
serious interpretress of Dickens’ conceptions, Miss
Putnam is a source of innocent merriment all the
time, although perhaps Little Nell has a pull over
the Marchioness in the matter of sustained
humour. Nell’s aged grandfather is also a wag of
the deepest dye who might interpolate a song and
dance without destroying the tender pathos of the
scene, and Quilp, in the hands of Mr. Arthur
Lawrence, establishes the hitherto unsuspected
fact that the original creation was really a Jew-
dealer in cast-off wearing.apparel. Each act of
“ The Old Curiosity Shop” terminated in a roar
of approbation from such as would have yelled a
few degrees louder if the alleged series of sketches
had been a circus or a wild-beast show.
*# * #
Likewise on Saturday a revival of “ The
Crimes of Paris ” was received with awful satisfac-
tion at the Alexandra. The mainstay of this cruel
outrage is Mr. Phil. Beck, who walks about the
capital of France followed by a trail of blood and
a detective, who allows him to keep on committing
crimes until it is time for the sated spectators to
bid their feast of horrors a sad adieu. This accom-
modating police agent is ably represented by Mr.
Dampier, and the “Demon” Beck displays great
force of character by always wearing light kid
gloves, save when engaged in shedding the gore of
his fellow-Parisians. Then he takes ’em off.
On humanitarian principles, however, “The
Crimes of Paris ” is to bo deprecated and grieved
over, but as the rival productions at the
Royal and Opera House are also subjects for
regret it makes no difference worth mentioning.
Melbourne drama has sunk to such a level that
even “Jo,” due at the Princess’s next Saturday,
will assist to raise it a few inches. “Dorothy,”-
with Nellie Stewart back again, brought comic
opera to a bright conclusion at the last-mentioned
house. To-night (Thursday) the amateur Roscians
play “ Merchant of Venice ” for the benefit of
Melbourne Orphan Asylum, where the orphans of
any persons dying under this ordeal will be merci-
fully looked after until they are old enough to
struggle with the black and bitter world.
%* % *
Rickards is a continual boom at St.
George’s Hall, and several other entertainments,
especially the Cyclorama, are flourishing like the
fig-tree on which the Good Samaritan hung his
hat while he carried along the poor beggar who
fell among thieves. A great Fancy Dress Carnival
was to transpire at St. James Park Rink last
Monday night, and if nothing occurred to prevent
it, it was the most prodigious affair of its kind that
ever shook the Cabbage Garden.
Signor de Beaupuis, the pianist from Por-
tugal, thumped away amidst the magnificent
emptiness of Melbourne Town Hall on three even-
ings last week. The Governor Robinsons and
suite did their best to give the ambitious artist a
fashionable send-off, but sassiety failed to rally
round the vice-regal standard, and poor Beaupuis
was a financial fizzle all the time. He is a capable
performer, however, who may yet draw larger
audiences to places where the wintry wind doesn't
whistle through their bones and strike a desolating
chill to the chest of solitude.
* *
Plans for the new Bijou Theatre, Mel-
bourne, have been disapproved by the Central
Board of Health sitting in solemn conclave,
although the Board’s own engineer had previously
passed them. It is now regarded as settled that
no theatre can be built save with a Bourke-street
frontage, and as Mr. Wilson is not prepared to
build under such conditions he will be left with a
fire-proof floor (already ordered) on his hands.
If the Board kindly condemns the Opera House
as unsafe then the Triumvirate will have no
opposition except at the Alexandra, which has no
license to sell alcoholic liquors, and the fortunate
firm will be able to get actors at 50 per cent,
reduction until another Melbourne theatre appears
upon the scene.
Charles Warner continues his successful
career at Adelaide Royal. “ Its Never too late to
Mend ” proved a big draw for three nights, and
the £7OOO nugget of suspicious-looking colour was
removed from an inch or two of dust, to the great
delight of the holy folks. “Dora” has had its
usual tear-producing effect, and “The Barrister ”
has been a success; “Lady of Lyons” for one
night, and then “Hamlet,” witli Warner as the
Dane. Messrs. Vincent, Flemming, Deering,
Stewart, Misses Ada Ward, Gracie Warner, and
the remainder of a strong lot have been working
hard. Tommy Hudson’s burlesque company, in
“ Dick Whittington,” keeps merrily along, while
the Strasburg Clock and the Indian Museum are
still things of joy.
** * *
A quarter of a century ago or more J ohnny
Hydes, the actor, who died a few years back, was
considered the handsomest man and the greatest
beau in Sydney. Even the young hangers-on
at Government House chased Johnny about to
find out the name of the tailor who “built” his
clothes. Johnny, however, kept it a dead secret—
for reasons. At last a smart young aide-de-camp
got wind of the actor’s sartorial artist. “ I be-
lieve —ah,” he commenced, “ that —ah —you make
Mistah Hydes’, the actah’s clothes?” “I do ! 1
do !! Ido! ! !” yelled the tailor. “ An’ if you're
a friend of his’n you can’t get no clothes made
*- *- * *-
Colonel Mapleson’s “ Operatic Memoirs
brim over with good things. At Washington he
put on Wagner's “ Flying Dutchman ” in magni-
ficent style. The big snip, with two masts and
sails, came on the stage full of sailors, but it cap-
sized towards the audience, pitching all the sailors
out. They pretended to swim. The masts and
sails crashed through the flies, and came right
over the orchestra and stalls. When the spectacle
of the “ Cataract of the Ganges ” was put on at
Drury Lane with real horses one of them fell over
into the orchestra, but fortunately hurt nobody,
though he put his foot in it—the big drum.
*# * *
The Amy Sherwin Opera Company had a
bad time in India. We begin to fear that Amy s
carriage will be dragged along by excited citizens
never again.
** * *
Mary Dickens, a grand-daughter of the
novelist, is playing the part of Little Lord 1 auut-
leroy in English provincial towns. There arc
people living who assert that Charles Dickens
himself was one of the finest comedians ever seen,
and perhaps his talent, which certainly missed a
generation, has cropped up again in little Miss
Mary. A son of Dickens, living in Victoria, com-
plains that it is rather rough on a man to have nac
a father who makes a man look a duffer by con -
parison, doncherknow.
** * *
This yarn comes from the London cor-
respondent to the Argus;— “The conditions
on which Madame Melba has been engaged a
excellent as things go at the Paris Opera,
directors have offered her an engagement tor
season at £240 a month, which is just twelve q
what is being given toMdlle. Eames, the America
prima donna, whose dehut was such a stria o
success.” At that rate the successful Yankee .
—a Grand Opera prima donna, mark .—is r ®
ling in a salary of £5 per week. She ought to I
up lyric triumphs and take in washing.
** * *
The financial opportunities of actors ttai o
been improving for a century past, except
OH, MY STARS!
The other day they showed nay
A nice namby-pamby book. Notices
Of the Australian actresses, with their photos.—
It started the kaleidoscope a-going.
I thought of Austral’s good old actresses in Cop-
pin’s time —
Mesdames Cameron, Avius, Arabin, and Thomson;
Mrs. Charley Young’s mother; of her, too, I
thought,
And Fanny Cathcart, so bright, fresh, and spark-
ling,
Alack and well a day ! Some Sydney friends
Were present, too, such as Mrs. Jones and Mrs.
Guerin.
I bethought me of the grand old women—
Mrs. Phillips, good Mother Wooldridge, and the
rest.
But, of course, my leaning was more to the young
ones—
That is to say, those who were young once.
“ I was a fine lady once,” says old Dame Crazy in
“ New' Babylon ”;
She was a sister of dear Mother Guttersnipe,
Familiar and by all means vulgar.
Kate Warde, Kate O’Reilly, Mary Provost,
Here are some who did bewitch our goldfields—
Ball'rat, Bendigo, Geelong, and Castlemaine ;
Also Maryboro’, Lam plough, Ingle wmod, etcetera.
Etcetera, etcetera. When the good old plays
Were Flowers of the Forest and Green Bushes,
With old Ted Holloway between whiles as a sailor.
Well, in time we got more ci vilised,
But whether the acting be or be not better is a
question.
D’ye remember the sisters Gougenheim ?
Adelaide and Joey ?
Who is this that now comes bounding
As Aladdin? ’Tis Julia Mathews, and with her
George Fawcett. I think, too, of Rosa Dunn,
And sister Marion, whose name
Is linked with one of the immortals, dear Marcus
Clarke ;
Of Madame Celeste w'e got more than the fag-end;
Her Miami, Cynthia, and House on the Bridge
Of Notre Dame.
Of Flora Anstead I have fair memories
From Sydney and New Zealand, and still she can
With her good solid art delight us.
Mrs. Charley Mathews is fresh in the remembrance;
Miss Cleveland, Adelaide Bowring and Rose
Evans,
And can I forget my old love Rose Edouin ?
No, never, while the world revolves on its own
axle-tree.
Subject to the Constitution of the United States
And Bland Holt. |
That reminds me of pleasant Lena Edwin,
Lena Carey, and sweetest Hattie Shepparde.
Stern Lady Macbeths rise up by the dozen.
Miss Dargon and Genevieve Ward the best;
She of the ever-perennial “ Forget Me Not,”
With her it is as Rip with Jefferson,
Some time I must give the good old actors
A turn likewise.
But stay, there’s Ristori 1 Medea,
Marie Antoinette, Queen Elizabeth, and Mary
Stuart;
Janauschek, too, a fair Dutch-built rival.
My space is gone, or I had meant to touch upon
The beauties of the present. They must wait.


Hvrsford's Avid Pliospliatc,
TEE BEST' TONIC
known, furnishing sustenance to both brain, and body.
Mr. FRANK LINCOLN,
THIS AND EVERY EVENING
AT
SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS,
PITT STREET.
STANDING ROOD® ONLY I
NIGHTLY
THE SUCCESS OF THE YEAR!
“One man, a whole show.”—The Uulleti.v.
Box Plan at Nicholson's. Manager, L. J. LuHK.
regards benefits, Garrick, Siddons, and other
great memories of the past, used, it is alleged, to
net as much as £9OO from a “ ben.,” but we don’t
know how they managed it. Presumably the
spectators pitched money on the stage at the ter-
mination of a great scene, as they now do at Sal-
vation Harmy meetings after the capting has been
giving ’em Sheol.
At Poverty Point.
Those long-legged slips in the opera-houffe choruses get
old at about 27. Some are settled in Sydney. They
are sad-eyed, inclined to melancholy. Those that didn’t
come with the Soldene Troupe regard it as an awful asper-
sion on them it you say they did. It’s a cut higher to have
come with the Tambour-Major or the Boccaccio.
Says Johnny Toole to Garner : “ What sort of a chap’s
Musgrove?” Says Garner: “ Oh, a real jolly fellow. You
must dig him in the ribs, and say ‘ Hallo, Muzzy !’ That’ll
fetch him.” Slightually.
When W. S. Lyster was a middy, he heard Coppin sing
“ Billy Barlow,” at the Dublin Theatre. Landing in Syd-
ney, Lyster went to the old Vic., and there was the same
Coppin singing the same “ Billy Barlow.”
Some Melbourne Unitarians complain that they are full
up of Tragedian Macully as parson, and want Walters
hack.
Cowen, on his trip to Australia, thought out a grand
opera. He is writing away at the score in London. A
literary man is at work on the libretto.
If any of the people at Melbourne Princess Theatre
have any little differences to settle, there is Costello and
Nathan’s Athletic Hall available. We don’t want rows at
the wing during a performance.
_ \
y\ o u i ray u
a
fulfil
Sy °h7y,
.QM.C *
d
THE SILBON-STIRKS.
Tfifi- Beck inserted in the theatrical advertisements in
Mel non me a delicious morceau. I n almost as many words, it
admits that “Madame Midas” isalihel on John Whiteman,
" iierefore the ingenuous Phil, will only keep it on four
'nghts more. That is to say, till the attraction is knocked
out of it, together with the additional attraction afforded
by Whiteman’s threats.
According to latest accounts Jeffreys Lewis was in
needy circumstances in San Francisco, and Modjeska was
helping in a benefit for her.
Marie Iloze has decided not to accept any more “ floral
tributes” when on the operatic stage. But diamonds,
probably, will continue to he taken as before.
The Argus gravely states that an Italian operatic tenor,
named Tamagno, gets £320 a night in his own country,
which Tub Bulletin rises to mention is pure rubbish.
Santley made his first appearance on the stage in 1853.
He has been singing incessantly ever since.
Madame Melba is getting along nicely. Tire latest is
that she has been unable to sing before the Queen “ owing
to indisposition.”
. The original cast of 11. J. Byron’s “ Dearer Than Life,”
London, 20 years ago, was very remarkable, including
“fug, Toole, Wyndham, Clayton, Lionel Brough, and
,Miss Neilson, all people who rose to eminence.
Carlotta Patti (Mrs. De Munck) is dead. She had a
beautiful voice, hut she was plain and lame and she hated
her successful sister with a hatred which ail the languages
in and out of heaven could not express.
Poor little W. 11. Waters, Cooky Waters, “Cailboy,”is
at a low ebb in Melbourne in packet and health. People
Ijay we mustn’t joke over Poverty Point. Well, we won’t.
, then, pros, of Australasia. Every one of you knows
Waters. He has done a good turn for many a one, and is
in low waters. Give him a “ ben.”
Carl Rosa, the British operatic impresario, who died
the other day, was a terrible skinflint and singularly devoid
°f popular qualities.
Signor Beaupuis came off fairly well, emulating Pianist
Ketten at Melbourne Town Hall. Madame Bentami was
the lady element in the concerto. She has as fine a mouth
as Louise Pomeroy. She unpacks it, and Una Voce, etc.,
comes out. Grand bow-window woman. Sails on in
style- Fine amis. Has an odd knack of tickling - the hack
of her neck before she sings. Brings it out somehow.
Then she hitches up her left glove (24-button), and away
comes Rossini's Ta dah dee, Te di do, Te tiddly tiddly
tiddly ej-e do. Don’t you recognise the Barber?
The Henglers, father and son, of Hengler’s Circus,
London, both died recently.
Mr. G. C. Miln was a gigantic boom in Ballarat last
week. Ho turned away money every night and finished
with a Shakespearian meeting which will result in a
speedy setting up of another marble man, fashioned after
the traditional image of Immortal William.
The Bancrofts’ Autobiography is out, sixth edition, in a
handy half-crown volume. Capital reading—infinitely
better than the muck in Toole by Hatton. The genesis (if
such Bancroft productions as “Society,” “Caste,” “Ours,”
“ Diplomacy,” &0., is described sensibly and graphically.
Miss Glyn is dead—that grand old actress. Her Cleo-
patra and Lady Macbeth were magnificent. Indeed, she
leaves no successor, and fairly rivalled Miss Cushman.
She married Mr. Dallas, a leader-writer on the Times. In
thc_ course _ of some legal proceedings it came out that
their marriage was very simple. They only read the
Church Matrimony Service together. This is cheap.
Saves your parson-toll, two “quid,” flveQ., ten Q., twenty
Q-, according to that nice accuracy with which the Rev.
.Morphine Velvet gauges your pocket.
The veteran Melbourne actor, par excellence, is Edward
Gladstone, whose little study of the humble pieman, in
“ Madame Midas,” is just as carefully done as his Frederick
Noble, to Charley Matthews’ Affable Hawk in the “Game
of Speculation,” when first produced at the Lyceum
Theatre, London (where Irving is now) in 1851. Twenty
years afterwards, Gladstone acted the same part to Chas.
Matthews in Melbourne. Old Gladdy has racy memories
of Brooke, Sullivan, Matthews, and everybody. Such a
man does honour to the stage as much as a Macready. He
puts one in mind of an old Davenport there used to be in
London. People complained that Davenport wanted
more spirit in his acting. He couldn’t understand it, and
asked, “ What do they want ? lam always neat, always
letter-perfect, and my wig combed not an hour ago !”
The most atrocious character ever an honest actor was
thrust into was in “ Lena the Madcap,” Dr. Grimshaw,
impersonated by A. R. Laurence. He only saved the
theatre from being pulled down by making up in (lie
likeness of Dr, Rose of Weeding fame.
If ho hadn’t made up for Doctor Rose
The audience would have come to blows
In the fury of their rage.
The stall chairs would have strewed the stage,
With Kitty Putman drowned in gore,
No Manr Land-dry for Saint Main - .
“ You’ll Lose Me I” never would he found,
And Boniface lose his senseless round.
“Jack” Thorpe, a very useful actor in his day, went
over to the great majority and was buried last week. He
had a hard struggle during ins later days, and now
Poverty Point will see him no more. Vale !
Charles Warner is forming a company for a N.Z. tour.
Ada Ward is also forming a company to travel.
It was remarked the other day that Rignold's advertise-
ment for “ Amos Clark” was ail Riguold and a press notice.
’Twas ever thus.
Young Alfred Phillips, lately recovered from a very
severe attack of typhoid, re-joins Charles Warner shortly.
A Sunday sheet recently stated that when Marcus
Clarke and Henri Kowalski were writing and composing
“Moustique” difficulties arose through each not under-
standing the other’s native tongue. This is erroneous.
Marcus Clarke could speak French fairly—better, in fact,
than Kowalski at that time could speak English. Marcus
Clarke’s mother was a Frenchwoman.
“Jo” Jennie Lee has developed much adipose t tissue
during her absence in England. With her “Jo” is now
quite a “ fat” part.
Frank Lincoln has been swallowing a remedy for sun-
burn, used by his wife, in place of another decoction,
recommended as “astimulant for the brain, a palliative
for the nerves, and a tonic for digestion.”
Snazelle, a single-handed entertainer of excellent
quality, follows Frank Lincoln at Sydney School of Arts—
under engagement to F. E. Hiscocks.
Willie Warner, Australia’s cleverest music-hall comedian,
lias taken his passage for London per s.s. Austral. Lon-
dou will shriek at “ Maloney’s Fenian Cat! ”
The Borani Brothers will return to London shortly.
Patti Rosa, who lately made a hit in London as “Boh,”
was out here some years ago with Cooper and Bailey’s
side-show as a doggish Mr. Arthur Garner made her an
offer for an Australian engagement lately, but it is not
known when she will come
Jennie Watt-Tanner is playing at Terry’s Theatre, Lon-
don, in matinee performances. We hope to hear of her
soon in the nightly hills.
Prof. Baldwin wants Eiffel to let him make parachute
descents from the top of his Tower.
A plump ar.d pleasing member of the Gaiety Burlesque
Company, named May Russell, who, if we remember
aright, while in Australia rejoiced in a brilliantly-gilded
dome, has lately entered into a matnmomal engagement
at Detroit (L.S.) with F. G. Pakenham, of Minneapolis,
alleged in the American papers to be a wealthy and aris-
tooratic Englishman, exiled from home on account of his
penchant for this lightly-attired blossom of burlesque.
“ It takes a caif to catch a calf,” as the comic opera
singer said when she gave a wicked look and saucy kick in
the direction of the orchestra stalls.
Wilson Barrett may visit Australia after his American
tour.
Willis, ALP., of N.S.W., lias written an Australian
drama, bight ‘‘The Overseer.” He has “talked soft ”to
George Rignold, and it wdl be produced at Ilei Majesty s.
A certain caterer for the public avers that S3'dney is the
meanestshow town he ever knocked against. Ladies
clothed in silks, satins, furs, ostrich-feathers, opera-
cloaks, &0., are driven to the door in buggies and cabs by
howling dudes in dress-suits, corn-floured pants, patent
Slippers, and eye-glasses, and after a brief pause and a
flippant, “ Where shall we go, dear ?” they trip lightly
upstairs to the«f‘ bob ” seats, leaving behind the odour of
opoponax and a badly taken-in ticket-taker.
Several enraged correspondents have been airing them-
selves in the ,S.M. Herald daring the week on the subject,
of women wearing - hats in the stalls. All tins fuss on the
“ hat question ” is evidently made by irate men on the
eve of a season of leg-opera.
G. B. \V. Lewis lias just pulled down a big galvanised
iron shed next his house on St. Kilda Road, Melbourne.
The shed had a romance. Lewis stored a lot of old Bijou
Theatre scenery in it. His servant girl went mad for love
of a butcher, baker, or someone, and was missed. They
found her lying on the old scenery, starved to death. This
heat all the dramas ever acted in front of the scenery,
even such as “ Susan ITopley,” or the “Vicissitudes of a
Servant Girl,” and “ Bertha, the Sewing Machine Girl,” or
“ Death at the Wheel.”
Tlie latest pantomime at Drury Lane was performed 176
times, the longest run on record for a class of entertain-
ment which is dying hard.
Irving’s next production, at the Lyceum, is the ■ “ Dead
Heart ,” by Watts Phillips, first acted at the Adeiphi 30
years ago, with Ben Webster as Robert Landry, which
Irving will take. The leading female part is not much of
a one for Ellen Terry. The play is all about the French
Revolution—the guillotine, Revolutionary Tribunal, &c.
Tims it ought to catch on. Yet it is only a hash of
Dumas’ “ Chevalier do Maison Rouge,” and Dickens’
“ Tale of Two Cities.” Toole acted a miserable comic part
in the original production. After reading the play over
we have an idea that Irving will get Wills to touch it up a
bit, and modernise it.
We snigger. A great sacred concert was recently given
at Boston, U.S., at which Mr. Fred. Leslie and Miss Nellie
Farren appeared, also Miss Marion Hood and Miss Letty
Lind. We don’t suppose the Marquis of Queensberry was
there, for he is an Agnostic, you know.
The Silbon-Stirk Combination.
The subject of the accompanying sketch—the
famous Silbon-Stirk Organisation—exercises an
especial interest by the fact that every artist
therein depicted possesses a very exceptional
degree of talent. It is probable that during the
past several weeks the whole of the amusement-
going public of Sydney has witnessed the unique
performances of these distinguished performers in
the Exhibition Building, at Prince Alfred Park,
and it is scarcely questionable that no such organi-
sation has ever been seen before in these colonies.
This sketch embodies the counterfeit present-
ment of the intrepid Silbons marvels of
grace and daring ; the .Misses Kate, Ida, Walter
and Cornelius ; the five Stirks (or, mathematically
speaking, the If wonders who will immortalize
that name); the miraculous Moulton and Hash-
way; the ineffably funny Hales, and the uni-
versally copied, but never equalled, Girards. The
series of performances afforded by the enterprise
of F. I liscocks and .1 immy M ‘Mahon may be con-
sidered in the light of a public benefact ion, regarded
from the point of view of “the greatest good for the
greatest number.” The immense crowds that have
nightly flocked to the Exhibition Building during
the past month have afforded convincing proof of
the complete success of a novel and plucky
managerial enterprise. The only regretable
feature of the Silbon season is its approaching ter-
mination. The last performances will occur on
Saturday next—afternoon and evening. On
Friday the vice-regal party will be present and on
Monday this constellation of “ sure enough' stars
will move onward, shining in transit on Goulburn
and Albury and then upon Melbourne where they
will illumine the Bourke-street Opera House
for five weeks before finally falling into
their true orbit in South America. According to
Kepler’s laws “ planets revolve in ellipses around
the sun.” The fate of all future imitators must bo
of this elliptical nature. I t will be hard to pro-
duce so effulgent a luminary as “the Silbon-
Stirks.”
Somebody has been writing to say that the
man lost in the ranges near Bright (Yic.)isno(
.Tolly, as reported. We shouldn’t think he was,
Not very Jolly, anyway.


A CHANCE FOR BARMAIDS.
MUiE Proprietors of WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
have; offered a Hkward of Fifty Pounds
(£5O) for information that will secure convic-
tion of anyone
Filling WOLFES SCHNAPPS BOTTLES
with any other Liquor
and Retailing- same over Bar with any other
Liquor. The Penalty under 28 Victoria 9 is
Two Years’ Imprisonment.
“Margery.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was rather late in the afternoon when the
head-gaoler unexpectedly entered the turnkey’s
room. The turnkey was asleep by tin l fire.
The head-gaoler aroused him and told him to get
his keys and come along.
The two walked down the passage together, the
turnkey a little behind, keeping step, till they
reached corridor Q. This was the farthest corridor
from the big quadrange and the gates. It was also
the darkest; ten or twelve yards down it, in.the
shadow between two of the small grated skylights,
the turnkey saw someone standing close to the
wall.
The person was tall and dressed in a big brown
ulster which was buttoned up to his chin. His
hat was a wide-awake, a size or so too large for
him. He also wore a scarf of silk, which muffled
his chin, It would be difficult to make out his
features.
He looked at them as they came round the
corner of corridor P into corridor Q, and then
raising his right arm suddenly made a threatening
gesture.
The head-gaoler stopped at once.
“ Stop !” he said to the turnkey.
The turnkey stopped.
The Man made another gesture, extending and
withdrawing his hand as if taking something.
“Give me the keys,” said the head-gaoler.
The turnkey gave them slowly.
“And go back to your room,” said the head-
gaoler.
The turnkey wheeled round and walked away
down corridor P, his heavy boots awaking the
echoes.
The head-gaoler waited till the sound of them
had almost died away and then turned and came
to the man.
“ That was a mistake,” said the. Man, “why did
you bring him ?”
“ I did not understand, sir,” said the head
gaoler.
“ Lead on,” said the Man.
The head-gaoler proceeded down the corridor
and stopped before the last cell ou the left-hand
side.
He sorted out the keys, found the one ho re-
quired, and thrust it into the lock.
“ >Stay,” said the Man in a whisper.
The head-gaoler stayed.
“ Is it certain that ho is not armed ?” asked the
man.
“ Armed, sir ? Why, certainly not ? How
should ho be ?”
“ If he forced his way out of the cell he would
have to escape by here” (pointing down the cor-
ridor.) “No other way possible?”
“ None.”
“ You have the revolver as was directed ?”
The head-gaoler drew out of his coat-pocket a
I iovernment-service, double-action revolver.
“ Go up to the end of the passage and round
t lie corner and wait there. Stand past the first
window. If you hear a shot come here at once to
my assistance. If you hear a whistle, then it is I.
If you hear steps without the whistle, then be
ready to shoot him the moment he turns the
corner. You are sure he cannot hear us ?” “
“ Certain, sir. Not even if we spoke quite
loud. This cell has no grate and the door fits
hermetically. That was done before he arrived.
1 do not know why.”
“ No one is in any of the other cells in this
passage ?”
“ No, sir ; nor yet in corridor P. That was the
order.”
“ Now go back. You perfectly understand
what to do ?”
“ Yes, sir. If I hear a shot”
“.Or a shout, or any noise, in fact ”
“To come at once. To stand past the first
window in corridor P, and be ready to shoot him
if he comes round the corner. If it is you coming
you will whistle.”
“ I will whistle . . . .the Marseillaise.”
“Yes, sir.”
“ Now go,”
The head-gaoler went along the corridor, the
Man watching him.
“In truth,” he said to himself, “ lam a bungler.
This was not thought out as it should have been.”
He took hold of the key and with some effort
turned it in the lock. Then, waiting for a
moment, he pressed open the door with his foot
and stood looking in.
It was a rather large, high cell, quite bare of
furniture save for an iron stump bedstead in the
right-hand cornel’.
Up by the ceiling on the side facing the door
was a small grated window. The sunlight poured
in through it and lit up all the cell. It evidently
faced due west where the sun was setting.
The Man’s eyes were fixed on the bedstead and
on a person who was sitting on it.
He sat with his knees close together and his
hands on them. He was slightly built, clothed
in the convict’s flannel vest, canvas trousers and
shoes. His head had been shaved, and his upper
lip, chin, and jaws were just beginning to bristle
with the sprouting hair.
He had'a rather oval, brow and skull ; high
cheek-bones ; thin, colourless lips.
He sat there without the slightest movement,
his eyes fixed on the stone-floor.
“Well?’’said the Man, “ How are you?”
The convict looked up.
His brows contracted suddenly and showed a
pair of large dark eyes.
They looked at one another in silence.
The Man had both his hands in the roomy side-
pockets of liis ulster. The convict had tightened
his hands on his knees. The knuckles stood up
sharp and bony.
“ Well?” repeated the Man, “how do you like
the idea of wiping out ?”
The convict lowered and lifted his eyes.
“ Why do you come here ?” he asked. “What
do you want?” He had a slight, a very slight
foreign accent.
“It is very simple. I want two things. The
first is the letter. The second is the intelligence
concerning . . . a lady.”
The convict lowered and lifted his eyes again. •
“And what,” he asked, “ will you give me for
them?”
“Your life, your freedom, and money. How
much do you want?”
“ This is the nineteenth century. Far on in i t
too. And in America. It is an age of publicity.
lam well known. How can you give me these
things which you mention ?”
“ Ican do it. That is myaffair.”
“ You are strong, very strong,” murmured the
convict, turning down his eyes. “Yon can do
much.”
He rose slowly.
The Man had advanced past the doorway. They
were about three yards apart.
Once more the convict raised his eyes as he said :
“ And what if 1 tell you that Margery—that my
wife is ._ . . dead?”
“That is not the case.”
“ But it is.”
They never took their eyes off one another now.
“It is,” repeated the convict, “since I myself
killed her. And I will tell you where and how
and all. You know the house in Cronin Road—
the old house ? Well, on the ground-floor—that
is, the kitchen-floor under the street —there are
three rooms. _ The kitchen : Another room behind
is—a servant’s bedroom and the scullery. In the
scullery there is a sink and a copper for boiling
clothes.”
“ Well, go on.”
“ The floor is of cement. I got her in there as a
pretext—a nothing, and, while she was looking
from the window, stabbed her with one of the
surgical knives in the back—below the neck,
above the stays, right down deep into the body,
np to the hilt. That was the morning before we
started off to finish O’Meara, for which lam to
what you call ‘ whipe out ? ”
He paused.
St ni-to oh,
)bc i
1 R(j
~ Ar-t> wt>er' G € T
' BatkxcLo ■youßSfi-F'
Gr.ajFuL Coon tM will
CoMfi'SOOM g« Ll .
Tbfc CcotfToß 'Jo
Peßp6T^^T e Y ovß x
NAM £
R<- Y ou A^ bi 7 - <^c c °nt a
i n / c\ (^ / [e l^ouß^^
I bojBAIL. (jH 6 * A N P ]bUS T b *
op pußL'C ~ A ND /A »M
UND'f l«(C NAr-1( - /v\N 88 (An P
SwiNPLS R. OR A (ploNtftL (MA'y pUN
Yov C>-0 5t - O ~ „ -r-
-1 arc jb£rc pio-p
B®° To (^AvTNCss
Th(vAV '“'rA
iT* \
An \
1 ILL • '
1 W'NP.^tc
( *n) *
Qum*. i >9
Vo
I il ]
* VN tx
!W oi
THE GLORIES OF “BARRACKING.”
They watched one another so steadily that their
eyes were dimmed, but their peicaptions were
alert intensely.
“ I took off her dress, and looked at her. Oh I”
Die expression of his face was awful and the
sound of that one monosyllable had an unspeak-
able significance which the other alone in the
world felt and knew.
“ I burned the clothes. I washed the floor. I
lit the fire under the copper. I put the body in
and boiled it till the flesh and bones were quite
separate. The skeleton was perfect. It will per-
haps be found some day, and yon will be able to
have it put together with wires and keep it in your
cupboard. Truly I assure you it had a charac-
teristic look. It was somehow like her. The rest
is unhappily lost in the drains. As for the letter.
. . . ” He moved forward a little with his
left hand raised.
“ Stand back,” said the Man.
The next instant the convict had pulled a knife
out from the front of his trousers and leaned at
the Man.
There was a flash from the right pocket of the
Man’s ulster, a report, aery and a thud, and the
convict was lying along on the stone-floor, Ids
cheek resting on it, his arms spread, Ids left leg
working, as the puff of smoke rose np in a cloud
towards the ceiling and the sunlight. He still
clutched the knife.
The Man stood and looked at him, having drawn
out his revolver, from the muzzle of which a thin
stream of smoke oozed up, and also from a round
hole in the cloth of the ulster through which the
bullet had passed.
The convict’s right eye, which was the only one
visible, had a fixed and intense stare, and saliva
mixed with blood was trickling or being blown
from his lips. Both his legs and the lower part of
his body were working now. He hud loosened the
knife, and a pool of blood was rounding itself ou
the stone-floor by his back.
“ You liar !” said the Man.
The convict’s eye stared as before 5 his arms and
head began to work ; and he made a sound with
his lips like: “Bub, bub, bub, bub, bluther,
bluther, bluther ! ”
The man was so intent on all this that he did
not hear the sound of steps in the corridor, or the
arrival of the head-gaoler behind him.
A convulsive shudder ran through all the body
of the convict, which then, with a series of faint
shiverings and twitch!ngs, grew quite still.
The Man advanced and*shoved it with Ins to-*
“ You devil.! ”he said. For now he thougnt
that perhaps Margery was indeed dead.
Then he turned and saw the head-gaoler.
“Look at that,” he said, pointing with his left
hand at the knife; “ Your precautions ! Fine pre-
cautions ! He nearly stuck me ! ”
The head-gaoler was astonished.
“Why,” he said, “I myself searched him not
half-an-hour ago.”
Something fell in front of them and struck the
floor with a dull sound.
The head-gaoler stooped and picked up a small
piece of paper wrapped round a hard and heavy
substance. He handed it to the man who opened
it, letting drop a small piece of lead.
He read on the paper in pencil in a thin scrawly
hand: “He has entered.”
He folded it up : thrust it through a fold of his
ulster into his waistcoat-pocket, and looked down
at the convict. He put his revolver back into its
place, and turned as if to go.
“It maybe rather awkward, sir,’’murmured the
head-gaoler.
“ Incomprehensible !” said the man to himself,
stepping into the corridor, “ Where is Margery ?
and who has the letter ? ”
Then something seemed suddenly to strike him.
He stopped, turned, came back into the cell,
took out the piece of paper again and examined it
carefully.
He raised his face with a startled look.
The head-gaoler was standing, uneasy but res-
pectful, behind him on the left.
. The man raised his face still higher, and the
light fell on it.
The moustache and whiskers bristled back from
the heavy, powerful brow, nose, lips, and chin.
Iho full flesh was white, coarse and shiny with
perspiration. The pupils of the big, black eyes
were abnormally dilated. Fear fcoined passing
into actual terror on this great, inhuman face.
“Why,” he said aloud, “she wrote it herself.
My Cod, I am doomed !”
“* * #
Loudon Cablegram: “Lafon, the murderer of
O’Meara at Moltke, Dakota, and connected with
the Clan-na-Cael, was shot to-day in a desperate
attempt to escape from gaol. He was armed with
a knife, which he had managed to secrete in his
cell.”
New York Telegram : “ Kinnahan left Chicago
to-night, bound South, after an enthusiastic meet-
ing in the principal theatre, which was packed to
the roof. He alluded regretfully to the death of
Lafon, made public a few hours previously. He
declared,” &c., Ac.
FRANCIS ADAMS.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent KoU/Er Flour. It is the greatest success of the
I'.g'O.
hhe grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
hen’s Beaeonsfiekl House Hotel is equal to the
Jllue Mountains, being 1200ft. above Boa-level.'
■N.Jj. Oulv two hours from Melbourne,
hi veil the Marble Man was “known to the
police.” All hail, Omniscient Trap !
The one drop of comfort in the Prince of
Wales’ life is to get his good old portly mother
down to his model farm-yard at Sandring-
ham, where he potters round and gathers among
his garments a concentrated aroma of cows and
swine, fancying all the time that he is a good
judge of b,eef and foot-rot. It’s rather tiring, but
the Queen, whose tastes are as simple as a hen-
wife’s, manages to appreciate the quiet homeliness
of the elegant place until they get within smelling
distance of the pig department, when the following
royal colloquy generally eventuates ; —“ What are
these, Albert Edward ?” “Pigs, ma.” “Yes, of
course; but what kind of pigs,?” “Male pork,
may it please your Majesty—l mean -mother.”
lI.M. : “Oh —ah—are these others pigs, too? - ’
“Yes, madam.” “Dear me, what an awful bore !”
“No, your Majesty ; may it please you, these are
presumed to be of the gentler sex.”
Dear Bulletin, —Your yarn about the
Joneses of Jesus College, Oxford, is an old friend
with a new face. I remember hearing it ten years
ago at Oxford in, I expect, i ts original shape, on whicl i
the amended and revised edition is not, as it seems
to me, an improvement. It ran somehow thus
(Jesus, of course, is the essentially Welsh Col-
lege) : A High-street tradesman arrived at the
college lodge with a very small, thin parcel in his
hand, and enquired of the porter if he could tell
him where the rooms of Mr. Jones were located ?
“ Mr. Jones '.■ ” said the porter ; “ there are thirty
Mr. Joneses in the first quad.” The tradesman
looked at his packet and read out, “ Mr. Darvl
Jones.” “ There are twelve Mr. David Joneses,"
said the porter. The tradesman was nonplussed,
and knew not what to do, till the porter, struck
by a happy thought, asked Irm what was in the
packet, as it might afford some clue. “Well,"
said the tradesman, “it’s a tooth-brush, and the
gentleman said he would pay on delivery.” The
porter’s face brightened. “ Right through that
doorway,” he said, pointing with his hand ;
“ third door on the right—second flight— first on
the left. That’s the only Air. Jones in college
who uses a tooth-brush.” The anti-Welsh senti-
ment comes out in yet another Oxford Jones story,
which relates how a man once went into a quad
at the college named, and began shouting out :
“ Jones ! Jones ! Jones !” Whereon nineteen
windows were thrown np and n ueteeu voices ex-
claimed in chorus; “ What the Shcol do you
want ?”—Yours, F.A.
Rev. Fitchett, editor of the Melbourne
Daily Te leu hath, began life as a stonemason.
As a Wesleyan parson he rebelled against the
Itinerancy, after doing some at Echuca and else-
where. He told them, in effect, that unless they
would plant him in Melbourne lie would slide.
They got him to do some brilliant articles in tie
Wesleyan Spectator —“My Easy Chair, by
X.Y.Z.” After writing them for “nix,” Fitchett
demanded payment. The fools refused. A lum-
bering wit, Rev. Watkin, tried to slobber over
the fun when Fitchett gave it up, but couldn't.
There was one man who could have done it
Rev. J. B. Smith — but he would want the 'Sqnl -
vilens, bunt, brass, tin, coppers, rex pecuniamm.
Smith and Blamires wrote a profitable book “II is-
tory of Victorian Methodism.” Of course we mean
profitable in a spiritual sense. That’s all they
think about. Fitchett’s brother, in Dunedin, is
almost equally clever. He gave up the Wesleyaus
because the jealousy of mean men wanted to
tie him to Itinerancy, and joined the Church of
of England. Melbourne Fitchett is disliked for
his brains. While other parsons have to go all
round the miserable bush Fitchett is snugly
provided for as President of the Melbourne Wes-
leyan Ladies’ College. He used to edit the
Southern Cross and write terrible things about
the swells who went to church in carriages on
Sundays, and the common people who used the
trains. Then he went to England. On returning
lie set up a pony-carriage and pair and drove to
church in it on Sundays. Candidly, he recanted.
Common poor Wesleyaus hate the Ladies’ College,
because it is a class institution for the rich.
Parallel Lines.
Every student knows that in close reasoning
parallel lines of thought are laid down and deduc-
tions educed.
I t is not our purpose at this time to enter into a
learned discussion, and we have drawn the above
visible lines simply to bring them prominently
before your eye, and ask what they represent to
you.
A railroad man to whom we showed them said,
“ To me those four lines represent a double-track
railway.”
A doctor replied to the same interrogatory,
“ The lines are to me the large arteries and veins
lying alongside each other in the human body.”
As will be observed the same lines to either
gentleman suggested different lines of thought, as
both looked at them through eyes accustomed to
see only that which for the most part occupied
their attention. To the writer both answers put
an old truth in a fresh and original light.
As every intelligent man or woman knows, the
blood of every living person flows with almost rail-
road speed through the arteries, forced by that
wonderful engine, the heart. From the arteries
it is side-tracked through the capillaries and
veins, and every drop of blood goes through the
kidneys for purification no less than 2500 times
every twenty-four hours. If the kidneys be
diseased the impurities of the blood containing the
worn-out tissues and deleterious acids are not
drawn out or excreted as nature intended, but con-
tinually pass and repass through every fibre of the
system, carrying death and decay with every
pulsation. Unless remedied the heart becomes
weakened, the lungs trying to do double work
break down, the liver becomes congested, the
stomach refuses to digest food, and the result is »
general break down.
Why?
Because the kidneys, the sewers of the system,
are foul and stopped up, and the entire blood be-
comes nothing more or less than a sewage.
Now is it not criminal, nay, suicidal, to allow
such a state of things to continue when a simple
remedy is within your reach, known for a, certainty,
to do as represented, which will open the closed
pipes of the kidneys, all mV the effete matter to
escape, relieve the overworked heart, lungs, and
liver, cause a healthy appetite, put the bloom of
health in your cheeks, the dove of hope in your
breast, and the light of life in your eye?
You already have devined the remedy we have
reference to ; its praise is universal, its influence
world-wide. Do not allow prejudice to blind you
to your best interests, but to-day procure Warner's
safe cure and be put on the straight road to rude
health and correct living.
Our parallel and closing lines to you are, take
our advice and your experience will justify you in
thanking us for bringing under your notice a
remedy without a parallel.


Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
John M‘Ewau & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
LAIKTD AGBWTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &e., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List Businesses lor Sale issued Daily.
All Lists posted Fkee on application.
POLITICAL POINTS
All the State pensioners in the N.S.W.
Upper House support the Payment of Members
Bill.
M‘llwraith will go to Japan again next
summer. His health is by no means secure, and
he will not take office at any cost.
It is a fact, not more than 50 years old,
(h it the British Parliament refused to permit
Cromwell’s portrait to be placed in the House of
Commons.
The London correspondent of the Dublin
Fhee man’s Journal asserts that the Melbourne
press attacks Dillon and Co. under orders from
Down’ug-street.
It is a curious fact that at least six out of
the members of the N.S.W. Parliamentary Com-
mittee appointed to inquire into the alleged open-
ing of Mr. Deasy’s letters are Orangemen.
Garrick, Griffith’s Agent-General, is back
iu Brisbane, and is being made much of by the
Griffithites, who want to get “ Sir James ” into
politics again. But “Sir James ”is not sure about
it.
“ The cry for revenge against criminals
was a brutal cry, the cry of uncivilised man
who could not protect himself.”—Dr. Garran, lute
i Utor of the S. M. Herald, in N.S. W. Leyislatire
Council.
'• hose who apply to the Government of
N.S.W. for a billet should not send original testi-
monials. Several of the responsible officers keep
goats, and these are fed daily from the waste-paper
baskets.
The cable liar (probably truthful this time)
informs ns that the Emperor of Germany has
thanked the German troops for. having subjugated
the miners on strike in Westphalia. Emperor
Henry, of N.S.W., is really behind the times.
“ Feudrag m,” of the Reeek.ee, refers to
Lord Dudley as the reckless young noble who
couldn’t visit the Antipodes while lie was yet a
minor, without leaving a trail of gold behind him.
Who-hasn’t heard that yarn about Dudley and the
comic-opera chorus nymph ?
Sir Alfred Stephen, Lieut.-Governor and
ex-Chief-Justice of N.S. Wales, supports payment
of members He is becoming liberal in his old
age. Divorce Bill, payment of members —what
next! We expect to have Sir Alfred wind up by
burning the gallows and triangles.
The Cobar (N.S.W.) Freetrade Association
is “more popery than fiscal.” Several of its most
influential members are also prominent Roman
Catholics. On the other hand, the Chief local
Protectionists are Protestants and Orangemen.
The Hevenin Noose had better see to this.
“ History is but a tracing of the law of
evolution in the rise and fall of states, and in the
growth of human society,” says a Melbourne paper.
We always thought that history was a record of
things which never occurred, or of actual occur-
rences embellished with false reason's for why they
came to pass. Lies substantiated by facts, or facts
substantiated by lies.
There was an Arbor Day at Yarrawonga
(Vie.), the other day, when each of the school
children planted a tree. The Bulletin hopes that
these trees are of a quick-growing variety. If
not, they won’t I e strong enough to be used for
suicidal purposes by the last Victorian Tory
who is disgusted to death with Australian Re-
publicanism.
At a meeting of the Imperial Federation
League, held in London some weeks back. Lord
Rosebery deplored the fact that, whereas Canada
was swallowing the bait nicely, “in Australia, on
the other hand, their progress was not so great as
they might have hoped and expected.” No, wo
fear that Parkin is not getting on so well as they
expected, but he remains alive up to the present.
And that’s something.
Rip Van Winkle still bosses some of the
N.S.W. Government departments. A few days
ago a certain C.P.S., somewhere below the Moon-
bies, received peremptory orders to forward, under
penalty of official abolition, a return of all the
business done at Wallabadah Court last year.
The clerk merely turned up the corner of the
document and stiffly wrote, “Wallabadah Court
was abolished in 1878 !”
During a late debate in the Queensland
Assembly on an Amended Land Bill, the Hon.
Pat. Perkins, whose beer is famous for its go-
through-someness, remarked thusly : —“Mr.
Speaker, let the hon. gentleman take his bill back
and reconstruct it, and bring in a more compre-
hensive measure. For, Mr. Speaker, what has
been the curse of this colony all the time? I
repeat, sir, what has been the curse —” “ Drink,”
interjected Macpherson, the “ soft-tack ” Ipswich
M.L.A.
John Burns, the socialist, the double-dyed
villain who seeks to abolish monarchial instruc-
tions ; the scoundrel who has been in gaol as many
times as he has fingers and toes, for conspiring
against the peace of Her Majesty ; the traitor to
the British Constitution, now, at the age of thirty,
finds himself M.P. for Battersea. John is a
Scotchman, by trade an engineer, by instinct a
patriot in the truest sense, and his election to the
British Parliament shows by what leaps and bounds
the new Social-Democratic party are advancing.
There will be rather a nasty jar between
Governor Loch and Governor W. Robinson should
they meet in Melbourne. Sir Hercules Robinson,
Sir W. Robinson’s brother, meant to put the Eng-
lish Government in a hole, forcing them to adopt
his policy of expansion, in concert with the Cape
Parliament. Loch comes to the rescue of the
Foreign Office. A person of commonplace mind,
who “travels ” chiefly on his beard, and is rather
bald oh the inside of bis skull, he has a difficult
task. Feeling will be all against him in South
Africa.
Morehead, the Queensland Premier, is a
tall man with brown, stand-up hair, weeping
whiskers, a clean-shaved chin, and an odd, quick
sideways walk, fairly comparable to a crab's. He
has plenty of vigour, ability, wit, and decisive-
ness, but he is quite wanting in personal mag-
netism. He has no faculty for getting hold of
people, and, as he has not that powerful intellec-
tual grip which went so far to making up the
want of this power in Griffith, he does not make
a good party leader, especially when his party is
m office. The report that he will presently go to
England is quite incorrect.
The Hon. W. Hoskins, M. L.C., objects to
payment of members in N.S. Wales: he doesn’t
consider it proper for members to dip their ’ands
into the public pocket. Now Mr. Hoskins afore-
said was once N.S. W. Minister of Lands, and if
report speaks truly he drew his little £l5OO a-year
and saved most of it—with the result that lie is
now able to live independently. The Bulletin
likes to hear the ’Oskinses of the country arguing
against payment of (other) members. Another
statesman who objects to payment of members is
Archibald Hamilton Jacob, Esquire, Chairman
of Committees of the N.S.W. Legislative Council
—who draws £BOO a-year from his bleeding country.
Comment would be a perfect insult.
Zox, of whom a faithful portrait appeared
iu last week’s Bulletin, evidently aspires to be
the funny man of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly. They were burking serious discussion
of the railway “.deadhead” swindle when Jack
Woods, member for Stawell, asked : “ Why are
not free-passes given to the children of the Blind
Asylum?” (Laughter.) “In that case they-might
travel to Stawell,” said Kirton, trying to keep his
pecker up under adverse circumstances. “Then
they would be forestalled (foreStawelled),” dashed
in the ready-witted, brilliant, irresistible Zox.
At which there was “ great laughter.” What a
God-forsaken sense of humour the House must
have ! Why, for making a far less idiotic remark
than that many a man has been carted off to a
padded cell on certificate of lunacy signed by two
COLLAR v. SHIRT.
(Locality: Country Pub.)
SWAGMAN (who has just called for a long beer which the Boss has drawn with plenlg of head on it):
“I SAY, BOSS, STRIKES ME THERE’S MORE COLLAR THAN SHIRT
ABOUT THIS GLASS OF BEER.”
BOSS (with feelings hurt): “THAT'S WHERE YOU BLOOMIN’ COVES ARE NEVER
SATISFIED. ONE TIME I USED TO SELL YOU THE FROTH, NOW WHEN
I GIVES IT TO YOU FOR NOTHING YOU GROWLS.”
doctors. It’s beneath the contempt of a nigger-
minstrel corner-man.
When Minister-of-Puhlic-Works Nimmo
“got the gunny” from the Victorian Ministry,
the other day, lie visited Alfred Deakin and told
him he was several kinds of a perverter of the
truth. The language, as heard by Alfred’s private
secretary in the outside office is said to have been
strong enough to wreck three churches and a Sun-
day-school. Poor Nimmo is in much the
same position as was Miles, a Queensland
Minister of a few years ago. Douglas wanted
Miles to retire from the Cabinet, but the latter
would not stir. Then Douglas formally asked
him by letter to resign, but Miles obstinately re-
fused. Next it was gazetted that Miles had re-
tired from the Ministry, and thereupon the angry
Miles announced by advertisement in all the
papers that the Gazette notification was wrong,
inasmuch as he had not resigned but bad been
most unhandsomely kicked out. Miles waited for
his revenge and got it.
Here is an extract from an advertisement
which appears in all the Sydney daily papers and
a large number of other papers :
New South Wales, to wit.
Proclamation by his Excellency the Right Honorable
Charles Robert Baron Carrington, a Member of Her
Majesty’s Most Honorable Privy Council, Knight
Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint
Michael and Saint George, Governor and Compmnder-
in-Ohief of the Colony of New South Wales and its
Dependencies.
(1.5.) Carrington, Governor.
All this tommy-rot —which in the papers aforesaid
is spread out to twice - the space it here occupies—
is paid for by the State at the rate of ss. or (is. an
inch per insertion. The particular piece of ancient
bunkum under notice must have been the means
of diverting several pounds from the Treasury
into the pockets of the newspaper-proprietors.
And why? Because they do it in Hingland or
used to do it there a hundred years ago !
Personal Items.
The “ Vagabond ” is off to Samoa.
Mrs, J. C. Dibbs died last week at Mel-
bourne, aged 43.
Ex-bank manager Holt is to be released
from prison next mouth.
Another attempt on the life of the Czar .
P.S.—He is learning to play the cornet.
A Local Option meeting in Sydney last
week was presided over by Rev. James Hennessj.
Vogel has made but £5O out of his novel
“A. I). 2000.” Literature does not pay so well as
politics.
Abraham Warbrick, father of the cele-
brated family of half-caste footballers, died the
other day iu N.Z.
Archdeacon Farrar married three of his
four daughters to his curates. Bishop Montgomery,
of Tasmania, was one of them.
Goldberg (“ Shifter,” of the Fink ’Un) is
the genius to whom the smart young men of the
day owe most of their new slang vocabulary.
Somebody has been stating that there is
no authenticated instance of an idler living to a
great age. This shows an utter disregard for the
feelings of Australian Governors.
One of the names read out during a recent
“presentation” at London University was that
of Mr. William Waterloo Wellington Holiest on
Napoleon Bonaparte Guelph Saunders, B.A.
Robert Louis. Stevenson was in Honolulu
when he heard of the death of Matthew Arnold.
His conception of the poet’s character was aptly
shown in his comment. ‘ ‘ Well, well, so Matthew’s
dead and gone at last!” he said with a sigh.
“Poor fellow, he’ll never get on with God.”
The Mayor of Ecliuca (Vie.) has been
clutching his Town Clerk by the throat, and law-
suits are impending. The Southern journals refer
to the furious encounter as a “little unpleasant-
ness between the parties.”
Edmund Finn, senior, the oldest Mel-
bourne reporter, has at last brought out his two
big volumes, “Gftnyowen’s Chronicles” (of ancient
Victoria), The book is in places rather twaddly,
but it is very racy and unique in information.
Mathias is the Melbourne City Dog In-
spector. He proved a terrific firebrand at a recent
meeting of the Imperial Federation League.
Mathias was fireworks —Catherine-wheel, jump-
ing-jack. He gave them Lord Deerhurst and
Lord Harris to rights. He got a stinger through
being near shot in the Eureka stockade business.
He once played the cornet in Burton’s circus band.
Disraeli literally knew no foreign languages.
During the Berlin Congress he was breakfasting
alone and in French tried to ask one of the waiters
to bring him a footstool. Some time elapsed ;
1 there was much disputatious whispering among
the waiters in the corridors outside. At length
there entered waiter No. 1, bearing ceremonially a
foot-bath, followed by waiter No. 2, carrying
towels.
It cost £lBOO to clean Buckingham Palace
after the last visit of that nasty Shah, but they
say he is getting nicer iu his old age and will
not spill so much animal gore about the premises
this time. The Shah employs himself a good deal
in.talking bosh into a telephone and watching his
suite have shocks from a galvanic battery. Little
things like that please the Persian potentate more
than hardbake now.
Buchanan, the Yankee Melbourne Presby-
terian parson, has made a hit in Brisbane. He
wears a moustache, a pot iiat, dittoes, and a
coloured tie, and preaches as if he was talking to a
quartette of friends over whisky and cigars. He
lias just enough of the Yankee nasal twang to
drawl out effectively when lie wants to be dry and
humorous, and lie reckons lie is going to do a
boom in Brisbane and “paralyse” the old, local
clerical antediluvians.
Lady Norman, wife of the Governor of
Queensland, is the daughter of Teignmouth
Sandys, the well-known Indian civilian. She is
of medium height, good figure, sallow complexion,
big mouth, prominent teeth, and dark eyes alto-
gether an ugly face, which, however, is made very
pleasant to look upon by considerable charm of
expression. She is over forty (40) years of age,
and has three-children. In manner she is simple
and unaffected. She has a partiality for sombre
hues iu dress and decoration.
Why, now why, is Archdeacon Farrar out of
the hunt as Bishop of Sydney ? Because he wrote a
book on Internal Hope, expressing a doubt whether
there were millions, billions, trillions, octillions,
nonillions of the damned. A good man, my
brethren, but unsound on that point. None of us
dare to preach Hell, but we cannot countenance
Farrar, though lie is absolutely orthodox on every
other point, and would confer a lustre on the
Southern World. No, give ns Smith, Broun,
Jones, or Robinson. Nevermind if ho is a hypo-
crite.
A well-known geutbmaa of colour once
got mixed up in a little matter which culminated
in an appearance, with several others, in the
“spiked pew” in the Dari inghi list court-house.
The case fell through as against our coloured
friend, whose discharge was immediately ordered
by the presiding .fudge, Sir .lames Martin. “Your
Honor;”:,si3d.the discharged one, “do I leave the
Court‘without a slain ':" 1 Sir James stuck the
glass in his eye and, after a careful survey, said,
more or -less humorously : “ I —ah—cannot really
express an opinion on that point!”
Sir Thingumbob Norman, the new Go-
vernor of Queensland, is an average speci-
men' of the genus British official, sub-species
Anglo-Indian officer. He is cold and reserved in
“ numnah,” and has a dim notion that divinity
hedges governors us well as kings and queens,
dontcherknow. To his friends he is a simple old
buffer of strictly limited ideas, with a partiality
for the old style of novel and hot whisky and
water (with sugar). He bids fair to make as good-
a patent figure-head, paint and all, us any average
specimen of the common, domestic British
Governor-man.
England, France and Germany are begin-
ning to recognise the genius of Hendrik Ibsen, the
Norwegian dramatist, undoubtedly the greatest
living man writing for the stage, infinitely more
profound than Dumas or Sa'rdou. His best,plays
are “Ghosts.” “The Doll's House,” “Pillars of
Society,” “Enemy of Society,” and “Emperor
and Galilean,” with a kind of Faust poeui called
“Peter Gynt.” The moral of the “Enemy of
Society ” is “ The greatest man is he who stands
most alone.” Is it not so? We mav Itegiu with
the man of whom it was written' —“ They all for-
sook Him and fled.”
Sir George Chetwyud, alleged to have
been in the employ (putting it in a practical way)
of jockey Wood, is quite a champion billiard-
player among the British aristocracy. Ho started
his gambling career as a p'geon, and after suffer-
ing a considerable plucking process, assumed the
fresh plumage of a rook. A very downy bird now
is this same Sir George, with a long pedigree as
baronets go. It is cabled that the arbitrators in
the turf scandal case have found a verdict in ids
favour for a farthing, and ordered each party to
pal - its own costs. Which finding leaves Sir
George considerably in the mud.
The Duke of Buckingham joined the
board of directors of an English railway company.
On the day of the first meeting after his election
he was too early, and on asking a porter who was
hanging about where the directors’ room was, he
was told that lie had come too soon, and went
away. On returning some little time later he
again found the same man, who gave him the same
information. After a longer interval the duke
again came across his friend, whom he questioned
as to whether the directors were not sitting. The
man, very much irritated at being so often accosted,
looked at him and said : “ There’s no use you
coming about a place here; you aren’t big enough.”
From an article in a Hunter River (N.S.W,)
paper of February 12, 1850, headed “Henry
Parkes, Esq., M.L.O. —“We gaze with complacent
feelings on the lineaments of Henry Parkes. You
ask as we point to the portrait. Is this a thing of
beauty ? Yes, surely as there is beauty in honesty
and truth, in intellect, independence, and man-
hood ! True, there is no rounded regularity of
feature, no chiselled grace. Rough, rude, un-
gainly, we must acknowledge, is the face on
which our eye rests, lit up with no sunny
radiance, decked with no courtly smile, toned
to no harmony of soft and gentle dalliance.
But it speaks, iu letters which cannot be misin-
terpreted, of. a moral truthfulness of spirit, an
integrity of moral principle, a determination to do
right, and fearlessness in the doing of it, which is
beauty—a higher beauty than mere artistic—a
beauty that shines forth conspicuous and bright,
amidst the current deformities of cant, insincerity,
and effeminacy. . . . In all the relations of
life we hold Mr. Parkes to be strictly and
indeed sternly conscientious. We are disposed to
question, indeed, if this virtue is not occasionally
carried to excess.” Moral: A great deal depends
upon the point from which you look at anything,
“ Tariu’ me uniform” —A rent in the
blue.
In future no cadet will be taken into the
engineering branch of the N,S. W. Public Works
Department unless lie possesses an engineering
diploma from Sydney University. This change
of practice, which is only a month old, is due to
Mr, Bruce Smith.


Arming the Police.
'E NRY: “’Ere you are ! You’ll find the Nordenfeldt gun very useful, only be careful ’ow you fire [?]m off in the city- you might hit a burglar. In case of a co[?]k strike you neednt be sparing of ammunition.'


hen ths American baseball teSm w® fit
Mr. Daniel O’Connor, Postmaster
2nd 6 to’r aSI ' 7 t 0 lhe ffoDt matters of this
§?« Z V P f romlD ' nt Part in !heir r,ce Ption.
the fol o Wer9 3PPrCClite,i 18 fl hown be
the following letter receirecl yesterday by him
SC~ P “” 01 ,h " 1 8
d
I\\\^ hi
'o^
'//orrff fifty A T .
- *., Chicago, May 13. 1833.
My Dear 0 Connor,—At last we hats reached
home after an absence of six mouths and a
circuit of the globe. I
can assure you me grand reception given us in
Sydney and the name of Daniel O'Cpnnor is
never forgotten. *1 am pleased to nay that our
trip has awakened a .wonderful amount of in-
terest all over tins country, and the magnificent
reception extended to cm in Sydney, and I
alight aay ah over Australia, has done
much to foster a friendly feeling
between the two countries, qioro than
$ .tiftsttakl 6bS6fVer would give credit for at first
thought, it wig oiij plfiMM/Q to meet Consul
Griffin undti Slif Artitil rri tpfk hafbofs
Ho was present, ii.otit bSiiifliii tji£(§£ and is
t'is speech Ho told those, present th?it ho £6ti-
ibKt ohr trip had done more t. 6 t
the Americans with Australia aid'd Adstra'ultfc
with America than all other efforts combined.
• • I am, a sincere American Iriep.ct of
the orator of Au3tralia,>—Yours
truly, A. G. Spalding. fydyfy 2) ~7~*
ftourtcf /r
Mts%r
fatfitf >
Hells fibel/s /2c
yU/s /s /%S/ecC
'op ctecy &y
f
/-* u.y & f-Cc } j
{*<"■ y-
Of}pos//P
Londos, Friday.— The betrothal is
announced of H.R.H. the Princess Louise,
agfsd 22, eldest daughter of the Prince of
Wales, to the Earl of Fife, aged 39.
/. OU/SF 'fiuf /S
Pp/yujy 7o 6f <y ”» rf/= A
Yi//y/yy' j/^ y
6cyc( frch Pyouj'/j
ifr fry
(T ff :
7 Arsfp *>>7T
o yA/j /s o.yo7jf/°r tfo- Ar
Aerrty ra 7 faytyp**yV
S uftfr/apttj fuy
~ r,f>ei//> O/i/l /an°f u *?
f<* .Jay* <t*y
/ A a. <«• f A~
/e/ fi ,cr AJ
Ws a //*y /“ A
POIICE PROTECTION
TO THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD.
Sir,—The burglaries that are of late too frequently per-
petrated around Sydney and the shooting: of constables,
call for some better means for enabling the police* to
protect themselves than has hitberto been provided.
’ n supply revolvers to the police is no doubt very
o jectionable and dangerous. There could, however,
b no objection to arming them with strong cutlasses
about 2ft. long in the blade, and sharpened to a-keen
edge about 4in. down from the point, and point left
sharp for thrusting purposes. The police should bo
Instructed to use such a weapon only for the purpose of
crippling those who resist being taken into custody
pfter midnight, and to ba careful only to strike these
tnarauders on the arms and legs, or thrust the point of
the cutlass into the same members, and avoid using
the weapon on vital parts. If the police ware thus
and ordered to patrol districts in pairs, burglars
Jvould bolt at sight of a policeman. They would not
|top to have their arms and limbs hacked about by
sharp-pointed weapons. I am, Ac.,
COUNTRYMAN.
I /X* (v/V> fro a
Coq/pfip ' / &6fc~ty//e a *? *
~f&oJ~cC.
Things in General.


“HOG’S HEAD’’ BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
P. B. WHEELER & CO.,
2(55 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
DEPOSIT and DISCOUNT
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest
.3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
,3 Months
allowed as follows
10 per cent.
0 per cent.
5 per cent.
6 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
m
/I*»
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of KT©w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and others.
Also of .the Wonderful Victor 3Pianos at £4:5, and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
The Earl of Fife, who is to marry one of
Tummy’s melancholy daughters, claims to be more
or less descended from the Macduff who laid on to
our old friend Macbeth. He is a peer of England
and of Scotland—a double-barrelled peer, in fact —
and his morals are believed to be equal to those of
the Good Young Man that Died. Further, Fife
has a lot more money than the Marquis of Lone,
although the latter is a larger potato in an ancient
historical sense. This is all Thomas-nonsense, but
we may as well anticipate the drivel which must
shortly appear in the dailies.
Which reminds us that one of these
dailies printed a paragraph stating that a “private
cablegram” had been received in Sydney an
nouncing the engagement of the princess' as above.
Now, who got that cablegram ? Did Tummy send
it to the editors of the dadies, thinking that those
noble personages were still as loyal as at the
Jubilee time ? Or was it sent to the Baron ? Or— ■
and really we think we’ve hit it this time —was It
addres ed to Burdett Smith ?
* * *
Alexander William George Duff, K.T.,
P.C., 6th Earl of Fife, selected by the Prince of
Wales a; a fitting husband for his daughter, is one
of his ooon -companions, well-known at the Turf
Club an I Yacht Club, as well as the Marlborou h
iWaits’ particular, mentioned in connection witn
the King of the Belgians, and Mother Jefferies)
VVhite’s Club, Brooks’, the Reform (good club,
might be better patronised by Albert Edward ai d
Co.), the Devonshire Club, and St. James’ Club
great resort of the Ambassadors of France,
Germany, United States, Austria, Russia, where
they play cards, and practise diamond-cut-
liamond). Fife also patronises dramatic interests
i little at the Garrick Club, where they have the
finest collection of theatrical portraits in the world.
* * *
Well, Fife is an admirer of the Empire, of
course—likewise of the Alhambra. He is 40
years old. Now, who supposes the young Princess
has fallen in love with him ? Beautiful romance !
One cablegram, we notice, calls him “ The Young
Earl of Fife.” Even youth can be bought. Yes,
you can get your youth back again (at all events in
the shape of a young Princess of Wales) after
running all the rigs of London and Paris. Fife
has been a Gold Stick in Waiting on Her Majesty.
Fall down, please. Rub your stomach on the
Turkey carpet. Thanks. Hold on, you mustn’t
jet up till we tell you. The motto of Fife, on his
coat of arms, is, “By Valour and Work.” Glorious
motto ! As old Tom Carlyle says, “ Here is your
King, Canning, conning, able man.” Valour and
Work! Eifehasnine magnificent country houses and
a grand London mansion. Ah, these are what the
young Princess will marry ! You know she has a
sneaking fancy for some young gentleman who is
not like Fife, but only young, handsome, and un-
spoilt. Her instinct tells her what a Fife is, this
charming young man of 40, the dear friend of her
virtuous father, also of Marlborough, Aylesford—
etcetera, all that follows by implication. Wei',
marry her! Never mind her tears. There s
divorce in the Fife blood. Fife’s sister, Lady Ida
Louisa Alice Duff, born 1848, married in 1867, at
the early age of 19, Adrian Elias Hope, Esq. We
regret to add they were divorced in 1873, after a
miserable six years. And we further regret to add
that the divorce was obtained, not at the instance
of the Lady Ida Louisa Alice, but at that of
Adrian Elias Hope, Esq. What for ? Draw the
veil. In 1880 she married W. Wilson, Esq., of
Berkeley Square. (See Debrett.)
# * *
But yet again. Oh, Lord Fife’s precious
sisters ! His sister, the Lady Agnes Cecil Em-
meline, bom 1852, was married also at the early
ige of 19 to Viscount Dupplin and divorced fir e
years afterwards, in 1876 ! (See Debrett again
under Fife and Kinnoull). She was also divorced
by her husband ! She was the divorcee, not the
divoroeress. She married then Herbert Flower,
Esq., who died 1881. Thirdly, she has married
Dr. Cooper.
# * #
“ Are these divorces for adultery ? Is this
t fit family to be. taken into the Royal family ?
“Yes” will clamour all the sycophants, all
the gold and silver-sticks, the-whole ehorussing
Press of England and Australia. There will be
satirists to cry “ yes,” too. But not we. Oh, no.
We will stand up for Purity in the Royal Blood.
We will protest against its contamination with a
family boasting two divorces, for their own fault.
We protest, solemnly protest, in the name of the
Loyal Australians, against a Turf Club friend of
tiie Prince of Wales marrying one of our Beloved
Princesses. We would not be more shocked if
Prince Albert Victor married an opera dancer.
Ladies of Australia! get up a petition, quick
sticks, against the Princess being mated with
the Turf Club, and acquiring two divorcee,
soiled-dove, sisters-in-law. On the turf we learn
how the blood is the same all through. Oh, Prin-
cess ! Don’t be led away by Fife’s diamond shirt-
front. It’s only a dickey, morally speaking.
There's nothing behind it. Don’t embrace the
mere hot wind. Don’t Punch’s advice. Thus
far we give the reins to a Royal Loyal contributor.
For our own part, as Republicans, we rejoice, yea,
and will rejoice. We caper. It’s good. Good
for the cause. What signifies a writhing woman’s
soul ? Bind her to the altar. Flourish the knife.
# * *
Governor Loch has graciously fulfilled
Bulletin predictions by consenting to take
another billet, and that down-trodde-n connection
of royalty, the Marquis of Lome, is alleged to be
coming out to Victoria in Loch's stead. It now
remains to be seen Whether Duncan Gillies will
pull another Bulletin prophecy through by pro-
posing an increase on the present viee-regal salary,
which is the dearest wish of that “ loyal ” lump of
fat supposed to be his heart. Lord Lome’s appoint-
ment, if made, will be the signal for a further
pushing of that grovel policy, so innocently ex-
plained by Gillies when he said “Republicanism
has no chance to assert itself in Victoria while ire
fill the highest official positions, and can seize
every public opportunity to emphasise our attach-
ment to the Crown.” What a splendid oppor-
tunity would Princess Louise’s husband be for
adding another £5OOO a year, say, to those bonds
which bind ’em to the dear old Mother Country ?
They’ll do it, likely enough, and the poor Victorian
worm will not have sufficient pluck to turn. It
makes us sick.
# # #
The site selected for the statue of General
Gordon, cranky nigger-slayer and pious philan-
thropist, is that corner of Melbourne Parliament-
A SIGN OF THE TIMES.
PROUD SYDNEYITE (showing the sights of the citg to new arrical): “AND YONDER IS
“THE BULLETIN” BUILDING. DO YOU SEE THE SIGN? ”
NEW ARRIVAL: “SEE IT! WHY, IT'S SO PLAIN I CAN ACTUALLY READ IT
FROM HERE WITHOUT TAKING OFF MY EYE-GLASS!”
yard where Spring-street and Gollins-street meet
with the street along the back of Parliament
Houses. The Burke and Wills statue ought to
have had tips site after its unwarrantable removal
from Collins-street. The Gordon statue will be
far more prominent than that of the explorers,
Burke and Wills, between the Princess’ Theatre
and Model School. Near the Gordon statue is
that wonderful bluestone fountain, sculptured by
the bushranger Stafford in Pentridge Prison.
Stafford died a few years ago while in a good busi-
ness at Windsor as a sculptor of grave-monuments.
y * * *
The Gordon Statue Ceremonial was flat
as ditchwater. The statue is what you may
call a pretty and picturesque thing. Gordon
has a stick under his left arm. His left leg
on a bit of cannon, which looks exactly like a
pumpkin, in front. Gordon’s statue is put up to
encourage all soldiers to disobey orders. Emulate
Gordon. When your Commander-in-Chief (Glad-
stone or Granville) says “Come away,” you say,
“ I’m blowed if I do,” and tuck a Bible under
your arm.
# * *
At the unveiling aforementioned the ap-
plause was led by members of the Argus staff,
who were stationed immediately round the statue
or artfully posted among the general populace,
with editorial instructions to have fits at the right
moment. After a brief oration from a warrior
who once fired at blackfellows in company with the
departed, the triumvirate’s chorus sang “God save
the Queen,” but as there was no ballet to follow
the onlookers not under orders to enthuse grumbled
somewhat, and described this Great National
Occasion as “dry hash.”
* # *
The Duke of Manchester, if we may
believe theS.M. Herald, has just accidentally dis-
covered that Australian wine, if kept for a time,
t
is good enough to trickle down the throttle o
even a nobleman. The manner in which
this was found out is characteristic of the
great “guinea-pig.” Some champagne pur-
chased by him from John Fallon, the Albury
vigneron, he stowed away in the ancestral dun-
geons of Kimbolton Castle, beneath the moat,
branded as “ the worst wine he had ever drunk. ”
Thence he resurrected it after the lapse of some
years as being “just the thing for a hunt steeple-
chase breakfast, ” when it was hailed as equal to
the very finest vintages of the Continent. Doubt-
less after this had been discovered, “ Manchester”
grudgingly watched the “worst wine he had ever
drunk” and “just the thing for a hunt break-
fast ” gurgling down the throats of the men in
pink.
• ♦ • • •
Australia’s greatest industry will yet be wine-
growing, and a blessing it will be when the brutal
imported love of ardent spirits shall have been
supplanted by a taste for light wines. Some of
the lighter wines of Australia can hold their own
in any company. For instance, De Castella’s white
wines, which gained the Emperor of Germany’s
magnificent prize for the most valuable specimen of
colonial industry, are as good as any wines which
you can get in the world for the same money ; and
one of the chief reasons for travelling by the P.
and O. steamers is that you can at any time get a
half-bottle of white Hermitage or Chasselas for a
shilling. The people who pay high prices for
German hock and French claret while they can
buy wine from the Hunter River and the tem-
perate districts of Victoria so cheaply have more
money than sense. A few years ago a certain
well-known pigeon-shot, then a wine-merchant in
Sydney, took “ a rise ” out of a set of pompous
people belonging to the N.S.W. Agricultural
Society, who set themselves up as judges of win-,
by putting up a few dozens of Hunter River hock
into bottles with imported labels and placing san e
on the dinner-table as a sample of something pai -
ticularly excellent which he had just imported
from the Continent. The old fogies smacked the r
lips and said it was “beautiful,” and that they (cr
such of them as were liberal enough to pay h r
good wine at any time) would have no objectu n
whatever to part 70s. or 80s. a dozen for it. After
dinner our friend the wine-merchant calmly told
them that what they had drunk came from the
Hunter River, and had cost him, say, 14s. a
dozen, and that they could have 400 dozen of it
at that price with 20 per cent, added.
# # #
Old John Sutherland was buried on
Thursday last at Sydney Necropolis in the pre-
sence of a vast concourse of friends. Sir Henry
Parkes, to whom, by the way, old John had been a
most excellent friend in quite a lot of ways, was
unable, however, to attend. He gave that after-
noon—at exactly the same hour as that at which old
John’s coffin was put into the hearse —a snug little
dinner-party, at which were present a number of
more or less-generally less—distinguished per-
sons, a full list of whose names was supplied to
one of the papers. Now, Mr. Sutherland had died
several days previously, and a large number of
people have a vague sort of an idea that it would
have been just as well had Sir Henry postponed
that dinner-party. By the way, the company
included Mr. Dale, the newly-elected member for
Central Cumberland. Mr. Dale, we are glad to
hear, is a man of considerable means.
# * #
Americans begin to find out an Australian
accent, It is sharp, rather squeaky. The Ameri-
can opens his mouth broad. The Australian is
inclined to purse his up. ’Frisco papers will
advise Australian actors to drop the Wallaby
lingo.
* * *
A writein a Ceylon paper is surprised
that the “ twang ” which is said to have mani-
fested itself in the speech of Australian children
should have only been noticed so recently. “ Any-
one,” this correspondent goes on, “who has fre-
quented the Grand Oriental Hotel at Colombo
during the past few years must have noticed the
circumstance.” (The Grand Oriental Hotel is a
great house of call of rich Australians on then-
way to or from the Antipodes.) The Ceylon man
is ungallant enough to add that “ the voices of
some of the fairest Australian ladies is quite a
-phonetic revelation, their accents resembling the
vocal gymnastics of a Punch-and-Judy performer.”
The Bulletin pleads guilty to the last count of
the indictment. There is hardly a woman in
Australia who doesn't pronounce cow —“kaow,”
A most exasperating little pamphlet, about
three inches square, is scattered broadcast in Mel-
bourne. It is a sermon by Rev. J. F. Ewing,
Toorak Presbyterian Church, “improving” Mr.
Ormond’s death. Ormond used to attend there,
with M'Bain, the Legislative Council President,
and Davies the Legislative Assembly Speaker.
Rev. Ewing is an able man, but must be ashamed
of himself for having to publish this fulsome
sermon of Golden Calf worship. A beautiful
touch is where he insinuates that Ormond endowed
the Working Men’s College in face of the universal
prognostication by his friends that he would only
meet with ingratitude. Weep! Weep! Ormond,
by the way, was only a recent convert. The Rev.
Dr. M‘Donald, Ewing’s predecessor at Toorak, is
credited with having landed this big fish. Soon
he exuded many thousands for the Presbyterian
College, but oh, how foolish it was of him to
throw away good money on that Working Men's
College ! And then he went and gave Bishop
Moorhouse a dollop of money for the Anglican
Cathedral. Freen’s, he lacked di-creetion.
# % #
At Brisbane Police Court the other day a
man was brought up for obtaining whisky by false
pretences, and having no visible means of support.
The police said lie had been well-known in town
for the last six months, and had gone the pace in
the matter of dress, jewellery, and liquor. Upon
him were found pawn-tickets to the amount of
£12 2s. Pass the office oboe ;—
Melbourne's handsomest barmaid is the
sister of a “ champion ” boxer. She can ‘" put a
head ” on a fellow just as well as her big brother,
although she puts it on him from inside.
* * *
Lady Bell is returning to Queensland with
her children, four sons and a daughter. One of
the sons, Colin, is the Bell who rowed in the
Cambridge crew this year. Jimbour, the once
colossal show-station of Queensland, is much
changed since the days when Sir Joshua Bell kept
s ate there like a prince. Over 200,000 sheep were
sheared each season, and Sir Joshua erected a
huge stone mansion at a cost of £50,000, in which
lie spent but a few years before his melancholy
death. Towards the end of his life his lavish ex
penditure landed him in difficulties, and he amal
ganiated his immense property with the Darling
Downs Pastoral Company, of which Sir Arthur
Palmer and Sir Thomas MTI wraith arc the chief
controllers. Lady Bell reserved for herself and
her family the huge stone mansion and 100 sur-
r Minding acres. It has stood empty for years, a
r gular white elephant, looking out over the
limitless expanse of the open grass-slopes.
* * *
A Melbourne paper sent a smart man to
the hairdressers’ miree. the other evening, where
they had a “ race ’’--six barbers fixing up the hair
of six young ladies in Pompadour top-knots.
Smart man thought he had done a good thing.
Went to get shaved. Barber tweaked him by the
nose and flourished the razor, exclaiming : “ I’d
like to lay my hand on the beast who wrote the
account of that soiree!''. Moral : Never say
“ barber,” always “hairdresser.”
* * *
Mystical advertisement from Sydney E.
News -
Miscellaneous.
“VTOUNG gent, 83, wishes correspond with young
1 lady, view to abov e. Address, &c.
* # #
Marriage is a failure in Japan. Official
figures show that during the past four years there
have been 1,240,007 marriages and 463,587 divorces
there.
Watch bookmakers’ buggies on Rand wick Road
Of Sunday afternoons whips going like
crackers.
Each buggy has its crummy muslin load,
Where are the buggies of the backers ?
(Poor buggies, those.)
“UP THE SPOUT."
Where are the masher’s ticker?
His ring and resplendent chain?
Why drinks he a baser liquor,
A\ hose tipple was once champagne ?
Where is the masher’s glory?
His raiment of gorgeous hue ?
Ask of the Hebrew hoary
Who lent him that twelve-pound-two.
Gone where the woodbine twineth,
Gone where the sparrows build :
Where the moth on the garment mineth,
And the flea may disport unkilled ;
\V here each in its ticketed slumber
The day of redemption waits —
Old Mo hath the name and number,
And his nephew the dupii -cater.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Brad mont Chambers, KING STREET.
- Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
1 Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
1 and all the usual banking business transacted.
! The following are the Hates of Interest allowed
4 for Fixed Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Mouths
<i Months
3 Months'
I). 1 , per cent.
8-1 per cent,
?l per cent.
fj| per cent.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in Hie market.
For solid comfort, excellent table, cheerful, airy
bedrooms, a central aud quiet neighbourhood, commend us
to “THE LANGHAM HOTEL,” Wynyard Square, Sydney.
The Proprietress fully maintains the high reputation this
Hotel has always enjoyed. The terms arc very moderate,
and we strongly recommend visitors to (he metropolis to
give it a trial.
Dingiuaus electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of ‘ elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin do lanes, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it will perform hall
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Someone has actually triumphed over the
Sheriff of New South Wales. One naturally
loathes a man who has simply to sign a bit of blue
paper, and, hey, presto ! the bailiffs are upon you !
or who looks on languidly in an official capacity
while one is swung off to please and to vindi-
cate the vestal virtue of Mary Jane Hicks.
It seems that a “ji.fa.” was issued against Oscar
Meyer, of Exhibition fame, and the Sheriff des-
patched one Hughes to “hold the fort, ” other-
wise to act as man in possession. Hughes
played up considerably. When Meyer (we are
now giving his version of the story) returned
from Melbourne he found the bailiff drunk as
Chloe, on his (Meyer’s) beer, and lie had to
get in through a back window into his own
house. Then the bailiff hiccnped softly in his
ear that if he didn’t clear out he would put a head
on him. Also he called him several different
varieties of blank. Garrard and Hamilton, the
auctioneers, went there, and he offered to clean up
the premises with them, free of charge. When
Mrs. Meyer and a friend arrived lie called the friend
a blanky foreigner, and volunteered to drop him
over the balcony, and chased them away from their
own house. As the bailiff was in possession under
the • Sheriff’s writ the astute Meyer did not
fire him out, but chose to put up with it, muttered
“a time will come !” paid out the execution, and
presented Sheriff Cow per with a Supreme Court
writ for £lO,OOO damages. The battle was fought
out before Judge Stephen, on whose premises a
constable had been shot the night before, and his
nerves must have been upset. Anyhow, he gave
the jury to understand that it was really a very
trifling matter having a drunken man put into
one’s house under cover of a sheriff’s warrant, and
that even if a bailiff did drink a few bottles of
beer and swear a few oaths, and convert a peace-
able man's dwelling house into a beer-saloon, and
lay violent hands on him to try and shove him out
of his own house, being protected from retribution
by a sheriff's warrant, it really was the sort of
tiling almost anybody might have to put up with.
In fact, the Judge seemed to hint that he would
rather like it himself. The jury, however, ap-
peared to be of opinion that it was bad enough to
have to entertain a bailiff unawares at any time,
and that the least the sheriff could do was to send
sober, trustworthy men to represent him, and that
it really was hardly the thing in a free country for
a man to be abused and insulted and threatened,
and for his wife to be chased out of her own house
by a drunken officer of the law. So they awarded
Oscar Meyer £lOO. And little enough, too.
# # #
Two toasts : “ Woman —She requires no
eulogy ; she speaks for herself.” “ Woman—A
delectable dear, so sweet that honey would blush
in her presence and treacle stand appalled.”
•f? df '!f
Railway-Commissioner Eddy lias decided
that all clerical visitors to N.S. Wales, reported
to him as “distinguished,” shall be charged half-
rates- same as children under 12 —on the railways.
The rule was not specially directed against, or
drawn up for, Dr. Gilchrist’s visiting Presby-
terians.
►Stern Parent (to a young applicant for his
daughter’s hand): “ Young man, can you support
a family ?” Young man (meekly); “ I only wanted
Sarah. ”
=& # #
The letter of the law is a most tyrannical
master. The other day the Sydney Licensing
Magistrates refused the application of a pub-
lican for a renewal of his license on the ground
that he was a person of ha 1 repute, inasmuch as
he was living with another man’s wife. The
publican appealed to the Supreme Court, and Mr.
Justice Foster (president of the Social Purity
Society !) lias had to decide on contentions raised
and i ireeedents quoted by Mr. Salomons, Q.C., at
the instance of the ingenious Attorney Slattery,
that it does not follow that a man is of bad repute
merely because he lives with another fellow’s wife.
The publican, therefore, will get his license pro-
vided, we presume, that the licensing magistrates
are not supported by the* Full Court in their con-
tention that, the publican’s domestic arrangements
having been so well advertised in the papers since
the hearing of the original application for renewal,
he is and must now be a man of bad repute with
the community.
But, after all, it would be the sheerest hypocrisy
to pretend that living in a mated, as distinguished
from a married, condition necessarily involves evil
repute. Why, we have known a couple of Pre-
miers down in Victoria, you know - who would
wrathfully say you meant to be personal if you
dared to raise such a question in their presence.
Vt'
The Sydney, Ladies’ Club, we arc told, is
now fairly on the road to establishment. For some
weeks past there have been meetings—presided
over by a mature hospital nurse—at three o’clock
every Saturday afternoon at one of Quong Tart’s
tea-rooms'; but even now, it appears, the members
haven’t quite made up their mind what they want.
We know what they want. They want to get
married. * When a man gets married his wife
generally takes fine care that he doesn’t trouble
the club ; and when those Sydney women get
married they won’t trouble the club either, bless
them.
The directors of one of the Australasian
Steamship Companies have come to the conclusion
that the invariable failure of their crews to rescue
persons who fall overboard from their vessels is
attributable to the fact that there are always
sharks in the wake of the vessel—the sea-lawyers
being led along by the waste food thrown over-
board from time to time. To render their vessels
less attractive to the sharks, and to give the “man
overboard ” a show, the directors' have issued
instructions that no more waste food is to be
thrown from the ship at sea. From this we con-
clude that the directors aforesaid have succeeded
in abolishing sea-sickness. We cordially congratu-
late them.
■A : %
Which gives a woman the greater pleasure,
to discover in her intimate friend a secret sin or a
new wrinkle?
# # *
The Model Lodging-house in Sydney, run
by a limited company, and rarely more than one-
third full, charges ninepence a night. The Model
Lodging-house in Glasgow, run by the Corpora-
tion —an 1, like the Corporation, always full and a
paying speculation—charges but threepence a
night, or, with certain extra bedding, fourpence-
halfpenny-a night. In the latter, too, a man has
fire and proper appliances for cooking, and can
purchase on the premises small quantities of good
provisions—a halfpennyworth of tea or coffee, or
sugar or bread, and you can get a go( id meal of
meat, onions, and bacon for twopence-halfpenny.
Seeing that land, building, and provisions are, if
anything, cheaper in the Australian capitals
than in Glasgow, there appears to be a
wide field for commercial and philanthro-
pic enterprise. Many a decent, hungry man,
to whom a few pennies a night is a. consider-
ation, is debarred from going to cheap lodging-
“LEFT.”
FIRST CITIZEN: “EGAD! YOU’RE JOVIAL TO-DAY! HAVE YOU HAD A
FORTUNE LEFT YOU?”
SECOND CITIZEN: “NO. MY WIFE HAS LEFT ME!”
houses in Sydney by the profane talk and general
blackguardism that goes on unchecked. Let the
Sydney Corporation look to this before indulging
further in “ great organs ’’ and other playthings,
# # #
George Winch, butcher, has been fined £5
at Melbourne for assaulting a Mrs. Marshall. He
came to her house with meat, chased her round the
table, and finally catching her kissed her several
times. Then she told her husband, and the
trouble began. The fair creature admitted having
joked with Winch and having on one occasion
struck him with her sunshade. Winch was fined
£5. This little incident somehow recalls the
circumstance that the manager of a Sydney daily
paper once received a complaint to the effect that
a traveller of his. who had gone into the country,
was canvassing the married women for kisses.
“ Very sorry, ” the manager wrote back, “but I
don’t see how I am to stop it. You must have
some awfully good-looking women at Jamberoo.”
% ifc #
The assault on Shepherd Spurgeon, junior,
by Mr. Duckworth, was made the most of by the
Yankee press. “It appears that a party, of which
Messrs. Duckworth and Spurgeon were members,
were touring California, when Mr. Duckworth
‘ shed his coat and squared off ’ at his reverend
friend, but two ladies interposed and the ‘ affair ’
at once terminated, full explanations being
mutually made.” There is no one who can ex-
plain like a clergyman.
A young Australian matron was bewailing
a rapid reduction in her avoirdupois and a general
fading away of her personal attractions when two
of her spinster sisters shrieked —“What does it
matter ? You’re married all right.” The feminine
mind is laid bare in this true yarn, and the
solemn attention of young men contemplating
matrimony is respectfully invited. Let Charles
pause ere yoking himself to a girl who will im-
mediately pitch her pads on the fire and give her
dress-improver to the cat, saying “What’s the
odds so long as I’m married ! ”
# # #
Under Sir Henry Loch’s thin veneer of
bonhomie is an autocratic military snob who will
soon get into a howling “ constitutional ” row with
the people of Cape Colony.
■A- 'o' "A'
It was necessary to get a rule nisi com-
pelling police-magistrate Bridges to hear a sum-
mons against the Duke of Cambridge for assault-
ing a journalist. Why, its Panton and Lord
Beer thirst over again !
* # *
Broad Church Archbishop Carr, Roman
Catholic, is billed in Melbourne to lecture on the
electric light, with experiments, at the Town Hall
in Governor Robinson’s presence, with_ Sir B.
Benjamin, Melbourne’s Mayor, in the chair. Now,
Benjamin is a Jew.
German clerks are swarming in Melbourne.
The explanation is the devotion of young Mel-
bourne to football, &e.
# =&
A poor Mohammedan lately came to Mel-
bourne without a copper, and soon had £l2O In the
bank, gained by hawking. He drew it out, re-
fusing to take a fraction of interest, to the amaze-
ment of the bank authorities. This is the way
with the Mohammedan generally. Vet the Chris-
tians are trying to convert them ! G. G. Smith is
the guide, philosopher, and friend of the numerous
Mohammedans in Melbourne.
# # #
The 30 doctors of Doctors’ Commons,
Collins-street East, Melbourne, are reinforced by
a lady doctor, whose brass plate notifies that she
is a Masseuse (a practitioner of Massage, the
kneading process which fashionable ladies use
instead of exercise). Half-a-dozen young ladies
arc: going in for medicine at the Melbourne Uni-
versity, and look out for incomes of from £4OOO to
£5OOO a year.
# * #
The following circular has been issued by
a Mr. Harrison, “ printer in ordinary to the
Queen ”
The history .of the colonial gentry is occupying the
special attention of Sir Bernard Burke, who hopes to
render the work a perfect record of the families of dis-
tinction in her Majesty’s colonies. With this object in
view he addresses himself with confidence to those in-
terested, and feels assured that each family will aid his
endeavour by filling up this formula and returning it
with as little delay as possible, addressed thus Sir Ber-
nard Burke, C. 8., Dublin Castle.
This is the finest joke of the season.
# # #
At the North Queensland Encampment, at
Townsville, 1888, an amusing incident occurred.
A church parade was commanded, so the troops
were marched into town, halted opposite the
Anglican Church, and told off in detachments to
their respective places of worship. The major
commanding requisitioned the services of the
Charters Towers Cadet Band to play the Roman
Catholics to their chapel, and their bandmaster,
presuming that all Catholics were Irish, selected,
like Mark Twain's panorama pianist, the most
appropriate air in his repertoire. At the last
moment the “majah ” rushed up and said : “ The
Head-quarters Band will take the Catholics ; the
Cadets the Presbyterians.” And thereupon
ensued a sight that would have made—and pro-
bably did make —John Knox squirm in Ins grave.
I t was too late to change the tune, so the long-
visaged Presbyterians marched to their kirk to
the solemn strains of “Tow row row, Paddy will
ye now.”
* # #
Queen Victoria, we road, “seldom drinks
more than one small glass of wine at dinner and
afterwards takes a few drops of good Scotch
whisky.” Most people are, to a certain extent,
like the Queen, only, instead of taking a few drops
of good whisky, they get a good drop of bad
whisky. For particulars as to good whisky see
The Bulletin’s advertising columns. We aren’t
going to ring anyone’s whisky-advertisement- into
this part of the paper.
# # #
A long tongue makes many sandwiches.
* # *
Dr. Spriugthorpe, lecturing in Melbourne
on the subject of “Healthy Homes,” said that
05 deaths occurred and £15,000 was wasted daily
in London through preventible diseases. £15,000
wasted! Why, don’t the doctors and under-
takers get most of it ?
■ft- -ft- V?
“ Woman cannot be republican. Her
nature is opposed to it. She comprehends only
slavery or royalty. ”
v? 3ft*
According to a late Yankee account, Mr.
►Samuel D. Curtis and Miss Sally Murphy were
married the other day “ after a tedious courtship
of 15 years, which was borne with Christian forti-
tude and patience.”
He (tenderly): “Will you be mine, dar-
ling?” She (cautiously): “All yours, George,
dear?” He (intensely): “All mine, darling; all
mine.” She: “Well, no, George; but I’ll tell
you what I’ll do. I’ll divide with you.”—Fa’,
% ilf
Ihe management of one of the Sydney
links lias a rather novel way of getting rid of
mondaines who make themselves obnoxious among
the skaters. A neatly-got-up card, like a ball-
programme, is handed to the giddy skatist by the
floor-manager. On opening it she reads in bold
type, “You are respectfully requested to discon-
tinue your attendance. ”
The intensely loyal firm of Williamson,
Garner, and Musgrove—“ loyalty ” pays a good
dress-circle dividend, by the way-desired to have
a hand in the unveiling of the statue to General
Gordon, that pious aimihilator of niggers, at Mel-
bourne, on the 26th. So, according to latest ar-
rangements, the Princess’s Comic Opera Company
were to stand around the solemn occasion and sing
“ God Save the Queen ” for all they were worth.
Eaney putting Billy Elton to such a base use as
this ! The Gordon bubble burst long ago, and his
statue has been worked up solely by the Argus
with Mackinnon as president and Howard
Willoughby as hon. secretary of the Memorial
Fund.
A Trade Mark—A bruiser’s nose.
* # #
“John Clarke, a member of the Victorian
Permanent Artillery for 12 months, out of which
time he was six months in the cell and one in the
guarcUroom, has just been expelled from the force.”
►Still, this leaves five months’ service out of the 12,
which is not a bad average in these piping times of
peace. The trusty “trap,” deducting the time he
spends in promiscuous flirtations, in wolfing cold
pies, and imbibing liquid refreshment during pro-
hibited hours, and iii other gay diversions, can
hardly devote even five months out of twelve to
his duty. Then why be so down upon poor J.
Clarke? And this is the Permanent Artillery, too!
# # #
The luxurious Melbourne Morgue has been
further furnished with a nice new clock.
SONG AND DANCE.
Walking into town to-day (musk)
A Bob-by I espied, (music and toe-twiddle)
He was on the Courting Lay (music)
With a pretty gal by his side.
(Music and dunce ad lib. Somersault.)
She was a nummy-numrny little thing, (music)
Petticoats only to the shins, (music and toe-twiddle)
The Bob-by begun to sing (music)
Arid rattle a jig on his pins.
(Music and dunce ad lib. Puts down the end of
a policeman’s baton on the (/round, and turns a
ha ndsprinff.)
Copyright! Copywright! This fortunate com-
position, like “My Pretty Jane,” has realised
£15,000 for the author, while the two or three
poets of Australia have to live at fourteen-shilling
hash-houses. Moral— —
Matilda was a nice young thing,
My wife I meant to make her :
I bought her an engagement ring
And then she chose the Baker ;
At first he called her “ tender doc,”
And praised her figure crummy—
While I was wand’ring to and fro,
Dull, desolate, and ghunmy.
But very soon the girl who broke
My heart so fond and trusty
Discovered that the other bloke
Was very stale and crusty;
II d whack Matilda blue and blue,
And often to her sorrow
Would earn his bread to-day and do
A household “loaf” to-morrow.
While yet I mourned my cruel loss
(They’re angels when we lose ’em)
Matilda, looking hot and cross,
Fell weeping on my bosom;
But, somehow, to my stricken heart
1 didn’t care to take her ;
I thought I get a fresher tart
And leave her to the baker.
E.F.
THE CLOCK IN THE MORGUE.
The clock goes on with a steady tick,
It marks each hour so swiftly fled ;
Time is much to the anxious quick,
But little it troubles the man’s that dead —
Tick, tick, tick, tick,
As calmly he lies on his cheerless bed.
Found in the meadow, the street, or stream,
What to him is the time o’ day ?
’Tis only for them who toil and scheme—
He has finished his part in Nature’s play ;
Tick, tick, tick, tick.
Ah ! many’s the minute he’ll dream away.
What lias severed his thread of life—
“ Natural causes,” bullet, or blow ?
Was lie drowned or did a suicide’s knife
Make that dark red blood to flow ?
Tick, tick, tick, tick,
The clock don’t care and the clock don’t know.
Enough that he’s dead and cold as stone,
Let jurors discuss mishap or crime,
All hazard a guess, save the clock alone
Which never discourses on aught but Time—
Tick, tick, tick, tick,
With its gentle monotonous even rhyme.
Wind that clock in the Morgue with care,
Keep it going from day to day ;
It tells no tale to the corpses there,
But to bodies living it seems to say,
“ Tick, tick, tick, tick
“ Second by second ye wither away.”
E.F.


Amusements.
£[ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Sir. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
OF
A.-M O S C-X.-AH K.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonau), Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting-Manager . .. Mr. H. J. Magee.
Air. Brough and Mr. Boucicault have much
pleasure in announcing
A GRAND PRODUCTION,
on a scale of magnificence hitherto unattempted
in the colonies, of Lord Lytton’s Comedy,
M o n e y ! M o rx e y !
IN FIVE ACTS.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
QIHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Business Manager, Mr. B. N. Jones.
Last Two Nights of Bland Holt's Company in
J XTEW BABYLON.
Admission —55., 35., Is. Tickets at Maokay’s Hotel.
New opera house,
Ktxg and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. John Solomon.
Musical Director Mons. Henri Kowalski.
Stage Director Mr. Henry Bracy.
Treasurer & General Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Air. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
AID NS. HENRI KOWALSKI.
EVERY EVENING.
\ Immense
.•< SUCCESS
( of
EVERY EVENING.
MOUSTIQU E.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
Admission—Dress Circle, 55,; Stalls, 35.; Pit, Is.
Private Boxes, £2 2s.
Doors open 7.15; Overture at 8; Carriages at 10.20.
Manager for Mons. Kowalski, Phil Stuart,
Q.AIETY THEATRE.
THE WILLARD-SHEHIDAN ENGLISH COMPANY.
Great Success of the Latest London Burlesque,
TWO LOVELY BLACK EYES,
oft,
fHE SAILOR HOLD AND THE SMUGGLER SOLD.
-O— —
Smiles, Siiilpefsj Grins, Titters, G'ggles, Peals,
Shouts, and Roars of Laughter.
JOHN IFL SZEUEJZE^XZD^IKr
AS
THE BOLD SMUGGLER AND FOLEY.
Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices, 3s. 2s. and Is.
Pemberton W. Willard.
JjXHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the direction of Messrs. Hiscocks & Macmahon.
THE CRY IS STILL THEY COME !
{?/" Special : The Box Plan for the Vice-Regal Com-
mand Right is Row Open.
TEE GREAT SILBOE-STIRK BOOM!
The talk of the Town ! Thousands flock to see
THE GREAT NEW PROGRAMME,
abounding in fresh wonders, and bristling with fun •
Only 3 More Nights
Only 3 Nights More
Only 3 More Nights
On’y 3 More Nights
Only 3 More Nights
Only 3 More Nights
Only 3 More Nights
Whose Brilliant Season
MUST close on 6th instant
in consequence of the Mel-
bourne Engagement.
On Friday Night
(sth instant)
His Excellency Lord
Carrington and Suite will
witness the performance.
Of the SUBURB PER-
FORMANCES which have
during the past month
attracted all Sydney,
and have proved a
revelation and a de-
light to thousands.
—x —
In all human proha-
hility such performanccs
will never again he wit-
nessed in A ustralia.
—x —
The Silbon-Stirks
The Silbon-Stirks
The Silbon-Stirks
The Silbon-Stirks
The Silbon-Stirks
The Silbon-Stirks
The Silbon-Stirks
FAREWELL GRAND MATINEE,
SATURDAY NEXT, at 2,30.
xx
Tickets for all parts at W. NORTH AM'S
Refreshment Rooms (Tram Station), Elizabeth
and King streets. Concludes at 10.20. Special
trams leave Bridge-street 7.37 and 7.45. Box plan
at Nicholson’s.
jg ON D I AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS ok AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to C p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, fid. Trams to Gate-Fare, 4d.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Amusements.
JJLITE SKATING RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies,
Here you are sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission ... One Shilling.
( Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets;
Gentlemen, 455.; Ladies, 40s, Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller?
bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair : wholesale, 17s. 6d,
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons carried free,
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink,
METROPOLITAN SKATING RINK,
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station,
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony,
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a. m. —Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, 6d,, Skates,
6d. ; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, 6d.
7.30 to 10 p.m,—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d.
Double Ticket of Admission, Is. 6d.
Weekly Tickets: Single, 35.; Double, 4s. 6d.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Manager ... D. W. HIGGINS.
IJIBOCADERO,
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant .Skating Kink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere ! The Open
Roof a Boon to Skaters !
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
Electric Light!
Skates Unequalled in the City!
TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR.
Look Out for
Novelties! 3VT oveltiea!
AND THE
Children’s Carnival and Singing Competition,
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
George Oughton ... General Manager,
J}ARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
The Largest and Best in the World. Remember—Seven
Times Round One Mile. Everyone Delighted.
Three Sessions :
10 a.m. to 12 noon, Ladies and Children only ; Admission
FREE-Skates, Cd.
2.30 to 5 p.m. and 7.30 to 10 p.m.
ADMISSION ' ONE SHILLING,
Tuesday Evenings Ladies’ Special Night,
fW' Season Tickets are Now Ready.
Terms; Ladies’ Tickets, 305.; Gentlemen, 355.
Eloorage Tickets, 15s.
Special Prices can be arranged for Family Tickets.
R. J. AGINTON, Manager.
JJOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR,
Under the patronage of Lord and Lady Carington,
—ix —
Aid of the City and Suburban Hospitals,
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park.
Opening Way, 121 li September, I88!>.
President, Lady Martin; Vice-Presidents, Lady
Darley, Lady Allen, Mrs. Belisario, and Mr.
James Devlin; Honorary Treasurers, Alfred Allen,
Esq., M.L.A., John Street, Esq., M.L.A., andF.
B. Lark, Esq.
The Honorary Secretaries, Town Hall, would be
very pleased to have the sympathy and support of
the general public and to receive names of persons
willing to assist by miscellaneous Gifts, however
small, either in Paintings, Photographs, Books
(new or second-hand), Perfumery or Cigarettes,
any hand-painted articles, Plain or Fancy Needle-
work, Presents of Dolls, &c. Prizes for the “Art-
Union ” and Gifts for the above to be forwarded
addressed “Hospital Bazaar and Village Fair,”
care of Miss M‘Kay, Sydney Hospital, Macquarie-
strect, who has kindly granted us storage room.
Promises of help with Flowers, Ferns, &c., Fruit,
Home-made Preserves, Confectionery, Cakes, or
to Dairy and Refreshment Stalls, please communi-
cate with
MRS. ALFRED ALLEN, \
MISS JULIA BELISARIO, /
Hon.
Secs.
Town Hall, Sydney.
Trust money to lend on city o r
Suburban properties. E. H. PYBUS
11 Victoria Chambers (Ist Flour), 44 Castle-
ueagh Street,
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
fgrient gquare ||luc,
Extract of Soap,
Ipncgar, glacking,
&c., &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
ASSOCIATION OF QUEENSLAND.
Annual Exhibition.
1889.
BOWEN PARK, BRISBANE.
August 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24.
| Judging Day: TUESDAY, 20th August.
Opening Day ; WEDNESDAY, 21st August.
IN addition to the Valuable Prizes given by the
Association, a large number of Special Prizes
have been donated for Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, and Parm and Dairy Produce.
Members Tickets (price £1 Is.), Prize Schedules,
and all information promptly forwarded on appli-
cation to
ERNEST A. SMITH, Secretary,
15G Elizabeth-street. Brisbane.
Mercantile rowing club ball,
LEIGH HOUSE,
FRIDAY, JULY 5.
Evening Dress. Music by Mr. L. de Green’s
Band. The whole of the new suite of rooms will be
used upon this occasion. Tickets obtainable from
Members of the Committee, and the following
warehouses: Messrs. Peapes and Shaw, Parmer
and Co., Hordern Bros., E. Cantor, Searl and Son,
T. M. Alcock, and J. Mannix.
1 Telegraph Dept.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
£• Y C L O RAMA.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama 1
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... Prom 10 a.m. To 10 t.m.
SUNDAYS, 3 TO 10 p.M.
Admission, Two Shillings; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CYCLORAMA.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
I 331 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
JIELACHKINO''!
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO /
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
-Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
WARREKT & ROWN,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette ... 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
„ No. 8 „ .... 66/- „ 7/-
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
HeadL I Read. I Read !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
I
Furniture, &c.
N
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & La mu.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAII».
Patented.
s
■i
Tins chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reelin'"ng and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction ; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It tits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWINGROOM Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs ; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, <fec. Newton and
Lamb.
ď
WALNUT FALL
ft FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
j Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
đ
DRAW] N U-ROOM
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS-
Nkwton & Lamb.
PIANOFOin RS by R. LIP? and SOHN.
CARL RoNISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
d
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITUR E.
A Very Comp lets
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for I’arkmr, Library or Bed-
rooins. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
8
R
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKINO EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton <fe Lamb.
ď
| all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
đ
Sp r i n g m a im-
presses (Woven
Wire), best make; alstv
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. eaqh.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13. Od. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. Od.; Washstands, from ,12s. Od.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s. ; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from
10s. Od. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
N
EWT 0 N
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Prastern Australia: the Coming .
How is the time to Invest your Few Pounds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands-!
i'he eyes of the world are how oh WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where decent Rich Discoveries of Gold, Coal, Silver, Tin and other have been made; and with RESPONSIBLE
Dent & Co.), and secure an allotment in or
Buyers, Syndicates, &c-., from £10 to £20,000
, Lae eyes of the world are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where tecent Rich Discoveries of Gold, Coal, Silver, Tin and other Mineral
GOVERNMENT (it ccrtainity) it may, with truth, be said—“AT LAST SHE MOVES!” Be wise in time! Call on the W.A. Agents (G. W. 3
, t „ OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get it almost given you. Numerous Properties for Sale to suit Large and Small
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119a ESllzsoitoetilx Sy-dinoy-
Department of Public Works. Sydney,
July 2, 188!!. ' ■
TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 2nd July, 1889.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the Conveyance of
Mails between Queanbeyan and Uriarra, Bolivia
and Clive, Ulladulla and Kiola.
Tenders will be received up to the 7th proximo,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
£lOO to Nothing!
AT THE
CHICAGO CIGAR STORE,
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
Each Subscriber on our ss. Consultations select-
ing a Placed Horse or Man will lie entitled to
select a Double Melbourne and Caulfield Cup,
for which events we will lay £lOO to Nothing!
Our Dividends are the Largest in Sydney.
SS. CARRINGTON HANDICAP SS.
F. Martineer ... ... £5 11 0
T. Bishop 3 18 (J
Our Consultations are carried on in a most legiti-
mate manner, and we feel sure by so doing we
shall gain the public patronage.
Books Open on Hurdle ami Steeple at Randuivk :
V.R.C. G.N. Hurdle and Steeple, Derby and Cup;
and all the fortheomimj events.
Now Open: Consultations on MooreSeld Races.
We have the Finest Stock of
Imported Havannah Cigars and Tobacco.
Note the Address:
LEW BEITTON,
348 G-eorge St., Sydney
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
<£looo FOR lOs. 6d
& AITKEN, 680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Have been appointed General Agents for the
Sandhurst Monster Art Uuion.
I ' irst Frize, £1000; Second, £500; Third, £2OO
IN ALL, 600 PRIZES, VALUED £2705.
SEND x FOR x TICKETS x AT x OKFCRf
To be Drawn at Sandhurst on 81st July.
bee Daily Telegraphy” “Evening News,” and other portions-of this paper.
[)Awso
DAWSON'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.G.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENT'S WANTED'
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
\#/
r üBQul
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTOR!
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, 40., MADE ON THE PREMISES.
©M Tables re-fltted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS iai ■took,*lie CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS ft SOW M
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
?, Ultk fiaorge Stmt, SYDNEY, (S.S.W., ami Sobo Square, UfSBOI.
Mr. J. F. Gunsler
j'iVKHY European city has its lion provider. London and
Baris are blessed 1 with Gunter and Verey’s, Vienna is rich
With the Gliden Lanth, America rejoices in Delmonico’S;
and Australia is well content with the possession of John
Ferdinand Gunsler, termed the Prince of Caterers, whose
portrait appears in this issue. Gunsler is a household
word in every Capital city in Australia. Mr. Gunsler
studied his business in the great cities of the old world,
and finally graduated in Paris and brought to these
colonies art almost European reputation. Greybeards
vVhose recollections carry them back to the sixties have
unpleasant memories of the system then obtaining in
cafrts and restaurants. Soon after Mr. Gunsler’s arrival in
Melbourne in 1871, a riew order of things came about.
, The public began to realise that it could he decently fed,
and the gourniet found that he could actually dine, a
practical impossibility except upon occasions at private
houses, where some thoughtful member of the Old
rtghne was extravagant enough to keep a chef. Mr.
Gunsler was singularly successful in Melbourne and the
fine building in Oollins-street which hears his name was
the outcome of his sojourn in the now smellful city.
Gunsler's cafe became the fashion and its proprietor
found a host ot imitators. The stewards of the
V. R.C., who had long been wearied with the complaints Of
a suffering public, solicited him to undertake the catering
at Flemington, free of charge for the privilege, which he
carried out most satisfactorily up to the time of his depar-
ture ill 1879. Mr. Gunsler sold out from the Melhortrne
business to “Money” Miller for £22,000. He then went
to England, visited all the great capitals of Europe, re-
turning to Australia by the way of America, taking care-
ful note by the way of all that was fresh and new in the
art of providing the good things of this life. Fortunately
for Sydney, the ’terms of his Contract did not permit o't
Mr. Gunsler recommencing business in Melbourne, and he
was thus enabled to carry out a long-cherished pro-
ject to try his fortunes in the parent city, where
he speedily got into harness and transformed the
old premises in Pitt-street, long known as Foss’,
into a luxurious cafe. Whether our friend had
over-estimated his powers of attraction, or had incurred
too large an outlay for the times, or the good people of
Sydney required to lie educated up to the advantages of
such an establishment, certain it is that financially the
venture was a failure, and Mr. Gunsler lost every shilling
of his hardly-earned capital. However, nothing daunted,
his restless energy of this little-big man with the fifty-inch
_rr i . |, - |B|
chest soon set him afloat. From amongst numerous
otters he decided to accept that of the Compagnoni Cater-
ing Company, which business he has for some fine
managed in a way to satisfy and please the pub-
llß Ele has, moreover, gained the confidence of
the directors and the good wishes of the numerous
employees of the establishment, the latter of whom onlv a
tew weeks since presented him with an extremely hand-
some testimonial in token of (lie esteem in which they
hold him. A true master of his business, genial anil
kindly in nature, thoroughly appreciated by the public for
* 10111 be caters, and esteemed in the truest sense by those
who have the privilege to know him behind the curtain is
our full warrant for making Mr. Gunsler the subject of
this notice.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine is made by “a
chemist named Marshall, we think.’’
A subscription-list in aid of sufferers by
tlie Newcastle colliery disaster lies at The Bullk-
'n\ office. Subscriptions received will be acknow-
ledged in our columns.
One of the most popular sporting resorts about
»J<m*y IS the Chicago Sporting Bureau, 348 George-street,
conducted by Mr. Lew. Britton, late of Melbourne. Mr.
uitton conducts “place consultations” and permits
Electors of placed horses tochoose a double for the Caul-
»e,rt an « Melbourne Cups,-£ 1,00 to nothing.
.i] 1 *I'* 1 '* of Robertson’s.Whisky Coupons should' consult
Vie list of prize-winners appearing in Tin? Biu.ktix adver-
, The drawing for these prizes- amounting
sen, V t ? ok l >,aci ® 'b %dney the other day, in the pre-
sene, ot a large and influential committee. Allt's Brewery
aut "me and Spirit Association are the agents for this
popuk r whisky, and further particulars of the business of
vie n ip will appear next week.
•lust in the very depth of our winter that real
i> n • , ony ’ Queensland, provides an attractive Inhibition
ni Biishane under the auspices of its National and Agri-
Association. These shows have been well worth
- emg i„ u,e past, and the one to come off in August bids
WK°t outn V a ! aII , its predecessors. As our friends up
s' ‘ll 1 I10 ",' right well how to manage such things, Taffy
lie,Hr pa ° k V p a *lr ht portmanteau and take a runup
I m.it , a real . ff°°d If he does he will most cer-
hack " aVe = allR “ (l something valnahle before he comes
The Newcastle Colliery Disaster.
Immediately after the receipt of the information
df the accident, the Citizens’ Life Assurance Com-
pany, Ltd., Of Sydney, who have a large number
of policy holders in the Newcastle district, fully
expecting that some of their policy holders would
be ailtong the unfortunate men entombed in the
mine, at Once dispatched to Newcastle one of their
head-office Officials armed with full power to settle
all claims that might arise. While there were
several policy holders among those entombed there
is Only one who is still imprisoned, and for whose
recovery alive there is now no hope. Immediately
the relatives felt themselves justified in making a
claim, the instructions of the officer referred to
were to at once hand over the money without
waiting for any formal document. It will be seen
from the following letter that these instructions
were carried out: —
Mr. Will Young, District Superintendent.
Dear Sir,—Allow me, through you, to Convey my
sincere thanks to the directors of the Citizens’ Life As-
surance Co., Ltd., for their promptness in piiying the
claim made by nle in consequence of the death of my
husband, Janies Hodson, who met his death in the A. A.
Company's coal mine, Newcastle, On the 22nd June, 1889.
The Company’s action in paying me the amount of the
claim, whilst the body was yet entombed, is worthy of
commendation, and I shall ever, with feelings of grateful-
ness, bring the same before my friends and acquaintances.
—Yours, MARY HODSON.
Adamstown, June 25, 1889,
It is in times of sudden bereavement like this
that the value of a Life Assurance policy and the
prompt payment of the same, comes home to the
working men, and we have no doubt but that the
wage-earning classes in and around this neighbour-
hood will note this action of the Citizens’. This is
not by any means the first occasion upon which
this Company has acted in a similarly liberal
manner.
- “Yes,” replied Mrs. Pitcher in a burst of
confidence, “every night when Arthur comes
home, fresh or stale, ho always turns out his
pocket, and gives me his loose silver. I save it
.“Q ,litoso - How good of him, isn’t
it . Yes, it’s really very unselfish, for as soon
as I ve saved twenty pounds that’s what my
solicitor says it will cost—l’m going to sue him for
a separation.'”
The first volume of the History of N.S.
Wales, by (!. 15. Barton, is now out, and will be
reviewed in an early number >if The Bulletin.
But before perusing Mr. Barton’s work every-
one should, as a preparative, read The Bulletin’s
Illustrated History of Botany Bay (advertised
on page 14 of this issue), the most successful cheap
hook ever published since Captain Cook landed in
Australia.
I he Committee of the Sandhurst Mechanics*
Institute and Free Library are holding a monster
art-union on the principle of the London art-union
there are in all 000 prizes to the total value of
12/0.) ranging from £lOOO to £l. The secretary,
Mr. J. H. Curnow, lias been, in Sydney during the
past week appointing agents, &c., and is much
gratified at the success met with. Mill particulars
ol the undertaking appear hi our advertising
columns.
Cooktown- (Q.) has a hut for the- accom-
modation of lepers.. But lepers accumulated and
outgrew the stowage capacity of the hut, and a
new leper-station was formed 1 on Gulf waters.
Then the owners of the hut-the Queensland
Government—put it up for sale by public auction.
Nobody in Cooktown was mean enough or epura.
geous enough to bid for it, and a rumour grew
that it might be used as a temporary immigration
barracks the sequel being the appearance of the
Lynch girls m Sydney Water Police Court, and
the minimum fine in acknowledgment of the pro-
vocation under which they had fled.
Auckland (N.Z.) has 1500 Rugby foot-
ballers playing this season.
“Augur," the Australasian prophet, has
commenced by tipping 25 horses for the Melbourne
Cup.
The Y.R.C. Grand National Hurdle and
Steeple have attracted little or no public attention
up to the present.
Mr. Donald Wallace, it is said, contem-
plates sending Carbine and Mentor to England to
try conclusions with the local cracks.
A N.Z. writer says it is safer to attack
“the sacred rights of property” in that colony
than to say one little word against Rugby football.
The Ballarat horses seem to hold a mort-
gage on every important hurdle race and steeple
run in Victoria, and Tom Corrigan is generally
“ there.”
Nelson, the gi’eat N.Z. racehorse, has at
last gone to the stud. During the six years of his
racing career he started 66 times, and has a record
of 23 firsts, 18 seconds, and 6 thirds.
The recent turf disclosures in England go
a long way towards showing that it is easier for a
thin woman to get down stairs without disarrang-
ing her bustle than for a turf-gambler to be an
honest man.
“ What good Australian expects less than
that either Kirkham or Narellan will wear the
Blue Riband at Epsom next year ?” writes a mem-
ber of the unenlightened Argus staff. The Epsom
Blue Riband is merely Disraeli’s metaphor, and
the winner doesn’t wear one. The actual visible
riband was a Y.R.C. idea.
Lord Beerthirst, who must have improved
a lot since Sutton used to win his money and never
get paid, is the present holder of the English Gun
Club’s Challenge Cup. He has -perseveringly
potted at pigeons until he can positively grass
them at 30 yards rise. This shows that there is
j something in blue blood after all.
More than 20,000 lost souls rolled up to see
a. football match between South Melbourne and
Carlton on the M. 0.0. ground last Saturday.
After the former had won 10,000 excited admirers
(ladies excepted) spat for joy, and said they “ was
certain the South ’ud put ’em throo,” while the
other 10,000 said “ the Carlton’ll —well, do ’em
next time,” and spat for luck. It was a magnifi-
cent contest —vide Melbourne press. In Sydney,
the Maoris have been doing as usual.
If in the Ascot Stakes Ringmaster was fit
and doing his level best, his performance doesn’t
make it look as though any good Australian horse
could cut down a field in England by simply pur-
ming his native tactics of racing from start to
finish. Yet plenty of good judges favour that
idea, arguing that the Britishers would lie off too
long in the vain hope of seeing the colonial nag
xmie back to them. Ringmaster did come back,
apparently, although it doesn’t follow that he
showed his true form.
At Liverpool (N. S. W) races the other day it
was feared that the big “books ” would object to the
presence of the little ones in the saddling paddock,
ft must be remembered that the leviathans began
in a very small way, and not so long ago either.
At a meeting held by this club some time ago, the
ieeretary forwarded all eligible bookmakers a
badge which permitted them to pass in. This was
i blue ribbon affixed to the button-hole. A tem-
perance reformer would have been delighted to
•see a number of red-nosed “bookies ” don their bit
)f blue when they came to the entrance-gate.
The new Epsom racecourse, likely to be a
worthy rival to Elemington and Caulfield in theesti-
nat ion of Melbourne “sports,” was opened the
hhcr day with a considerable flourish of trumpets,
dbeit the immortal Robinson neglected to grace
die scene. Epsom is close to Mordialloc, a station
within easy special train distance of the glorious
smells of Melbourne, and the new Club seems to
have fixed things up on scientific principles re-
gardless of expense. It is rather a nice place to
>e in when you can keep on backing winners—
good course, elegant stand, wide expanse of
doping lawn, and everything “ong sweet, ” as they
yay in the higher circles. The club started pluekily
n the matter of stakes —-five races being worth
oyer £lOOO, all told; £5OO went with the Mor-
lialloc Cup, annexed by a good looking three-year-
dd in Knight of the Garter, who started at long
odds and won easily from a number of dis-
tinguished animals desirous of losing easily. In
fact, only the inferior cattle were backed for any
money. |


Tobacco, etc.
BAB,BBBr¥^
SUPPLY HOUSE.
♦
HaiHdbesserS
tf you want EVERY dr any REQUISITE for
Fitting out or Furnishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
Oraigf & Aitken’s
N.S.W. Barber’s Supply House,
Where you can get, at lower prices than at any
other House in the Trade :
Hairdressing Chairs,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
Mirrors* Hot Water Urns,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPE S HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (in Bottle and Bilk),
Sprays, Antique Oil,
COSMETIQUES, POMADE HONG BOISE
gS* And every other necessary.
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5.
Colonial „ » from £2los -
SOLE AGENTS for the CELEBRATED
Razors anti Scissors.
Complete Saloon Outfit,
FROM JEIO UPWARDS!
+
Assistants Engaged for Town & Country
i histomers.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE
Tobacco and. Cigar Merchants,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
in the trade.
All the Leading Brands of
TOBACCO, CIGARS,
AND
CIGARETTES,
IN STOCK.
*-
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
ARMY & NA VV
Tobacco and Cigarettes,
jfu/can §ipes and {Tobaccos,
AND
MY SWEETHEART
CIGARETTE.
°
AN IMMENSE ASSORTMENT
of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, &c., &c.
SILVER - MOUNTED
Mesrcham and Briar Pipes,
A Bargain!
Semi for our Price List, and judge for yourselves
Note Address—
CRA'G & AITKEN,
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET,
(next to Primiy & Co., The Hatters)
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair. —To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, streugtheiier, jukl beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands' Kalvdor, removes freckles, tan, cutaneous
eruptions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask
dealers in perfumery for Rowland's articles, of 20, Hatton
Garden London.
Special Advertisements.
331 R.. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DTSPENSARY
4:2 3VEa.rsa.ret; Street;
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in tire leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculdus powei,
Reclaims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES ok MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spkf.h M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m.’ to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only. ■
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &<•. Unequalled' High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.-
Special Advertisements.
E. C. ELEY
d
■A?
#
&
*
&
o
Yi
v
v
£
&
$
O
*2
*
&
D
8?
O
v
£
¥
¥
¥
*
o
€>
*
&
O
£
V
<b
*
*
A
.0
0
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY
si
6X
-
61
3.,
rai
Dili
««
H
i= ■
ti£Cl&ia PUfltn-ENC. CQm B'BBIDC£-ST.. SMHEIti
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H, THORPE
Ppopkietok.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just t,kidiKa-.
farleigh, imettheim & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents fur the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
, . , „ .1,-, pnnT TURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
»V h . KIIowKSrSJ: «I T .Wi. r0M.1., Nubian
IMPOK rbl I,,jf. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. 0T Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
mm
n
fim
ttr rTg'h ar d s —JasEiiigßßS
— -
ft
r
5 S WSSS
rr
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now beats his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invest i-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with t hese widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, ho has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence This
hook will prove a valuable companion, and ev en
though you be p-rfectly well its general inform -
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical nl-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would he advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wit
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
i oponion of your case. If you do not think yon
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
jn the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 p<fcsons to
show their written evidence of his success,
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDUET.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
THE WISE VIRGIN.
PERDITA (heroically): "I eannot, I will not marry you, Alfred agairst your mother's
wish.”
ALERED: “I wish you were not so sensitive.”
PERDITA: “It is not because I am sensitive; it is because your father's estate is left
at her disposal. ” -LIFE.


Medical.
jomiiori oistmeit.
By R >yal Le t rs Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an . rticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
sQ famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
GREEN colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves;
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Jo ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS,
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words,
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
htizen
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewbtt, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows i~
“ That I feel it a duty I oWe to the publi' to
state that 1 have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering.from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G, HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned ;
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make , known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are affleted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
—....
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU'LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole I'KonosTOrs,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Fleming’s
RELIABLE
BUGGIES,
First Grade Styles
Quality,
and Finish.
USED BY ALL
aLL
Leading Cit'znr*
Not How Cheap!
But How Cood!
(ft,
■ ■?
-
n\
FLEMING’S
Waggons
Specially Imported
to suit
Colonial Requirements
Waggons
with
Side Springs.
W aggons
with Hoods.
Waggons & Harness
for all purposes.
Call and Inspect.
:>£ '5
At
*
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Yirg nia
cr- ps by T. W. Saywei.e, of (»
Park street, it will
ARREST
tho sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brand * now on
the n arket. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid tne m.m r*
orrs po sons
IMPRISONED
in fotne of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be ho. gin every-
where. Ask your Tobaceoni t for
it. If he does not keep it seek
cne «ho dots, an obta'n the best
article n>w I efore the public.
Wli lesale and Beta 1 from
F + W* Saywell k Co M
6 Park Street,
SYDNEY.
X.
n \ \ If / /
Phonographic/ „
\ Views PORTRAITS',
\ N
V" ' '
1
m
OPJCmES
t
SSJSUND5,
m
~3
Licbtner & Kilburn ,
318 a George Street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK IMPORTERS,
Late LICHTNER & CO., 32 O’Connell Street,
LICHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both Amateur
and Professional, of the late Firm that, having effected a change by the admis-
sion into Partnership of Mr. I). C. KILBURN, and removal into more commodious
and centrally-situated premises at
3ST o. 318 a GEORGE STREET,
(Between Hunter Street and the General Post Office,)
trust that they will receive as generous and continuous patronage in the future as has
been accorded for the past years. They also take advantage of this opportunity of
returning thanks to their numerous clients for favours bestowed, and will endeavour
to still deserve their kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sporting.
Adam Bede’s
Benevolent Consultations.
‘‘ A LI. TUP, YEAR ROT'fH).”
Twenty years before the Publlo.
Melbourne Cup Programmes now ready.
One tenth of Adam. Bede's commission on alt
future events unit he devoted to charity.
NOW OPEN
Coronation Handicap,
Hun at Canterbury Park, Sydney,
JUNE 29, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FIRST HORSE ... £BOO
SECOND HORSE ... 300
THIRD HORSE ... 200
S trters, 1300; Non-Starters, £400; to be
divided amongst them.
July Handicap,
Run at Rosehill,
JULY 20, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FIRST HORSE ... £l6OO
SECOND HORSE ... 600
THIRD HORSE ... 400
Starters, £000; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
Adam. Bede’s
Is the only fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to ensure safe
delivery, and must enclose stamps and envelopes for
reply and result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
Address—
" ADAM BEDE.”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
ď
Square & Compass
CLUB.
ss. Consultations. ss,
An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE ... 50 per cent,
SECOND HORSE ... 30 per cent,
THIRD HORSE ... 20 per cent.
, N.B.—The Square and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race—thus showing the
bona fides of the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
jre posted can he visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the Sunday
Times and Referee following the races.
Motto : “ Fair and Square.”
Look at the Dividends we have paid on the Don
caster Handicap : Russley, £95 3s. 6d. ; Plutarch, £7
2s. 9d. ; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. lOd.
CONSULTATION ON EVERY EVENT.
Note the address of the original
Square & Compass Club,
Care of M. Pal m,
656 GEORGE STREET 636
COLONNADE.
“TATTERSALLS”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racsj through-
out the ycar-
See Evening News “Brevities” for full par-
ticulars, or w rite to “ Tatterrall,” care cf Geo-
Adams, Pitt-slreet, Sydney.
JOHN LAWLER
JLHsTID SOItsTB,
608, ,610, 612 George StrKeT,
SYDNEY-
Bedding and Wire Mattress
MANUFACTURERS,
UPHOLSTERERS
AND
CABINETMAKERS.
The Largest Stockholders
OP
G-iEiuriEiß^ri
FURNISHING REQUIREMENTS
IN ALL AUSTRALASIA.
Telephone No. fit!.] [Established 18G0.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE in case and bulk.
For full particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin


Business Announcements.
f-
M
K
J
rn
cents .
DELISSA k PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack 3tre.et.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly p/royrcssing. Her vast Mineral Resources
are Kciny opened wp, and properly is hardening in
value.
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
The Capital City.
Allotments right in the City!
From £33 IE ach.
Allotments close to the City,
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
Coon Land. Well Situated. Easy Teems,
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Fkee to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
95 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Sydney Canister Works,
GUI-LINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
M; nufr eturersrfallk nds< f Tins for Confectioner*,
Tea Merchants, IV)cult Makers, -fee., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Raking Powder, made by improved mach nery.
A. Trial Solicited.
“PRETTY COCKE Y!”
OR,
The Life and Death of a Terrible Flirt.
An A astralian Serio-Comic Didactic Story, in Thu ly-
six Chapters.
By Henry Egbert.
Booksellers—l s.
Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
Wew Warehouse.
o
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“ Oh, I feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. ' Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions.
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. ■ Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who"\also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special,
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through tire fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, [or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Si 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest anti finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply .you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
Medical.
mm
IKS
* v
’^cro
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “ Nervous Complaints,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to show
a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he docs undertake it, he is '.rilling to
give a Written Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persona of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz., Dizziness,
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c., &e., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same.
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher’s treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance:
-v Db. H. EWART FLETCHER,
1 Box 1417, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence: “ Clonmel,” Waverley.
jjr. smith:, xj.s.-a..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEX PS.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS: '
Hos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From, 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Miscellaneous.
PARMER EXCHANGE, ALBERT.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mer-
o chants, have already on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
COACHING EXTRAORDINARY.
£20,000 Spent to Amuse and Interest the People.
Since 11th October, 1880, Mr. P. J. Rumney’s
“ l|londer” Stage Jloach
has covered no less than 103,595 English miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. Rumney intends to run
it again this year between Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, and the fine old Cathedral Town of
St. Albans. The Trip is one that no intelligent
colonist visiting England ought to miss, as it will
rejoice his heart, purify his blood, and enlarge his
views of English scenery and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book ;
Mr. P*. J. Pluxxxxiey,
The “Wonder” Coach,
Hatchett’s Hotel,, Piccadilly, London.
CHUBB & PRAEGER,
PHOTO GRAPHERS.
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“Empire Galleries/' BEALE’S CHAMBERS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OUR PREMISES are now in Full Working
Order again—all damages caused to our
Furniture and Plant by late rains being com-
pletely renovated.
We invite inspection of Snow Cases and Rooms.
All orders entrusted to us will receive the greatest
attention, and as the firm are Practical Artists
themselves we can ensure our work being properly
done.
I 0 H¥ BRID G- E & 0 0.,
’ CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, <0
DA RUNG HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Ta’loiO, Sheepskin*, Kangaroo, Ucar and
Opossum Skins, <t‘G
AUCTIOITEEBS.
GHEfc-A-TUXT SALESME3KT.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
171 R SALE. —A Quantity of Second-hand
j Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
Art Unions.
crOHiisr SJViuriDS 7
XT3XTZO3XT,
FOR THE BENEFIT OP
Ths Hospital for Sick Children*
Glebe Point, Sydney.
Trfstf.es ;
His Honor Mr. Justice Stephen : Hon. Goo. 11. Reid,
M.L.A. ; E. L. Montenpre, Esq. ; Professor T. P.
Aiiderson-Stuart, M.I). ; C. Cecil Griffiths, Esq. •
H. C. Kent, Esq.
MR. JOHN SANDS las the lu nour to
ihf nn the Au.-tra'i u public that be has
arranged to d spose of hi s vu y large and valuable
collection cl high-cl ss
ENGRAVING S, ETCHINGS,
PHOTOGRAVURES, <ScC.,
By means of an Art Union officially <ancti ned
l y the Hon. the Attorney-General.
25 Per cent, will be given te the Hospital for
Sick Children.
5000 Tickets at One Guinea Each 5000
UNPRECEDENTED CHANCE!
EVERY TICKET WILL TAKE A PRIZE.
UNPARALLELED OFFER!
Every Prize Worth, not less than
One Guinea.
£l5O IF'jLE’sfc Prize. £l5O
Will consist of Tve’ve Magnficent Engravings,
Etchings and PLotogravun s,
ALL HANDSOMELY FRAMED.
Second Piize, £100; Third Prize £5O; Fourth
Prize £25; Fifth Prize, £l5 15s; 3 at £l2 12'. ;
29 at £lO 10 j . ; 40 at £8 Bs. ; 40 at £7 7s: 80 at
£0 Gs. ; 80 at £5 ss. ; 150 at £4 4s. ; 190 at £3 3s ;
250 at £2 2s. ; the remainder, 4133, at £1 Is. each.
EVERY TICKET TAKES A PRIZE!
THE DRAWING
will probably take place a 1 out the end of August.
The Prizes are now on View at
JOHN SANDS' NEW FINE ART GALLERY,
322 GEORGE STREET 322
Tickets and Prospectuses may be had on appli-
cation to
J. A. STANLEY ADAM, Secretary.
fJIHE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
£lOOO for 10s. Gd.
The Sandhurst Mechanics’ Institute
Art Union.
First Prize, £lOOO ; Second Prize, £500;
Third Prize, £2OO.
597 Other Prizes, Total. Value, £2705.
The DRAWING! will positively take place at
SANDHURST, on 31st July-next.
Remember, a FORTUNE for ,10s. Cd.
Tickets, 10s. Gd., maybe had from the general
agents, Messrs. CRAIG and AITKEN, George-
street,' Sydney, or NICHOLSON and CO.S,
King and George streets ; J. Kirby, J. W. M.
Clarke, Booksellers, Oeorge-street; H. Wallace,
496 Georgd-street; Priddy and Co., ( leorge-street,
Brickfield Hill; T. C. Drew, 26G Pitt-street;
Alexander and Farrow, Levy and Scott, Tobac-
conist, Oxford-street; and at Newcastle, from A.
D. Robertson, Tobacconist, or from
J. H. CURNOW, Secretary, Sandhurst.
RESULT OF DRAWING.
ROBERTSON’S WHISKY GIFTS.
DRAWN in the HEW MASONIC HAIL,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
WEDNESDAY, 26th JUNE, 1889,
Under the management of Mr. John Chisholm.
Committee:
Tiros. Asciie, Royal Hotel, Sydney.
Jambs Hunt, Her Majesty’s Hotel, Sydney.
J. P. Kavaxaoii, Shakespeare Hotel," Newtown.
R. S. Gilles, Charing Gross Hotel, Waverley.
tV. 11. Negus, Pier Hotel; Manly.
Geo. R. Eastway, Darling Harbour Hotel, Sydney.
John 11. Ferguson, Signal Hotel, Watson’s Bay.
E. D. Tolle.mache, City Buffet, Sydney.
Drawers:
J. B. White wav, J.P., Singleton.
Robt. A. Luckuam, The Bulletin, Sydney.
16 Gifts »> 25 Gifts
OF OP
£5 each. ® £2 : .
TO Gifts of eac
The following Numbers win £5 e eh:
Allt’s Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co.
JMITED),
CHARLOTT”’ PLACE, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents.
;
FOR SALE. — Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
BULLETIN Ol’kick.
A death-adder—The cemetery registrar.
Mrs. Cornwall, an Australian native, died
at Richmond, N.S.W., lately, aged 90 years.
Even the “poor feet” of the German
soldier are looked after. He is now supplied with
a powder to put in his boots and socks to keep his
feet from being chafed.
From the Melbourne War Cry ;
We want short, spicy bits for the Cry, not Church style,
which is calculated to put you to sleep while you read it,
hut some of the Go-ahead Salvation Army, Blood-and-Fire,
Holy Ghost, Hell, Damnation, and Judgment kind, which
will make every man shake as he reads it, and set all the
devils in Hell trembling.
An American inventor has just patented
an artificial lung, capable of restoring life in per-
sons apparently drowned. As yet no experiments
have been made upon human subjects, but the
professor has drowned a favourite pet rabbit 11
times, and suffocated it with the fumes of burning
charcoal, yet the animal is well and happy.
Ah Sam’s philosophy : —Man lie talkee
much, he know not heap. Him cat wearee mlit-
tens, him no catchee mlice. Gettee mad, say
dlam, makee man big fool. Man, he run after
scared w, him never catchee. In big hurry, allee
samee like fishee in mlud puddle. Big lot money,
no good for blelly ache. Say, “ Hello, John,” no
cost money. Small heaps, allee time, soon fill blig
pocket-blook. John workee hard, him no need
doctor. Money sometimes fly way, allee same
pligeon. Chinaman blig feet, him small head. —
American.
A Collingwood (Vic.) councillor arose in
awful wrath at a recent meeting because the local
Town Hall had been let to Joseph Symes, “ who
respects neither God, Queen, nor devil. ”
Oli ! awful scoffer at the just,
Reviler of the Queen and all
Such things, you really must
Keep well controlled your gall,
We might have guessed it all along
That you who in sedition revel,
And scorn our lords in prose and song.
Would ne’er respect His Nibs, the Devil.
Too bad is this—a councillor
Might stand a little treason, and
Not thirst too madly for your gore
If in the hall you took your stand
And were content to abuse kings—
And queens, and gods, and lords to level,
But curses on the head he flings
Of him who disrespects the Devil.
Agnostic, atheist, or what,
A word in season for your ear—
Continue to revile that lot,
But give old Nick respectful fear,
Or maybe, as the parson says,
Not only at your dying hour
But you’ll repent it all your days—
He has so many friends in power !


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan 1 Guarantee Company,
(Limited). *
Incorporated Under Coplpanics Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - £500,000
Sydney Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices: ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
gi* , ... 6
Twelve „ ... 7 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
Anglo-(Australian investment,
finance $ sand Company, gtd.
Capital Paid-up .. „ £lOO,OOO
Capital Subsoribbd (Uncalled) 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. ... 60,000
Head Office ; - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman; F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office .. .. 31 Lombard Street, E.C-
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
TIHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
its way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
iS?” Deposits received in Larob or Small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager-
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY. LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENOIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily,
communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits ; —3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 8 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller. Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
ibs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
x fv Merton, Cunningar Works, Barden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
mHESE WORKS have been erected at large
JL cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
herring stone of every description.
i. pplication of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(1 tut unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
TJiese Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the direc . • s feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide th _ ■ tans of testing ores will be generally
appreuGO'SV
Ores iii 'entities not less than one ton will be
treated by* me latest known scientific methods,
and a full eport and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of, Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully work;! ' 1 .developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply —
W. B. FLETCHER.
Patent unbreakable' Saddle
COM PAM , LIMITED.
Factory and Office—24s Castlereaoh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
New Premises, 245 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive pi npt attention.
43T None Genuine without our Trade Mark. "Si
Caution. —The Sole Right of the above Patent
having been purchased by the undersigned* Sad-
dlers and the Pu blic generally are cautioned against
any infringements of the same.
For Keen s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited—
F. C. Hkdkmann, \
L C. Henderson, j
Trustee#
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
IJoIIcr Jjpour and Ipram gtoreA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Boiler Flour
—AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND J
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
T .EOKTATrn GrWYlsr,
General Business & Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O),
-—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done. -
No Sale No Charge.
LIEOINLAIEiID G-WTIT.
Miscellaneous.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000*.
Sydney Office : 240 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest 1 are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months .. . . .. . 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
- 3 Months ...: .7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus'on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
' By order of the Board.,
, P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
G
A S!
GAS!
GAS!
Protect yourselves against explosi ns, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
Join the Gas Consumer's Protective
Association,
No. 110 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
F. W. CURNOW, Manager.
Office Hours ; 9 to 5, and 9 t > 1 on Saturday.
Holt & Winnisag,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 DOWN STREET, COLLINGWOOD
MELBOURNE.
All kinds of Scenery made on the Shortest Notice
Hotels.
BourmeS 1
ELBOIME
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW m MINUTES
EVERT FEW H MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
jS&'l v T"~'h 1 I 'i'll! ! I'. =
|i||||||
iU&r lr *® r
j.a.wilson
ntPßicro*
.GW.CLARE
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
. to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. *lt contains
Three Hundreti Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty' and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
Each Eloor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and evei'y Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. The o Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
PASSENG-EB OTIS LIFTS
)-(
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Beading Booms.
——)—( "
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s. " :
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Sc Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms i Single Bedroom, 2s. per TVT-sgg-v. +.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.}
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
clarendon "Motel, manly.
The Brighton of KTe v South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
- served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de HOte at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
3§EllXji3^i:x^rS B III"ZE=ZE : 2., Claresidoii Motel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JjOM&'S IMPEEIAI, HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, (JT KENSLAKIJ.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on tlie Darling
Downs. First-class Accoimnodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample (looms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
thomas Wallace,
Proprietor
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success
of Modern Times.
I
CONSULT
I All Chronic Diseases
I are Curable.
3VER. H. E. KUGELMAHN,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-;
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at ;
any distance.
Mr. Kugehnann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases, -
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as.
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 10th July, 1888.
To H. E. Kogelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July;
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, 1 did riot
take any notice of t for about six months, when I com-,
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I;
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and i
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doCtoi
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me'
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that 1 was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was ’
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and'
even without your having sounded or examined me. But'
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month 1 was considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size Of the palm of
my hand; but after this ciisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and 1 had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered i
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soqn-
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
1 can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
1 am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as 1 did until
I was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred In the event of Cure
not being Effected.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Lii’e,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WAPwD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BEOU’S itJECTIOir.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent i r chronic discharges of the urinary organa.
Sold in Paris by .
—J. PERR ZE3,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
w
Business Announcements.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVER! 0.
STUDY ECONOMY
a-d
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
L.jual to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hitt, Sydney,
betireen
Liverpool <(' Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes’ Repairs neatly done.
j 3E*. O O 3ST lES Y a,za.c3L O <O-,
I SAW MILLERS,
| Timber Merchants # Steam Joiners.
TOWUSVILLE,
i
| T ARGEST Stock of Oebqan Pine and Colonial TiMbehS,
| Sashes, Doors, &c., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders pr, mptly despatched
F. C. NICHOLAS Co.,
i
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET,
Wedding Cakes, &c. f Made to Order.
EPP S T S
GRATEFUL— COMFORTING
COCO A.


Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Mcyistiijuin” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne.
The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People's William
Is the Famous Buly Tea.
PACKKI) ONLY BY
James Inglia & Co.,
4 and 6 Dkax’s Puacb,
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Medical.
%
&
k
c
.
a
>r
/•
■ACJ-.A
><z
eauty
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
In which the Cuticdra Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
sculp, and blood, with lose of hair.
Cuticdra, the great Skin Cure, and Cdticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Bcautifler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticdra Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of skin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticdra Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to mo about Cuticdra, and I con-
sented to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now *’o sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Bold everywhere. Price, Cuticdra, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Dbuo and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
jjC S” Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PINT
PLEB, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
| oily skin prevented by Coticura Boap.
If I had known of the Cuticura Remedies
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com -
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all tha
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt mo
to have this disease over again. lam a poor man,
hut feel rich to bo relieved of what some of tha
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, hut no cure. I went to two dr
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cuticura Remedies too much. They have made
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All I used of them was three boxes of Cuticura,
and throe bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, ami
two cakes of Cuticura Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now I am
as clear as any person ever was. Through force of
habit I rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to bo a kind of second nature to me. I thank
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and I will answer it.
DENNIS DOWNING, Waterbury, Vt.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticura Soap.
Address: R TOWNS & CO, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
đ
We Have in Stock
AJCD
Make to Order
The Finest Hand Sewn
Bootr and Shoes
AT RICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
d
ď
Tlae Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OK
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ows
•■EMBROCATION
V
Kever^wherel
M. \,SOLO
m
Public Notice.
FISH I FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., In lb., and 101 b. assorted Osh.
Price, 3d., -Id., and sd. per lb., according to the Idr. of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
lilocks delivered free at Railway Station, 'packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for 2s. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fi -h are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guar, . eed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-ofnce Order for the Amount.
ffW*’ All orders to be sent to the Works —
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
HUBBLE & COMPANY,
—SIGN WRITERS—
AND
ART DECORATORS;
22 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCARE INDICATOR, for Pupils Learning the
J- Piano. Price, 3s. Cd. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
Old Ringbark’s Mine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
It was not generally known, when old
Jack Ringbark met with his untimely end, that he
had come within an ace of making th - biggest
“pile ” that had ever been amassed on the field.
And the field—that is to say, the tin-producing
region of Bigalong—had made the fortunes of not
a few in its time. Yet so it was. On the morning
of the very day on which old Jack’s career was cut
short, he had struck a lode of such remarkable
richness that it excelled anything he had ever
seen in the course of a tolerably long experience of
tin-mining. And Tom Coldeck, who happened to
be passing as J ack’s clay-stained form arose from
the depths of the shatt, said, after descending and
inspecting the find, that it was the “ i est ever he
see,” and immediately—for thus does human
nature ever worship success—offered to “shout.”
This showed that a most unusual effect had been
produced upon his mind. Mr. Coldeck’s generosity,
however, was not put to the test, for J ack stead-
fastly maintained that it was his duty to shout,
and also that he would there and their catch his
horse, proceed to the Miners’ Arms, and “treat
the whole bloomin’ crowd.” But cruel Fate inter-
posed in the most ungentle manner, for ten
minutes afterwards Jack Ringbark had ceased to
be affected by tin finds, or wealth, or any other
worldly consideration. “I told him he’d get
■mashed up some day if he didn’t watch that d d
chestnut of his,” was the remark passed by Bill
Dingoe when he was told that old Jack had been
killed by a kick from his horse. Nevertheless,
Mr. Dingoe expressed his sympathy in a practical
manner by contributing towards the expense of
the old man’s burial. “Had hard luck all his
life, had old Jack,” he remarked, “ and it stuck to
him till the last.” “Been working on that five
acres of his now close up six months, and never
made his salt,” said another sympathiser. Cf
course, these gentlemen were unaware of Jack’s
wonderful find of that morning. And Tom Coldeck
didn’t enlighten them.
* * *
That very night had anyone been stirring
in the neighbourhood of Jack Ringbark’s last
earthly claim, he might have observed a manly
form busily engaged in the apparently foolish task
of shovelling several tons of dirt down a forty foot
shaft. No one was stirring, however, and Coldeck
(for he was the shoveller) retired in good order.
The story he related to his wife that night (for
even great men sometimes confide in their wives),
was of so interesting a nature that that good lady
entirely lost her beauty-sleep. She did not seem
dissatisfied for all that. Mr. Tom Coldeck slept
well, however; much more soundly, in fact, than
he would have done had he been aware that old
Jack had communicated the story of his big find
to Johnny Scripmall, the mailman, whom l.e had
met immediately before tire thread of his life was
bo rudely severed. It is a somewhat remarkable
coincidence that, two days later, both the deposi-
taries of the secret might have been found 500
miles away from Bigalong, and that the destina-
tion of each was Sydney.
* * *
“What tho deuce are you doing hero?”
and “What the dickens brought you to Sydney ?”
were the words simultaneously uttered when
the two worthies encountered each other in the
city. Tho reply to this question was in
neither case ingenuous. Tom Coldeck’s affection
for his brother-in-la w was hardly of a sufficiently
demonstrative character as to render his story of
anxiety about the said brother-in-law’s health one
to pin much faith to. And as to Johnny
Scripmall being so suddenly seized with a
burning desire to see his cousin Bill—why,
the thing was absurd. A suspicion that both
were on the same errand crossed the minds of
each, and they had both “ picked it in one try.”
The object of Messrs. Scripniall’s and Coldeck’s
journeys was identical, and was simply this : To
instruct their res[»ective friends in Sydney to fur-
nish them with telegraphic information as soon as
old Ringbark s lease should bo forfeited by the
State for non-payment of rent. This would be
done as soon as the term for which the old man
had paid for the ground had expired. By getting
telegraphic information of tho Gazette notifica-
tion the ingenious sjieculator would be able to
“ peg out ” the ground two clear days before any-
one else on the field was aware that it was avail-
able. Each of tho Bigalong wanderers had
imagined himself to Ire the only one acquainted
with the value of tho coveted ground, but each
now felt that belief rudely shaken. Suspicion,
however, was not certainty, and both determined
to “ see the game out.” But Scripmall held the
trump card, though the other was unaware of it.
Coldeck’s brother-in-law, who was to watch the
Gazette and telegraph immediately the forfeiture
was announced, was undoubtedly smart, and
would perform his task admirably. But Scriptnall's
cousin Bill was in the Government Printing Office.
* * *
Thoro was no telegraph-office at Bigalong.
The nearest was at Jonestown, five miles away ;
and there was another at Tinville, seven miles in
the opposite direction. The Jonestown < ffice was
the one usually patronised by the inhabitants of
Bigalong both because of its proximity and be-
cause of the superior quality of the liquor to be
obtained in that township. Besides, there was a
feeling not altogether friendly, at Bigalong, to the
clerk in the Tinville office. Dasher, the official in
question, had at one time followed, with varying
success, the occupation of a tin-miner on the very
field near which he was now stationed. Being
constitutionally averse to hard work, he was much
gratified when his exertions for the return to Par-
liament of the Hon. Jonas Webster obtained for
him the reward of the snug position in the Civil
Service he now held. Dasher, however, had not
given up all interest in tin-mining. In fact,
very few men in the locality had a better
knowledge of the subject Moreover, he possessed
a very fair share of shrewdness, and “could see as
far through a mullock-tip,” he said, as most men.
His curiosity had been so far excited by the
abrupt departure of two such well-known indivi-
duals as Coldeck and the mailman, that he had
instituted a few judicious inquiries as to the des-
tinations of those gentlemen. Linking the fact of
their simultaneous departures with the fact that
they coincided in point of time with old Ring-
barkjs death, Mr. Dasher arrived at a conclusion
which did infinite credit to his sagacity. “ Cld
Jack must have been on something good,” he con-
jectured, “and they’re both after it.” One
evening Dasher rode out to Bigalong and did not
return until very long after dark. But even in the
dark a look of very great contentment might
almost have been seen on Mr. D.’s countenance.
And yet all he had seen at Bigalong was a shaft
which had been partly refilled - probably to pre-
vent accidents. Meanwhile, Johnny .Scripmall
felt that his success was assured. “Cousin Bill,”
he reflected, “ is bound to let me know before any-
one else can possibly hear of it. For he’ll send me
the wire before the Gazette is printed, and that'll
just give me the bulge on any of the Gazetto
watchers.” And so Mr. Scripmall waited in
blissful confidence.
* * •
“ Forfeiture notified to-morrow’s Gazette
—Collect.
“ W. SCRIFMALL,
“ Sydney.”
Thus ran the message delivered to the ex-mail-
man (for he had resigned his official employment)
two weeks after his return from the inetro|>olis.
“Line’s been interrupted,” remarked the mes-
senger, “this was sent yesterday evening at six 1 ”
And it was now noon ! Good Heavens ! what if
Coldeck “Is this the only message you
brought out?” he asked. “Only one other —to
Coldeck. Seemed a bit flustered over it, too.
Good news, I guess. Are yer goin’ to run Spieler
in the handicap a Queen’s Birthday ? ” But
Scripmall was evidently not interested in the
handicap just then, for he was 30 yards away
before the question was completed ; and in less
than half a minute was making remarkably quick
timeon his thoroughbred mare towards “Ringbark’s
Five Acres.” But, quick as he was, there was a
horseman in front who was evidently resolved on
being quicker. Spieler never went faster in her
life than she did now, and gradually the distance
between the rivals was diminished. On !on !
faster and faster ! Foot by foot was gained until
both were together, when, thud ! Spieler has
put her forefoot in a water-race, and with a
mighty roll, is over and over her unfortunate rider.
Coldeck need hurry no longer, for poor Johnny is
quite incapable of rising. But he does hurry,
nevertheless, without waiting to see the result of
the smash. Only a hundred yards more now, and
then
But who are tho=e men on the ground ? And
who is this coming towards him with such an in-
fernally proprietor-like air ? Dasher! And what
is he doing here, neglecting his duties? How
* * *
Mr. Dasher was very affable. ‘ ‘ How
d’ye do, Mr. Coldeck ? Come to look at my
ground ? Had to go ba kto tin mining, you see !
Struck it rich, too, first act! Funny thing, too —
shaft was half-filled in. Looks as if someone was
trying to do a hide. Ground only forfeited to-
day. Great streak of luck, ain’t it ?”
There was an impressive pause. At length—
“Mr, Dasher,” said Mr. Coldeck, in troubled
tones, “do telegrams from Sydney to Jonestown
pass through the Tinville office ?”
“Why, yea,” replied Mr. Dasher.
“ Well I’m d d,” was Mr. G ldeek’s strange
rejoinder.
And that’s how Dasher “made his pile.”
Johnny Scripmall was a long while recovering
from the effects of his spill, but it took him a
“ dem sight longer,” he remarked, before he could
overcome % desire to kick himself for being such
a fool. And Coldeck says that all telegraph
operators should bo securely chained up when on
duty.
A. CHEE.
Vat is Cohen to happen in the John
Davies case ?
The Standard reports that some thieves
entered St. Mary’s Church, West Melbourne, but
made off in hot haste before securing any booty,
being disturbed by some means or another,
“Some means or another!” Why not say the ser-
mon began right then ?
The S.M.H. is running the Even.oosr
police penny-a-liner pretty closely in the matter of
fine English. From the news summary Mr.
Moffatt, of Herberton (Q.), has succumbed’ to the
agency of iK)ison.” This is the sort of thing that
adds fresh terrors to death.
Pastor Jefferis is putting through the
“Isms that haunt us.” In case he should run
short of isms here are a few to go on with :
Egotism (with a kindly reference to- the great
Hi Ham and the Pastor himself), Imperialism,
Tummyism, Toadyism and so on.
The Victorian Artists’ Council has hastily
decided to ask for a duty of £lO upon every pic-
ture imported into the colony. That won’t do.
If all the Australian colonies adopted Protection
it would be advisable to impose a duty on Euro-
pean works of art coming into this country. But
the V.A.C.’s suggestion put into practice would
merely cripple the local artists, who couldn't make
a sketch outside Victoria without planking down
£lO for the Customs when they brought it home
for sale.
The classic story of the Roman sentinel
who perished at his post for the edification of the
schoolboys of eighteen centuries may now be given
a final and well-earned rest. A constable —wo
would like to impress upon any future moral
fabulist that the hero of this anecdote was a
constable, common and unornamented—who lived
and loved and spoke to intoxicated swagmen in
terms of guttural command in the township of
Nathalia, Victoria, did a short time ago ask for a
holiday and the usual official form was made out.
He took it in his hand—looked at it to see that it
was all right and according to regulations—and
without a word of warning to the office-cleaner
dropped dead ! Do yon see it? The man had
such a stem sense of duty that he wouldn't even
die without having first obtained leave of absence
from his superiors. Roman sentinel, step down 1
Acertain fat and prosperous German farmer
in South Australia kindly allows a ball to take
place in his large bam every year in aid of the
district hospital. Now this good Dutchman had
a big jar of whisky by him (he lives miles from an
hotel) and on the occasion of the last ball in his
granary he indulged so freely that his prudent
Frau removed the demijohn containing the whisky
and put iu its place a similar jar containing a weak
mixture of whisky and water. After the ball had
been in progress for a couple of hours and a
waltz was just being commenced, the “elevated”
German, who had just discovered that his “ visky ”
was gone, sauntered jxmderonsly into the centre
of the room and said : “ Ladies and Shentlemens —
I hope yon are ladies and shentlemens but the
first one I sohmells visky on, out goes the (adjective)
lights! ” Fact.


Medical.
nervous her.
k
■I
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTiV
y
\ .
a
-Cm
m
y.
X
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. I ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. o. t Sydnkt.
U
Life Preservation,”
Dr. J. D. LLEWLELLYN,
SPECIALIST,
10 LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE,
THIS Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. 6d. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
r THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
J - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
• The Public are requested to notice the
WU.ll wlwll I words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. !ROS£3,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERV O U S
DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address —
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials :
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst
“ I have tested a sample of the ‘ Magic Meal ’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon;—“l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
6d. j and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 661 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CJH4
:
PATENT
PILLS.
w
$
<p.
3P
4$
to
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box- for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dese will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech ain’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Codgu
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,-Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
EuCAIYPTE OILSa.
Victory Ointments
PIEMAHE*SOHS|
THE TREE OF LIFE.
The only pnrc Encalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, C ancera,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed, Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the . ucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Ei tzabkth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
UST PUBLISHED
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next Six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
A most Unique Work on
SUBJECTS.
CONSULT
Moore & Hogg
i A
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On aTl Diseases cJTthe Genito-Urinary Organa
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.8ULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
QPECIAJL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictlj
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday a
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from th
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements,
£ : 1 ■
£2O BUCKBOARD BUGSIES £2O
IN THE WOULD
for £3O.
1
tm
«5ss?
fl
k*«
25 m
Xhe Largest t’oacli-
Works in Australia.
No. 45—-Turnout Skat—£3s.
COPE <3c NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIIWL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all t inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
H arris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
K.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Glohe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
“ For Framing a Picture Heat and Well.”
°x ; x
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. Uhotos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
r*
''Tv
HAKUfAtTUREM
ft IWOUTERS or
«* —1-
HATS CAPS St
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY
PfiposiCe LeusetCerj
//
\fy
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Ailken.)
L OQ\WTCftSTt£IS% i
MANUFACTURING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
S V D N E.V
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
đ
d
m
m
a
m
m
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Ask for kupper-s klberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
WYLULTIEIR, HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
mHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
JL Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ~ £l,OOO 000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities"
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities lor dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS.
Rum, Shkbbt, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Hotels.
rEi
Sodden
ill
OWOfNS
aiWKNs
Hold
BOWDEM’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C BEN .. Proprietor.
P
RINCE CE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.
STIES :E*.lKr
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. &3T Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hob
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
I3IT Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co. ’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
x
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Lonclon JPaslxions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
ď
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
253 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS <fc SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA YEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
IMPORTER OE
W lITES, x SPIRITS, x IB IE IE IR, S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennbssy’s, Martbll’s and Sazbeac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes, All Brands of Colonial Whies. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale anil jingle Bottle Departments, 782 anfl 784 sy3ney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRisHMMT ROOM & L AMATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDWEY,
Now Supply the GENERAL PUBLIC as Well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BROWNS'
l|SS$
I LORENS
TBUNKS* C,C
> .**y«*tTUMO if «j
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 18SO
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgs.
/GENUINE SWEDISH MADE
V3T CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. A. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted,
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. |3f"“ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
FOR SALE.— Second-hand Quad-Demy
Folder, by Harrild ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
i3T" INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
IN
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
c Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
V. 59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
ECHUCA
BEECHWORTH .
HAMILTON
W ARRN AMBOOL
GALE
MARYBOROUGH
Swan Street,
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeachirnanpy
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opp. Golden Age Hotel.
i
ow
c\
OR
Air
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A poke, NON-GKITTY Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDQR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Preckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, lair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of-20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR &AVT.T.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
I*. HOPKINS and PHIL MAT.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
