

fg*r Ajk yoat'S oB
\ | JQrooer for
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Stdnbt.
“An ordinary onp contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the best Ale or Porter.
BEDFORD and ELIZABETH STREETS, SYDNEY.
K. A. Skinner & Co., Proprietors. K. A. Skinner, General Manager.
Patronised only by the elite of Sydney and suburbs. The Elite Rinks are the only Rinks that have been visited and patronised by their Excellencies the
Governors oe the Australian Colonies.
The Haval Artillery Band in attendance every Afternoon and Evening. This Band is considered the Leading Band of Sydney,
Magnificent Composition Skating Surface.
Covering an area of 2000 Square Yards. The Largest
and Beat Skating Surface in the World. As smooth as
glass ; as level as a billiard-table ; no dust and per-
fectly noiseless, We Challenge its Equal !
The best Wood Floor ever laid cannot be compared
with it. This all good skaters acknowledge — That after
skating for Two Hours,they do not feel the least fatigued ,
hut quite the reverse after skating on a heavy , dusty ,
Pine Floor.
Smi«S!
S*™S!
5000 PAIRS
OB’ THE
WORLD-RENOWNED
wisilow mum m skates
EOR SALE.
The best and most convenient Skate manufactured.
Every Professional Skater op Note in the World
uses them. What better recommendation do you ask for ?
We challenge any other Skate to compete with them.
We are the Sole Agents for Australia.
Wholesale Price -17 s 6d. per Pair.
Retail „ -20 s.
With K. A. Skinner's Patent Roller Bearings adjusted, 15s. extra.
With Richardson’s Ball-Bearings .. .. 80s. extra.
10S0 Sets I A, SKINNER'S Patent Roller-Bearings
.NOW COMPLETED.
They can be adjusted to any make of Skate. Only
15s. per Set. They cannot be equalled. Try them
and be convinced.
WINSLOW’S “VINEYARD.”
The Standard Keller Skates of the World.
The Immense Building is brilliantly illuminated by
Thousands of Incandescent lamps!
tastefully arranged in arches, illuminating the building
Hon Dallas bright'by Night as by Day,
} S *
Ths ‘Ventilation Perfect ! 1
We challenge the Skating Rink Croakers —who have
already started writing letters in the daily Press against
Skating Rinks—to find even one of the flimsy objec-
tions they raise against Skating Rinks at this Rink.
No Foul Air; No Dust; Perfect Order.
No objectionable persons allowed on the floor. We
refuse admission to hundreds weekly. We are bound
to keep our Rink select, so that any lady or gentleman
can attend any session without fear of being insulted.
We aim to make the Sydney Elite Rink
a Permanent Place op Amusement for the elite of
Sydney and suburbs, and we request our patrons to
assist us in pointing out any objectionable persons.
Parents may feel quite safe to allow their children to
attend our Rink ; they will be protected by our staff
of gentlemanly employees.
i
Gentlemen ~
Jjadies ...
455.
40s.
Season Admission Tickets admits the holder to all
Entertainments (Carnivals included) held at any op our
Rinks in the Australian Colonies. Secure your
Season Tickets early. Do not wait until the season
is half over before purchasing them. No other Rink
erected or in course of erection can possibly compete
with this Rink.
aor> Sa.ll Searing's! ~&S I
The only genuine Ball-Bearing, 44 The Richardson,” imported from Chicago, U.S.A., direct by us.
The demand for the 44 Winslow Lever Ball-Bearing Skates 9 has been so great that we have decided to send
for another large shipment.
©
CO
_-,Q_O.CZ) Q
©
lEYGK CLAMP
The “Winslow Lever Clamp Adjustable Ball-Bearing Skates ” can only
be purchased from us. Price per pair, £5. Send in your orders at once.
mm We have on ] y about 50 Sets left of the last shipment. Ball-Bearings
adjusted to your own Skates, £4 per Set.
RACING SKATES
K. A. SKINNER’S Celebrated Patent Ball-Bearing
Racing Skates. Used by all the noted Fast Skaters
in the World. All records from One Mile to Six Days made on this
Skate. For Sale only by us. Price per Pair, £6.
PAID*
*JDCT 13—1880
6J?Sj ae-isu
The * First * Grand * Elite * Carnival * of * the * Season
Will take place at this Rink
On Tuesday Evening*,, 21st May.
In the production lead—others endeavour to imitate us.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
W
gi
m
DIXSON^SONS
O u £
*
*
C 3
-0
o
w:
X
9ov\
SIR ROGER
ovyw
50
V-
PI
DIXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
Carlsbad
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported in hc*tlss and used In treat
mant of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising Irons
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRU.UEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should bo taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the V.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & EOYLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
i
i
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —Forjhe Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE . —An excellent Table Water.
ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLAN6
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
0 / all Dealert, and of the Manufacturers—
3. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—" White Rose ”on Golden
V Lyra, with Address in full. *
■William Car grill.
Phonographic Stock Importer,
26— MARKET—STREET,
SYDNEY
M‘LEAN BROS. RIGG, & CO.,
lEONMONGBBB,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<o
6
IRONMONGERS
2
5
c*
H/
o
*
9>
$
SPECIALITIES i
Davis' Sewing-Machine, Asbestos Fire proof Paint, Aibo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE. CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES !-LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fto., fta.
WILLIAMS’
MJTEILM lEISI FDWDEB
ggr IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST. la
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARE
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, and DIGESTIBLE
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Toast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BU*>H, AND THE SEA..
BEWARE OF
Worthless Imitations.
II
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
fWplUl _
Faid-ap ind Aooraed Capital
••posits Received
Advances Mads
|«M Income -
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
A 180,426
61,630
98,681
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
. £350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
461,086
Tear ending
Oot., 1887.
, £431,126
206,685
891,356
807,828
797,990
Tear ending
Oot., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,949
625,826
. 2,048,951
Dmxdta received at following Ratesl2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
; S months, 6 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
IYERY DAyThAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVB per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
4HPJ.S FUIIDS * or Borrowers. TERMS LIBEUL,
HP
J.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Ib. pe
Share Entrance Eee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together w*th Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of t ie First Issue of these Shares received In October,
188iT, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed onl«
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN KIM I©, M.P., J.P., - - Chairman.
WILLIAM DVUEKTW - - Acting-Secretary.
Hi
m
THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
CORNER OP
KZxia.gr <3c Collirxs Streets, IviEel’bo-a.xrxe,
Containing 560 ROOMS, Is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES off ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL LINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL "« GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced CM/, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 483.
SATURDAY, MAY 18, 1889.
Price, 6d.
Verdon.


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
■“ Australia i?or the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt -street, Sydney, New South W ales.
I TEEMS TO BUBSGBIBEES
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleqd, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald,
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" %cill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
77ie'^xzIIelzo r L
SATURDAY, MAY 18, 1889,
Monarchical Boycotters.
The determination by the monarchical Go-
vernments of Europe to combine in with-
holding from the opening ceremonial of the
Paris Exhibition the countenance of their
official representation Is fraught with lessons
of Immense value. The association of the
Exhibition with the centenary of the opening
scene of the French Revolution has been
too much for the proud stomachs of
Sovereigns by the alleged Grace of God.
We say the alleged Grace of God, because
were it admitted that the Almighty Is
responsible for the eminence and powers
abused by some of the potentates concerned,
they would be a provocation to blasphemy.
Since the days when the Anton ikes ruled
over the Roman Empire it would be difficult
to name a single Sovereign who could by
any one with a reverend mind be Indicated
as having graced the divine selection, whereas
there have been a multitude of crowned
blackguards and strumpets who have dis-
tinctly disgraced whatever power permitted
them to sway authority and Influence the
destinies of mankind.
» « t
Respecting the British monarchy It is un-
necessary to dilate. Every schoolboy can,
despite the almost uniform “ toning down ”
which school abridgments of history are
subjected to, call to mind the long, unbroken
series of blood-soaked ruffians, miserable
sneaks, and fatuous imbeciles who, In turn,
have occupied the throne, from the accession
of William the Filibuster from Normandy,
to the death of William the Smutty—the
Silly Billy who Immediately preceded the
present Queen. The history of Spanish
monarchy presents a record parallel with
that of England, in all essentials. The
miserable Austrian house of Habsburgs has
just furnished a condensed epitome of Its
worth In the incident of the suicide of its
heir. The throne of Russia has been the
seat of a race of ruffians, prostitutes, and
lunatics, from Ivan the Terrible down to
the present Alexander the Ttrrlfied. In
Its short course, Prussia has had but one
human being on its regal chair, and he, the
late Frederick, had net weeks enough of
rule to show whether, as has so Invariably
happened, the mild and liberal Prince
would develope Into the ferocious and
reactionary King. To come to Prance
herself, more fools than ruffians have
succeeded one another aa hereditary
Sovereigns on the coronation chair of
Sb. Denis. The race of Capet yielded
blackguards of Infinite variety, unre-
lieved by a single man of real merit, and
ended with a fool who would have been
amiable possibly if he had not been a king.
His subjects chopped his head off principally
because he was no sorb of use while his head
was on, and because they didn’t know but
that he might later develope some sort of
sense, in which case it was quite apparent
that he would emulate his beloved grand-
father and butcher them wholesale.
• • •
Thus the French nation dispatched their
sovereign, the “ Fils de St. Lords,” to
Heaven, with a passport from a priest vibra-
ting to the golden gate three minutes ahead;
and to this day they have no qualm of com-
punction. They even go so far as to asso-
ciate a fete, not merely national but of world-
wide Interest, with the commencement of
the series of events of which that “ happy
dispatch’’was a slight episode. The sove-
reigns of Europe, however, very naturally
feel that to be Invited to participate in any
celebration which Is associated In the re-
motest sense with the decapitation of a per-
nicious blockhead, and the adoption by a
nation of the principles of liberty and
equality, Is repugnant to their feelings,
and have decided that the nations over which
they hold sway shall not formally recognise
that there ever was a Revolution, or that the
French Republic of 1889 Is proud to keep In
remembrance that It Is the lineal descendant
from the Revolution which has for Its first
episode the storming of the Bastille In
1789. This determination on the part
of the crowned heads of Europe indicates
very plainly the extremely limited extent
of their sagacity. Had they compiled with
the ordinary custom, the population of the
civilised world would have had their thoughts
occupied mainly by the details of a glittering
ceremonial of to-day. The abstention of the
ambassadors and of royal personages from
participation In the ceremonial opening of
the Exhibition has concentrated the minds
of civilised mankind upon the catastrophe of
a century ago. The French Revolution, Its
causes and its results, are thus thrust into
evidence with a prominence perfectly pro-
vidential.
d • *
What was this event which still rever-
berates down the aisles of the Temple of
Time with vibrations uustilled, and beats
upon the consciousness of monarchs with
force sufficient still to afflict them with
terror and distraction ? That puny group
of spurious and self-imagined demigods, with
their paltry courts of sycophants and tools,
have been so distraught by the century-old
echoes as to conceive the lunatic notion that
they have hands enough to stop the ears of
the myriads whom they call their subj acts
and to shut out the memories and the in-
spirations which those reverberations recall
and suggest. This aberration of the frenzied
monarchical mind has necessarily an effect
precisely contrary to what was intended.
The attitude of dismay, terror, and rage thus
struck, has served merely to give emphatic
notification that the temper and disposition
of Sovereigns has in a hundred years under-
gone no change. The world has moved;
the universe of thought has revolved In ac-
cordance with eternal laws, but the corroded
machinery of the minds of kings has jammed
and grated,
• • ®
The mists of prejudice, the smoke of pas-
sion, and the clouds of misrepresentation
have cleared away, and the true signification
cf the French Revolution Is long since clear
to every intelligent observer. There Is now
no difficulty in ascertaining whether civilisa-
tion and the cause of humanity gained more
by that cataclysms! event, or lost more by
the orgies with which It was for a very brief
period attended. The explosion of 1789 had
a single cause—mlsgovernment. But the
directions in which its force was expended
were attributable to numerous Influences.
As to the cause, let us regard France as It
was prior to the eruption. The Inflated
vanity, tsnitorial greed, and preposterous
pretensions of a series of kings of leas
than mediocre intelligence had kept the
nation Involved in an almost unbroken
series of costly wars. The comparative
force of character of Louis the Fourteenth,
called the Great by reason of the exceeding
littleness o! his predecessors, served but to
hand down to bis feeble successors a ruin
which only true greatness and wisdom could
have averted. While the nation was re-
quired to bear the burden of expenses
beyond Its total and combined strength,
three-fourths of Its productive resources
were exempted frc m participation In that
harden. The “ nobility ” and the clergy,
while they owned neatly all the real estate,
were, by the privileges of their order, exempt
from taxation, which thus devolved with
tripled intensity upon the classes least able
to support it. The bulk of the French
people writhed under a multiplied tyranny.
They were not merely the subjects of the
Crown, but they were the serfs and villeins
of the nobility and the slaves of the priest-
hood. They owned nothing and owed
everything. The strength of the men be-
longed to their feudal lords ; their courage
was the property of their King. Sovereign,
noble, and priest took tax of their substance.
As for the women, not even their virtue was
their own. Custom made seduction respect-
able, repugnance merely Invited violence,
and a recalcitrant or jealous lover was
peremptorily quelled by a forced enlistment
if he were obscure, or a lettre de cachet —an
order for his disappearance—if he were con-
sidered worthy of so much honour. In
France there were a hundred Bastilles, but
the Bastille par excellence, the type and
flower of all Bastilles, was in Paris.
• * *
It is not from a people sunk in ease that
great thoughts originate. Mighty inspira-
tions are conceived and begotten in periods
of sore travail. Amidst the people of
France, racked and tortured, it was inevi-
table that the reasons and principles touch-
ing their condition should ferment in every
mind, and that in some apt minds the fer-
mentation should proceed to the clearing
point. The sight of sheep dogs playing the
part of wolves would create emotion and
arouse reflection at any time. A clergy
which lived by helping to devour its flock
created a body of mocking sceptics A
population ground to the dust and finding
existence mere misery, while a class of
nobles rioted in reckless and profuse dissi-
pation, called into existence a school of moral
philosophers. It was reserved for Jean
Jacques Rousseau —Saiss apprentice, ab-
sconder, pervert, convert, valet, thief, secre-
tary, kept-lover, musician, voluptuary, as-
cetic, unnatural father, moralist on parental
duty, philanthropist, misanthrope, egotist,
self-depreciator, silliest of fools and wisest
of philosophers—to strike the melodious
keynote of social science which ushered in
the prodigious cacophony of the revolution
which he did not live to see, and in the
course of which his mortal remains were first
enshrined and then enguttered. Rous-
seau's reflections on L’lnegalite de conditions
parmi les Hommes (the Inequality of condi-
tions amongst mankind) and his contrat
social (the social contract) contained the
entire system of thought which was neces-
sary to justify revolution. The school of the
Academicians merely particularised the ap-
plication of the masterly generalisations of
Rousseau. It was at the torch of his Imagina-
tion that other and colder mi ads took fire,
and, communicating his flame, spread
a conflagration first through France, and
from France through Europe. True the
revolt of the British colonists In America
preceded the eruption of thought and
action in France, and, to some extent, in-
fluenced it. But it is not that example
which the Monarchs of Europe dread.
Events pass, and their Influence dies away.
But “thoughts that burn” have an un-
quenchable radiance, and once kindled are
beacon-lights for all futurity. The Ameri-
cans are not propagandists. They are, as
they were from the first, distinctly practical.
They are remote and exert little influence
on European communities. The French
Republicans are propagandists to-day, as
they were when they carried their ideas
through Europe. The French Republic is
the central ganglion of the Social revolu-
tionary system which, like the nerves in the
human body, extend in a network through-
out Europe and set in motion the muscles of
Liberalism.
* * •
Monarchism hates Republican France
with a complicated intensity of detestation.
It hates it for its present existence, and it
hates it for its past. But that there is a gap
in the circle of monarchs—one fool among
many, too idiotic to perceive that his Interest
is to crush the heart of Liberalism, before he
joins in the struggle among sovereignsfor their
great Ultimatum, sole supremacy—the very
name of France would be blotted off the map,
and the Frenchman be served, as was once
the clan Macgregor —compelled to abjure
the name of his race. To-day, as a trifle less
than a hundred years ago, the French Re-
public is surrounded by a vast conspiracy of
infuriated monarchs, eager to hurl their
liveried menials in arms upon its frontiers,
and extinguish its heretical example with
torrents of blood and blasts of fire. Only
the eccentricity of the bewildered tyrant of
Russia mars and paralyses the plotters. The
Isolation of France is nearly, but not quite,
complete.
• • •
But If It were completed to-morrow ; if Its
dearest aim were accomplished; France
rendered as desolate as was Judea, and
Frenchmen subjected to repression as severe
as ever was dealt ont to Poles or to Irishmen,
or were they scattered as exiles over the face
of the globe ; the exultant Royalists would
but precipitate the day they seek to avert for
ever. Were England conquered to morrow
and her people driven forth, wherever they
went there would the principles of constitu-
tional government be diffused. Were French-
man similarly dispersed, wheiever they
wandered there would the philosophy of the
school of Rousseau and the speculation of
St. Simon, and the trenchant deductions of
Proudhon take root and in the end bear
frnlt. It is vain to struggle against the
forces of nature or the Instincts of humanity.
Let the kings writhe as they may, strive as
they may ; in the fullness of time the mass
of mankind will not consent to be ruled by a
congenital idiot, or hereditary blackguard
with a head garnished externally with a
crown, and interiorly with very little garni-
ture save vanity, prejudices, and follies.
The Case of Buttner.
In Sidney a week or two ago, Ernest Buitner,
an uninteresting German boarding-house keeper,
was sentenced to death for the crime of rape, and
the general public feeling, on a cursory inspection of
the case, was that the world would not miss Mr,
Buttnee much when he departed. One German
boarding-house keeper more or leas isn’t much
anyhow, and there was an outward halo of
atrocity about this particular Teuton which made
the public want to get rid of him. His victim
was one Jessie Lennox, a girl of 18 who had
recently arrived from Brisbane and who innocently
and unsuspectingly took a night’s lodging in
Buttnbe’s emporium. During the night, accord-
ing to her evidence, her host, the man who almost
above all others should have respected her friend-
lessness, committed a capital offence upon her, and
in the course of two or three weeks he was duly
sentenced to be obliterated according to the
statutes of New South Wales.
* • «
Jkssie Lennox, as shown by the police, was a girl
of blameless character and irreproachable morals.
On this the whole case turned. The one question,
in cases of rape, is whether the victim did or
did not give consent. The prosecutrix in the
witness-box invariably says she did not; the
prisoner in the dock is tacitly understood to say
that she did. There is practically the assertion of
one single individual who is listened to by the
court, against the assertion of another individual
who is not listened to much, but still the fact that
charges of rape rest practically on a single oath
makes it necessary to show that the victim was of
unstained character —that it is impossible to sup-
pose with any show of reason that she did give
consent—that her reputation is such that consent
on her part is almost impossible. If she is of
immoral or doubtful antecedents it is hopelessly
absurd to hang any man on her bare assertion
that she was in a moral mood at the time of the
outrage. Consequently the alleged victims of
such injuries are invariably shown by the police to
be females of angelic character and fitted by their
unsuspecting innocence and spotless virtue to take
their place among the white-robed seraphim who
stand round waving palms in Heaven. Mian
Mary Jane Hicks, upon whose oath, backed up
by those of a negotiator of forged cheques and
a turf-sharp cum-sly-grog informer cum arsonist,
four boys were hanged at Botany Bay, was placed
before the public as a lady of this order, despite
the fact that there was abundant evidence to show
that her morals were much below par, and Jessie
Lennox was classed in the same category and
accepted as a seraph of the first order,
* «
Yet, curiously enough, after Buttnee was duly
sentenced to death and the New South Wales
Executive had given its vote for the gallows, a
despatch was received from Premier Moeehkad,
of Queensland, which seems to show that the
police, as usual, had taken their angel's character
for granted and had made not the slightest inquiry
with a view-to giving the prisoner a fair chance
for his life. According to Mr. Moeehead’s re-
port there was known in Brisbane a certain
Jessie Lennox, also about the same age, and who
also came to Sydney at the same time as the
alleged victim, but this maiden was a notorious
prostitute, a degraded associate of Chinamen
and others in the lower walks of society, a thief,
and a newly-discharged lunatic. Tderefore the
Chief Secretary of Queensland desired to know
whether the damaged angel of Sydney and the
soiled dove of Brisbane were one and the same,
and if so he urgently pointed out that her evidence
was not good enough reason why any man should
be convicted—much less why he should be hanged.
Apparently no one in Sydney had ever thought of
inquiring into this point; Jessie Lennox had
simply been taken for granted as a seraph of the
deepest dye, and this new feature of the case,
therefore, created a good deal of surprise. Yet
if the police should now discover that the girl on
whose evidence a human life was sworn away is
the prostitute and the ex-lunatic of Brisbane,
Buttnee is entitled, not to a mere commutation
of his sentence, but to an absolute acquittal. The
question of consent rests wholly and entirely on
the evidence of Jessie Lennox, and if it is proved
that she had habitually lived by giving consent
then it is nothing short of foul and wilful murder
to hang any man on her bare assertion that she
did not do so in this instance. On the other
hand, if close inquiry proves her to be all that she
has hitherto appeared, then Buttnee is a better
subject for life-imprisonment than any man who
has been sentenced in New South Wales for many
years. _ But the mere fact that no one had in*
quired into the existence or the identity of the
of her' Jessie Lennox so as to demonstrate that
the girl whose evidence was accepted so unques-
tioningly was not the shady female criminal and
discharged maniac of Brisbane shows that, as
usual, no reasonable effort was made by the police
authorities to give Buttnee a chance for his life*
The case against him was simply taken as proved
in the usual way. The so-called victim appears to
have raised no alarm until the deed was done.


News commenced a tale
thfi iokwP 11 entitled “ Who did he Marry ?” On
title was altered to “Whom did he
y ? B »avo, Alfred! Go up top.
ftlohcugh the house was filled with boarders, and
one cry for assistance must have roused somebody
from his slumbers ; and though, according to her
own evidence, Buttneb first entered her room at
10 30, yet it was not till 1 o’clock— hours later
__that she began to shriek for assistance; but even
such positive evidences of consent do not count for
anything when there is a chance to hang a man in
pj e w South Wales.
But even supposing that Jessie Lennox should
turn out to have been a virtuous girl and that
Buttneb's guilt should be held proven—and con-
sidering that the police evidently made no serious
tffort to inquire into the most vital point of all,
the antecedents and general credibility cf their
heroine, it has not been proven yet—the old ques-
tion of inflicting the death (penalty for rape has
vet to be considered. The great boast of Pabkhs
and his following is that they endeavour to
follow the noble example of British law
and British precedent, yet if Buitnbb had perpe-
trated the same crime in the same circumstances
in Eugla ntJ > Ireland, or Scotland, he could not be
put to death by law. If a boardinghouse-keeper in
France, ia Germany, in the United States, or in
Canada perpetrated the crime he could not legally
be put to death. Why is Bu'lTNEb’s offence capital
in New South Wales and not capital in these
older hnd more experienced—we need nob say
more civilised—countries? In discussing the
Question at the time the New South Wales
Parliament adopted the Code which made,
not oae or two, but over a score of offences capital,
the need of attaching the death penalty to offences
like Bcttkeb’s was insisted on on the ground that
women living In the Australian bush were mere
exposed to insult than in settled countries, and re-
quired, as a consequence, more stern safeguards,
Thera was, and is, nothing to show that that
argument had anything to rest on beyond a mere
vague fear that in isolation there is evil. Statistics
gave, end give, no support bo the theory that in
sparsely populated lands crimes of the kind referred
to are more prevalent than in congested centres of
population. On the contrary, eVen at our doors,
and within the last few years, facts show that
crimes against women are out of all proportion
more numerous in the capitals and their environs
than in and about the lonely aud ii o'.ated settle-
ments cf the far interior. The very case of Buttneb
is such a fact And these facta accord with reason.
If, in isolation, a woman is to an extent exposed,
ghe is also, by that very iso’at’on, to a greater
extent shielded. It is in London and not
in a Norfolk hamlet, in Paris and not in the Vine-
yards of Burgundy, in New York and not in the
cane-brakes of Shiloh, in Berlin and not in the
cornfields of Rheingau that the demon of u sual
passion hungers with most insatiate desire and
rages with fellest power. Where men are few and
women are few, tempests of passion are rare and
crimes of outrage far between. That is unavail-
able as an abstract proposition; and to whatever
age recourse may be had, and from whatever
source statistics may be gathered, actual life will
prove the proposition true, and establish that
outrages on females follow population both nume-
rically and in intensity of criminal violence.
The retention of the death penalty for rape is
merely a needless temptation to the offender to
kill his victim in order to destroy the evidence of
his crime, and beyond this it serves no purpose
except to brand New South Wales as a barbate us
land of atrocities and bloodshed.
• • •
f The seducer, and espec : ally the adulterdus
seducer, commits really greater crimes than the
man guilty of criminal assault, inasmuch es he
does more to deprive hie victims of their serseef
shame, which is the vital principle of woman’s
virtue, than the man who commits a criminal
assault. Yet the latter is at once arrested and im-
mured in a gaol or barged upon a gallows, while
the former, especially If he is a man of hi<h
position, may pursue his course for a lifetime with
impunity. The man who seduces his own gover-
ness or servant-girl under his own wife’s roof, and
under the roof which covers his own legitimate
children, may aspire to the highest post in the
land—he may even tit at the Execution table itself
and decide the fate cf the criminal less criminal,
and not one tenth so immoral, as himself, and
Australian civilization would see nothing outrage-
ous in the spectacle. There is no protection, and
no justice worth speaking of, for the man who is
accused of a crime against womanhood in New
South Wales. It is a well-known and obvious
fact that nineteen out of every twenty charges of
rape are mere impudent conspiracies ; within a
few months during 1887 no less than nineortei
atrocious charges of criminal assault were taken up
by the police, and all failed, because in each in-
stance the complainant was proved to be a perjured
wanton of the lowest grade, but not one of these
perjured, would-be murderesres was ever brought
to justice for her effence. And it is to this im-
becility on the part of the New South Wales law
officers that the colony owes its hideous reputa-
tion for crime. In a land where any woman may
conspire against the life of a mar, provided he is
nob wealthy and of high social status, without the
slightest fear of consequences, and where any man
of means and position may commit rape with
comparative impunity, civilisation is only a var-
nish of respectability covering the rottenness cf a
moral sepulchre.
• • •
Up to the time of writing Ihrce-fourtfcs of
the Sydney Press has studiously ignored the
despatch of Premier Mobehbad in the case of
Buttneb despite the lurid light which it throws
on the administration of justice in New South
Wales. The Evening News, boo, has set out to
inflame the public mind against the prisoner who
had been condemned without fall it quiry into the
character of his ac;user, by stating that he was
s*Jd to have been twice previously identified
with similar crimes.” What the crimes really
were, whether he had been convicted or was
merely a subject of police suspicion, what was the
character of his accusers, and by whom it was
said ' that there were any such crimes, were left
WtiplaiDcd, but the mere fact that Buttneb had
th ° een (^ a “K f dor imprisoned for life on either of
am i 0 * ” cc oßsicns is prima fade good and
imolent proof that the vague rumour thus circulate d
a ? b Jß ed 011 a * s >lute falsehood. And despite any
n'l asurtirna founded on something
ln a loose and unfixable sort of way to
nn *t been < ”by some person not stated and
pun * of something which appaently
tw* , accurately defined, the fact remains
cn« • 61 s can be shown that Buttneb’s ac-
T 1880m , e more reliable person than the JistiK
H «<« alluded to in Premier Moeehkad b
ihe fallen woman and ex lunatic of Bris-
j., J “ef xeention of the Germanboarding-bcuee-
bv-Vui t ?5 >wev e r degraded, bestial end unmanly be
(lon k be mur der pure and simple, and mty
bavQ A Ve ™ e . rc y upon the sculs of all those who
E ave a hand in the set.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Sawyer's. Watch.
The following paragraph from the S. M. Herald
speaks for itself on the old, old subject of Justice,
as that battered and foundered virtue is practised
in New South Wales
Isaac Sawyer, the young man who was recently ac-
quitted on a charge of the murder of a German hawker
ne -tu X ou . n £' was brought up to-day on remand charged
with having In his possession a watch reasonably sup-
posed to be stolen. After his acquittal at Darlinghurst
tne watch found upon him when arrested in January last
was handed over to him. When arrested the prisoner
replied, “All right, you can do what you like with me, I
won the watch in a raffle at Milong station.” At the
hearing to day three witnesses, who were shearing at
Milong when accused was there in October, deposed that
they knew nothing of any watch raffled, but other raffles
took place; they, however, were absent for some days
™e time Sawyer states he won the watch, and two
of them deposed that Sawyer had a watch and chain
when at Milong. Toe accused was undefended, but In-
spector Brennan, of Yass, watched the case for him. The
magistrates, Messrs. M iddleton, Stevenson, Morgan, and
Hume, retired, and after some deliberation said they
did not think accused had satisfactorily accounted for the
possession of the watch, and sentenced him to one month
in Yass gaol. The decision caused some surprise in the
face of the evidence,- and it is thought the Attorney-
General should Icok over the depositions on which the
conviction has_ taken place. The watch bears on the
back Sa%Yer s initials, “ J.S.” done apparently some time
ago.
For rampant idiccy and glaring injustice this case
maintains the reputation of old Botany Bay.
When SawYeb was tried for his life the police case
was largely based on a suspicion that the watch in
question might have been stolen from the mur-
dered Olund, and this suspicion was pushed to the
uttermost, despite the fact that the watch bore the
accused’s own initials, and that the engraving
appeared to have been done some time ago,”
whereas the murder and the accompanying robbery
were affairs of Vary recent date. Having failed,
howtYar, to prove that Sawyee murdered Olund
and stole from him what was seemingly Sawyer’s
own watch, the latter is now sentenced to a
month’s imprisonment for being supposed to have
stolen his watch from somebody else—the some-
body else being unknown, and there being no
evidence that he ever existed, or ever lost a watch,
or ever had a watch to lose. The accused stated
plainly and distinctly where and how he obtained
the watch, and the evidence against him, according
to the published report, consisted solely of the
testimony of three men who were not there at the
timf, and who consequently could know nothing
about it. This is much the same as sentencing a
man for arson at Melbourne because another man
was in Brisbane at the time and didn’t know any-
thing abcut it, but a little thing like that only
amuses the judicial mind in New South Wales.
On the otl er side two witnessess, according to the
Herald report, swore that SawyeS had a watch
in his possession at the date mentioned, and evi-
dently they had no reason to believe that he
obtained it otherwise than honestly. Apparently
no one took the trouble to hunt up these same
witnesses when Sawibr’s life was at stake
for want of somebody to testify that he hadn’t
stolen his own watch from the dead Hans
i lend— at least their evidence appears no-
where in the published reports of the case;
and, thanks to the cheap and reliable time-
keeper, the unlucky shearer came closer to
the gallows than most men can do without hang-
ing there. No one claimed Sawyer's watch
either, or reported that he had lost that article, but
all the same, the much-pros:cuted Isaac has “ gene
up” for a month because, being in gaol, he didn’t
go_ out and hunt up the man from whom he ob-
tained it, and, consequently, “ had not satisfac-
torily accounted ” for his possession of it, In the
calm seclusion of the gaol Mr. Sawyer will pro-
bably find a dozen or so of men who got there
by the same road as himself—all of them
men with seedy coats and boots down at the
heel who were run in because they couldn’t pay
the expenses cf the Melbourne slop clothes-
deahr, or the bootmaker at Adelaide, or the
hatter at Broken Hill, from whom, in the course
of their wanderings they bought their various
habiliments, and fetch these men along to testify
on their behalf; but he will find no well-dressed
citizen breaking road-metal for the Government
on any such charge. The police who arrest the
swagsman so promiscuously because he can’t on
the instant produce the man from whom he ob-
tained his shirt or his watch, never run in Paekes
and call upon him to account for his ownership of
a book which he purchased in 1840 from a man
who is since dead, or award Dibbs six months for
being supposed to have a scarf-pin which he might
have stolen if he had wanted to, or send Gaby an
to break stones for being in possession cf a coal-
£ cuttle, and if the police force lived longer
than Methusaleh they would never make the
attempt. Even a policeman apparently knows
better than that.
4
Bagnios and Blackmail.
Melbourne authorities have been afflicted with a
virtuous spasm, but are now recovering. The
Madame Brussels' prosecution having duly col-
lapsed, the police may be expected to relapse into
their nofmal state of torpidity until another spasm
occurs. When it does another victim will be
selected and the public conscience soothed by
another alleged attempt to purify the city. Mel-
bourne and Adelaide have a peculiar similarity of
method touching the matter of alleged “disorderly”
houses. In each capital hundreds of these estab-
lishments are known to the police ; in each capi-
tal, too, the mere keeping of such houses, whether
a nuisance to the neighbourhood or not, is of itself
an indictable offence; and in each city prosecu-
tions are of the occasional order, and are prompted
by no rule that anyone has yet been able to dis-
cover. It is neither the rowdiest, the most
notorious, nor the worst houses that are closed by
these e rratio police crusaders. Two such house-
keepers may be trading in one terrace—one is
taken and the other left, and there is no more
apparent reason for the prosecution in the one
case than for the abstention from prosecution in
the other. In Madame Brussels’ case it is wired
that one reason why the Bench dismissed the
charge was that In its unpaid wisdom it con-
sidered that “ the police had b:en unfair
in selecting only one case.” As a piece of
law this reasoning is unique in its error ; as
a piece of common-sense It is worthy to be hall-
marked. For the worst feature of the present
style of occasional prosesution is that it makes
corrupt members of the police-force partners in
the profits of the disorderly house industry. If
the police in charge of a particular suburb are
paid liberally by any proprietress, her home will
nnt be prosecuted though every auger of the Social
Puri'ans has been used in the c mpilation of evi-
dence of the usual stamp ; and if, on the contrary,
the bagnio-keeper will nos make the police share-
holders in the profits of her trade, an indictment
will be preferred although no resident in the neigh-
bourhood has ever complained or even known of
the abode of naughtiness. As a means of enabling
the police to levy blackmail, and build terraces of
disorderly houses on the proceeds, the present
want of system is admirably designed; but as a
means of preventing public scandal and open vice
it is a failure rank and utter. No diminution of
any of the complicated evils attendant upon this
form of this department of vice can be attained
until the difficulty is squarely faced and acknow-
ledged. If it is admitted that disorderly houses
are a necessary nuisance the sooner a limited area
and licenses are granted them by law the better;
if on the other band the Social Puritans have so
far regenerated mankind that Aspasia is due for
abolition, the law should be used impartially
against all who offend whether the misdemeanants
are ready to render monetary tribute to Constable
C.ESAE or not. The present farce has already
gone too far as a means of police robbery and op-
pression.
♦
Drink and €rlme.
A man named Sansom committed murder at
Clermont (Q.), and the evidence showed that he
was blind-drunk while perpetrating the deed ; tut
notwithstanding this he has been sentenced to
death, and will no doubt be executed. If Sansom
be at the last minute reprieved it will be in con-
sequence of the caprice of the Executive, and not
because either the law provided for a commuta-
tion of the sentence in such a case or the judge
recommended it. As a matter of fact, Chief
Justice Lillet (the judge in question) indulged in
a disquisition purporting to show that drunken-
ness does not palliate crime. The judge, had he
liked, might have brought up precedents showing
how drunkards were punished first for having got
drunk and afterwards for the offences they com-
mitted while in a drunken state. But when all this
special pleading is exhausted, the moral sense holds
to the propriety of distinguishing between crimes
perpetrated in the full light of reason and those
committed when reason has been bereft of power.
The man who commits a crime when drunk
should not escape punishment for the criminal
act. By getting drunk he places himself in a
mental state which makes him for the time being
a menace to society. But before the highest
punishment possible under the law should be meted
out to any man there should be evidence that the
man was aware that ho was committing a serious
offence. That is a moral necessity. That it is
not everywhere a legal necessity is because law
and morality are not everywhere associated. As
Sanmson, according to Judge Lillet, committed
murder while drunk, the punishment should be a
guarantee to society that he would not be allowed
to again get drunk. Imprisonment affords that
guarantee, and that is all society requires.
The Bogey of Over'prodnction.
Among the saddest, lamest, dreariest, most hope-
lessly ciippled and deranged arguments advanced
on behalf of Foreign-trade in New South Wales is
the ancient gag—older and more extinct than Mr.
Daniel O Connor's departed cities of Tyre and
Sidon —that Protection necessarily leads to over-
production and glutted markets and consequent
depression. Yet the Foreign-trade evangelists of
the land ring the changes on this draggled chest-
nut, and disinter it, and hold it up on the three-
pronged folk of needless publicity, until it becomes
a living sorrow to the nation, and apparently it
never once occurs to them that the old smothered
wheeze is tired out and wants a rest. About five
times a week, on an average, this dismal specimen
of Hottentot logic comes to the front, and the last
political clown by whom it was dragged from its
repose was Pabkes himself, who planted the aged
variety show before the public eye with his wonted
freshness of diction last week :
Let them examine the question itself as applicable to
New South Wales. How would the principle of protec-
tion benefit us ? Our population was not more than a
million soufs. A million of people did not contain more
than 250,000 familiee—that was calculating four units to
each family. Well, could not any reflecting person see
tow very soon the market for any commodity we could
manufacture would be overstocked. (Applause and dis-
sent.) This overstocking of the market was exactly
what had been the result of Protection in the United
States.
In New South Wales, under a protective policy,
there would be a million people working to supply
the wants of a million people, and, therefore, ac-
cording to Pabke3, the market would necessarily
be ruinously overstocked. In Britain, under
Freetrade, there are 38,000,000 people working to
supply the wants of 38,000.000 people, therefore
the market is not overstocked. Because there are
only a million possible consumers In the colony to
absorb the products of a million possible producers,
Protection must lead to ultimate wreck, but in all
the wo»ld there are only 1400 million consumers to
absorb the products of 1400 million producers so
that the average keeps the same—and yet the
world isn’t wrecked yet. Jn New South Wales
under Freetrade a million psople are trying hard to
absorb and buy and pay for the products of some
hundreds of millions of foreign manufacturers, but
the overstocking will only begin when these hun-
dreds of millions are shut out, and the country is
merely required to pay for the goods supplied by
its own population. Then, and not till then, the
cataclysm will begin, and every trade will be
crowded out, and there will be too much wheat
grown where now there is hardly any, and too
much cloth woven, and too much bread baked, and
too many chimneys cleaned, and too many ash-
heaps moved away, and general ruin will super-
vene. We have Pabke3’ affidavit for this
upheaval, and it has got to ensue. And if it is
argued that the number of chimneys cleaned must
be proportioned to the number of people who are
ready to pay for having their chimneys cleaned,
and that the amount of bread baked will keep in
close relation with the amount of bread eaten, and
that the quantity of cloth woven will be exactly
the same in the long run as the amount of cloth
purchased by the public, it can only be pointed
out in reply that Pabkes has stated the contrary
and that what Pabkes states has got to happen or
burst. Generally it bursts, tut the old man’s
belief in his own infallibility is never shaken.
Holes and Boulders.
The inquiry into the proceedings of the late
Casual Labour Board of New South Wales has
revealed the fact that the Pabkes Government
spent, in little more than a year, no less than
£252,000 on public works, most of them nearly
useless, undertaken in order to provide food for
the tremendous array of the unemployed. And
now we rise to ask Dan O’Connor if they did this
sort of thing in Tyre and Sidon, which, he asserts,
were also Freetrade Slates, and what became of
the unemployed among the ancient “ Crakes ”
and whether, on the whole, it wouldn’t have been
cheaper to build up by means of a Protective
tariff some manufacture—we mean some accursed
“ monopoly ”or other—in the country, so that
these men might have found regular employment
on their own account, instead of taxing the general
community at the rate of some £200,000 per annum
for tbeir support. For the great maxim of Free-
trade is that the community at large must not be
taxed for the maintenance of a small section, and
this dogma is shrieked at Foreign-trade meetings,
and howled at Ministerial banquets, and bellowed
at Yellow Pup organisations, and it is generally
understood that the party will stand or fall by it
or perish in the attempt. Consequently the
taxing of the whole nation to the appalling
extent already mentioned, in order that BCOO un-
employed might find food, was an atrocious
hypocrisy on the part of the Foreign-trade
party ; and the absurdity of setting the able-
bodied population to dig useless holes in the
ground at the public expense, and make use-
less roads where there was nobody to walk on
them at the cost of the nation, rather than
run the risk of having these same 8000
men employed in manufactures which might
interfere with M’Millan’s importing mono-
poly, has few parallels on earth. And, worse
still, all this expense did nothing whatever to
solve the great problem at issue. The useless
holes were dug and the useless roads wer L made,
and then work was suspended because the country
was fast going broke; and now the unemployed
problem is starting again, and unless the country
can borrow money to pay for the digging of more
holes, and can keep on digging boles till time and
space both pass away and the earth comes to its
final end, and all creation becomes one great, un-
speakable hole on the day of utter annihilation,
the problem of how to save a large proportion of
the population of New South Wales from destitu-
tion stands just where it did. Freetrade has failed
to supply any permanent employment for the
people, and therefore New South Wales has
become a place where the labouring classes dig
holes and hump boulders about for the Govern-
ment at the expense of the country, and then fill
up the holes and carry the boulders back again
also at the expense of the country, and when
the holes and the boulders come to an abrupt con-
clusion for wantof funds then chaos must supervene.
Even a Freetrade Government cannot keep on for
ever hiring a large part of the nation to do nothing
but drag clay and rocks about and then drop them
and leave them there; and if, as Postmaster
O Connor asserts, Tyre and Sidon were run on
Freetrade principles, it is just possible that it was
this same fiscal difficulty which brought about
their final collapse. A boulder and a hole are
now nearly all that remain of the two great
Phoenician cities, and the place where they lie
probably marks the spot where the last Sidonian
unemployed dropped his barrow on the day when
the Treasury burst and the Freetrade policy of
the nation fell through for ever,
+
A Women's Hospital.
The foundation stone of a real women’s hospital,
to be erected in the Euston Road, London, was
laid last week. This long-needed institution will
be run for women by women, the entire mediol
staff wearing petticoats, while their attendant
students are also of one sex with the patients from
whoee physical _ troubles they acquire their
practical professional education. Twenty years
ago the mere suggestion of such a hospital in Lon-
don would have been regarded as a joke, a theme
for ridicule in stage burlesques and alleged comic
songs at music-halls. But nowadays nobody—
save interested male doctors and pigheaded op-
ponents of any social improvements on wbat
always was in their grandmothers’ time—doubts
that the new scheme will prove an inestimable
blessing to humanity. It is a very lamentable
feature of the times that the proporticn of strictly
feminine ailments in women—as distinguished
from lung, liver, or other disorders, common to
both sexes—increases apace. Maids, wives, and
widows are getting more and more in need erf
skilled advice which they can seek without hesita
tion, and listen to without a blush. Heaven
alone knows how many thousands of Eve's
daughters become wrecked in health and
temper through some originally trifling weakness,
suffered in secret until the case has grown beyond
means of remedy. They are victims to their
innate “ delicacy,” as it is called, and who will
say that Nature gave woman a cloak of modesty
only that it might oe borne off her shrinking form
by the rude bands of a “duly qualified ” male
stranger ? No such man is duly qualified to
become the medical father confessor, so to speak
of our wives and daughter* while they can bsre
their bosoms, and the secrets therein hid, to the
eyes and ears of a doc tress—one much better
qualified, morally and mentally, to diagnose their
cases and bring them back to health. Under the
present sinfully stupid medical regime what a
humorous spectacle is the devoted lover
jealously guarding bis girl from too close ac-
quaintance with any ether admirer, yet never
thinking of the day when he wriil rush for
the nearest doctor to come and overhaul the
charms of that same girl at his (the doctor’s
not the young husband’s) own licensed discre-
tion ! But let that pass, as the jester in the
Yecman pfthe Guard,” would say. Assuming
that ail medicine men are pure as the beautiful snow
and assuming that all females resemble most
ladies of noble birfcb who are notoriously partial
to being cured of every imaginable complaint by
male M D. s, yet there remains the hard fact
that masculine skill is generally at fault in dealing
with the more mysterious o! women’s difc M es
The coming race cf lady leeches must have a cer-
tain intuition in this respect that specially fits
them to constitute the staff of that hospital now
m course of erection. And in such institutes
untrammelled by the social difficulties which sur-
round them in general hospitals, girl students
wiil rapidly acquire knowledge and experience
that shall enable them to brighten and strengthen
the lives of thousands who would under the old
conditions of society, pine and droop in dreary
gloom. 7
•
A Departed Title- Hunter.
Francis Ormond hts duly died, leaving behind
him In Melbourne sundry costly evidences of a
chanty which commanded the cold acknow-
ledgment, but never won the warm gratitude of
the people he patronised. He contributed £4O 000
m all towards the Ormond College Building Fund
yet the endowment was felt to be sectarian rather
than philanthropic—springing from a Preebv-
tenan desire to purchase the salvation of Francis
Ormond’s soul His Working Men’s CoUeie
scheme was broader in conception, but when-
estimates for the erection having been accented—
Mr. Ormond volunteered to bear all
condition that “ Leopold ” was to be
th e.«™ of the msthutior. Vhe Connnl re
th u- gr Ti ellinfr proposition, and only half
of the Working Men’s College was set up Tha*
incident rather discounted Francis ObmonTt*
noble anxiety to promote technical educaii, n
among the working classes, and showed him to be
before aught else, an autocratic capitalist striving
to catchier Gracious Majesty’s royai eye Whst
had the sickly, epileptic Leopolii, h'l
death to a fit of gambling excitement, done in


B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, M. MA€IiRD¥,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and'
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a specialityi
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N.B.— Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Card*
and Fanoy Goods. Inspection invited
Uniform a speciality; quality, fit and comfort. Mudb 1
man, “My Tatt,or-” 154 King Street, Newtown.
this world that Mr. Ormond should offer
£15,000 (which was the amount at stake)
for the privilege of associating the young
man’s name with a useful work ? The ostentatious
proposal was but a bid for a baronetcy. A year
ago Francis Ormond credited the Melbourne
University with £20,000 for the founding of a
Chair of Music, which still remains unoccupied.
The conditions attaching to this last aesthetic act
of charity are unpopular and virtually imprac-
ticable, so it happens that even musical Melbourne
is not grateful to its dead patron. Although so
liberal with his money in the bulk, it is notorious
that this well-conducted pietist would write six
letters explaining why he couldn’t lend some poor
devil a sovereign. He belonged to that class of
good men who believe that bold advertisement is
necessary to the laying up of treasures in Heaven,
and who confidently assume that the Lord looks
in newspapers for the names of cheerful givers.
Such men delight in remarking that they “have
their children to consider ” (a grand old chestnut,
which is often hurled at the crime of indiscriminate
alms-giving), but Francis Ormond’s two mar-
riages were unfertile, so he hadn’t a parent s excuse
for freezing off personal appeals to his care-
fully regulated benevolence. A widespread belief
that the subject of our memoir founded his own
fortunes is altogether wrong. Ormond s father,
one of the pioneers of Victoria, was a man of large
property in the “Forties.” The old man had a
shanty in the Werribee district, where young
Francis has rubbed down the horse and acted as
Ganymede to at least one identity now living in
Melbourne. Immediately after the death cf
Ormond senior his son went eff to Europe, and
returned the “swell,” not to say snob, that he
remained until last week. His extremely English
manners filled the Victorian aristocracy of that
period with much dismay. A few, very few, old
colonists may remember that the father of
Francis Ormond’s first wife hurried himself clf
this planet by wilfully dividing a vein in his thigh.
He kept a pub., and here we conclude our re-
miniscences of Francis Ormond with an epitaph:
He gave, with Uuoordial Hand,
large sums ol Money,
to a Public who sneered at his Gifts.
But Death
out short his Useful Life
ere the Title arrived.
An Argus cablegram (probably unreliable)
annonnoed,
two days after his death, that
Her Gracious
desirous of setting up in Victoria an
Hereditary Aristocracy,
bad fully intended to make him
a Baronet,
Dillon and the syadicate Organs.
Mb. Dillon’s first speech in Melbourne antici-
pated and answered all those hollow charges
against the Home Rule leaders which the Tory
press is founding on false arguments, Dillon ad-
mitted that “ their policy had been a strong and
extreme one. It was a policy that he himself
would be slow to tolerate in any nation where the
people were able to make their own laws. No
such right existed in Ireland, and it was an axiom
recognised by great thinkers that many things
might be justly done among a people who were
denied liberty, which would be unlawful, immoral,
and unjust in the case of a people who enjoyed
that liberty.” Mr. Dillon's defence of the
Home Rulers’ tactics was not needed, for any
man possessing a pennyweight of brains knows
that it is only by breaking existing laws
that any people can gain a considerable exten-
sion of their liberties. The amount of said
breakage must vary in accordance with the
amount of liberty already enjoyed. The Reform
Bills of “law-abiding” England were not passed
until a London mob had grievously offended
against “ statoots ” by smashing windows, pull-
ing up park ratings, and displaying a wicked,
turbulent disposition. “Who would be free,
themselves must strike the blow.” And during
the 600 years of Ireland’s bondage the people of
England have not forgotten to strike a few little
blows for themselves, while invariably applauding
the prompt suppression of “rebellion” in Hie
downtrodden country on the other side of St.
George’s Channel. As the English gain &tep after
step their violations of established law and order-
good old phrase ! —become milder and less frequent
and when the Irish have won alike measure of fair
government they will not be sending John
Dillon to Australia to collect funds for carry-
ing on their political war. But the ponderous
old humbugs and non-thinking drivellers, who
swear by ali that is set down in the law-book of
to-day, have no recollections of yesterday, or they
would understand that modern liberty is a fabric
of offence against the law erected upon a founda-
tion of High Treason. The anti-Irish articles of
the Argus and Age (the paper which supported
and apologised for, if it did not actually instigate,
the revolutionary acts and speeches of the “ Black
Wednesday” period) breathe doctrines no less
“ constitutional,” in their generation than those
in favour at the courts of William the Conqueror
or Nebuchadnezzar, the King. Yet, if the gen-
tlemen these journals are attacking could sleep
right away for a hundred years, they would awake
to find themselves blue Tories of the deepest
cerulean hue, despised as relics of an ignorant
past by the staunchest upholders of the new order
of things. O Melbourne, when dost thou intend
starting a Radical paper ?
-
The first act of an ancient Victorian job
closes on June 30th, when Mr. W. G.
Palmer, who has masqueraded as sergeant-
at-arms since 1856, retires upon a “substantial
pension.” Henceforth the colony will endea-
vour to struggle along without a sergeant-at-
arms, some minor flunkey cf the Legislative As-
sembly undertaking the tomfoolery which formerly
devolved upon the retiring barnacle. During his
33 years of sergeauting at-arms, Mr. Palmer has
touched his bleeding country to the comforting
tune of £14,850, so we trust that such a deserving
object may draw a substantial pension (what is
the exact figure, by the way ?) until the Crack of
Doom. The sin of this good old sinecure rests
upon the heads of the patriots who created it, and
we forgive Mr. Palmer, albeit he has been, com-
paratively speaking, a more expensive and ridicu-
lous luxury than the Governor himself- who
doesn’t get any pension (from the “kawhnie ) when
his period of pomp and vanity is ended.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,— Do not strike
poor Dresohfield too hard, even though you think
you have all the first-class colonial experience to
back you, and the testimony of the most success-
ful D.T. doctor, to boot, in your favour. He
ought to have told you how bromide of potash
affected the combination chloral and alcohol; and
he might possibly be able to inform you how
Epsom salts would have affected the combination.
As I believe Dresohfield is no fool I place these
notes for your consideration. —Yours faithfully,
John Reid, Ballarat, 10sh May, 1889.
[?]
846 Macquarle-street North, Sydney, May 15,1889.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
The second autumnal vice-regal ball cams off on the 9th
instant at Government House, Sydney, when quite a
number of debutantes seized the opportunity to be trotted
out. All the “ buds ” wore white—mostly net over silk—
and at least one of them is pretty enough to threaten to
become a bride if she doesn't take care. The dresses were
very nice. Lady Carington wore a handsome gown of
white satin designed in pearls—high ruff-edged with
pearls, a white bouquet, and diamonds here and there.
Lady Delamere wore grey silk. Miss Hoflnung, pale
buttercup, made in the frock style with immense
watered-ribbon sash, a huge yellow feather fan
completing an uncommonly becoming tout ensem-
ble. Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax’s magpie get-up a
black silk polonaise embroidered in shaded whitey-grey
Bilks opening over a jupe and full vest of beautiful white
lace—was very handsome, and a black striped moire
bodice and train over a jupe of mingled apple-green and
black silk was decidedly fashionable if rather gloomy-
looking in a ball-room. TJhe music supplied by Need’s
bfmd was as divine as ever, the floor was satisfactory, and
the night was lit by a sentimental-looking slice of a moon
—the only thing needful to make a ball a perfect success.
The debutantes were—Miss Twynam (a daughter of the
Surveyor-General), Miss Pilcher, Miss Cowper, Miss
Littlejohn, Miss Dobbin, and Miss Fosbery.
The 11th instant was the last day of the lawn-tennis
tournament at Sydney Association Ground. A goodly
throng attended, and black was universal—the hand-
somest of the funereal costumes being of black moire and
lace with broad sash of moire; a black tulle bonnet
with crown of old-gold rcses and bows of gold ribbon
lightening the general effect. There was a sprinkling of
crimson gowns; a well-known society “Miss" wearing
crimson on cashmere trimmed with black moire and black
braid (a fashionable combination that gives one the
“ jumps ” to look at and which always looks dowdy and
smudgy), a wide black felt hat trimmed with crimson
ribbons and a black-bird en suite. Brown moire pinked
out over tan at the edges, worn with a brown
toque hat ornate with brown moire ribbon and fawn
wings, was a very stylish turn-out, as also was
a deep sage-green, with lull front of yellow silk—
dark-green toque hat (all the hats were either toques or
Gainsboroughs) ornamented with striped green ribbon
and yellow aigrettes. A dainty gown was of grey silk
with emboEsed revers, over a jupe of plain grey silk,
bonnet en suite; and a startling-looking frock on a bean-
pole girl was a moonshine-green silk with skirt and vest
of white, and scarlet Gainsborough hat trimmed with
red ribbons. As to the players, they all looked dreadfully
“ dickey.” One fascinating Victorian wore a shirt that
absolutely shrieked for soap and water, and another had,
a large imposing hole in his navy-blue hose ; while the
lady combatants mostly looked as if their clothes had jost
happened. Also several people remarked to me that the
charge of three-and-six was rather too lofty for the
occasion.
Have you read about that highly-respected citizen of
Melbourne—councillor for one of the boroughs, too—who
was suddenly surprised by the visitation of a wife that he
left in England, 25 years ago ? The unexpected visitor
was duly introduced to his Australian wile, and later on
the respected citizen proposed that they should form
themselves into a happy triumvirate. The wife of long
ago, however, preferred staying with her father-in-law,
who had brought her out from “home ” as his wife. It is
a most disgracefully mixed-up business, and a terrible
“cough-drop” for certain wealthy relatives. Another
councillor of another borough, who stands in the positions
of brother and uncle to the parties involved, was a mem-
ber of a Bench which rendered itself immortal by its
grovelling injustice. I am afraid he must be sore dis-
tressed in what he would describe as his armour proper.
Lord and Lady Carington attended the lawn-tennis
tournament on the morning of the Bth instant. On the
9th H. E. and his little brother Rupert were spectators of
the darling sport for_an hour or two. The players knew
they were “ V.R.” and were content.
The late wile of a disappointed Parliamentary candidate
for a Sydney suburb had a rather queer experience in her
salad days a long time ago. She was—in the language of
the newsboys—“nuts ” on a noble youth—Brown, say—
whom her parents regarded in the light of a miserable
object, but whom she regarded as her alter ego—alter
egos being plentiful when a girl is sixteen, you know.
Their transports becoming too unbearably mawkish, the
stern author of the lady's being ordered her not to adore
Brown any more on pain of dry bread and water for a
week. With a bursting heart she retailed this base
tyranny to her hero, and after weeping quarts of tears
over the prospect of separation they decided that death
was better, and arranged to take poison at the same hour
next day at their respective homes. To morrow duly
arrived. She bought the poison, wrote fond and tragic
notes to her family, and pinned them (the notes, nob the
family) to her pillow-case, then gulped the fatal quaff—
but took an overdose. She recovered, and picture her
blighting scorn when she learnt that Brown hadn’t even
swallowed a seidlitz-powder to keep up his end of the
log 1 That withered her affections on the spot, and she
cut him dead ever after.
Clara writes me from Melbourne quite a glowing ac-
count of the Victorian Artists’ Winter Exhibition, opened
by the Governor “ in person ” last Saturday week. The
inaugural ceremony, it eeems, coneisted merely of an ex-
tensively assorted crowd sanctified by the vice-regal pre-
sence, but the pictures, according to Clara (and you
know she was once engaged to an artist’s elder brother,
so she must be an authority on the subject) are worth
a visit. I toke her word for it that our noble sex make a
more than creditable display on the walls, Mrs. Rowan’s
flower-pieces being as near perfection as—well, you know
that wicked expression ? One of Mr. Lcureiro’s pupils, a
Miss Adderley, has sent an unassuming little study of a
cluster of grapes which is considered to be a very pro-
mising effort, and this young lady has a sister likely to
thump celebrity from the pianoforte, I am likewise in-
formed. But, to my way of thinking, girls with any
talent for music should turn their attention to the fiddle
instead of stickiog to an instrument over which men
have so much more command.
Clara continues: —“ Acting-Governor Sir William Robin-
son (whose wife came out by the Oroya to join him)
entertained over 500 guests at an “ At Hcmi” at Govern-
ment Hcuse on the evening of 6th inst. The floor was
like glass—the music (“Yeomen of the Guard,” prin-
cipally, which is lovely to dance to) as evolved by
Ploob, just divine. The gowning, too, was wonderfully
smait and almost everybody sported diamonds. Black was
in the ascendant, of course ; r ext to that white, and cream
and blue had a fair following and none of the gowns were
cut in the lanky Empire ktyfe that lately threatened to
overwhelm us. About the showiest frock was worn by
Mrs. El ward Miller—it was a striped ivory white brocade
over a jupe cf gold emtroidered lace finished with gold
fringe and a foot panel of Gloire de Dijon rcses ; Mte,
Brind (a guest at Government House) wore a magpie cos-
tume of black and white striped silk over a jupe of white
satin draped with black lace ; Mrs. Balls Headley wore a
remarkable gowii of indigo-blue softened with tulle,
lightened with blue jet cornflowers ; Mrs Benjamin (the
Mayoress) was also in blue—the jupe ornate with bands of
gold lace; Mrs. Mallesoa were white moire over a jupe
covered with gold sequins—a perfectly heavenly gown,
and there were dozens of others as gorgeous. The pro-
gramme consisted of 14 dances.
The other day I wrote to you that a certain Sydney
society lady was in the manager’s box at the Criterion
Theatre at a recent benefit performance. I have just
received a missive stating that the lady who, I stated, was
in the box wasn’t in the box at all, so that I was in the
wrong box.
Governor Carington will hold a levee at Government
House on Thursday, 23rd inst., at a quarter past 12 p.m.
in honour of the Queen’s Birthday, The Baron’s troubles
this time 1
A fair correspondent writes to me in a spidery hand
from somewhere saying that her feelings were harrowed
recently through seeing a thin, white shoeblack polishing
the boots of a fat Chinese. My friend does not allude,
however, to the Chinaman’s feelings when he discovered
what a hollow sham the polish on the backs of his heels
was.
“Romany Rye” still whirls at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney, where large audiences nightly yell themselves
hoarse at the ordinary sight of a shower of rain, and fake
a savage delight in seeing the supers, get wet. There
isn’t any dressing in the “ R.R ,” but the d.o. was “Pretty
Joey” when I was there one recent evening. One willowy
girl wore a very artistic frock of pale pink silk, with
ecarves of apple-green and long squares of pale pink,
fulled in slightly round the shoulders and falling almost
to the hem, a graceful fashion introduced by the Gaiety
syren, Letty Lind. Another gown wes of while moire
cut square with Marie Stuart collar edged with pearls, a
crimson plush opera cloak and a white feather fan giving
the finishing touch. There was, I regret to say, one red
get-up, but its wearer toned it down somewhat with
clusters cf deep brown feathers on the corsage, and
broyn gloves. Mies Tree, who was in the manager’s box,
wore a tailor-built gown and a three-story bonnet with a
splash of white in the front,
In the stalls of a Sydney theatre recently I noticed that
several girls removed their bats during the show. This
is truly sensible, and I do wish that the matinee fiend
who piles feather on feather, and comes with a bevy of
friends of the same opinion in millinery, could be in-
duced either to modify her "shingle” or carry it in her
hand. Which reminds me that a matinee for the benefit of
Brough and Boucicault is to happen at II M. Theatre,
Sydney, on the ISlh inst. —a truly awkward date seeing
that the Suburban Bicycle Club hold their first race-
meeting on the same day.
The first reception given by Kintore to the
deaconesses of the Holy City happened at Government
House, Adelaide, on the 3rd inst. The Countess—who is
at once pronounced to be as “utterly sweet” as all she-
exoellenoies invariably are—wore a black merveilleux
costume en Directoire over a jupe of black and white
stripe, magpie bonnet en suite. The deaconesses, however,
made a very poor show, most of them wearing not last
autumn's confections, but gowns that were new in the
middle ages, and a local sassiety scribess—apologising for
this state of things—upsets her ink-bottle to explain that
the at “ 'Ome ” came too scon after the arrival of their
excellencies to give society time to unearth its frock-
builder—as if that person had not died of starvation long
ago. The first vice-regal ball is announced to eventuate in
July.
At a recent suburban muffin-scramble in aid of the
church organ a clergyman made the most ingenuous
speech I have ever heard. He said: “ Deah friends,
the sum collected is (so much), part of which will go to
the organ.” Everybody knew where the rest would go to.
Without any flourish of trumpets or display of bunting
Lady Robinson was welcomed by dear Sir William last
Friday, Melbourne newspapers barely mentioned the
fact that the acbing-Governoress arrived per Oroya, and
no preliminary notices of this interesting event were
published at all, so evidently Lady Robinson is nob to be
“ boomed ” like her predecessor at Government House. I
suppose she will have Thursdays at home, poor soul, until
the inevitable medical adviser comes to her rescue, after
which her ladyship will regret to announce, &0., and
sassiety will have to get light refreshment elsewhere. I
hear that Lady R. has aged a lot since she left Adelaide
with her family so many, many months back.
The new N.Z. Governor, Lord Onflow, brought 20 tons
of luggage with him. I wonder how much of it belongs
to the Countess ?
Maude writes from Brisbane anent their vice-regali-
ties “ Lady Norman—who is the Governor's third
matrimonial venture—is a thin, dark woman, who dresses
very smartly. On landing she wore a deep purple silk
directoire coat over a heliotrope checked-silk, petticoat
bonnet to match. Miss Norman—who is rather clever in
a small way—is also scrag—l mean slight—and wore
while and gold, with bonnet en suite. As lor Sir Henry,
the army-list gives his age as 63, but he looks 70, and is,
thin enough to slip under a shut door.”
The latest Bridget story runs like this. At a Melbourne
registry-office, the other day, a mistress was being
smartly catechised by the O’Fiannagan as to her fitness
for the place of “ boss,” and things were going very
smoothly until the “ Misthress ” said, “ I always oversee
the cooking, and my little son always plays about the
room while I am in it.” “ Begorra, Oi can’t sthand that,"
retorted the exile—” Chi'der gets in me way and thrips
me up." “Very well, ’ replied the lady, who was at the
end of her patience, “as you object I will have the child
killed at once.” “No, let the oraythur live,” said Bridget
anxiously, “Oi 11 thry and put up wid him for a month or
two to plaze ye.” Fact 1
Madame Lablache will give a concert at Mrs. Hoflnung's
house, Potts Point, on the 20th instant, at 8.30, She will
be assisted by Miss Tree, Kowalski (who has fallen out
with the Philharmonic Society and resigned the oondno.
torship), and Buzz!, Dimitresoo, and several other nightin-
gales. Tickets at Paling’s.
The Sydney Elite Rick breaks out into its first carnival
of the season ’B9 on the 21st inst.
The marriage of Dr. Maher, the rising Sydney oculist,
and Miss Alicia Keenan took place at St. Kilda on 30th
ult. The bride wore a vown of ivory faille and moire, and
was attended by one bridesmaid. The honeymoon is to
be spent abroad.
The Grand Fancy Dnss Carnival and ball at the Trooa-
dero, Newtown, on the 7bh Inst, drew together a sizeable
crowd, most of whom had come as somebody else. A
“Minerva” was most noticeable, and there was the usual
number of "Summers” “Winters,” “Gipsies,” “Jack
Tars,” and so on ;a “ King Charles” with bow legs, and a
portly personage in glass green as “Erin,” lent a subdued
interest to the proceedings.
On 9th ins*. Signor Hazon gave a grand afternoon con-
cert at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, when a very moderate
audienoeattended. Theconcert was intrinsically high-class
but rather gloomy—Handel’s “ Largo” and the “Funeral
Mvroh” from “Hamlet” being two numbers not cal-
culated to raise the spirits of a perverse generation of
Freetraders. Sign r Haz n was assisted by Signora Ajmo,
Miss Graupner, and Signori Mancini and Venturi, who
were all in excellent voice. There will be a series of these
concerts.
A writer in the gush-column of the S.M. Herald re-
cently remarked,in discussing something or other: “I
was not a brilliant child—neither am I a brilliant woman."
She had the good sense to make that statement at the
commencement of her article. She knew it would be
superfluous at the end.
A correspondent writing to a daily paper, telling about
a globe falling, in a train, on to a lady’s head remarks
Fortunately it had no effect upon her. The glass was
very thick.” So also must have been the lady's skull.
We have had a deluge of concerts lately. Kowalski
gave h : s annual "audition” at the Criterion on the after
noon of the Bth when (as is usual at invitation affairs) the
house was crammed. The pupils played 15 numbers
successfully, and most happily hopped on and off the
stage as confidently as you please. The second part of
the programme was rendered by Miss Tree, Madame
Lablache, and Miss Frances Saville, whose warbling of
“ Reine d’un Jour ” was a vocal feast.
On 11th inst. the Sydney Criterion was crammed to the
stairs by an audience anxious to sample Grundy's adapta-
tion of “ Les Surprises du Divorce’’—“Mamma.” It was
S.R.O. with a vengeance—the d.o steps being all occupied
and in such a packed circle most of the gowns were hidden
of course. A directoire ccat of moire with a floral
stripe over a jupe of slate-coloured silk was an elegant
and quiet costume. Then a well-known society girl wore
pale-blue velvet trimmed with real lace, out moderately
low and displaying a perfect bust and shoulders, one or
two blue butterflies on the corsage and in the hair form
ing a quaint adornment. Black was mostly worn, of course,,
a young “ Miss ” wearing black lace with a top-knot of
scarlet flowers. One weedy woman in a low black drees
with collar-bones that would cut boarding-house steak,
and red and white flowers in her hair, bad her armholes
out almost to her shoulder-blades at the back and her
buttons in front, the gap being filled with black lace
through which acres of while flesh gleamed with blush-
ing effect, and when she raised her arm—good gracious 1
An Empire gown of crushed strawberry silk looked
poetical on a fair-haired girl, and another crushed straw-
berry silk with a deep ruche round the feet—the folds on
the bodice edged with white silk—was nice enough to ad-
mire. Also the fat woman wore greenish-yellowish silk
out very low and sleeveless and trimmed with
lace a blue aigrette in her hair and a piece
of narrow lace tied round apoplectic throat.
(I hate fat women, for I only weigh seven stone.)
She also wore bronze shoes and crossed one knee over the
other all the time. The comedy—which isn’t eo naughty
as you’d think—went splendidly, and was preceded by
"My Milliner’s Bill,” in which Lucia Harwood wore an
uncommon gown of deep green-and-cream-barred skirt
with a cream silk scarf, train and bodice of olive-green
silk peppered with large cream and brown flowers, corsage
trimmed with brown and green passementerie and a dia-
mond cross in the front. Miss Ada Lee’s heliotrope and
white gown, in the second act, suits that small charmer
to a T, and Miss Annie Taylor’s juvenile appearance in
pink tights and airy ballet skirts shows that she has a
great future yet before her in the “ front row.”
The first meet of the season ’B9 of the Sydney Hunt Club
will start from Parramatta railway station at 2 30 on the
18th inst., when Sappho hopes nobody will come to grass.
Mr. G. C. K. Waldron is still master, and the yearly sub-
scription has been reduced to two guineas, the club
having a large credit balance. “ Pink ”isto be regularly
sported by the members this year, so the weird sight of a
“ fencer ” in a black frock coat and lavender ahems won't
occur quite so often as previously. Apropos of hunting
the Melbourne Club means business this season, they
having imported a pack of high-class fox-hounds and ten
pairs of deer.
Orange blossom from a Sydney paper
"jy/TATRIMONY.—A Christian Man, of 40 t with
soma means, wishes to correspond with a lady
of 40, with £4O, to join in poultry farm and orchard :
she must be a Christian lady. F. O. B. H., General
Post Office, Sydney.
“ She must be a Christian lady with £40,” but I'll wager
my false front hair that “ Christian man” would take the
religion on trust if he were morally sure of the lucre,
wouldn’t you?
Sydney Liedertafel’s smoke-meeting, on the Bth inst., at
the Exhibition building, was, I am told, quite thronged..
The Governor and a flock from Government 'Ousef oast a
VR. halo over an admirable concert conducted by
Mr. Ijelaney. Daring the evening the Baron presented
gold lyres to the president and vice-president, and re-
marked that on entering the hall the vice-president had
given him a cigar “ which had been in the family twenty-
five years ” I, sincerely hope that- the whole family
hadn’t tried to smoke it.
A kid-glove manufactory Is about to be started in
Sydney. Lord and Lady Carington have already given
extensive orders for “paw cases,” and Potts Point is fol-
lowing suit, of course. I hope the venture will boom,-
but I would like to seriously ask the management if they
have coolly reflected on the size of Potts Point’s hands-
and the market-quotations of green-hide ?
Yours truly,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Snow-white
Patbnt RotiiiSß Floub. It Is the greatest success of the
age.
High Abt Photoqbaphy.—For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLBMONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarlngton
"By Appointment,"
D
R
I
N
K
p
s
T
u.
T*
'Xtnfcig fcoWavg &
sdiiiiHd msiua
■'BXMaW
Write for Flans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited 96 Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal,— “Slnbad the Sailot ” p. 14,
Her Majesty’s.—" Romany Rye ” A
Criterion.—" Mamma ”
Gaiety Theatre. —Oogill Brothers „
Phillip Park.— Pain's Fireworks „
The Oyolohama.— The Battle of Gettys-
burg
The mother-in-law still lives and the bale-
ful glimmer of her bad, dark eye is visible at
Sydney Criterion, where the old historic rela-
tive has been freshly varnished and upholstered
for use during the winter. “ Mamma,” in fact,
is almost all mother-in-law, and was evidently
written to cast a new light on the evils and disad-
vantages of having an unhanged female progenitor
by marriage drifting about the house. But the
Anglo-French ancestor differs somewhat from the
ordinary acquired female incubus, inasmuch as
the common or gorgon like mother-in-law is
starched and desperately pious, while the present
load of sin was a ballet-girl in her younger days,
when she wasn't so tough as she afterwards be-
oaffie, and pranced on the fantastic bunion in the
fourth row. Her first great object in life is to get
her daughter married, and her second Is to get her
aivoroed again, and in between these events she em-
ploys herself inharrowingthesoul of her son-in-law,
who is a composer, and fixes up soulful little things
concerning an ancient Greek girl that mused
about the dryness of the dry, dry land and the
wetness of the wet, wet sea. But just in the
middle of his musings the mother-in-law generally
falls into a canal, or is spilt out of a balloon, or is
bitten on the head by a horse, or something else
happens to her, and she comes in and strikes the
famous attitude which led to her being hissed by
the gallery boys at Huddersfield 47 years before,
and wants to know why he did it; and she has a
grievance against him concerning a strange girl
and a bun, which girl and bun have been revolving
in her mind until tney have swelled into a picture
of the unhappy composer holding up 12 faint-
ing females in the street, and standing cham-
pagne for the crowd ; and finally the whole family
drifts into the divorce-court and is broken up.
Then the escaped husband woos another bride, a
gentle, loving girl with no mother and a great,
damp, flabby father who is always in a state of
clammy good humour and imbecile joy—and the
very first time he allows the large, loose, lumber-
ing, shapeless parent out of his sight that mass of
dishevelled brains drifts away on an interminable
waste of railway lines, and falls into a seaside
town, where he marries his son-in law’s previous
wife, and brings the bounced mammoth who made
all the previous trouble, back into the family.
Here the comedy gets too full for utterance. It
leans up in a state of partial Insensibility against
a piano and asks itself if the universe has been
knocked out in six rounds, and if the old order of
things has gone to grass, and then general riot
supervenes,
* * *
“ Mamma,” in short, Is a tangled howl of insane
glee from first to last-a shriek of riotous merri-
ment which is calculated to arouse the spectre of
primitive man from his resting place underneath
Cain’s goblin and Noah’s broken bottles in the
far interior of the earth, and make him sit up
to ask what it is all about; and the Criterion
(sompany keep this three-act insurrection at full
gallop. Mr. Frank Thornton as the son-in-law Is
a limp, broken-down, volcanic Composer clawing
at a fragment of melody with one hand and saw-
ing the air with the other in the vain effort to
stave off his awful relative, and Miss Annie Taylor
brings down the house as the awful relative on
whom Christian remonstrance has no more effect
than a holy hymn upon a camel. Mr. A. T. Hilton
is billed as the flabby father and falls miserably
flat, but even for him it can be said that he fails in
a talented manner, and that he knows better how
to failmiserably than many other men; and anyhow
Miss Lucia Harwood more than makes up for his
disaster. This lady’s chief triumph, however, is
in “My Milliner’s Bill,” a one-act comedy which
precedes the great catastrophe. The “Bill” in
question is a literary effort of ancient date but it
has lost none of its brilliance with the flight of
time, and Miss Harwood, as the insolvent heroine,
displays abilities which prove that she has few
rivals on the Australian stage. Mr. Frank Oates
ultimately liquidates the account that is preying
on her mind, and saves her from committing an
act of suicide which would leave a woeful gap in
artistic circles.
* # # *
The poor, old S.M. Herald has not been
so aggravated for 25 years or more as it is over the
new comedy at Sydney Criterion, and the lan-
guage which it throws promiscuously around
creates unwonted excitement in the _ columns
where the Sunday-school spread drags its weary
length along. In its calmer moments the Herald
always avoids itself, and even when it
reports that an escaped tiger has eaten 18 people
and dragged the head off a small boy it generally
requests the public, to refrain from casting reflec-
tions on the animal until its view of the case has
been explained; but in the _ present Instance the
tired pamphlet, which weighs three quarters
of a pound, stands up on end, and uses frantic,
brigand-like adjectives which disturb the Sabbath
calm of the office in a most unusual way, and the
listening earth asks how this comes to pass. No one
seems to know. Possibly the paper sent its esoteric
Jumbo to report on the show, and that literary
mammoth wasn’t received at the door with a
torchlight procession, and Brough didn’t walk
backwards up the stairs on all fours to herald his
approach. Possibly he was crowded out and didn’t
get a seat and had to stand up with his corn hurt-
ing him all the evening till he got mad like the
old prophet on the ass. Perhaps he had gone out
to curse the tights at the Royal, and to say that
tights were immoral and that leg-shows weren’t
what they ought to be, and lost his way, and
cursed in the wrong place, and only woke up next
morning to a consciousness of hia misfit maledic-
tion. Perhaps some bad, common, ordinary
person failed to mistake him for an escaped duke,
and thought he was the every-day reporter who
did the police-courts instead of a small edition of
Moses and Solomon bound in calf, and then the
volcano burst. Perhaps—but after all the affair
is past conjecture.
* # # *
The Cogilla at Sydney Gaiety wither away
a good deal under the upas breath of public in-
spection, and we mention with grief that they
aren’t so good as we took them to be. Perhaps
we were intoxicated on the occasion of that first
visit; perhaps we were partially under the in-
fluence of chloroform ; perhaps we were asleep ; or
possibly we were all right and it is only the show
that has fallen off of late ; but, anyhow, the cullud
choir at the Gaiety Is very flat and moves like a
stagnant funeral partially eaten up by worms.
The nigger is getting played out in these latter
days, and we are more than ever convinced that
his end Is near. His thick voice and his big feet
have lost much of their charm; his painfully-
acquired dull-headedneas, his elaborate ignorance,
and his cherished Idiocy have passed their prime,
and the warbler from the Congo is not what he
used to be. Any favourable remarks which
greeted the Oogills at the opening of their season
are hereby cancelled and withdrawn from circula-
tion for ever.
* * * ♦
“ Slnbad the Sailor ” and “Romany Rye ”
keep going at the Royal and Her Majesty’s respec-
tively. At the latter theatre an event of gigantic
proportions takes place next Saturday afternoon,
when the most tremendous benefit on record will
be tendered to Messrs. Brough and Boucioault in
the hope of making them feel a little better over
the Melbourne disaster. Mr. Rignold, with his
accustomed generosity, has given the free use of
his non-combustible theatre, and an influential
committee, including, of course, that unavoidable
public calamity, Dan Yell O’Connor, Im Fay, is
looking after details. The artistes who have
offered their services are numerous enough to make
up a programme a week long, and the profits pro-
mise to ba sufficient to furnish the treasurer with
a good and reasonable excuse for escaping to
Mexico with them and never being heard of any
more.
# * # #
Four gaudy rinks and a display of fire-
works fill up the rest of the bill at present in
Sydney. With regard to the latter it is only need-
ful to mention that Pompeii is still being banged
into unrecognisable tatters at short intervals by Mr.
Fain, and that the destruction is accompanied by
a million-headed blaze of fireworks compared to
which Vesuvius was a dead failure in the year 79
a.d. (Some ass of a compositor will probably
print this date as 1879, but that can’t be helped—
compositors are constitutionally idiotic). The gor-
geous Oryatal Palace Rink lives in a state of
perpetual carnival down in York-street, and
its great peculiarity appears to be that every
effort it makes is bigger than the one before it.
The Elite Rink tries to go one better by
more carnivals, handicaps on Tuesdays, Fridays,
and Saturdays, and other dissipations; the Met-
ropolitan, located in Harris-street, Ultimo, tries
to pile up the agony higher even than the others, and
has engasred Mr, Wyburd to lend tone to the show;
and the Newtown Trocadero rioks as madly as all
the rest, and issues a dark, mysterious announce-
ment about a gigantic sensation in reserve which
will shortly burst upon the flabbergasted world
and make this terrestrial clod shake to its very
centre. This earth can’t stand much more rink at
present.
# # * #
John F. Sheridan, whose Identity la
generally hidden under that of the Widow
O’Brien, opens at Sydney Gaiety next Saturday
with “Fun on the Bristol,” an American scream
which generally pays lavish dividends wherever it
goes. During its last visit to Sydney there was
occasionally visible about thepublic streets a small,
insignificant, weary-looking little man who
appeared as if he had a mother-in-law —a species
of blase undertaker whose clothes were put on
anyhow and who sometimes grasped a bulgy um-
brella and sometimes left the umbrella at home.
Nobody paid him much attention or imagined him
to be anybody of importance, and he seemed so
badly trodden-on as to be of no account, but as i> is
probable that the same spectre will presently re-
appear we rise to give warning that the tired-lcok-
ing little man is the famous Widow O’Brien in
person. The shuffle and the bulgy umbrella are
merely the outward means by which a gigantic
intellect is disguised from the gaze of the common
herd, and the aspect of broken-down melancholy
is worn because its owner is so busy makicg the
world laugh that he seems to have forgotten how
to smile himself. The genuine comedian is
generally solemn in private life; it is only the
grave-digger and the executioner whose existence
is a perpetual jig with a wild chorus at the end of
it.
* * * *
Good old “ New Babylon,” a drama In one
prologue and more acts than the programme tries
to number —an omission which leaves the National
Anthem to notify when this production has wound
itself down—made another cjstly resurrection at
Melbourne Royal, last Saturday night. As of
yore the company started by striking on a rook to
the musical accompaniment of a fog-horn, most of
them baing rescued by a passing vessel, and sub-
sequently continuing their wild career in Tatter-
sail’s sale-yard, Oremorne Gardens, Epsom Downs,
Seven Dials, and other rural retreats too numerous
to mention, The pictorial presentment of “ New
Babylon ” was always the brightest jewel in
Bland Holt’s crown, not even excepting his recent
outbreak with a balloon. It is the apotheosis of
scene-shifting, and the ne plus ultra of vivid im-
possibility, in which supernumeraries are plentiful
as grains of sand upon the Golden Shoah. Each
act rises superior to petty considerations of con-
nected narrative, and if they begin the drama in
the middle and worked both ways at once, con-
cluding with the prologue, it would be a joy
for ever just the same. An anecdote touch-
ing Bland Holt’s last show, “ The Ruling
Passion,” shows that too much lucidity in matters
of this kind is a grievous error. A bucolic visitor
In the stalls sat with his mouth open until the end
arrived, and then said : ‘ 1 Bill, I must come and
see this agin to-morrow, for I’m d d if I know
what it’s all about.” He accordinsrly laid out
another three shillings in farther efforts to un-
ravel the plot. This story is extant, and can be
vouched for—but to resume, Messrs. Bland Holt,
St. Lawrence, Charles Holloway, and Howe play
their old parts, together with Mrs. Bland Holt,
who grows more cleverly natural and artless every
day. Miss Kate Bishop again appears as two
ladies alternately with great success, and Mr. B.'
N. Jones undertakes the Israelite 'character in
which poor Johnny Hall was a prime favourite.
Some of the other people suffer from strange
dialects and English that seems to be broken in
the wrong places, but apart from these drawbacks
they might be much worse. The present season ia
advertised to close this week, to make room for
the company just finishing operations in Adelaide.
They open in “ The Pointsman ” on May 24th.
* * * *
“ Hamlet ’’ runs harmoniously at the
Opera House, whither Mr. Miln’s excited wor-
shippers bring victorious wreaths to bind his
brow, and huge masses of flowers which they
drop upon him with reverent hands, just as though
that volcanic genius were a marble tomb or a
little grassy mound. There were two solid per-
formances of this tragedy on Saturday, with just
enough interval between to permit of the melan-
choly Gimlet taking a shower bath, while the
Ghost filled his spiritual interior with steak and
mushrooms. By the way, a concise poem upon
the subject of Miln, published in last Bulletin,
was mangled in the setting up, and thus a gem of
literature was lost to the world. “ Shamus
O’Brien ” is running its fourth lap at the Alexan-
dra, but Brough and Bouoioault’s talented com-
pany seem to be half-forgotten, and their Hiber-
nian Hall experiment wants booming. A mira-
culom escape of Mrs, Brough from a ’orrible
death, or the capture of Pattie Brown by a band
of robbers, might give things a well-deserved
shove along. Yesterday (15 th) they were to revive
“Bachelors” for six nights. Remaining shows
look nice as usual.
Ooher Melbourne theatres go along as
before. The public are exhorted to educate them-
selves up to “ Yeomen of the Guard,” but Nellie
Stewart has taken very 111 again, and her deputy,
Mies May Follard, doesn’t promote education to
any large extent. Moreover, the opera has a
nasty habit of sseming slower and sadder every
time. A hugging match between the assistant
tormentor and Ida Osborne has been elaborated
since the first night, but even the hugging gets
tiring to people who are not there themselves.
Also Leumane’s dire inability to look, talk, or
walk like a military hero remains one among a
doZsn reasons why “Yeomen of the Guard” is
but a hollow delight to deadheads who would fain
discover strange beauties in the bubble reputation,
and the other eleven reasons call for no further
notice.
** # *
The Sydney Zoological Gardens are open
to the public on week-days at a charge of 6d. On
Sunday, the only day on which the working-man
has a chance of visiting them with his wife and
family, the charge is a shilling. Why not a
shilling on week-days and sixpence on Sundays ?
Is the Sunday shilling a sop to organised hypo-
crisy ?
## # #
Conductor Cowen is valiantly blowing hlo
own trumpet over the high seas after his return
from Australia, where, he insinuates, he was the
pioneer of high-class music :
Do yon want to hear a woman squeal ? If
you do, then go to Her Majesty’s Theatre, Syd-
ney, and hear Miss Roland Watts-Fhillips shriek.
There are a lot of cockatoos on the stage at one
part of the play, and their row is sufficiently
awful. But should those six cockatoos learn
to squeal a la Watts-Fhillips (cockatoos are
most imitative birds) and should the cockatoos
hereafter be separated and be the means of teach-
ing hundreds of women in various localities the
Watts-Fhillips squeal at second-hand, there will
be murder in the land.
*# # #
A pretty abory ia told of Tamberllk, the
tenor, recently deceased :
One morning we were walking through the Madrid Bird-
market, when suddenly he drew a bank note for a thousand
francs from his pocket, bought up all the little creatures,
opened the cages, and shouted laughingly, as the birds
flew up into the air, “Go and be fn.e, my brothers !"
#« * »
There 1a talk of a monster benefit to
Rignold and Allison in recognition of the off-
handed generous liberality with which they gave
the use of their theatre to the Irish National
League on Monday afternoon.
Mr. John L. Forde, lately of the Sydney
press, has re-joined the staff of the Melbourne
Age.
A bill will be brought into the N.S.W.
Parliament this session to authorise the laying on
of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine by means of pipes
throughout Sydney, each house having its supply
measured through a meter.
Our dear old friend, Lord Dudley, has,
it is cabled, been arrested in company with four-
teen others, including Lords Lurgan and Paulet,
and Messrs. Merry and Jubilee Juggins Benzon,
at the Baccarat Club, a gambling-shop in Park
Place, London. Fifty police made the raid and
£lB,OOO cash was seized. Dudley, it is pretty
plain, is on the road to the devil. No man ever
learns from another man’s experience. The young
earl is undismayed by the fate of Juggins Benzon,
who a few years ago was in Australia without any
money and raising coin on post obits—which, to
his credit be it said, he has since paid in full. He
has even discharged his Australian gambling-
debts. Since then (the whole thing has happened
within four or five years) he has succeeded to a
fortune of £600,000, has knocked it down on the
turf and at the table, and Is again almost as poor
as a church-mouse. Dudley’s friends had better
send him out to Australia again, consigned to The
Bulletin, which will watch over his morals and
sea that Lord Carlngton and brother Rupert take
him to the Young Women’s Christian Association
meetings reg’lar.
The present German Consul General in
Sydney apparently does not admire the English
language, and has displayed his aversion to it in
a manner which has excited the ire of his com-
patriots. The Consul has, it is said, lived for
some time in Morocco. Whether he there ac-
quired his pleasant little peculiarities, or whether
they reflect the military eccentricities of some
“ circles ”in Berlin, is not known; In cosmopolitan
Australia, however, they seem very much out of
place. We hear that at a banquet lately given by
the Sydney German Club to those of the German
officers whom Mataafa and the hurricane had
spared, the toast of “The Queen” was honoured
in English—either as a compliment to the British
officers (of the Calliope) present, or because
it would sound strange in German words.
The too - patriotic Consul protested loudly
and gruntingly at the English accents, and
wanted German even for the Queen’s health. Sub-
sequently a few laudatory remarks were made on
the English Navy in general, and on the crew of
the Calliope in particular, all of which were re-
ceived by the gentleman referred to with grunts of
disapproval, which strongly contrasted with his
manifest pleasure during a similar panegyric on
the German Navy—or what there is of it. The
climax came when an invited guest sang for the
entertainment of the banquetters, Schumann’s
Composition of Heine’s (these men are both Ger-
mans !) song, “The Two Grenadiers,” the melody
of which reminds one slightly of “ The Marseil-
laise.” This was too much for the Consul, who,
having appealed to the president of the Club and
found no support, left the room much to the satis-
faction of the Germans, who then proceeded to
volubly explain matters to their surprised friends
of the Calliope. The rest of the evening was most
pleasantly spent.
Mister Cowen,
Tho’ allowin’
Not quite as much as you impute,
Admit we here
You have no peer
Upon the trumpet and the “ fluit.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“Jas. X.T.” : Thanks “ W.J.H. ” (Rioh-
mond). The Argus article on Mr. Dillon is too weak to be
worth criticism. Its chief argument seems to be that
Ireland is “by nature a part of the central portion of the
Empire,” and that Englishmen have “invested hundreds
of millions within her borders on the faith of the Union.’'
With regard to the first assumption, Gibraltar is naturally
part of Spain, but England holds it; southern Belgium is
naturally part of Prance, but England raises sheol if she
thinks Prance is likely to take it. Ireland was conquered,
certainly, but as the mass of the people have constantly
resisted England, they have never abandoned their right
to claim their independence. Greece was conquered in
like manner by the Turks, but England didn’t see matters
in the same light there. The millions which Englishmen
have invested in Ireland have nothing to do with the case.
Some 670 years ago, when a French king was crowned in
London with the support of a large part of the English
people, he invested a good deal of money in England on
the security of his position, and when he left, he and his
followers nearly had to file their medhcval schedules over
the transaction.... “ Tobul ’’: There are too many differ-
ent and most original kinds of metre in your pome,
and no fresh ideas worth talking about
“ G.L.W.”: Very good. What name, please Wit-
ness for Defence ” ; Many thanks. Similar sentiments
have been expressed by Judge Innes ““ James W.”
(Soone) : Mrs. Edward Hanlan has not, so far as we have
heard, visited Australia....“ Magnum Bonum”: We
agree with you that those who publicly give large amounts
to religion are, in most oases, purse-proud persons in
search of advertisement. The same remark often applies
to those who ostentatiously give large sums in charity—
although he who gets his advertisement out of charity
does more good or rather less harm to the community
than the other man. The Pharisee and the publican have
each their latter-day prototypes...“ G.M.” (Bundaberg);
A salacious old chestnut. Cain told it to Abel before
they fell 0ut....“ Oocy ” Your juror-story is a very good
one, but inasmuch as attention was called to the jurymen’s
condition Victoria must, in such matters, be regarded as
considerably ahead of N.S.W. where they don’t notice
such things at a11.,..“H. By water” (Adelaide): Have
nothing to do with the “sweep” promoted by a man
calling himself “Thompson” and giving as his ad-
dress “ No. 6 King-street, Sydney.” He has no oonnec-
ton with Jack Thompson, the tingman, or any other
members o? the Thompson family...," A Pact” (Ooota-
mundra): You surely don’t expect us to chronicle such
facts ? “ Bathurst ” : Many thanks for the information.
F. 8.” (Purnamoota): Deficient in interest,
though rather well done. Try again “Frank
Chandos Excellent “ G.H.C.”: Thanks. Will u£e.. ; .
“ Anti-Monopoly ” (Perth): The West Australian railway
land grant amounts to 20,000 acres per mile of rail way. The
grant to the American Pacific railroads amounted to but
6400 acres per mi1e....“ Gopher ” (Wimmera): It is said
that Mount Hercules, New Guinea, is 32,768 feet high and
therefore the loftiest mountain in the world....“Pish
Oh 1” (Melbourne): Sand us along some of your ex-
periences ; never mind speculations “ A.R.” (Molong):
Of no general interest “ Parsonical Immersion ” (South
Brisbane): Not quite good enough “Chandos”: Ha,
ha “Joseph B.” (Nyngan): Received....“ G.LW." :
Many thanks “Carrathool ”: Ye 5....“ E.T.0.” : The
ten most illustrious living Australians unquestionably are
Hungry Jim Tyson, Herr Rassmussen, Francis Abigail,
L. L. Smith, Judge Windeyer, Dr. Rosa, John Haynes,
Buloook, John Davies, and Editor Fitchett .“Loyal
Ulster” : Your conclusions are based on ignoranca. As a
matter of fact Ulster returns 17 Parnellites against 16
Unionists “Cards": It would be dishonourable to
back a straight flush, ace high, in the game of poker, as
it is a fundamental principle of betting that you cannot
win if you cannot lose. As the hand referred to cannot
be beaten, in wagering on it you are backing a
certainty......“G.E.” : Thanks “T.D.” (George-
street): The incident has already been published.
, ...“A.W.N.L.” : Not up to the mark “Alpha”:
Many thanks. Will use “A Constant Borrower of
Tub Bulletin ” (Armidale); Poem cremated “ Henry
J,”: Dog-yarn arrived in good order and condition....,
“J.A.F.” : Your poesy isn’t up to your patriotism—not
by chalks. We give a chunk out of it, just to “ queer
your pilch” should you ever be nominated as Poet
Laureate :
Britain, when thy noble Queen this giddy world for ever
quits,
A President we will seat where now our Governor sits,
And a flag of our own we will hoist,
And all Australia will be rejoiced.
No more Knutsford to make our choice,
And tell us, if we grumble, that in the “ selection ’’we
have no voice.
Pastor Jeffarls is lecturing on “ Isms that
haunt us.” How about Rheumat-ism ?
Mr. Pickering, a resident of Perth (W.A.),
shot himself rather than go to Court to be cross-
questioned. Foolish fellow! he appeared in the
box all the same.


WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS,
GREAT «» RELIEF IN '«» RHEUMATISM.
“ The greatest appetizer, stomach and liver regulator—
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bittcis.”
Horsford's A del Phosphate.
Relieves Mental and Physical Exhaustion.
PEPPER AND SALT
A nice old man named Adrian W. Dal 1 ,
who used to pound and propound the Scriptures
at Mentone (Vic.), was sentenced to two years
hard labour in a Melbourne court, the other day,
for criminally assaulting a little girl eight years of
age. His Honor said prisoner had inspired confi-
dence in the child’s guardians by the fact that he
preached in a chapel. Do —me —ray— so —fa—la —
that’s It
The common lob! We read la an English
piper that Mr. Loti lately obtained a decree nisi
against his wife on the ground of her adultery
with a Mr. Hail, Plaintiff’s suspicion was first
aroused by noticing his wife looking back at Hall,
who, it appears, occupied a pew behind them
in church. A stave : —
Had Mrs. Lott her Bible got, it must have made
her halt,
There Mrs, Lot was looking caught, and pilloried
in salt;
That awful tale could scarcely fail to save her
social fall,
And then she never had been caught for look-
ing back at Hail.
'Tis but the same old tale again, thus ever since
the Fall
The same old curse hangs over men that vexed the
son of Saul I
Yet luckless Lott has surely got this balm within
his gall— ■*
That now he sees his troubled lot, a’as I the Lqtt
o I Hall. ' .
-•4 * •
Mr. John Nlmmo, the cumbersome- stale,
canny, knock-kneed* and very ordinary old per-
son who is Minister of Works in Victoria, de-
clares that the man “ who stands at the roadside,
breaking stones to make a serviceable road, is the
noblest stamp of man ” —
Expectations that the Melbourne Evening
Standard would crush the everlasting Herald
with a weight of superior literary abilioy were
damped at the very outset of the new horgan’s
career. The dullness of its first issue was
phenomenal. An opening article intended to be
slashing had seemingly been toned down to
nothingness by the board of directors, acting
under Mrs. Grundy’s advice. Mr. Harry St.
Maur filled a couple of columns with drivel pure
and simple, and some flunkey-minded female was
allowed to print her nauseous recollections of “ A
Day with the Queen of England,” which took this
form—“ The Queen really looked lovely. lam
thankful to have seen her in her own home, where
the ‘divine majesty that doth hedge a king’
seemed to have descended in all its glory from the
long line of kings on their queenly daughter.”
The staff had been racking its alleged brains for
months in a gigantic endeavour to turn out a
newspaper that should stir the rulers of the people
at the first pop, with the result that “the Queen
looked really lovely.” Sad business.
Half a column of delirium tremens In Mel-
bourne Herald, bearing upon the case of an un-
fortunate young girl who lost her reason after
losing her legs, commences thus
Weird wailings linger cn a woman's lips. They are so
unexpected, so piteous you hold your breath; there is
something of an indescribable feeling flashes over you,
and with a kind of hesitancy you slowly turn your head
towards the spot from whence the waitings came. But
where are you
Where are we, forsooth ? We are groping around
for a brick, as it were, with which to destroy, in a
measure, that other raving lunatic who slings ink
for the ’Ebald in a kind of way so to spsak Noth-
ing of an indescribable feeling has come over us at
all. We are simply sick—plainly and straight-
forwardly sick. O! to find the spot from whence
these “ third edishun ” washings came, that we
AN EASTER TALE.
MR. MURRUMBIDGEE W. SLIPRAIL (who has been in town for Easter and is afraid he
has ’em—in great alarm): “D’ye see anything in that window, Moorabinda?"
MRS. M. W. SLIPRAIL : “Yes, dear, a lot of tame snakes.”
MR. M. W. S. (recovering his equanimity): “Holy Eucalyptus! So they are! real,
snakes! Thank Heaven!”
might let fly our lump of clay baked in a kiln.
And O ! to sit upon the scribe’s battered humanity
and aik him as we scrubbed his nose vigorously
with the aforesaid brick, what he mefmt by saying
that the unhappy subject of his tenth-rate drivel
had still “ the glazed lightness in her jet-black
eye.” ,
An Intelligent horse made its appearance
at the Melbourne lockup the other evening, tow-
ing a dray in which lay Its drunk and incapaci-
tated proprietor. The gentle inebriate was
promptly locked up. The Age tells us he had a
watch and a considerable sum of money on him
when searched in the cell. This is the advantage
of being arrested by a horse.
Extract from sermon printed in the adver-
tisement columns of the Australasian ;—“ The
Church has ever been first and foremost in feed-
ing the poor.” We suppose it claims this
character for its assiduity in placing the plate
before all.
The police authorities experience a good
deal of difficulty in restraining their subordinates
from smoking in the streets. Why not deprive
them entirely, we ask, of the taste for tobacco ?
There is an establishment in Victoria-street,
Woolloomooloo, bearing the legend, “Coppers
cured from smoking.” That ought to about fix
them.
The advent of Dillon and Co. in the
interest of Irish Home Rule brings to memory a
humorous Incident in the N.S.W. lecturing tour
of Home Ruler Redmond, MP. While in a far
western town, Mr. Redmond’s meeting was
attended by an old and wealthy Irish resident,
who, it was said, had his claw on the farms
of many of the settlers within a radius of fifty
miles. He attended the meeting of the Irish dele-
gate, and at the conclusion, when subscriptions
were invited, he “ planked ” his fiver to the cause,
and was retiring with' the air of a man who had
done his duty to his country and himself, when
suddenly he was arrested with—“Arrah, now,
Mr. —put wan down forme.” “ Who is that?”
“Me, Dan.” “All right, Dan.” “Put another
for me.” “Who is that?” “ Me, Mick Sullivan.”
“ All right; any more o’ yez?” “Yes, me,” and
“me,” and “ms,” and “me,” till the fat roll of
notes with which he started had been considerably
diminished, when a voice louder and more impera-
tive than the rest shouted—“ Give the cause wan
for me.” This emphatic rejoinder came with a
snap—“ I won’t. Ye owe me enough already.
An’l’m d dif I know how I’m goin’ to get
what ye do owe me.” This put a finish to the
subscriptions on the nod, and the chairman
blandly invited the general public to subscribe.
That sturdy barrister, R. D. Ireland, was
once urging an important point in the Victorian
Supreme Court before Judge Barry, who claimed
a certain power as to committal without reference
to other authority than his own. “ Does your
Honor,” said Ireland, “claim that power ?” “I
do.” “ Then the sooner you are deprived of it
the better for the country,” thundeied the
irate Q C.
Dear Bulletin, —Allow me to pour out
my soul into your sympathetic ear. I have just
been reading some English papers :—General
Wolseley in an address at Birmingham Town
Hall said that “ the British Empire was built up
bit by bit, little by little, by the courage and the
valour of the army and navy ”; and he goes on to
point out the many advantages, moral and phy-
sical, individual and national, to be derived from
a system of conscription. Now, as every ass brays
when it hears a mare whinny, so must the Rev.
Hugh Price Hughes begin on Sunday at St.
James’s Hall a series of addresses on “War,”
immediately prompted by Lord Wolseley’s address
at Birmingham. He took special exception to the
statement that a nation was built up by its sol-
diers and sailors. “ Was this so with the United
States 1” exclaimed Mr. Hughes. “No! it was
the Puritan Fathers ! or Canada ? or Africa ? or
Australia?” Now, take a long breath, held your
nose, count ten, and then swallow this at a gulp I
He noted that Fiji owed its present prosperity in the
first place to a Lincolnshire farmer full of the Holy Ghost
—John Hunt.
By the beard of the Prophet I let me out of this.
I go to seek a nation founded by a man all guile,
all blood and thunder, whose mouth is full of cuss
words and whose—but I feel better now.—Yours,
&c,, Kai Loma,
His name was Dali, he preached at church —
He wrestled with the Scriptures in
The local Bethel, and the shaftis
Of eloquence he hurled at sin.
On Amuon, and on David who
Did place the Hittite in the lurch,
He dwelt with zealous unction, for
He was a saint—he preached in church.
Hia soft inflections doubt disarmed,
He locked benign, hia smile was fat,
And meek and lowly was his mien
When deftly trawling with the hat.
Mammas invited him to tea.
No vague suspicions rose to smirch
The character of Elder Dali;
It was enough—he preached in church.
So venerable he was and hoar,
The most impassioned of inveighers—
An oily patriarch in black—
’T was joy to hear him lead the prayers,
The sinners grim he moved to tears,
And publicans their pants to search
For bigger coins than “ thripnebits ”
This good old man who preached at church.
And parents sent their daughters fair
To have him teach them Scriptural things—
How Jezebel went to the dogs,
And Solomon did win his wings.
For high amongst the people stood
His estimation on a perch,
Above suspicion, haloed round,
You know, my dear—ha preached at church !
To-day this oily patriarch
Devoutly meditates in gaol
Whilst pounding rock, and comfort finds
In knowing that all flesh is frail.
His dose—two years’ hard graft. The judge
Had half a mind to add the birch,
As he has done for batter men ;
But, then, they never preached in church.
The noblest man is he who toils
To patch unpleasant streets,
And with his honest hammer earns
The bread-and-scrape he eats,
The “ wurkin’ ’ man with horny hands
That man John Nimmo greets.
The hero splitting two-foot woed,
Tae noble with his last,
Toe gent a-patching pots and pans,
The sailor on the mast,
Are all the highest typo of men.
And with the knappar classed.
We will accept thy dictum, John—
The sequsl is delicious—
As toilers are the noblest,
Compared, the “member’s ” vicious,
And we would like the M P. well
If he were more ambitious.
They have lifted the Standard oa high,
In the wind it is waving ;
Sure, its title is beautified by
A moat “loyal ” engraving—
Britannia sits, bolding her flag,
Oa the land of Australy.
Oh! a horrid conservative rag
Is this afternoon daily.
We give it two years to exist—
To pine and to wither ;
When it goes it will never be missed,
It will quietly slither ;
Yea, soon must a newspaper drop
Into Death’s solemn slumber,
That puts such a picture atop
Of the opening number.
A BARREN FIELD.
“ Musically, Australia Is a barren field.’’—
Frederick Oowen.
What do you mean by vilely throwen
Dirty water at us, Oowen,
And amongst your cronies blowen
That our land’s a “ barren field ?”
O ! professah, proud and knowen,
While you reaped from others’ sowen,
And your pockets fat were growen—
We were then a wealthy field.
While with grovel, gush and bowen,
We filled your heart to o’etflowen,
One would think you’d pay a glowen
Tribute to so rich a field.
But as all your deeds are showen—
Bragging and bombastic crowen—
You are but a jingling Cowen,
We are but a “ barren field.”
L-vnd with milk and money flowen
Hears you, and is fiercely vowen
That you’ll never get a throwen
From our so-called “ barren field.”
Personal Items.
John Bright died of Bright’s disease
Wilkie Collins commenced life as a tea-
taster.
Her Gracious looks every inch a cjaeen
laterally.
Sic Arthur Gordon, it is said, will be
made a peer on Queen’s Birthday.
It is said that Sir Charles Russell got
10,000 guineas as counsel for Parnell.
Judge Macdonald, of N.Z,, won a big
Sheffield Handicap in his young days.
Two Brisbane clergymen are seen at one
or other of the local theatres every Saturday
night. J
Sydney badly wants an efficient coroner.
What a gorgeous coroner is spoilt in Judge Win-
deyer I
By a typographical error a Sydney news-
paper recently styled the Colonial Treasurer
“ Mr. Milkpan,”
A Greek named Judas Iscariot has been
arrested in New York for peddling ginger-bread
without a license.
English papers say that Bishop Moorhouse
is not so successful, episcopally, in England as he
was in the colonies.
Wilkie Collins considers Walter Scott the
greatest of novelists and “The Antiquary ” the
most perfect of novels.
The father cf Mr. -E, Fosbery, N.S.W.
Inspector-General of Police, was shot dead from
behind a hedge in Ireland in the old wild days.
Until the death of John Bright hardly
anybody knew that by an Act of Parliament only
baptised persons can be buried in Westminster
Abbey.
Barnum is spending £5OOO on a bronze
statue of himself. A brass statue would have
been more in accordance with the eternal fitness
of things.
One of the Rothschilds lost three millions
over the pqllapse of the Copper Ring, but he has
seven millions left with which to keep the wolf
from the door.
The Smiths will [have to look to their
laurels. At a Botany banquet, the other day, no
less than five Fairfaxes rose to respond to the toast
of the “Press,"
The representatives of the Salvation Army
took precedence of the representatives of the
Church of England in the procession which wel-
comed Governor Norman.
Sir James M*Bain, who was one of the
first to subscribe to the testimonial to Mr. W. K.
Thomson, of Melbourne, was once employed by
Mr. Thomson as a drayman.
Fergus Hume is writing a sequel to
“Madame Midas,” which he calls “Madame
Mephiatopheles.” He is dramatising his last work
—“The Girl from Malta "—himself.
The new “ head ” of the Gladstone family
is Sir John Robert Gladstone, a soldier, a Conser-
vative like his father, and a member of the Carlton
Club. He is not yet 37 years of age.
Strangely enough Delane, the Times’ great
editor, was born with the patronymic Delaney,
and the grandfather of Bookie, the present editor,
signed himself Buckley. Both were of Irish blood. -
Captain Kane,, of the Calliope,- is one of'
the youngest captains on the Australian station,
and one of those who only a few years'ago were
sneeringly called “Patents," or training-ship'
caaeus.
The late Peter Lalor came of fighting
stock. A cousin of his is a field-marshal of Spain.
Two other cousins were killed duriilg the Ameri-
can war, one fighting for the North and the other r
for the South.
The son of the King of Holland had a 1
option of his father’s commercial qualities.
My father, remarked the Prince of Orange,
would make hair grow on an egg if there was a
demand for hair in the market.”
Sir Henry Norman succeeded the late Si*
Anthony Musgrave as Governor of Jamaica, and
now sncceeds him as Governor of Queensland.
Sir Henry is quite willing to end at this point the 1
practice of following Sir Anthony.
Parliamentary duties are aald to stand In *
the way of the legal fraternity as regards money-
making. In this connection it may be observed ‘
that Mr. R E. O’Connor’s income has more than 1
doubled since Parkes made him an M.L.O.
The Sultan of Turkey is In constant dread ’
of assassination, and when he attends mosque he 1
has a whole army corps to guard him, and sits -
well back in his closed carriage guarded from ■
bullets on either side by a fat aide-de-camp.
The Queen has been strongly criticised In 5
England for refusing to receive the Yankee
Duchess of Marlborough. After all. that gilded
dame is not much to be pitied. She knew the
duke’s mean life history, and took him with all
faults.
Groom, while Speaker of Queensland
Parliament, sent his paper, the Toowoomba
Chronicle, sketches of the proceedings in the
House. The present Speaker, Norton, is also a
journalist and writes political leaders for the
Courier,
Mr. Harold W, H. Stephen, member for
the Monaro (N S W.), is not, as slated in a Syd-
ney weekly, a native o! South Australia. He was
born in Cornwall, England. Mr. George Stephen
is the only member of the family who was born in 1
South Australia,
Mr. John Harris, Sydney’s popular Mayor,
when first elected to the civic position the year
before last, boasted he had never been 40 miles
beyond the Town Hall clock. Since then he has
strayed pretty well everywhere and does not feel
any worse for the change in his career.
Rill way Commissioner Fehon Is held to’
be the most inveterate punster in N.S. Wales.
While in business in Melbourne he was strict with
hia men and fined them sharply for neglects and
unpunotuadlies. Often, however, they writhed
more under his puns than his punishments.
Mr. Julian Salomons, Q. 0., left Sydney
in September for a tour through India. He pro-
ceeded to Palestine, visited Constantinople and
various continental capitals, and wound up with
Paris and London. Last week he reached Mel-
bourne per Massilia. Salomons, Q. 0., can’t have
seen much of any of the countries he travelled


The English People’s William
la the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
Packed Only by
JAMES INGBIS & CO.,
\ and 6 Dean’s Place,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The most powerful labour organisation In
America now, is a society called The Federation of
Labour. It is holding demonstrations this month
in favour of an Eight Hours’ law, and proposes,
unless the employers agree to the recognition of eight
hours as the legal day’s work to call out 750,000
workmen.
“My Tailor,” 154 King Street, Nswtown. Don't forget
tilm. Suite to measure for £3 3e.
John M'Ewan & Co,,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Streetj Melbourne.
45 page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &o.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List of Businesses for Sate issued Daily,
All lists posted Free on application.
through. Looking at a country under such cir-
cumstances must have been like looking at a brief
to see how much was marked on it.
That queer publication, Zadkiel’s Al-
manac (for 1889), has the following, which is bear-
ing on the Duke of Edinburgh’s illness " Our
Sailor Prince will be troubled by Saturn’s
stationary position. . . . He will do well to
avoid staying in unhealthy places where fever
lurks.”
The Pall Mall Gazette, quoting Sir
Henry Parkes’ * 1 pome ” from a recent number of
the Centennial Magazine, says: “New South
Wales does not appear to admire its Premier as a
poet. In defence of his muse, however, it may be
said that, well into the seventies as he is, Sir
Henry has a wife 40 years his junior.”
In a letter written shortly before he died
Bishop Ullathorne said :—“ What an extra-
ordinary thing that the Archbishop of Sydney is
to be made a Cardinal 1 When I look back to the
year 1832, when I had to struggle with the de-
mands of that vast continent, and now I see a
great hierarchy and a Cardinal at their head, I
am amazed and feel as if I were a piece of anti-
quity in modern times.”
It is estimated that the Prince and Prin-
cess of Wales are prayed for in 50,000 Anglican
churches every Sunday. Yet, horrible to relate,
all this vast amount of sacerdotal genuflection is a
clear waste of energy, and might as well be ex-
pended on John Haynes or Joe Symes, for we
read that the future King and Queen entertain
their friends at Sunday dinners, with a quiet baud
of poker or something afterwards.
Milan, ex-King of Ssrvla, was in constant
dread of assassination. He slept in a room with
double doors, iron- cased, which he locked himself
and bolted from the inside. A powerful mastiff
slept at the foot of his bed, and be kept a loaded
revolver on the table. There was no chimney-
pi ice in the room, lest dynamite should be dropped
down it; and no coal was burned in any room
which he occupied, because he once saw a mur-
derous engine which looked outwardly like a lump
of coal.
Emperor William and Prince Bismarck
wired their congratulations to the President of
the French Republic on his escape from the
murderous attack of a lunatic who, as it happened,
fired upon him with blank cartridge. This re-
minds us of the last attempt upon the Queen’s
life, also made by a lunatic armed with a pistol.
As a song of the period explained—
“ He quite forgot to cock it,
And when they took him up they found
The trigger in his pook-et.
Homely cld “ Oaida,” the novelist, la
more vain of her person than her intellect. The
person who would win her good graces should ad-
mire her delicate little feet, or make a flattering
remark upon her tasteful dress, rather than a
favourable criticism of her books. She affects to
despise literary society, and only to care for that
of la haute noblesse. Indeed, there is a story of
her on record that when a lady invited her to meet
some distinguished men and women of letters, she
ooked round the room and remarked, “Are there
no duchesses here ?”
Miss Hylands, an Immensely wealthy
English woman, died the other day, leaving the
bulk of her property to a man whom she had
never seen, and who had never sren her—an
accountant in Birmingham. When she was young
she fell in love with a man whom her family would
not permit her to marry, as they considered him
to be her inferior in social rank. The lovers
separated ; the Earl of Warwick sought her hand,
but she refused him and remained single till her
death. Her lover married another, and the for-
tunate legatee under her will is the son of that
marriage,
Mr, W. H. Suttor, the new vice-president
of the Executive Council of N.S.W., is a
native of the colony and has held ministerial
office in former Governments. He is an amateur
journalist and author of the somewhat laboured
narratives which have appeared in Sydney D.T.
under the ancient heading “ Old Stories Retold.”
One merit about Mr. Butter’s journalism is that
being so disgustingly rich he can afford to give
the proceeds of his journalistic labours to charity.
Mr. Suttor’s grandfather came out a free immi-
grant in the very early days, and was the friend
of Governor Bligh, on whose behalf he went to
England to give evidence.
The Pope is a good chess-player, and when
be isn’t dashing off an encyclical or letting loose a
bull on somebody, or making someone a Knight of
St. Gregory, he is generally enjoying a quiet
game with Father Giella. When Cardinal Pecci
was raised to the Papal Throne, Father Giella,
who was then in Florence, got an invitation to
proceed to Rome and take up his quarters in the
Vatican. Giella is hot-tempered, and has been
known to look very black indeed at the Vicar of
Christ across his chessboard. The Pope takes
Giella’a temper good-naturedly, and often im-
proves the occasion by a little homily on the
virtues of resignation and meekness.
Amongst the letters of condolence which
the Emperor of Austria received on the death of
bis son was one signed “ The Mother of Ober-
dank.” In 1882 Oberdank was arrested for haying
a shell in his possession when the Emperor visited
Trieste. He was tried and condemned to death.
His mother sent an appeal to the Emperor for his
pardon. So did Victor Hugo. His Majesty
refused the pardon and Oberdank was executed.
“ Unhappy father,” says the mother, in her letter
to the Emperor, “ I regret that on account of the
tragic death of your only' son you are compelled to
feel the same pangs that I, a poor abandoned
mother, felt on the morning of the 20th of De-
cember, 1882.” What sweet revenge !
The new bishop (Montgomery) of Tas-
mania, though without literary attainments, is
said to be more hardworking and sincere than the
ordinary run of Anglican prelates. One of his
methods, we read, for getting hold of young men
has been to ascertain their names and addresses,
and to write to them individually, not a merely
formal invitation to attend the service specified,
but a letter, in letter style, and every one worded
differently ; so that when the recipients compared
the epistles they would note the difference, and
might say, as Mr. Montgomery put it: “ Well, if
this chap takes the trouble to write two or three
hundred letters, and bothers his brain to say
something fresh in every one of them, he’s at least
worth going to look at.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Francis Abigail’s friends urge him to fight
for the N.S.W. Premiership.
** *»> £i»o * *.
flooded Chows of the Hoang*ho.
| a again rumoured that Parkes has his
the N S. W. Agent-Generalship.
* , , _ , , , & , ~
Rhode Island has passed a bill making the
manufacture of liquor in that State “a common
nuisanco>
To be slated by Diwvld In the N.S.W.
Legislative Council is now called “ undergoing
Buchananisation.”
It la stated that Mr. Donald Carbine
Wll . . , .. **■_ Wr „„„.- a
Wallace intends going for the late Mr Francis
Ormond’s seat in the Victorian Legislative
Council.
Sir Samuel Grlffitb? who once controlled
Brisb “ e has. 11. h.said, «ld Ms
is worth chronicling only bee* w
Telegraph has recently attempted to sit on
MORAL SUASION!
Selector (the only man on the jury who wants an acquittal): “Sure, yz
wun’t send a pore man to jail for a palthry sheep.”
FOREMAN OF JURY (a squatter) “See here, O’Hooligan, if you think the
rest of us are going to be kept here all night for you your d- bly
mistaken. Put up your props. Its you or I for it.”
Selector: “Sure, it’s jokin’ yez are; sure I’m of the same opinion as
the rest of ye.”
the working man, and the withdrawal of Griffith
means that that is bad policy,
The turn taken by the now celebrated
Taranganba mining case has greatly annoyed the
N S.W. Foreign-trade p»rty, who had reckoned
on being able by means of it to politically slay
Messrs. Dibbs and Fletcher.
It la a rule of the Sydney Daily Telegraph
that no member of Parliament shall hold a seat on
the board of directors. The reasonableness of this
rule has lately been made apparent by the con-
duct of another Sydney journal.
Beuber only considered lb worth while to
cable to England the names of two of the defeated
candidates at the late Victorian election, viz.,
Bosisto and Gaunson. The “ Honourable Jos’s ”
defeat caused a good deal of surprise amongst
Anglo-Australians.
The favourite derogatory personality In
the Queensland Parliament, and one the Speaker
has not so far ruled out of order, takes this shape :
“ The member for ” —whatever the place is—“ but
whom I will not call the honourable member.”
M‘l I wraith is the father of the jibe.
Teeboballsm is spreading in Queensland.
Already 50 districts have pronounced against any
public-houses existing within their boundaries.
Local Option passed in the Parliament there with-
out a division. Ipswich, which once lived in a
continual stagger, has now only 17 public-houses
for 9000 people.
It is Insinuated that the enthusiastic con-
currence of certain leading members of the N.S.W.
Opposition in the purchase of Darling Island by the
Government is not altogether unconnected with
the fact that the members aforesaid are heavy
shareholders in the Metropolitan Coal Co,, on
whose business inestimable benefits would be
conferred by the carrying cut of the proposed
purchase.
In the N.S.W. Asaembly the other day
Mr. H. Stephen moved that clubs where liquor
was sold should be required to pay a public-house
licence and run under public house regulations,
but his suggestion was respectfully dropped into
the waste-paper basket. The Calico Jimmy is not
going to have restrictions put upon his liquor, and
the idea of making a hog of himself under Govern-
ment supervision is abhorrent to his soul.
John Davies, the rejected legislator whom
Parkes promoted to the N S.W. Upper House, is
in hot water once more. The Commissioners who
have been sitting on him are under the impression
that certain Government cheques which came into
his hands as Chairman of the Casual Labour Board
somehow walked into his private bank-account
instead of into the Treasury, and they want to
know, you know, to some extent, and are desirous
of finding out what it means.
At Char bars Towers (Q.) recently, an ex-
Mayor and howling Orangeman stated publicly
that he would discharge any dashed son of toil in
his employ who didn’t vote the way he wanted
him to. The managing director of a mine run by
an English syndicate at the Towers is evidently of
the same way of thinking, for he suddenly ejected
sundry employees who voted the ticket he didn’t
want them to, and now the Charters Towers toiler
is beginning to doubt whether Queensland is quite
so democratic as it looks on paper.
There la a story being whispered round
down South, in re an unsuccessful candidate who
put up for Parliament in a way-back electorate at
the late Victorian election. During the campaign
this gentleman never missed an opportunity of in-
sinuating that one of the candidates seeking
the suffrages of the intelligent and penetrating
voters of that electorate had served five years in a
N.S.W. gaol for fraudulent insolvency, bub
sequent investigation has proved the truth of his
reflections—he himself was the man.
Amongst the Chinese the hereditary prin-
ciple has only a limited force. The son of a noble
is of less rank than his father, as, for instance, the
son of a duke, on the death of his father, does
not become a duke but merely a marquis ; the son
of a simple lord is merely a commoner ; the son
of a O.M.G. is merely a J.P. In process of time
the natural tendency is that noble families will lose
their rank entirely unless the leading member
shows sufficient valour, or wisdom, or public virtue
in some way to be elevated to a title of honour on
his own account. Degenerate families, therefore,
sink into the general mass of the people in a few
generations ; whereas those in which public virtue
is hereditary continue to maintain their rank by a
process of fresh creations.
Sir Charles Dilke, who, despite all, may be
the British Radical leader of the future, says that
England will have to follow Australia m the
matters of manhood suffrage, religious equality,
free schools, payment of members, and the eight-
hour system; that she will yet have to adopt the
NiZ. property-tax and the South Australian liquor
laws, and many other reforms which have hitherto
been scouted by the crusted legislators of the old
monarchy. This is rough on Parkes. Parkes
obj acts to payment of members and a lot of other
reforms because they do not prevail in Hingland,
and his one great inspiration is to follow the dear
old mother-land.; and now Dilke, who is as tar
ahead of the great Hi Ham as a statesman can
well be ahead of a frog-poet, says that England is
really behind, and Parkes in following her is
plodding backwards.
John Bright and his co-labourers did not
abolish starvation; they only shifted its area.
Pauperism has not diminished. In 1811, on a
population in England and Wales of less than 16|
millions, the poor-rate amounted to less than seven
millions sterling; in 1884, on a population of
nearly 27 millions, the levy for poor rate was oyer
llj millions sterling. In 1844 paupers cost Gs. Ofd,
per h?ad of the population, and in 1884 Gs. 3|f.
per head of the population. It remains, one year
with another, just about the same as it was five-
and-forty years ago.
The site of the new Sydney Central Police
Court was for many years in the possession of the
Wilshire family, it having baen Crown granted to
the grandfather of the present member for Can-
terbury so far back as 1804.
Jinks (at a party) : “I don’t see what’s
the matter with that pretty woman over there.
She was awfully flirty a little while ago, and now
she won’t have anything to do with me.”
Stranger : “ I have just come in, She’s my wife.”
—Exchange.
The ball which was fixed to take place at
New York on April 29, to celebrate the centenary
of Washington’s inauguration as President, pro-
mised to be the biggest shivoo on record. The
temporary supper-room was a quarter of a mile
long, and invitations had been issued to 10,000
persons. It was arranged that the first dance
should be a quadrille of 32 couples who should be
direct descendants of persons who were at Wash-
ington’s inauguration ball 100 years before.
List to the drivel of Wilablra, leader of the
Law and Order Party in N.S.W. Parliament: —
We all remember the old Central Police Court in
George-street, and lam sure I am only uttering the sen-
timents of hon. members in saying that it is now a thing
of the past.
Now for a few parallels for the purpose of making
Mr. Wilshire wish that he never had been born
We all know that this is the ocean, and I am sure I am
only uttering the ssntiments of hon. members in saying
it is salt.
Or :
We all remember old Sir Henry Parkes, and I am sura I
have the moral support of the House in saying that he
was married recently.
Oh, lor !
Deak Bulletin, —The mild tyranny of Tur-
key pales before the absolute sway wielded by the
big authorities at Melbourne over their sub-officers
and constables. The superintendents and com-
missioners swell round at big dinners and prao],
tically own the place, and when a diffident,
half frightened request comes from an unlucky
devil of a private in the force to be allowed to die
and attend his own funeral the grand bosses read
through fifteen books of regulations, and finally
announce that dying is against the rules of the
fores and calculated to bring the service into dis-
repute. The Victorian police had a big struggle
before they secured their enfranchisement, and
the struggle was more between the superinten-
dents and the general force than between
the force and the Legislature and public.
At last it was secured, but one sergeant, a
gentleman of education and attainment), had
made himself too conspicuous in the affair
and his superiors decided to shift the trouble-
some officer into a division where he would
be unable to make any noise. The injustice of
this is contained in the fact that the change.
means a difference to the bad of £2O a year. As
illustrating the truth of the foregoing an incident
of the debate on the Police Enfranchisement Bill
may be cited. The democratic Chief Secretary
Deakin, in opposing the measure, said that the
Chief Commissioner of Police did not support the
Bill in any way—and then he sat down perfectly
satisfied that this piece of impudence had settled
the discussion for ever. But an offensive member
arose up and said it was immaterial to the House
whether the grand boss liked it or not, and in the
result the Bill was passed—and our particular
police sergeant was fired out into a little suburb
to run in drunks and charge dogs with disorderly
behaviour. Now for another part of our denun-
ciation, One of the Victorian police-regnlations
is that every member of the force intending to
marry shall give notice of that intention to the
superintendent of his district and the instructions
to this secondary magnate are as follows :
Rag. 84. Before permitting the marriage of any mem-
ber of the force he is to satisfy himself that the connec-
tion is not suoh as to bring discredit on the force.
This law is sufficiently harsh, but the administra-
tion of it is undoubtedly worse. Unless a con-
stable is on good terms (which too often means
being a groveller) with his district grand superior
he cannot marry without giving the name and ad-
dress of his intended wife and allowing her
character to be inquired into—by another police-
man of some sort or other 1 But the rule works
variously and does not keep the force above
criticism, as the following will evidence Three
years ago, in a Victorian court, the wile of an
officer above the grade of an ordinary constable
summoned her husband for assault. In cross-
examining her at the trial the officer asked her if
she was not a prostitute when he married her, and
whether he did not do so to save her from being
sent to gaol for fowl-stealing? And the state-
ment was true. The last half of the sentence
shows that, as of old, it is possible to escape
punishment by marrying your accuser. Now this
man who was low enough and mean enough to
ask such questions of a woman who bore his
name is the kind of man who usually stands in
goqd odour with the superintendents and is em-
ployed by them to make inquiries into the morals
and antecedents of virtuous respectable young
women, the promised wives of respectable men!
Oases have occurred where persons of the latter
description have been prevented from marrying
because a deputy grand boss chose to frown on
the idea. The last fad of the grand bosses is
this. A register is kept in the superintendent’s
office in which are entered all the children of the
married men. Alterations are made as occasion
requires. The register is distinctly kept for the
entries of the births of children of married men
only.—X 372.


i‘
I
Pod’
0 R "
7%t uwy Pi
/ /
\rjau) cfatfil/e. (jusy
cl}} cfc ty ~~
Mrfoasfayree qJ tfjixti
Cocky Suoys - "/Surra f>' /s's
6*)'/) /ake /bcc6//c u/Zerp/zop acJ<xy /'^ r P /
Ppa //ope. O.C Gpy reife —
Kocu ct of Ipcycc/y _
7'CcTfer C r~oo/recL
TositiS&ty
"-'3 fo/* ecX^
//~ctoej /oo^r-a/fiey- . />. x •
's*s!T footed. r<r*? '<
p
• ' b r<i L^
Mixed Metaphor.


Lord Carrington, who, on risbg to respond'
met Jwlth .a .tremendous ovation, said
. . ........ He*thanked them for the
far too kind manner in which the toast had
been proposed and received. He Whs pleased
to bo amongst such » magnificent gathK-;
lag, and the grand , IjniSh,. h? JBhsons
they had lacm that evening
VraS 'the class of which it was
his boast aifd pride that his own family had
descended. (Cheers.) He alluded to the in-
diutrial classes. (Prolonged applauie.)
yyorr //■ Ae//?ye/.-
Tre/rje-Zy aZy e y/Cu/Z'
for Zfiz n?/yc£ Zo~
//yccy/ye. rtfjy °f ■
e sty/^y\
//y any
clc&a/ mr/c
Our yas
o/reccoy t ■/
y/cZurC Jets/- 1
TtZ 7/y fou>
/f/6 /orcSsf/6 i
6.yo&eZcC /oofz t \
efety C&rfyfp<^
7& &**
/p a/°p.
a
r USfll-oj!/ 0
7 U
i cow;' f* o
&
'f . Ct)* ir J«y
r h'H/ V
te 6
Ayif ®* , r *
Y D/slI K /
f
'WiljV
FiHtJireti
p
TRy jv
\AU6TfIALIHN >
L Aa nr-tr*
\ <»? /j. Stall . ... .
y&f'PPS*/? y jfusr/t/UM
Loitpoif, May 12.—Kr. PeppeK of Brisbane,
who is at present suiting England has delivered a
Stouten hii t-Bidtiial tofibt; ifi ishieh he contradicted
the statement made a few days ago at a meeting
of the Congregational Union by Mr. Henry Lee,
that there is a tendency amongst Australians in
favor of separation from the Empire.” Mr. Pep-
per declared -that though such a feehpgmiglu.
exist amongst a section of the Australian com-
munity it was not shared by the majority of tno
colonists.
p
■ J
ah I
/yptrpA/jr)
pAe ySr yye}*? 6 '-
''fy/sser cJas fp
fu.c/p Cc/Sf: I
Cay/~ f'
\cjcL ~cc -y, CL, p oz
</o-6ers / CapT
yA/?a~a -P& *1
'afafo.n'-
ne.h:fo/fy *ult-
ure.cC Bc^aA
/y& s sf* .
/QccpJ•&.}'&. 9 dus!
o/f f> <S JA U rjf*reise h
2>£Pl'TAtJoa/S - Tie My/sfcj-fri-
P-ete/r&ci a- ctv/iiLTaTioQ o/ y,
//irs*clas'fa,crd7 s ?
f/jijTe /■ y> y-o ry rs c cC~7o £>pf/pC[ /?? &-
n/C'-fy'cr Ae/of-e '/'iXt-fia. -
y? de/,u./a./*9 S y- jfc j. A &,^, c Sc^t/e/
7>eaj*rer **r>9S &■*•&■“£ ' **#'•■
Jfr/r«"s-. S/rer 2>****9 T'.™-
oCoof- TyaJ^f*’
’ four- >fours, Zfe
/ Tre-ct-sur-er ots-
/ Sr-e.cc /fern
Cjou tot
SG e y /fe. y
fn~jt
Things In General.


QRESOENT BREWING 00.’S
“AURORA”
PILSHWSJB BEIHJR.
F. B. WHEELER & 00.,
266 Claebncb Strbbt,
SYDNEY.
IV.H. PALING & Co., Ltd., 356 George Street, Sydney,
TTAVE just opened a magnificent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEINWAY, EBARD, UEBEL, PENRIOH, LIPP, RONISOH, BLUTHNRR
OOLLARD and other* ; also of the wonderful VICTOR piano* at £45, and BSTEY ORGANS, No soon variety or value elsewhere fob oash ob terms.
Society
According to advertisement of Santley’s
first appearance in Melbourne —
“ His Excellency the Acting Governor, Sir
W. F. 0. Robinson, K 0 M.G., and Suite
Have Oraciously Intimated their
Intention of Being Present.”
Having somewhat recovered from the shock we
now take our little lute—
The other day, at the laying of the founda-
tion-stone of a church, or the opening of a bazaar,
or at a meeting of the Young Women’s Christian
Association, or at a church synod meeting or
something, an old lady who is always very direct
in her style saw a male face that she thought she
knew and bowed to its possessor. The male
returned her bow in a most gracious manner,
whereupon the old lady went up to him and held
out her hand, which he took and squeezed up to
the point to which a fellow is supposed to squeeze
an old lady’s hand And then the old lady frankly
remarked : “I’m shaking hands with you because
I’m sure I know you very well indeed ; but I must
be so rude as to confess that at the present moment
I really forget your name and where we met.”
Then the gentleman smiled pleasantly, and said,
in his off hand style : “ I know your face very well
too, although I am sorry to say that I really don’t
happen to remember your name just now My
name is—well, I’m the Governor 1” Whereupon
the old lady nearly fainted The moral of this
story is not, as many people (many people are
snobs) will at first imagine—that it is a
very dreadful thing to address by mistake
and proceed to shake hands with a lord
who happens to be a Governor. The moral is
that there is nothing like advertising. Governor
Oarington’s face is known because it’s well adver-
tised in the shop-windows, and in the newspapers,
and at Government House, and at the races, and
at the Young Women’s Association, and at fare-
well meetings to bishops, and at bazaars—and so
on. and thus it was that it became familiar to the old
lady. If the old lady’s face was really known to
Lord Carington, it was probably because she was
well advertised in the tea room at Government
House, Part of the moral also is that you can’t
advertise too much, for well known as is His Ex-
cellency the old lady wouldn’t have made such a
blunder if he had bean still better advertised—if,
for instance, somebody had been holding under her
nose at the moment a striking photograph of him
labelled in big letters, “This is Lord Carington,
Governor of N.S Wales, and don’t you forget it.”
Which little tin-pot reflections directly lead up to
the remark that The Bulletin's History of
Botany Bay is the most successtul shilling bock
ever lisued south of theßqi ator, and that The Bul-
letin, which in January next win have been estab-
lished ten years, is the best paper to advertise in,
inasmuch as it is the most widely-circulated pub-
lication produced > on the Australian continent.
[Advertisements in this style written for ten
guineas each. ]
• * *
The sliver kings of Broken Hill are a race
of frozen out monarchs now that the boom has
perished and the speculators have fled One of
them is a book-fiend in Sydney in these degenerate
days ; he was a lofoy potentate in his time, and
now in his degradation he haunts the goat-infested
plains of Alexandria and Botany and endeavours
to trade off on unsuspecting women who»e hus-
bands are out “ Bigphool’s History of Influenza
in Greece” in 11 volumes, and “Todger’s Scrip-
tural Back View ot Abimelech.” Another is a
bailiff and removes the furniture of the lons
widder who is behind with her rent. A third
makes a precarious living by prosecuting the life!
assurance industry and puts through the man with
one lung, and the warped cripple, and the bow-
legged drunkard as first-class lives for the benefit
of the “Mutual Biled Owl Association, Limited.”
His partner, another great man fallen into dust,
is an auctioneer’s clerk at a low salary paid occa-
sionally, and one more of ihe great fraternity
bottles beer in Melbourne for a hard-hearted
monopolist in a leaky shed. Verily the glory has
departed from Israel, and there is a voice in the
land of Aaron wailing for his monish and refusing
to be comforted,
* * *
A man bad his ear eaten off by a fellow
prisoner in the Melbourne City look up the other
night. He is a married man, however, and believes
that man wants but little ear below nor wants that
little long.
* * •
The E irl of Klntore has commenced hta
reign in South Australia in a moat niggardly man-
ner. At his first reception not a particle of re-
A DUE AM OF A BANANA-SKIN.
freshment was offered to his visitors, not even a
cup of tea When the most miserly of all the
Victorian Governors—Sir Charles Hotham, “ Old
Q sarter-deok,” as he was called—gave receptions
in the early fifties, he provided at least colonial
beer for his guests. One lady, the wife of a more
than once Mayor of Melbourne, assured his Ex-
cellency that if there was one thing more than
another that she liked when she was ’ot it was a
gcol swig of colonial beer.
* • •
A tender and touching romance which
should be illustrated with pictures of ten-foot
females leaning up against Counts and Earls nine-
teen hands high, and hung up for general edifica-
tion ia the columns of the Young Ladies’
Journal, had its inception in Melbourne Oioy
lock-up a short time back, when a bottle-marked
fragment of a broken British family in exploded
boots and a ghastly hat found himself stranded on
the high road to ruin and a drunkard’s grave
ornamented with jam tins, in cell No. 14, first
turning to the lelt. This beery and blighted
remnant with a red nose hiccupped his ears loose,
and then changed the subject by directing
amorous remarks and protestations of undying
fealty through the keyhole to cell No. 7, which, as
our readers may have observed, is directly oppo-
site, over the corridor. Cell No 7 was just then
in possession of an airy and frivolous young
female whose name was sometimes Lotty,
but mostly Totty, and who was temporarily
detained for reasons connected with beer.
This young lady’s heart responded to the
throbs of the bunged-up outcast over the way, and
an exchange of evidence revealed the fact that
those two incarcerated souls with but a single
thought and hearts that thumped as one had been
playmates in childhood, and had wandered the
green lands of England hand in hand, gathering
cowslips, and wasps, and hornets, and other
pointed things, and had spooned behind the old
school-house on the bill and been spanked in the
same paddock for stealing Farmer Brown’s
cucumbers and onions, and they embraced each
other as far as the key-holes would permit and
wept with mutual profusion • and the over-
balanced swell agree! to pay Totty’s fine when
occasion came and then marry her for the sake of
old times. The crippled aristocrat with the dis-
coloured nose and the bad hat duly discharged the
fines and led the love of his childhood to the altar,
where they were united by an auctioneer who is a
clergyman when not engaged putting up second-
hand furniture and knocking it down again. Here
endeth the reading of the first chapter.
• * t
Chapter 2 opens with the reappearance of
the reduced Briton and the lady who was spanked
by his side in the school-house on the hill before
the City Bench in Melbourne last week, after a
few days of connubial fury, and the Briton of
ancient lineage and broken clothes looked more
distracted than of yore, and appeared heavier
about the head, and his boots had yielded some
more to internal pressure, and his pants had made
further concessions to the demands of time ; and
the lady seemed tumbled and overcome, and she
leered facetiously, and wore her hat end on. The
pair were charged with being fouid in a state of
drunkenness and disorder, fighting over a great
range of country, and raising dust and wild crus
contrary to law, and found guilty. Toe scion of
an old landed family, who had made several
remarks expressive of cultured disgust concluding
with “ haw ” during the progress of the examina-
tion, procured the price of his fine and took up his
tattered hat. He was requested in frenzied
accents to stay, and defray the expenses of the
bride of his bosom, but he uttered a snort of min-
gled pain and rage, and said he’d see the world go to
rack and ruin and the goddess of justice gibbering
on an ash-heap first. He reminded the Court that
he had liquidated that woman’s fine once, only to
be rewarded with contumely and married aggra-
vation, and he'd never pay her fine again—she
could get her to a nunnery ; and he plunged into
the fragments of a Paris hat and left hurriedly
for distant regions, whilst Tobty was led back to
No. 7.
* * •
Here the romance concludes with sorrow-
ful reflections on man’s inhumanity to woman and
the degradation of a dude of gentle birth who
refuses to recognise that the first duty of a bus
band is to pay his wife’s fine and any other law
costs she may contract through gazing on liquors
in their state of redness and hitting policemen
with bricks A collection will now be taken up
for the amelioration of the condition of high born
Brit: ns inhabiting wharf-boilers on a foreign shore.
- * *
Patient Man ; “Snppose a woman
it so hot for her husband that he can’t live with
her, and he leaves her, what can she do?” Lawyer-
“ Sue him for support.” Patient Man : “Suppose
she has run him so heavily into debt that he can’t
support her, because his creditors grab every
penny as quick as he can get it, besides ruining
his business with their writs?” Lawyer : “If for
any reason whatever he fail to pay her the, amount
ordered, he will be sent to gaol for contempt of
court. J Patient Man ; “Suppose she drives him
out of the house with a flat-iron, and he’s afraid to
go back ? ” Lawyer: “ She can arrest him for
desertion.” Patient Man: “Well, I don’t see
anything for me to do but go hang myself.”
Lawyer : “ It’s against the law to Commit suicide
and if you get caught attempting it you’ll be im-
prisoned and bound over. Ten-and-six please.
Good day. ’
» • •
There ia a woman In France eight feet
four inches in height. “ Heavens ! Whai a
low dress she could wear ! ”
Next door io a swell
Australian club was a
neatly - appointed little
refreshment - shop, the
presiding priestess of
which was a charming
girl, sufficiently innocent
and yet sufficiently know-
ing to establish herself as
a reigning favourite
with the old fogies of
the club. One of the
most devoted admirers
was a well-known club-
man considerably more
than seven years old,
who spent hours leaning
over the counter whis-
pering sentimental rot
into the Hebe’s ear and
ruining his digestion
with iced drinks, the
necessary toll for dal-
liance. At last one day
the girl took a favourite
customer into her confi-
dence. “ Such a lark S”
she commenced with a
Reggie; “ you known old
° omea here a lot?
W ell, he s my uncle, my
mothers brother, but he
doesnt know it. And
he makes love to me
and wants me to fly
with him and all that
sort of thing, and I keep
ffiddmg him on.” Old
X. doesn’t know it yet,
but when he reads his
Bulletin he’ll swear he
knew it all the time, and
that his interest in the
girl at the fruit-shop was
purely avuncular.
* • •
There Is a huge
building of half-a score of
storeys going up in Mel-
bourne for Sands and
M‘Dougall. A workman
slipped on a top round
of scaffolding and fell
down some 75 feet, strik-
ing successively against
the iron girder of each
storey. The poor fellow
was smashed to an Even-
ing News jelly by the
time he reached the
ground floor. A reporter
from an evening “ blood-
sprinkler ” sympatheti-
cally remarked to the
mate who was working
beside the unfortunate
man when he fell: “It
must have been a very
horrible sight.” “Oh! I
dunno,” was the reply ;
“he was insured for a
hundred pun’.”
* • *
Henry George says
that when an American
woman is presented at
Court she spends just
double the amount on
dress that an English-
woman usually spends.
Apryos of the “Herl,” a dally paper
remarks :-“Oa reaching the capital, almost his
first official act will be to fix the date for the exe-
cution of the Maori who murdered the Book family
near Gisborne.” HowEoglish! *
■ • •
A man on board the Arcadia writes an
Interesting letter from Colombo. He has had for
Mlow passengers Governor Loch, Joe Thompson,
and Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat— the ecclesias-
tic who kicked up such a terrible row about the
precedence of RO. prelates at the Centennial
banquet—and he tells a capital story about the
latter. Daring one stormy night, shortly before
SUITE AND GRACIOUS.
Who wrote this paragraph discreet,
Most cunning and sagacious,
To lay such stress upon the Suite,
Good gracious!
He knows that all the town’s Hite
With open mouths capacious
Will hurry up to see the Suite—
Good gracious !
The hall, we guess, will hardly seat
(Although the building’s spacious)
Those folks attracted by the Suite —
Good gracious!
It maketh many hearts to beat
In manner pertinacious,
The thought of being near the Suite-
Good gracious !
For lots of little girls could eat,
With appetite voracious,
Each member of the blessed Suite —
Good gracious !
Not e’er a slice of butcher’s meat,
No food that's farinaceous,
Would seem so toothsome as the Suite—
Good gracious!
Their costume is so fresh and neat,
Their manner so vivacious,
Those gilded mashers of the Suite —
Good gracious !
Old Santley still may warble sweet
(Though rumour’s oft fallacious)
Yet he can’t draw without the Suite—
Good gracious 1
Loud cheering may his efforts greet,
Or stony stares audacious)
What matters when they’ve got the Suite ?
Good gracious 1
And so this ad.) we now repeat,
Must be most efficacious,
No show’s complete without the Suite-
Good gracious !


T„ TO SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
KS SYU goUNT BANK,
Bsaumont Chambkbs, 90 Kxno Stbkkt
Agencies in !*>■>*>»
Overdrafts ,®X a S™tinl Easiness transacted.
°‘ ta,6,e “ ”
lor FIXED DEPOSITS .-
years
12 months
6 months
3 months
9i per cent.
8| per cent
71 p< r cent.
b| per cent.
For years a™
DENT, has been paid m aaamu
"onnmnmtatlon. from the °°»-W ”‘ U b »
promptly attended to.^
rrmuAunsoN. General
Dbt Impbbial Ciiampaonb.— Messrs. Moet and Chandoa
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL” 1884
vintage is the pure Juice of selected grapes from their own
vioevards of 2600 acres in the choicest districts in Frame.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
pm fINIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
JBBB, SKSS4 SSK HBMR SVfflilMM
PB S .11 .he COLON, .B ..d I. .he U».T.o Kmaoc.
reaching Colombo, Soapy Samuel heard some-
thing banging against the side of the ship, ]ust
outside the port hole. The noise being very dis-
agreeable to him he got out cf his sacerdotal bunt
to S3O what caused it. Outside the porahole he
found a thick iron wire hinging down into the
water with a metal knob at its end. He tried to
make it fast, but without success. At length he
hauled the whole thing through the port-hole into
hia cabin and placed the knob under his pillow.
Then he went to sleep as peacefully as bishops
who shear well their sheep usually do. On the
following morciog it was discover* d tpat whay he
had hauled into his cabin was tta ship's lightning-
conductor. As the night in question was a rather
stormy one, Chief-Shearer Thoraton must have
had a pretty narrow squeak. Old Melancthon
was killed by a stroke of lightning, and the
Greeks—who looked upon these visitations as an
especial favour of the gods—were fond of nar-
rating that the tombs both _ of Euripides ana
Lycurgus were struck by a similar brew of celes-
tial machinery.
* * *
Lord Kuutsford has notified that the
courtesy-title of “ honourable ” accorded to
colonial politicians under certain conditions can-
not be used iuteroolonlally or in Engl and. tie
says the rule will in the future be strictly en-
forced bub how is he going to enforce it i How
can he prevent the Anglo-Australian member of a
London club having a handle affixed to the ad-
dresses on his letters? The Bulletin knows a
large number of Australian " honoarables who,
if you did not call them “ honourable m Eng-
land, would get as mad as wet hens, and woo d
only invite you to breakfast instead of to dinner,
“The Honourable Jubilee Jntnbuck 1 says an
eye-glassed swell in front of the letter-rack at the
olub-“ dear me, I wonder what family he be-
longs to ! Is he one of the Leicestershire Jum-
bnoks ? ’ Of course nobody knows, at dso the
colonial honourable is, in the eyes of £ even eight
of the people he meets, honourable to the end or
his days. Considering that we have been reading
the English papers for a good many ye» rs >
that every time we look at a journal we fand L
name of a lord whom we had never heard of before,
and considering further that every lord has a
hyphenated family-name and one or more titles,
nobody can wonder at the swell wondering whether
the Hon. Jumbuok belongs to the Lei c ester shi
Jumbuoks. And so it will continue, Knutsforda
“ regulations ” rot) withstanding. If Jumbnck i
honourable, then his wife is the “Honourable
Mrs. Jumbuck ’’—and there you have it. une oi
the pair is sure to be a snob.
After all lb is not stiaage that when the
A K ’r. UAttorney comes for exposure-
turn of the piouai »» ' attorneys sooner or
and exposure comes y majority of
invariably found tea. & thor0 ughly
his victims sra wom .® V e ex t f rnals, atd the
feminine weakness to °y e: « ds to his
cunning lawyer who "8™ l * omeß within the
religious duties, and & L c( j man ”is sure to
description of being • ti ladies, who have
have a laige cftenieJe entirely on the
based their confident church twice a day and
fact that he goes to date in pursuit cf
occasionally h»mp» three-
ihs ..ootmomovu llh o oi, w , the Sydney
penny bit. t Lhadule of defalcations has
defaulter, whose d t^ege days it is hard to
just been printed. 1 pretty certain that
know whom to 3 ’ s honld be placed in the plate-
no special confidence sc aa to send his
wash-tub as any other
for . specie, which unite in
, hJtfjSST” ™‘»" "*• d6Vil “ p 10
You mu “k’o to church on Sunday with your pious
And'S attorney a hnmp’og round the
plate. m •
The Victorian h M2
up, in the so-called * \ui Q t Q r Exhibition of
bourne Public!£** B cod a £ d
paintings which ar g taking picture by
occasionally much mor ■ su bject the sweet
Tom Roberts— -having tor {to gtQund at the
fury of a solitary gi id ca t in the
dreadful goings-on of ° umed f e iler of the
background with t P dby a queer per-
neglectedonc is ojy expression meaning
speotive, or s °“®.^r e e L which makes it appear
Bomethmg qmbe difiere , w rivgl through a
r k * h .«a?s ciirS, vts;
o! the gold upon hia Masonic trappings, and by a
chain that might deceive a pawnbroker who
hadn’t “ the acid ” handy- Mr Walton who ex-
hibits a lifelike portrait of Mayor Benjamin,
should borrow Mr. Waite’s recipe for g 1 •
making, because the cable tint fangs around
the shoulders of the Town Hall magnate would
100 dear at a dollar. By the way, anybody
named Benjamin won t be very well pleased with
off-coloured gold. The ambitious character of
several works exhibited by 0. D. Richardson (juit
back frcm Europe) denotes that this young man
has a soul, and possibly a future, whereas many
artists have neither of these things. Ooeof two
clever pictures by G. R. Ashton, called “Toil and
Trouble,” is strong in conception and in
execution, barring a slovenly • drawn stooping
figure which makei no difference worth men-
tioning. The Toil is in the ruddy glow of a
foundry, and the Trouble is suggested on the face
of a man in the foreground who has turned his
back upon the fiery furnace that is slowly c n-
s,lining his life, only to remember, perhaps, that
things are quite as hot for him at home. Mrs.
Rowan sends beautiful studies of flowers, and a
bunch of grapes, painted on a panel by Miss Rita
Adderley, leek nice enough to eat. The fair artist
is reported to be equally enticing. The most
popular thing in the show seems to be ‘ 1 Down on
his Luck,” by E. M'Oubbin, priced at £lOO and
sold on the spot. The subject i* just a swagman
sitting on a log surrounded by a broad expanse of
badly-painted tush. It is essentially thin and
commonplace. Moreover the success of such a
picture is not calculated to elevate Australian art.
“Down on his Luck” pictures are but vulgar
snares to catch old identities who used to loaf
upon a log themselves before the sinful rise In the
price of their Melbourne allotments converted
them into distinguished colonists. Question ;
Would a picture of a man chained to a log find a
ready market? A number tf Mr. J. A, Turners
pale fawn and light brick-red coloured landscapes,
representing Nature in a washed and scraped oon-
di ion, with never a speck of dust upon her gracious
A TALE OF THE GOOD OLD TIMES.
Early tan Pioneer (who with her husband had been placed in charge of
anew station, reporting to the propnetor). "Oh Please, sir-boo-hoo!-
my husband’s been ate by the blacks—boo-hoo!"
Proprietor : “Ate by the blacks! Good Lord! And I sent up a ton of hour
only last week!”
face, adorn the Grosvenor Gallery walls, J. Mather
is characteristically represented, and out of the
whole show of 118 works in oil, or water colours,
there are but two calculated to bring on an attack
of colic. Here endeth this art notice. #
Mr. Percival Ball, of Grosvenor Chambers,
Melbourne, has sculped a noble effigy of William
Wallace, which will stand at the entrance to the
Gardens in Ballarat. The figure measures 7ft lin,
in height (that having been the a P oC * y£ ***
stature of the Chieftain before hu head was
chopped f ff) and leans lightly upon a sword to
match Wallace’s bare right arm is a masterpiece
of work, to which the blue veins in the marble add
a wonderful'y striking effect. The Scots wha
haven’t wi’ Wallace bled will worship this graven
image as long as it holds together, for it is without
doubt the host thing in statuary produced here for
many a long day. Mr. Ball’s commission was
£lOOO. He started operations upon an 8-ton
chunk of stone, and cbippel away 5| tons during
the past 12 months. The ha anca is William
Wallace and we raise our hat to the departed
warrior herewith. # ,
Which colonial commissioner did the (Jena-
darmes want to sling out of the Exhibition
while the poor man was putting on his kilt m a
retiring room? And, by the way, how came it
that Sir F. Dillon Bell, who subsequently spoke a
speech in French didn’t know enough of that
language to explain his exalted rank and cffi
poiition to ths gensdarmes who also wanted to
“chuck” him off the premises? This mystery
haunts u?. # #
Youn» Smith (who has no ushered courage
at last and called, determined to asoertain his
fate) : “And you will be my bride, deardear Miss
Nellie ?” Nellie : “ I will answer you, Mr. Smith,
when we are alone.” Young Smith : “ When we
Tre alonef Nellie: “Yes. Eject my young
brother. He is under the sofa. (The young
brother is ejected. Now. open that closet and
tell my sister, who is listening, politely but firmly,
to scoot. (The sister scoots ) Young ( Smith
(wiping the death damp from his brow): Now.
darling, the coast is dear Will you be mine .
Nellis : “ No !” Exchange.
Two weeks a£,o The Bulletin had some-
thing to fay about the irritating influence of music
upon professional musicians. In the meantime
Mr. Philip Plaisted, the well-known organist and
former conductor of the Melbourne Phdarmomc
Society, has, in a fit of insanity, murdered his
poor wife. As mad as a musician !
• • •
New home-made Ace obituary which
made its debut last Thursday
The Marquis of Qaeensberry is back again
at his old London haunts, and complains that the
American interviewers persisted in seeking his
views on Agnosticism, the GaLty Company, and
Larry Foley’s pupil, Black Jackson—a trio of
subjects which the “ Markiss ” confessed he was.
excepting the first, but little interested in. Pretty
Marion Hcod used to say when here that the
Marquis was a humbug. And she ought to know.
1 *
A phrenologist writing for Melbourne
Herald says the Australian girl is frank and
open. Yes—open for engagement.
• * *
When Governor Norman reached Keppel
Bay there was only the Rockhampton Town Clerk
to greet him. He (the T. 0.) was the bearer of a
despatch from the Mayor to His Excellency
apologising for the absence of himself and aider-
men, who would have gladly gone down to wel-
come him to those shores, but it being the Sab-
bath Day they dare not remain away from church
fearing to set a bad example to the inhabitants of
the godly city of Rockhampton. When EE.
read this, H.E cast up his orbs and taking Rock-
hampton’s distinguished-lookingT.O, for a common
mtsiengf r, gave him—a shilling.
* * *
Someone has gone to the trouble and ex-
pense of cabling out from London a cabalistic
conundrum filled with deep mystery like that
which hangs over the builders of the pyramids,
concerning a colonial commissioner tlm Pans
Exhibition who was found changing his kilts on
the premises. He had got out of one kilt and
hadn’t had time to get into another when the
French police burst in and ordered him to leave
suddenly, and finding himself a plain, undressed
male in a foreign land he cried for help with his
other kilt in his hand. Some English visitors
then rushed in, and found him making insane
struggles to enter his terse and abbreviated gar-
ment, and they held the fort until the unclothed
one had fled Into his suit. No attempt appears,
so far, to have been made to find out the reason
of this outrage on a man who hid just got out of
his own lawful kiit, and the object of the police in
seeking to turn an undressed commissioner into the
streets remains unexplained. Possibly it was
against the rules for an executive officer to he
found “mid noddings on” in the Exhibition;
but in that case it appears to the casual eye that
the ends of justice would have been sufficiently
served if they had remonstrated with the nude
person and flicked him with a wet dishcloth. If
this view of the matter had been gently placed
before him and allowed to soak in, as it were, it
would most likely have prevented him fiom
changing his kilt again on the premises, and he
would not have been so liable to catch in-
fluenza as if shut out from his attire and
forced to make for home just as he was. The
fact that he held out bo successfully proves that
the British race, even when it hasn’t got its clothes
on, is still a power in the land, but on the other
hand it appears that this once great nation is
getting to ha crowded up when it has to call for
help in order to get a chance to change its kilt,
and has got to undress in foreign exhibitions In
the days when the foundations of the British bbtte
were first laid our warlike fathers stayed at home
most of the time without clothes or toots on and
excited no comment, and even when they landed
on a foreign shore in a condition which need not
be more particularly described they always com-
manded respect and esteem. But their des-
cendants wield a great moral influence only when
fully dressed, and an executive commissioner,
when discovered without his kilt, can only main-
tain his ground against a foreign power that has
all its attire on by the most strenuous exertions.
Under these circumstances it is to be hoped that
the colonies will in future select as their foreign
representatives men who are not liable to be
found unexpectedly with nothing on, otherwise a
great political crisis may arise jii't when the com-
missioner has got out of his habiliments, and the
fata of this continent may he settled by unau-
thorised fully-dressed persons, while the duly
accredited agent is diving into his other suit. For
it must be admitted with regret that no undressed
person has risen to eminence or accomplished any
really great work during recent years, and the
men who have made history all w"re something,
more or less. In older days men who flew light in
the matter of boots and shirts accomplished great
deeds now and then, but those times are past, and
even for a naked commissioner or a monarch in a
bathing suit there is no room left on earth.
» » •
The mystery of hansom cabs in Sydney—
how they all get a living.
* * »
Oae of the most ludicrous printer’s errors
on record was recently made in the setting-up of a
chunk of obituary poetry. It ran thus :
“ Who took me from my childhood’s home,
And said he'd love me all alone,
And (or my sacrifice atone,
Wimble My husband.”
Now Wimble, the Sydney printers’ broker, wasn’t
the husband’s name at all. It was simply a “quad.”
put in wrong side up, and showing the maker's
name, which is usually stamped on the bottom of
the type.
* * *
A few months ago a short, fat parson In a
small reactionary township in Victoria, down near
the sea, strove to emulate Solomon in all his glory
and other historical cranks who are wise on paper
but were addicted to large batches of wives, and
wine, and song, and such “foolishness” when they
blossomed on the outer edge of this mundane
concern. The above parson had a parishioner
who grew hens and cultivated geese, and sowed
duck eggs and the seed of the domestic turkey
with the object of producing abundant crops of
table poultry for the Melbourne market; but, un-
fortunately, the produce of his fowl-farm rarely
reached that bourne from which pecuniary pro*
fits return. His chickens eloped at night,
his ducks mysteriously disappeared, and his
turkeys were carried off before their time.
At length the goose-breeder concluded that if he
went on conducting his chicken underbaking on
these lines he must eventually perish and go bung,
so he took into consideration the fact that the
people round about were pious in their generation
and given to prayer-meetings and Bible-classes,
and other devout dissipations, and waited on the
parson, and laid his case before that short, fat
tribunal, arguing that, as the party who inveigled
those poultry from his lawful control was. doubt-
less, a member of the Wesleyan Church, the
reverend might assist in uncovering his wicked-
ness and exposing him to the wrath to come. The
man in holy orders ac cepted the contract, and set
himself to consider what Solomon would have
done under the circumstances, and to look up the
tactics of other ancient philosophers. On the
following Sunday, he mounted his pulpit with
more than usual solemnity, and gravely laid a
half-brick beside the Bible. After some singing
and some prayers, and a sermon, in which the
congregation was excitedly reminded that he who
covets his neighbour’s wife, or his ox, or his ass,
or his rooster, goose, Brahmapootra, half • Spanish,
or barn door fowl, his cock-turkey or Muscovy
duck, is in danger of hell fire, the parson suddenly
brandished the brick over the heads of his flock
and cried with a loud voice, “Verily ! with this
missile I will smite the man who steals Brother
Brown’s fowls 1” He had previously cautioned
Brother Brown to stand handy and grab the man
who dodged ; but Brother Brown did not grab—
he was not equal to the occasion Half the con-
gregation dodged, seventeen people got under the
seans, three hid behind the harmonium, and ten
passed out. At which the good pastor hastily
replaced his brick and called for that beautiful
hymn, “ Oh, had I the wing of a dove 1”
* * *
Ralph Manahan, of Sydney, who shot his
wife and child and then suicided on account of the
hatred he bore his motner-in law, was a book-
fiend. He didn’t shoot his mother-in-law because
he had no desire to live in the same world with
her. He wished to emigrate and he didn’t want
her for a fellow-passenger.
• * *
The departed Bishop Barry must have
been quite flattered by Sir Henry Parkes’s state-
ment at the farewell meeting that “in this great
Christian soldier he recognised a true type of lofty
Christian citizenship.” Had the Primate been a
wag he would have thanked Parkes and said
that in that giddy old man he recognised a
great Christian soldier and a true type of lofty
Christian citizenship. Bub then, we have never
had a humorous parson since Sydney Smith.
i * *
The Bishop of Rlverlna says that bushmen
are giving up their old habit of endless drinking.
The Bishop of Sydney says that bushmen are
going daily further away from the influence of the
Church. There is something that wants adjust-
ment when these two views of the unkempt back-
blocker are put side by side. An intent inspection
of them would make one swivel-eyed.
Ah, woeful news ! Ob, cable dire 1
Knutsford, you “ didn’t ought
To wire the Ministerial ire
.And make the Council snort,
And set the name they all admire
So utterly at nought.
Ah 1 wherefore didst the souls dismay
Qf Minister of Works
And Lands and Mines, of Ms.L.A ,
Who “grafted” all like Turks,
And proudly spurned their little pay
Whilst honour was their perks.
The title now's not worth a “D ’
So limited’s its sphere.
The Minister and M L-U
Will view the change with fear
Not honourable abroad they 11 be, ,
Who never v ere out here.
“ She’s gone, she’s gone, and I can know
No rest without my Mary sweet,
Through all the weary months, until
Upon ths shining shore we meet.
Revised version, our own make ;
Sbe’s gone, she's gone, and I can know
No rest without my Mary sweet,
Through all the vsinter nights, unless
I buy a warmer for my feet.


Department of Public Works, Sydney.
May 14, 1889.
mENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For conditions see
Station, Adelong* ’
Additions, &o. Public Buildings,
Dubbo
Wednesday,
J une 19,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUUfe SMITH.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
PHILLIP PARK.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAINS
GRAND ERUPTION OF
MOUNT VESUVIUS
Teemendous Buildings Overthrown.
MOLTEN LAVA FLOWING THROUGH
THE STREETS OF POMPEII.
CITIZENS IN TERROR AND CONSTERNATION.
300 AUXILIARIES
ON THE MAMMOTH STAGE.
Superb Costumes.
GRAimD processions.
A triumph of
PYROTEOHNIOAL ART
Never before witnessed
IN SYDNEY.
COUNTRY VISITORS
do not fail to visit
THIS WONDERFUL SPEOTACUL A.R AND
PYROTEOHNIOAL DISPLAY.
In addition there will b« given a display of
GORGEOUS FIREWORKS.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS.
In addition,
THIS GREAT MAMMOTH SHOW
will include
ST. LEON’S CRYSTAL PALACE CIRCUS.
The whole being
THE GREATEST EASTUR PROGRAMME
ever presented at
MILLION PRICES,
2s. and Is.
Special Reserved Seats to accommodate Ladies and
Children at 3).
The grounds will be lighted by
POWERFUL ELECTRIC LIGHTS
(supplied and worked by
Messrs, G R Kirkland and Co.),
thousands of Japanese Lanterns, making a
FAIRY SCENE.
Gates open 7 o’clock p m , Promenade Concert
at 715 p.m. Circus Performance 7.45 p.m..
Pompeii 8 30 p m.
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
gON D I AQUAR I U M.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.) Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
This and Every Evening, at half-past 7,
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY RYE. ROMANY RYE.
PRICES—Ss., 35., ts., and Is,
Box plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
FRANK THORNTON’S SEASON.
Brilliant Success of
THE GREAT DOUBLE BILL.
TO-NIGHT,
MAMMA! MAMMA.! MAMMA'
Mr. FRA.NK THORNTON as
JACK PONTIFEX.
Preceded by (at 8 o’clock)
MY MILLINER’S BILL.
ADMISSIONS,2 2s. to Is,
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
C c Y y C c L l O°R k A a M m A a !
Battle of Gettysburg' Cyclorama.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama.
(Opposite the Railway Station).
Open Daily From 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Sundays, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, 2s. ; Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
“ Every detail is true to the life ”
—A Gettysburg Veteran,
C c Y y C°L i 'o o ß e A a M m A a !
rp HBA T R E ROYAL.
A „ Under the Management of
r Ba«o Willlamsen. Garner and Musgrove.
Leeaee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Undoubted Success of the
BEST PANTOMIME EVER PRODUCED IN SYDNEY,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
or
TINBAD THE TAILOR.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Maokay’s.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessees ... Messrs. Hutchinson and Co,
-r-,+ T » T i? UooesB Extraordinary of that
lUNNIEST OF FUNNY COMEDIES,
THE STRATEGIST I!
t * THE STRATEGIST ! I
l' ; 0 laughs in 150 Minutes ! Laugh and- Grow
■D ™ afi daughter is better than Physio !
isox -clan at Bruce and Massey’s. Prices as usual
Business Manager, Mr Thos. iLltchinson
Crystal palace skating
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yobk-steebt.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate the loe Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
PHB ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
surface, np dust, noiseless, cool, e4ual to any
BU^ ace ,i n the world, and second to none,
inis Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York-street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition In Skating by the Best Talent
In the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
E
LIT
SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen, 455. ; Ladies, 40a. Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Dcket included, Gentlemen, 35a, ; Ladies, 30s.
Roller-bearing, 15s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford-street, opposite the Rink,
*TrogaoerQ*
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere!
The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters!
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
* Skates Unequalled in the City!*
OS’ TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR. U
Future Novelties! Mure Novelties!
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... Genebal Manageb.
METROPOLITAN skating bine,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Open Morning, Afternoon and Evening.
Full Band every Evening.
First Grand Skating Carnival and Ball,
Friday Evening Next, mil May,
Mr. ALFRED WYBURD has been specially engaged to
conduct this Grand Entertainment, guaranteed to surpass
any Fancy Skating Carnival that has ever been produced
in Sydney.
Under Distinguished Patronage.
First Appearance of Miss LI U ZESCH,
The Champion Lady Juvenile Skater.
First Appearance of Mdlle KOSA WHITE,
In her great Spanish Castanet Dance.
30
Grand Orchestra of
1 NSTRUMENT ALIST S'!
30
Magnificent and Beauteous Decorations,
The Rink will represent a Flower Garden.
Rehearsal for Grand March, Thursday Evening, 16th May,
Ticket-holders and intending visitors admitted Free.
Skating, 7.45 till 11 p.m. Grand Ball, 11 p.m. to 3 am.
Cards of
Admission
(Übsd, 35.; Ladies, 2s, 3d.
Admission Cards obtained from Messrs. Nicholson & Co ,
Messrs, Schott & Co., and Mr. Alfred Wyburd, at the Rink.
Sole Director .. Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
Floor Manager .. Prof. Ohas. Sylvester.
Manager _ _ Mr. J. R. Gee.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importer t and Manufacturers
Sitin’! Min; Fnitri,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
ACm klii Ail,
SZIAM WOBKH AND BbbWIBT S
BaSiS BTBEET, ULTIMO. S7DRE7
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores),
* Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent Consultations'.
“ALIi THE YBAB BOUND.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
On these events Adam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Charities, com-
mensurate with his success.
NOW OPEN,
Brisbane Cup,
Run at Brisbane, May 24, 1889.
1.000 Subscribers at £1 Each, 4,000
First Horse £l6OO
Second Horse 600
Third Horse ... 4 400
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
Birthday Cup,
Run at Randwick May 24, 1889.
10.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £l5OO ; Non-starters, £2000; to
be divided amongst them.
Ahn Side's is the only fail method of drawing,
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
mil on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until alter the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
exchange to cheques.
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Hawkesburt river, summer
SEASON.
BANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, Is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile frjm the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor,
p
PEE & COMPASS CLUB.
ss, CONSULTATIONS. ss.
( An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE
SECOND HORSE ...
THIRD HORRF
50 per cent.
30 per cent.
20 per cent.
N.B.—The Square and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race—thus showing the
bonafides of the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
are posted can be visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the
Sunday Times and Referee following the races.
Motto : “ Fair and Square
*2T Look at the Dividends we have paid on the
Doncaster Handicap Rusaley, £95 3s. 6d. •
Plutarch, £7 2s. 9d.; Lady Kingsboro’, £l2 3s. 10d!
Consultations on Every Event.
Note the address of the Original —
Square—and—Compass—Club,
Cake of M. Palm-
-656 GEORGE STREET 656
COLONNADE.
ewt o n and lam b,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material
by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARD'S, Portable, fdrioda
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
iiedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towe! Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table.
With Swing Glass attached ; Pedestal Cupboard
and iwo Cane-Seated Chaus, 1G guineas.
NEWION & lamb,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
L
Austrian bent-
wood
furniture.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
p
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6 x 8,8 xB, 9 x 8,10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, 6s. 6d. ; BxB
9s. ; 9xB, 9s. 6d. : 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d!
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O'Connell Streets.
u
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
p
£|ANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehouseman,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb,
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
SPRING MATRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.


■WBBT BOKOHIA the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
5b., and 10s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE. 188 Bourke nt„ Bast,
MELBOURNE
Most and Chandon’s Champagnb.— Messrs. Meet and
Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their “ Dry
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2600 acres in the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Grown It In each of 'ahai, and 188* branded on
rarfc and label.
decree Onchton, manager of Trooadero
A4:rwl wM,w " correBpona<, ” t ***
the Warkato . .
Victorian Minister dqhn Dow wants Vic-
loria to have an Arbor Day in its official calendar.
N.S.W. does not need one ; every day is Beautiful
L Arbor Day.
We read that Mr. Gladstone “takes refuge
in shops when he is caught by the admiring crowd.
His great Australian prototype when caught by
the crowd takes refuge in bad language or in
the Insolvency Court.
The Argus published “ more damaging
admissions ” by Mr. Parnell in the same column
with an announcement that the canny Edinburgh
Municipal Council had re-affirmed their motion
to confirm the freedom of the city upon the Irish
leader. What a pudding-headed paper 1
A man having taatadl .nveral wine, (blind-
folded) for a wager, and having guessed them all
and won the bet, was suddenly given a glass of
water. He sipped it, and knowingly remarked,
“That’s the stuff you wash your face with.
—Exchange,
The Mayor of Sydney gave a biting answer
to the little band of bigots who wished him to
conVene a public meeting to protest against the
mission of the Irish delegates. He said it was
outside his jurisdiction and he “ couldn’t inter-
fere in religious matters.” The bigots aforesaid
make everything a “ religious ” matter.
~ . ~ , —. n
“ The theory that Dr. Cronin, of Chicago,
was taurdered to prevent disclosures as to alleged
misappropriation of Irish National League funds
has been abandoned. The item was a he on the
face of it from the start. It is the eleven thousand
and ninety-ninth cabled perjury which has been
abandoned during the last five years.
Jamieson, the famous Irish distiller, who
died the other day worth close on half a million,
1 ’ n * A ' { ° < |x> A 4T *T/'
1 1 >«. o—*
’■s£< -V «T>N k 1
' [j-xaAXju- CkX
v^v'-
♦ «V. , <
0c... CM- b,S r«» n'C'WIN
» a (£«/vU '
/ V V* -r OR
' BtNjrtrv. iV'
| C < °«i*
WSB
VICT@^ ,AIM
ai o i^a,
was one day being driven round Dublin by a local
Jarvey. Passing St. Patrick’s Cathedral, which
was then being restored, he inquired of the car-
driver at whose expense the repairs were being
done. “ Begorra, sur,” answered the Jarvey,
“Sir Arthur is doing it—the double X stout
man.” “Oh, indeed,” said Jamieson, “thats
very kind of him.” Later on, passing Christ
Church, which was also being repaired, Jamieson
put a similar query. “ Oh ! sur, George Rie, the
distiller, is looking after that one, sur. But
tell me,” continued Jamieson, thinking he had
preserved his incognito, “ they tell me that old
Jamieson, the whisky man, has piles
Isn’t he doing anything good with it? .Be-
gorra, sur, it’s a saycret; but they do say that on
the quiet he’s building a loonatic asoylum, to put
the other two idiots into ! ”
Says the S.M. Herald
The position this journal has always taken on the Irish
question is well known. It has condemned the policy
pursued by the Leagues and the Plan of Campaign, but
it has always held that concessions towards self-govern-
ment in some form should be given to this much-distressed
country, for which its delegates are so earnestly pleading
among us just now.
In other words, the S.M.H. has trimmed on the
Irish question exactly as it has trimmed on every
other question. “Whenever anything is
manded the Herald says it is too much.
Whenever anything is given the Herald says it
is ‘enough.’ ”
Four bookmakers only plied their trade In
the grand stand enclosure on Adelaide Cup day,
and these four, with the market all to themselves,
were knocked right out of time by the totahsator.
They wanted odds of 6 to 4 on the Lawyer, a
horse that had been quoted at the same price for a
day before the big race. The totahsator dividend
was £1 16s. In the case of Sluggard, for the
Hurdle Race, the machine proved to be the more
profitable means of investment, while to backers
■of the Steeplechase winner it returned a dividend
of £l2 7s In a field of six. Good old totahsator 1
Small punters can afford to leave the books to the
tender mercies of owners, and as owners don’t
back their horses when they are stiff, and can’t
extract “milk” from the machine, that useful
institution is bound to have a deterrent effect upon
“ roping ” and turf rascality in general. Let
the racing public treasure this grand maxim:
“ Totalisators discourage ‘ stiff ’uns.’ ”
Editor Bulletin, — I desire to bring the
following matter Under your notice :—Having
owned a block of three acres of land at Btnks-
town, near Sydney, since November, 1884, I went
round to record my vote at the late Central Cum-
berland election I told my name to the poll-
clerk outside, and was by him asked my qualifica-
tion, which I gave. lie said they had the wrong
Christian name down, as “ Efgar ” was there in-
stead of “ Andrew.” I then went into the booth
and met the presiding officfr, Mr.jW. R. Ains-
worth, a gentleman whom I bave known personally
for eight or nine years, and was by him informed
that I could not vote, inasmuch as there were no
bftilot-pape rs in the be Oth. He told me, in reply to m y
query, that the ballot-papers would be there in an
hour’s time. I returned to my office, had my
lunch, and, in company with the Mayor of Bal-
main, proceeded to the booth to record my vote.
I then, as previously, explained to the presiding-
officer that there was an error in the Christian
name, that I did not desire to do anything wrong,
and how the mistake may have occurred. No
challenge was made and no opposition was shown
to my voting. The scrutineers were satisfied and
the presiding-officer, to use his own words, said :
“Gentlemen, I have known Mr. M'Guire for
many years; he is a respectable citizen and
would not claim the vote if it was not his.”
I fully explained that the mistake in the
name may have arisen by them using the
Christian name of a gentleman who was at
one time part owner of the land with me, and my
own surname, and I stated that on one occasion I
received a tax-paper from the Municipality of
Ashfield in the name of Abraham M'Guire. I
then recorded my vote, and left the booth without
anything being said, or any question being raised
in respect to my voting. Imagine my surprise,
some six or eight weeks after, to receive a sum-
mons lor the criminal offence of personation ! An
inquiry was held before a magistrate, and although
the presiding officer detailed the explanation
given above, and the Freetrade scrutineer who
was subpoenaed on my behalf positively swore that
my vote was not challenged, and that I was the
only one who called attention to the name being
wrong, the magistrate deliberately told us that
he had nothing to do but commit me for trial.
At first he even refused to hear anything in
defence, and he distinctly told my counsel, Mr.
Edmunds, that no matter what evidence was
brought forward he would commit for trial. How-
ever, through the good sense and wisdom of the
Attorney-General I have been spared the indignity
of trial by jury, as he has declined to file a bill
against me. I have no hesitation in saying that
the whole proceedings are the outcome of personal
spite on the part of a person whom the libel-
law will not permit me to name in your
paper. I would also like to call your attention
to the fact that the Crown subpoenaed the poll-
clerk and the scrutineer, but in consequence of
their having wanted to know the reason for the
non-prosecution of a certain person who they knew
had really committed personation—they did not
call them. It is known beyond dispute that
someone personated a Mr. Rutter, and that the
person for whom the vote was given was at the
time in Rockhampton or Northern Queensland.
Why has this case of real personation not been
legally inquired into? Omit be b'oause the per
senator is a Foreign-trader?—Yours, truly,
Andrew M'Guire.
Granting that the letter written by Jessle
Lennox to the N.S.W. Executive is genuine (it
matters very little under what circumstances the
letter was written so long as 10 can be shown that
Lennox is identical with the ex-street-walker,
thief, and lunatic spoken of in Premier More-
head’s letter) what a magnificent illustration the
Buttner case is of the principles for which The
Bulletin has so strencusly contended for the last
five years in the face of the dull, brutal, bullock-like
public conscience of NS. Wales ! Assuming, for
the sake of argument, that the Buttner prosecu-
tion was founded on fraud in the manner des-
cribed, here we have the whole machinery of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court, Crown Law Department
and police successfully put in motion to hang for
rape a man who had simply been guilty of an im-
moral act with the consent of an hysterical or de-
mented prosecutrix of easily -ascertainable and
long-established bad character ! What a satire on
the medical evidence which clinched the cas° for
the prosecution ! What a satire on expert evi-
dence in general I Leaving the Lennox-Buttner
case altogether out of the question, if the N S W,
Government don’t make a clean sweep of their
convict-time laws and of their lag day manner of
administering them, they won’t be able to
o'tain the ccnviclion even of a red-handed
criminal of the deepest dye despite the evi-
dence of the whole of the police-force backed up
by all the lawyers and doctors and parsons and
old women of the country ! If Lennox’s letter is
genuine, tken what Buttner s case might have been
—and would have been on the 28 h instant (the day
fixed for his execution) but for the accidental
circumstance of the prosecutrix relenting the
Mount Rennie case was. If Minister Gould
is a white man—if he has within his breast
one single spark of that sense of justice which
distinguishes or ought to distinguish civilised man
from the savage, he will, despite secret or public
opposition from whatever quarter—whether from
judges, politicians, policemen or lawyers—see that
all possible reparation is made for outrages upon
law and justice and fair-play which are so revolt-
ing as to be unprecedented in the history of any
British possession within the last hundred years.
To find a parallel for the manner of the Mount
Rennie trial, said the late Mr, Dailey, Q.O. #
who was not connected with and had no interest
in the case, one has to go back to the darkest
pages of history. The Bulletin means to have
the Mount Rennie affair—and also the Sweetman
affair —probed to the bottom, despite the passive
resistance of a lot of miserable time-serving
lawyers who have gob it into their heads that their
living depends upon a fl cker of the eyelash of
their boss.
At Sydney, on Monday afternoon last,
the delegates to Australia of the Irish National
Parliamentary paroy addressed the biggest and
most enthusiastic audience ever packed into any
theatre in Australasia. When the Redmonds
visited Sydney a few years ago they could get no
theatre to speak in, for, apart from any personal
feelings which might have actuated the pro-
prietors or lessees of the available places of public
entertainment, there was the fact that both the
issue and the withdrawal of theatrical licenses
were at the discretion of Czar Parkes, who had
on more than one occasion flaunted in managers’
faces a despotic power which enabled him to gag his
political opponents. On Monday the Irish and their
sympathisers met in Her Majesty’s Theatre; when
the Redmonds were here there was but one large
building which the authorities would readily have
placed at their disposal—Her M»jesby’s Gaol.
Yet, though public opinion has since advanced by
leaps and bounds in favour of Irish Nationalism
just as it has advanced in favour of Australian
Nationalism, not a single man of the party in
power in N.S. Wales had anything to say on
Monday. Not one of them attended, save the
Postmaster-General, Mr. Daniel O’Connor, who,
from the cheers which greeted his name when it
was mentioned by the chairman in connection
with a donation to the funds of the National
League of twenty-five pounds, evidently bought
his peace with his fellow countrymen on this
occasion. Considered as displays of oratory the
speeches of the delegates were rather dis-
appointing. Mr, Dillon is a rather ascetic,
cold-featured man, who looks a little like
Tom Garrett and a little like H nniker Heaton
(we he re apologise to both); he was obviously very ill
and thus spoke at a great disadvantage. Never-
theless he told his tale in a straightforward manly
fashion, which enlisted the sympathies of those
who heard him. He is a speaker whose utterances
are best in print. Sir Thomas Grattan Esmobde,
who followed, is a young gentleman of the ad-
vanced masher type, who looks a little like a bud-
ding low comedian, and a good deal like a big boy
fresh from a public school; he talks in a familiar
waggish, “ dontcherknow ” conversational style,
wears a collar as high as a sheep-hurdle, and has
so little of the “ brogue ” that but the faintest
trace thereof would be discovered on chemical
analysis of his utterances. The third delegate,
Mr. Deasy, struck the writer as being by far the
most sympathetic speaker of the three; his style
of oratory is distin guis bed by n o g reat amount of cul-
ture, but it is unfalteringand distinctly interesting.
Mr, Dillon, who spoke for over half-an hour, said
they wanted in Ireland what we have in Australia.
They wanted in Ireland the right to make and
administer the laws that applied to Ireland alone.
They asked that they should be given that which
Australiancitizenspossessed, that which Australian
citizens would not consent to part with, and
they meant to struggle for it to the end. They
wanted even less than Australia possessed, for
Australians had a fleet and an army, and Ireland
was content to enter an Imperial arrangement un-
armed. Ireland was not, as had been persistently
stated, under the same Government as Ergland
for Chief Secretary Forster had written : “ I am
as absolute now in Ireland as the Czar in Russia.’
They had in Ireland a Government more tyrannical,
more opposed to liberty, than any in the whole
of Western Europe, and for men to submit to such
a Government would be contemptible and base.
For ten years the Irish party bad been sent to
gaol for waging warfare against that system—not
for crime, but for refusing to sit idly by and enjoy
the good things of life while their people were
being exterminated. They wanted to see the path
upwards to positions of honour and trust in Ire-
land not open only to those who were corrupt and
base. They hated and despised Tories because the
Tories had betrayed them—because they had said
one thing when they wanted to win their votes and
because they had lent their whole weight to the
Times and the perjured forger Pigobt. The only
people examined before the Times Commission
were rack renting landlords, boy cotted agents,
policemen and informers. Two thirds of the land
of Ireland was owned by two or three thousand
landlords, who had 600,000 tenants. Ireland had
8,000,000 of people before 1845, only 5,000,000 in
1880, and now it had but four millions and a quarter,
whose landlords sent men with crowbars and
kerosene to demolish in the name of the law the
houses which the ruined tenants had built. Each
of the speakers was greeted with the wildest ap-
plause, as were also Messrs. Traill, Hassall, and
Melville, M.P.’s, who subsequently spoke. The
collection taken up at the conclusion of the
speeches amounted to over £2ooo—this altogether
apart from the money raised by selling admissions
to the theatre, which was packed from stage to
ceiling.


p
Fashion,
I I IT, and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES
We have in Steely
AND
Maks to Order
THE FINEST
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition 1
p p
p
A Visit will Prove tlic above Assertions,
in n-ttmn n n rma b
376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Go).
Tbs Imperial Land, Building I Deposit Co,
(Limited), NSW.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Albx. Milsop, Esq ,JP., Chairman.
:?■ Jr Summkrfield, Esq. Wsi, Martin, Esq., JP,
E. V. Manning, Bsq. WM. Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
WlbtlAM P. SMalrl, Esq., J.P.
. undertakea all usual Banking and Build
FiVfirt Busl “?? s °“ the most favourable terms.
Curren l De P° Slta receiv ’ ed and Int rest allowed
can? Months > ? Percent., 6 Months,
oinalitina nn ,L^ onth ?; 5 P er cent Advances to Muni-
On f 'itt RnN^K SeoJlflt X w, rates on very liberal terms.
ourr^nt y Ja?B<. b T b^ n ’ B , nd 9 V)ulitr y Properties at lowest
* teB ‘-, Llbera a°siatance given to build or pur-
£naranf<^ nU «!£‘ e 8 P urohased or advanced on. Mortgage-
winoimf d or t hnfh PUn n tU^ 1 r . e P a > mHnt of interest, or
KiniHom O, ,h° th ri . D Y ldend « collected in the United
i*m Co,on,eB ,- Communicaiiions addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
The Best Investment Going!
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth.
From Jen Pounds
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 86 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR GASH. *
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value,
-Buy Now I Buy Howl
And reap targe Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
lotercolonial Investment Company, Ltd,,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J, Douglas ... ... Manager,
NERVOUS MEN.
nnivw/
eureka V
3?
M\7 L / ECTR,c BELTtf
W\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt wail cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
-80 j 8 what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. O.i Sydney,
p
TWO VIEWS.
i
* T THINK I'm in love,
*■ But I’m open to doubt.
And I wish I could prove
That I think I'm in love.
For my suit won't improve
Should she ever find out
That I think I'm in love
But am open to doubt."
ii
" I know he's in love.
There is no room for doubt
And 1 think he'll improve.
Now he's fallen in love.
1 quite wholly approve,
And I hope he'll find out
That 1 know he's in love,
I hp re'll be no room for doubt.
IV 7’ Bliss.
Da\iep, C.MG-Cheques made good.—
Star.
According to .Amarican advices the erase
of the break-up in the old-established firm (f
Moody and Sankey, evangelists and bearers of
good tidings with a hand-organ, was the frivolous
conduct of Moody, who insisted on winking at a
beautiful, penitent weeper on the front bench.
He also went down from the platform to comfort
the mourner, while Sankey, who was in the
middle tf tha grand old tune. “Howl, ye
Daughters of Galilee !” was forced to remain at
the pump without a chance to interfere. When
dia two evangelists were alone together that night
high language rose between them, and it is alleged
»hat Moody threatened to “biff” Sankey “on the
smeller.” And this, it is asserted, is the real rea-
f on why Moody is now rur ning a separate evangel
in California, while Sankey raises his disjointed
hosanna in Florida, and the old bond is broken
asunder for ever.
Pearls in tub Mouth —White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pbarl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
o chemists.*
jn'ra o am i
I ■mJ n 3
g>
0
o
a
A
<<
❖
*
&
ft?
o
£>
V
9
O
a
o
A
ft?
A
0
&
Y
A
<c-
<s>
&
i\
O
&
Jc
0
&
€>
V
A
r.
&
a
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY,
The Confederate ram Marti mac, which
played a part in the American civil war, was re-
cently broken up and sold as old iron.
The a.s. City of Paris (o! the Inman
Line) has just beaten &11 records by Steaming
from Queenstown to Sandy Hook in 5 days 23
hours.
More than 200 persona have been kilJei
in America within the last 12 months by electric-
light wires. Which reminds us that some of the
principal streets in Sydney are being closely roofed
in by electric wires also.
The N.S.W. Government Is going to give
two prizes of £3OO and £l5O resprotlvely to the
authors of the two best short histories of Aus-
tralia adapted for use in State tcbools. For
the first part of the history of Australia The
Bulletin cordially recommends its profusely
illustrated “ H story of Botany Bay,” the most
buccersful and popular book ever published south
of the line. lo may be obtained from any bock
seller for one shilling and will be mailed direct
from this office as par advertisement in another
column.
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Boueillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Bookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.*
TATTBBSALL’S
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal races through-
out the year.
See Evening News Brevities for full particulars,
or write to *‘ Tattereall,” care of Geo Adams,
Pitt street, Sydney.
y&n
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
\ Corsets I have tried."
' (Signed) Marte Rote.
Eiagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams nor
tear in toe Fabric.
Etquieite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless Imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Oorsetstamped “ Y&N Pater t
THE
J
&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS! !
Sold by all Drapers and Indies Outfitters.
I
■
■ " ‘T ii; :*•
Ft* rV 1 1 S \ ■
£=£. 3
HH
; »
...?
■S3BMI
EE5f
j,“v,:
aSS
EUOiaii! PHOTfI-ENO. CO-. 8 BBIOQE-ST.. jY-DNEY.
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
«{:}*
H. THORPE ... ... Proprietor,
FOR SHE BOOS AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Maohinei in Existence.
Now perfected, the NEW No. 3 and No. MACHINES on an entirely Nero Sys'em,
VW STOCK JUST LANDING. -
SETTBEIH & Co., Taonen ui Leather
16 Y 0 R K BTRE E T, BYDN E Y.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all Details, including Maohinerv
Imported Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special Lines; PEERLESS GLOSS. SATIN POLTSTT
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanners Tools and Materials, Indents executed on Favourable Terms. '
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
RO
n strut in
CO
I
3
D”
RICHARDS
m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably,
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
oelved his medical education in the leading college*
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
afld safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification*
Combined with unswerving faithfulness to Bis
patients, he has during his practice, eitendirig
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence In their tjeatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
Irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
In the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably marry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after bis case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, It would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr, Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
oases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
B$ Mire to mention thit paper tohm writing.
Consultation Finn.


Egyptian Cigarettes.
melachrino
melachrino
melachrino
melachrino
melachrino
melachrino
}
91. Mclaeliviuo d Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
ol Europe;
All the leading British and Continenta
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
Have the UROM 84KE In the World.
Universally Acknowldeged to be the Beat I
Sole Agents:
WAffl Si SOWS, H Bimck Stmt! Sydney.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price. No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
No. 8 .. 66/■ .. 7/- ..
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “Nervous Complaints, their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to,show
a method of counteracting the evil effects of nulis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eatin 0
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are, generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of casts
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before tne
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willm„
give a Whitten Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexesex-
perience the following symptoms, viz., I)
specks before the Eyes, Pams m the BacVDefeotive
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De
rane-ements &c., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
Remember, Din Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases
Thousands have been cured by linn, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifym H
the testimonials published in his treatise. 1 ..U-i
cher’s treatment is both simpie and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover posta n e.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance ;
Dm 11. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence: “ Clonmel,” Waverley.
More than 70,000 Owes already Cured 1
the Greatest Success
ei Kodern Times.
OOESOLS
All Ohronlo Disease
are Curable.
li, a. a. KOKUUII, Couiltisv Eclectic,
p«nT.r.m SPIOIALIST FO» AIiL OHUONIO DIBIASXS,
II WUHIAI imiT, BBIBOIIKMIi
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of quel-
lions *fub) by whloh they oan be treated equally well at
* D Mi Kmt’elmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himeeii. If
ion are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he *°
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
■emulate cure You oan then have treatment or not, as
may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
BB Eead the following Testimonial, one ol thousands morel
KOOPT.I
Gienhope, ISth July 1888
s> h, i. KuoiLHAim, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, So. , ..
Osar Sir,-This Is to certify that I. Prank E. K. Knight,
•! Gienhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July.
IRBB but thinking it was only a aeveie cold, I did not
take’any notice of it lor about six months, when I com-
menoed 7 to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought it was time to consult a medical ma ®»
went into Heathoote, and was treated lor four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
ta Kyneton ol repute lor six months and
although I failed to obtain the slightest rehef. he told me
that I was all right, warm weather to com
nlete the cure, which statement I did not believe, ana
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton.and
Informed him ol the statement of my P*e™uB medlcal
attendant when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed lor me, and after treating mo
for five honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend h '“
and he advised me not to take any more chemists medl-
lines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then Dressed him lor a true statement ol my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Dlcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
snrable? d During the time l was attended by‘he above
doctors I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
neotorated many quarts ol blood and matter from my
fangs, and I lost weight rapidly. About thlßll^* B *w
your advertisement and decided to consult yon, wWoh I
did in March, 1886, when you greatly me by
Informing me minutely ol the exact nature ol my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
von could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
wKlglldly availed myself of. Alter having taken your
medicines lor a V month i was considerably worse; expec-
toratlng very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm ol my handl l
but after this crisis I commenced to improve veryinßt.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and oeragh
entirely left me, and I had gained over two atone in'
a result which my friends considered little short of mlra-
salons, as all expected I wouldaoon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill
have not felt any return ol my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
™hSd aWwork as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I w«|lvsnnpto
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours PRANK E. Is.
KNIGHT. witness—J. 0. DANIEL. Gienhope.
Declared before me this 6th day ol August, 1888, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
HT All Consultations Fres, V
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whloh
provides that No Cost Is Incurred In the event of dons
»0* sims Effsowd,
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices s 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
Kofi's V’ews
Or SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS
&0., &0.,
316 SEGUE SI., Setnu Buln-it, I I.F 0
Musical.— patent scale indica-
tor, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Aboadb. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s
Australian Roller Flour & Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE.
Sydney Office: 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
BRUNTON’S
Patent—Boiler—Elour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation” of the iurors of the Melbourne
jNTERNATIONAL CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION, 1888-9.
tmperial hotel
BMW PARK,
William Toon ... Pbopbibtob.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation • Shower and Plimge Bath.
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
I " 'V ' -■ -
T.<
M
mm.
is
m
mm
W
*mm***rn»m- m
IfesSi
PETTY’S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney
-i : Y
«T LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
2v£&xiil3^ w
THB BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
4 I HU CLARENDON HOTEL D^S,”^s'fgS.‘'4S^3
/\ served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge g , * Hea an( j surrounding country ;
b »par,d b, Ufa. Kmom. to Mat. b«
fllitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony•
■rs. KILRUNSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
nppnsiTi OCEAN BEACH* MANLY.
THE
“ Plum
RAZOR.
p
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
F
irvD p -pTV ATTfI USB Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
’Spto" B “ k
CRA96 Bt AITKENp Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Hairoutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN.
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic Stock w Importers,
Kate Uehtin A ®o., 32 O’Connell Street.
T lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
Jj amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN. and removal Into more com-
modlous and centrally-situated premlses-at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET. Between
Hdntbb Street and the General Post OrnoE-trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318* 0 EORaB STREET, STOREY.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual MU Sitiilj.
HBTABLISHBD 1840-
head OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors ;
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER, Eeq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary:
MORRIOE A. BLACK, F.I A.
Secretary s
RICHARD TEECB, F.LA.
Chief Medical Offices : JAMES 0. COX, M.D.
The Society la now In Its forty-first year, and Is
the only Australian Life Office which gives
ANNUAL BONUSES.
Policies In Force, over
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ...
Accumulated Funds nearly ... ...
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Divided ...
Clash Bonus, for one year, 1887
86,000
£3?,000,000
£8,000,000
*1,500,000
*3,250,000
*357.000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED If the Surrender
Value Is sufficient to pay one Premium.
The Anglo-Australis Investment, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled)
Reserve Fund
.. £lOO,OOO
250,000
60.000
Bead Office s • 34 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Chairman— HENßY GORMAN, Esq., J P.
Vice-Chairman —F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office % - 31 Lombard Street B.C.
Chairman —Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest*
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its weU-
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
Mabic Meal
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials :—
Report by Charles Watt, Esq , Late Government
Analyrt
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal* foi
poisonous metals such as Antinomy and Arsenic and
have to report, after a most careful f xam’nation, that I
have been unable to dettot a trace of anything that
would be injurious to stock cf any kind. I; is my opinion
that this article shou'd fu fll all the conditions specified
in the handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Orcydoni "
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition."
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. Ss,, lstbs. Bs. 6d,, BGlbs,
18s. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 661b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Fort within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Oastlbriiaqh Street,
SYDNEY.
H. HILDBR,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Importer of
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &0.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
TTE STERN AUSTRALIA,
(V Destined to become
A NEW BRITANNIA in another World,
The man that hesitates is lost.
Then be wise in time ’tie madness to defer.
Send at once for Marked Plans.
CORE PARK ESTATE, City of Perth.
OOLLAHR A ESTATE, Albany, King George’s
Sound,
Good Building Sites; low prices. Easy terms.
Torrens’Title, Free deeds. Land is, and must
always remain, the best of all securities.
T. TATE & CO,, 158 Pitt Street.
The recognised Agents for Western Australian
Freeholds.
G
A S.
GAS.
GAS.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
F. W. CUB NOW, Manager.
Office Hours ; 0 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera. Apply
Bulletin Office.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
"T NOW la the time to Invest yonr FEW POUNDS *»
*T TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS. 1>
World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich discoveries of GOLD, COAL, SILVER, TIN, and other minerals have been made, and with
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT (a certainty ) it may, with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES 1” BE WISE IN TIME I Call on the W. A. Agents (G. W. DENT & CO.), and
secure an allotment in or near the CITY OE PERTH or PORT OE ALBANY, while you can get in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOU. Numerous Properties for Sale to suit LARGE and SMALL
buyers, SYNDICATES, &0., from £lO to £20,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119 a BllzaTbetla. Street, S3Td.rre3r.
Moses (the misfit-man) ; *• You vants dcr
creases ironed out of dose drousera? Vy, dot vas
all der style at Potts Point! ” U oson Downes :
‘‘May be ; but it’s a dead give-away in Woollco-
mooloo .’’—Adapted.
First Man : “111 betl’va gob bha warm'st
name of any man in this crowd.” Two strangers
take the bat and ask : “ What is it i ” First
Man : “My name is Hott.” First Stranger (pro-
ducing card): “My name is 0. A. Hotter.”
Second Stranger (producing card) i “ Shentle-
mens, I m from Sharmany, and mein name vos
Oscar Hall.” A keg is tapped.— Yankee
More money Is said to have been spent by
the United States Government in the investigation
of the diseases which affect swine than Of those
which affect the human species. This marks the
commercial spirit of the age—the hcg is an asset
and the man isn’t. In the South, in the old slave
days, if a m?ger, a mule, and a white citizen fell
into the water together there was a wild rush to
save the mule ; then another frantic scramble for
the saleable nigger; and after that, as often as
not, the crowd melted away and forgot the white
man altogether.
RE A D
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
"No Medicine introduced to the pnblic
has eyer met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
It stands to-day the best known curative
article in the world. It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues. It does all that is
claimed for it.”
“ Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-half
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re-
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for your medi-
cine.”
“I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of in-
digestion, debility, weakness, and in all
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and loss
of appetite, with the most perfect success.”
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
■trengthener, and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters."
“For all cases of diseases of the liver,
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, I daily recom-
mend the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters."
“ In my practice I am constantly prescrib-
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found every
case relieved by their use.”
“ I can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“Gentlemen.—Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail.”
CAUTION.— See that each bottle
has genuine label, bunoh of green
hops on white paper.
WESTERN HOTEL,
WARRNAMBOOL, VICTORIA.
ITIHIS Hotel is replete with all the requirements
A of Tourists and Visitors, and for comfort
cannot be surpassed, the Proprietor making the
welfare of his patrons his speciality.
BEST WfNES , SPIRITS, AND BEERS
always in stock.
LETTERS AND TELEGRAMS PUNCTUALLY
ATTENDED TO.
The Culinary Department is a feature of the
establishment.
George W. Clare,
PROPRIETOR.
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETIN’S”
Hidtory of Botany Bay,
By Abthub Gay Ll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
"The Bulletin's" well-known Artists,
La Hopkins and Phil. May.
Peiob ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, IS. 3d. (except Queensland.)
BOLD AGENT FOB QUEENSLAND :
J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller.
GEORGE STREET., BRISBANE.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADS!
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
3t9 Ptrr sr., SYrtYEV {.Year TnllfTfca’O
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
They arj noted all over London
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LONDON FASHIONS XI
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
Trade supplied wholesa 7 e at a great advantage.
F. C. NIGH DLLS & CO.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners and Pastrycooks,
City Buildings,
736 GEORGE STREET,
EC 3VE ABK €Ll?_
Sbeam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 511 HARRIS STEEET.
Wedding Cakes, etc., Made to Order. f
“ Can’t B Beat.”,
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par exaellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
The £2Paekage, “ Can’t It Beat ” (registered)
lE®" Smoker’s Companion I tea
containing the following:—
11b. 'Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooaoco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H 8 Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS,
“ Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkkt, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OE SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Hbad Opfior: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dirbctors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney; T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh Impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
. the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold-saving appliances _ for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
EPP S ' S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Doyle’s New Hall, Jnnee, the best on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escapee.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Jnnee. Price
Moderate.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
p
XJSE
liebib COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Peapes & Shaw’s New Establishment
• is
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
TO BE
The LARGEST S MOST COMPLETE GENTLEMEN'S OUTFITTING WAREHOUSE ANSWERS,
Either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES and SHAW are now showing the whole of the Gxds contained in the Two
Beautiful Cases recently shown by
WELCH, MARGETSON & CO., at the MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Stylish Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in Hats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts.
For Cheap and Good Beady made Suits.
VISIT
Peapcs
A
Sliaw
For Boys’ Ready-made Clothing,
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys’ and Youths' Eton Suits.
Visit Peapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
—REMEMBER!—
The Largest and Choicest Selection of Goods
FOE—
HEN, YOUTHS and BOYS,
IS AT
lE?ea,2s©s a,a.d. Sla.a'w’s
Right opposite their Old Shop In GEORGE STREET.
• ' ' - • " . , ■ V.'
LEA & PERRI NS SAUCE
AUC
luKFftllß
M consequence of Imitations of THE 7 WORCESTERSHIRE
SAtyCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottli'
f iears their Signature thus —
withouf which no bottle of the, original WOP CESfERSBIRE
SAUCE is genuine .
LE £f T f d P I ERR /^ S ' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
'f h f lesa J e a p d f or Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
tslackTiirll, London, IPc., &c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
p
new mam table show rooms & factor?
1IIUUIM6ID) OTOHIONS, to,, MADE ON THE PREMISES,
®M TaMas y©=ffitted by @ux @wn masa,
SMSg, ©CIS,MEM I® stock, ais® GBIGKEf 9 LAWS’ TENUIS & I®W£@,
BUEEOUGHES & WATTS,
8 1 , Mtfli fttrga Stwt e BTOHM, 18.1., ml Soto Spin. M»9ft
OOAOHING EXTRAORDINARY
£20,000 SPENT TO AMUSE AND INTEREST
THE PEOPLE.
Since the 11th October, 1880, Mr. P J. Romney's
“ WONDER ” STAGE COACH
has covered no less than 163 595 English Miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. RUMNEY intends to run
it again this year between HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, PICCADILLY, and the fine old
cathedral town of ST. ALBANS. The trip is one
that no intelligent colonist visiting England ought
to miss, as it will rejoice his heart, purify his
blood, and enlarge his views of English scenery
and manners.
Take it down In your pocket-book Mr. P J
RUMNEY. THE “WONDER” COAOH
Hatchett's Hotel, Piccadilly, London.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Strbbt,
OOLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
FOR SLAB — Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parrama*.*a and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
BULLETIN Office
f ° r P la ®. B « 10 T Building Bites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, L mited 9 Bathurst-street, S : dney.


ows
Ns>
:f%ovD )
MEVERXWHEREd
TP- <«■*
p
JJIBBLB & COMPANY,
ll« VIIIIM
Aim
——A BT ++ DBOORATOR B—-
M C«wtBerea«Bi Street*
Onb Doob fbom Kino Stbbbx.
R O U’S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Ourea promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organa.
Sold in Paris by
J . E H IR IR E ,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Complaints. Sure cure;
14 days. Apply in confidence to “MEDIOUS,"
Box 120, G.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Peek.
a
m I
BOWDEN’S HOT El I-.,
Elizabbth Strrrt (n=ar Hunter St.), Sydnbt.
JOSEPH C BOWOES - ■ Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
D rvns. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suiaas, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NOORPORATBD UNDBR COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street Bast,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 „
12 ~ 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
Robert butcher & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
Timber Verchanta, and Steam Joinere,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &0., In
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office —245 Oastlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Sandies is now carried on at our new premises,
245 Oastlereagh street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned avainst any in-
friuv em'ents of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited —
F. C. HEDEMA.NN \
L. C. HENDERSON /
Trnsaaea.
iHE FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
I INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited
Incorporated under < Jompaniea’ Act, 1874
CAPITAL, £200.000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-3TREE V
As ancles in London and throughout Australia
Immediate Advances granted Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit 3 Years, 10 per
cent. ; 12 Months, 9 per cmt ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. ; 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER Manager
GBD GBD. UdD
SMOKE NOTHING atm
p
PIPES
The Bait In tha World
WHOLESALE AGENTS
Mi! SiUiiii & Hi..
CLARENCE STREET.
HEH A N’S
Blade Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
losses. UTILE I ltd
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scarf.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGEi
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Eedfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane; B. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Redfera,
PRICE ... Ss. 6d . Per Bottle
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb, (free
from seed), Caf<s Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER~& SONS.
General Importers and House Furnishers,
SYDNEY.
Established 18St.
jißoumeS 1
Melbourne
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
a
5i
KIVSJTf S
PALACE HOTEL
r’isfwl
H
rieicjfta ji pinhta n 1 ‘.-’ J
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
LG.WXLARE
;er I
e?
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
er NOW OPEN. -ca
THIS fine Hotel, which haa just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Spray.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
m TWO PASSENGER OTIS *.IFTS Tl
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terns! SINGLE BE3IOON, 2s. Si. ter NlSif
EwtitUsK (be Oc* upler to tbe privilege of
using tbe s’nbilc Booms of the Hotel*
<3T MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, See., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
TaylopOro
HIGHLY (MUTRIUVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oft PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY
A
RTHUR D. SPALDING
HOMCEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate, I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS.
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, It was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make you call constantly so as to nay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
pUBLIO NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GrWTN
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel ul (aural Hnsisws Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the tact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


ONLY
*
%
Murder 1
By the Introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Satwbll, of 6
Park-street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and Impure Brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public*
Wholesale and Retail from
F.W Say well & Go.,
6 Park-street, Stdnbx.
he
Com
PLEXIO
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; ia
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
R. OW L A INI O S EU K INI lAj a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
American Qschange Hotel
{Corner of Gsorgr Street\
and Queen’s Place, /
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc., etc.
Ilie BEDROOMS ventilated, and
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
The DimO-ROOM SSE
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
JDrawing, Smoking,
AND
Reading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, &c.,
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
xV
*
c=y
MOTU
LLER
c^: '
sHHte
Laver Clamp.
American Club Roller Skates.
mHK age tor Cheap, Inferior Skates is past, and no skater of to-day can become export on wheels, or enjoy an
X evening on Skates without they are on some securely-fastened, smooth-running Skate, such as is offered in the
<t American Club.” It is acknowledged by all skaters on ice that the “ American Club” fastening as used upon the
most popular I W Skate in America, England and Europe for the past 13 years is more quickly adjusted, and more
secure than am other mode of fastening ever invented. Boiler Skating has now become a popular amusement, and
the demand for a Skate for experts has caused the production of a first-class Roller Skate with the " American Club
fastening. Sizes, 7* to 111 inches. 838 - Special Pricks to Rinks and Clubs.
Wholesale; V, 5, BILL, 5 Bridge-street; Retail; SSBBISWHIIS i CO., Oeoigi-sM, Sydney.
1 —<
To arrive—Some very fine Lithograph Carnival Posters.
When next you bake try Pencil s Snow whitk Patrnt
Rollkr Flour, and jour bread will be as wb‘w as snow
The grandeur o! scenery seen from Fred. Wile
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft, above eea-level
N B,—Only two hours from Melbourne.
“Mt Tailor ” 154 King-Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suite to measure for £3 3s
At Mark Young’s Pier H tel, Frankton, new
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors*
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to ee»
baths. Horset and buggies for hire
In Brighton Cemetery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once more earth’s fairest season hastens
With first fruits of her quest and fastens
A chaplet for the quiet hill:
Where Adam Gordon little recking
Heaven’s white or crimson flacking;
Winter’s chill or summer’s decking,
Gently laid, is dreaming still.
And all in vain our high enthronement
Awaits him, and too late atonement,
, Like phoeiix, rises from the pyre ;
For, mist-like, through some broken rafter
Flits the soul into hereafter,
Who shall say when grief or laughter
Wakes again that silent lyre?
Each year with drowsy sibillation,
Ohaunt breeze and locust iteration
Of summer and her bursting pods ;
And man, long marvelling at existence,
Saddening at their strange insistance,
Heavenward looks and in its distance
Seeks the secrets that are God’s.
In vain; the seed-time and the harvest
Have failed not sines the farthest
Of times that wrote on earth their scroll;
But who of women born in weeping,
Watching while a world was si seping,
Learned their secret for his keeping,
Stayed the garner of his soul?
Beneath yon broken column, coping
Well fitted, neither doubt nor hoping
There oometh to the quiet breast;
And never more shall love or scorning
Sweeten eve, embitter morning,
Times destroying or adorning
Shall not wake him from his rest.
And we who dream not, whose endeavour
Sere mainlands bound and who forever
Praise sea and sky, yet shoreward creep
For those things won by bis devotion,
Glimpse of heaven, refrain of ocean.
Every phase of man’s emotion,
Thank him and his memory keep.
J. M.
A London dude has been poisoned through
rocking the head of his cane. There is In this
fact) a solemn warning to the vacant, blob-headed
youth like a feeble worm stood np on end, who
nourishes himself on his walking-stick and has to
pnll six inches of that Implement out of his bead
when he wants to offer a remark.
An American paper asserts that Mrs.
Brown Potter on the stage Is a rank bad actress,
but off the stage she is sweet as the breath of
violets. Her very hair is redolent, and not only
laces, handkerchief, gloves and girdle, but her
sleeves, drapery, skirts and even the flowing cloak
fill the senses with the delic : ons perfume of that
flower every time a fold changes or the wearer
moves Every woman of refinement for ages has
worshipped the incense of odors, and in these
days of originality and invention each has a
scheme of her own for secretly appropriating the
favourite scen\ Mrs. Potter’s hobby is sachet
pillows, of which she has as many as there are
dresses in her wardrobe. The pillows are a yard
long and eighteen inches wide, made of light silk,
and filled with a layer of wadding and two pone ds
of violet powder. When a dress is folded the
sachet is laid between the skirt and waist, and
when it is worn the fragrance is perceptible at
every motion Tae same care is taken with her
gloves and linen, and in place of the customary
shampoo of bay rum or Florida water, the reddish-
brown firesses are rias=d in extracts of violets, for
whi ;h she pays £1 a pint.
For a man of acknowledged ability, Mr. J.
P. Abbott, of New South Wales, can give himself
away worse on religi >us topics than the majority
of mankind. At a public meeting he’d in Sydney
in connection with the recent Church Congress
the lengthy member for the remote west loomed
up and committed himself like this ;
Mr. Abbott caused some amusement by the frank
avowal when in the locality of a “ dreary preacher,” he
■ail to himself, “ Well I have my children to consider.
If Igo 1 may receive some good. I shall be setting th< m
a good example.” Ho vever dreary the sermon might be
he thought it was his duty to endure it lor the sake of
example.
We call this remarkably rough on Abbott’s
children. In our mind’s eye we can see the old
man, dried up by the study of innumerable points
of law concerning interpleaders and residuary
legatees, and inured to drought-stricken literature
by a long contemplation of the Dog Act, strug-
gling to hold himself up while the arid preacher
wallows heavily through a > disquisition upon the
dust which covered the buried cities of Edom that
he may set a good example to his rising family ;
and we sea the family tottering In mental
anguish, and not knowing how to spell, still
less to understand, what the pastor is driv-
ing at, and wishing they could swap him for
the meanest circus on earth, and mentally re-
solving that when they grow up they will never,
never, never attend a hippodrome where a medi-
tative pounder divides himself into 11 headings
and afflicts them with a murky Sahara of dogma
about things that were dead and of no consequence
2500 year ago. We have been that sort of child
ourselves, and we know what it is like.
Land at Perth, W. A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment do., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
Sven for all binds of gent’s left off clothing,
ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTBNTON BROS,, 111
Russell street, MELBOURNE,
Dlngmau’a electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cammeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lain s, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
a claimed to be within range of its powers,
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
A “ Clipper ” Vessel—a wool ship.
“The occupant was awakened by the
sound of the burglar stealing noiselessly about the
room." Excerpt from a Melbourne weekly.
The Irish Question — "How am 01 to git
Into the foorce ? ”
A lawyer Is reported to have died from
exposure In New Zealand. Who exposed him, we
wonder ?
One of the first questions asked candidates
for the N.S.W. Police .Force at the present time
Is, “ Can you chase goats ? ”
Thomas Godwin, of Colling wood, Ohio,
U.S.A., writes asking The Bulletin’s assistance
In gaining tidings of his father, Thomas Godwin
(or any relatives), Godwin, sen, who left
Malmesbury, Wiltshire, England, about 40 years
ago, was last heard of at the Ovens River, Vic ,
many years since.
A Presbyterian parson, who holds up his
hand for an eternal hell, recently preached that
modern soul-curers put too little brimstone into
their prescriptions. And then he went on like
this
“ Without the brimstone the daintiest scented phial of
rose-water theology is labelled by the Holy Spirit ‘ rank
poison ' To take it internally is to order your soul’s oofflnl
Beware of the concoction. God is not ' that popular india-
rubber affair man can spit on and live.’ No 1 He is the
God of judgment, He is the God of wrath, He is the God
of damnation; and all this because He is the God of
eternal salvation. ‘ Fire 1 Fire 1’ the midnight cry in the
streets of time. ‘ Fire 1 Fire I 1 because fire there is. It
is God’s word, not mine— ‘ Unquenchable fire.’ Oh, sin-
ner, the old-fashioned devil is not yet dead 1 The old-
fashioned hell is not yet burned out. Cbristless soul, God
has an eternal hell I and can you stand upon the reeling
earth and fling baok the lightning flash of that last 'great
day?' ”
Which all reads like a chunk from David
Buchanan.
Dear Bulletin, —la your article “ Drunk
or Sober—Can Figures Lie ?” you have, as well
as the S M. Hebald, omitted two factors in the
statistics. Firstly, are the people of New South
Wales more susceptible to intoxication than those
of other colonies when with more consumption
per head there is less drunkenness ? Answer—
Certainly. Look at the time when the Soudan
business made them all whole seas over. Did jon
not at that time or shortly afterwards write an
article on “Philip Drunk and Philip Sober”?
Secondly, do the police perjuries—I mean evi-
dence —occur more frequently on the Sydney side
than on that of Melbourne? Answer—Promotion
In the police of N.S. Wales depends on convic-
tions, only obtainable by varnish. In testimony
all colouring matter is perjury. There is a third
Item. lam convinced that the police of Victoria
and South Australia have, if not orders, permis-
sion to wink at intoxication if not accompanied by
annoyance to the public In New South Wales,
however, men are goaded from ehvation to ex-
citement and thence to violence by the too fre-
quent brutality of a “trap” who wants a “sthrlpe.”
—-Scotty.
Bulletin, — In re an article In a late
issue. Darwin’s chief merit consists in collecting
and Unking together facts strewn about in the
works of Erasmus Darwin, Lamark, and others.
But George did not even do that. At least it had
been done by others before him. In 1871 there
appeared in G many a work entitled “Die
ErJo ung der Darbenden Menschheit” (“The
Salvation of Saarving Mankind”) by A. Th.
S amm, which proclaims exactly the same princi-
ples as George's ‘' Progress and Poverty,” and the
similarity of George's arguments with Stamm’s Is
so singular and precise that Stamm’s German
followers claim George simply as an exponent of
Stamm’s theories. In 1873 John Stuart Mill in
England and Edward Baltzsr in Germany, after-
wards Herbert Spencer in England and A Samter
in Germany, wrote for land nationalisation, and it
was not till 1879 that George appeared in public
with “Progress and Poverty.” The secret of
George’s unparalleled success lies firstly, in the
cheapness of his books, which makes It possible for
everybody to buy them, and secondly, in the lucid
clearness of his writings, which can be understood
by anybody. Five years ago I paid for Karl
Marx’s “ Capital ” 18s. in Germany, where the
average wages of a common working man range
between 12s. and 16s. per week. Here I can buy
any of George’s books for no more than 2s 6d.,
while wages are four and five times higher than In
Germany, This is the true reason why George’s
books are found all over our country and America.
—Yours truly, Kabl,
Sir B >yle Roche, the high priest of the
“ Taurus Hibernicus,” was a great character in
Ireland at the end of last century. The following
letter of his, written during the rebellion of ’9B, is
still preserved ;
Dear Sir,—Having now a little peace and quiet, I sit
do wn to inform you of the bustle and confusion we are in
from the bloodthirsty rebels, many of whom are now,
tbai.k God ! killed and dispersed. We are in a pretty
mess, can get nothing to eat, and no wine to drink ex-
cept whiskv. When we sit down to dinner, we are obliged
to keep both hands armed. While I write this, I have my
sword in one hand, and my pistol in the other. I con-
cluded from the beginning that this would be the end,
and lam right, for It is not halt over yet. At present
there are such goings on that everything is at a stand-
still. I should have ans wered your letter a fortnight ago,
but I only received it this morning. Indeed, hardly a
mail arrives safe without being robbed. No longer than
yesterday the mail-coach from Dublin was robbed near
this town ; the bags had been very judiciously left behind,
and by good luck there was nobody in the coach but
two outside passengers who had nothing for the
thieves to take. Last Thursday an alarm was given
that a gang of rebels in full retreat from Drogheda were
advancing under the French standard; but they had no
odours nor any drums except bagpipes. Immediately
every man in the place, including women and children,
ran out to meet them. We soon found our force a great
deal too little, and were far too near to think of retreat-
iag. Death was in every face, and to it wa went By
the time half our party were killed we began to be all
alive. Fortunately the rebels had no guns, except pistole,
cutlasses, and pikes, and we had plenty of muskets and
ammunition. Wo put them all to the sword, not a soul
of them escaped, except ssms that were drowned in an
adjoining bog. In fact, in a short time nothing was
heard but silence. Their uniforms were all different,
chiefly green. After the action was over we went uo rum-
mage their camp. All we found was a few pikes, without
heads, a parcel of empty bottles filled with water, and a
bundle of blank French ormmissioi s filled up with Irish
names. Troops are now stationed round which exactly
squares with my ideas of security. Adieu 1 I have only
time to add that lam yours in great haste.—B R P.S.—
If you do not receive this of course it must have mis-
carried ; therefore I bag you to write and let me know.
Kvirybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow whitr Patent Roller Flour Is the
best in the market.
That famona old Sydney hoatelrle, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and Is now tinder the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymua with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, mu'
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets). P.0.80x 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physhian, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gaze te, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 1-4
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECI Uj DISEASES. Pour cf these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables hini to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their comp'ainbs.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing hut an inorganic trouble, or,
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing-
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim,
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous pow r>
he claims on-y to be a skilled and successful nhysiciau
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Peop’e
residing at a dis f ance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be trea'ed at home. The course of treat ment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H J.
Spbbe, M D., 42 Margaret Street, bet ween George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post O boe Box, No. 920. Office hour-i,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
imms "• invalids
Hm an ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
is now being introduced into the colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
Dr. EIDGrE’S EOYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Life preservation
BY
Dr. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
FREE
PRES CRIPTIO N S are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LITE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent I ree, sealed, for tix
Penny Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mike
Eucalypte Ou-sa.
p
The only pure Eucalypte in the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. Tire only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumpiion, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs ; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers- of the Kucalypte Pills, Bucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucaly’pte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
peop'o Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory -CootaMundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
* Medical.
a wonderful medicine.
Beecham’s Pills
CH4
&
PATENT
m
$
&
&
Are universally admitted
to he -.worth a Guinea
a. Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss. of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
slee’ l , frightful dreams,
ant. ,ll nervous and trem-
bling sengalions ? &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is ■ earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bueciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire.
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.— Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
y ERYOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He w ill, on the receipt of ase f-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical 800 r Rhu . Address —
Herb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
*•*’' O S U F F E K B R S.
JL
Consult Personally or by Letter
Or. ANQERSOK
(Late Cowan and Anderson),
—SPECIALIST ON—
CHRONIC NERVoUS DEBILITY,
SKIN CONTAGIONS,
And all Diseases of the Genito Urinary Organs.
Consultation Free,
Absolute Secrecy observed in all Cases,
N.B. —Medicines forwarded, securely packed, to
all parts of the Colonies.
Note:
Dr. ANDEHSON,
165 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
A. Wonderful Discovery
Rose's Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling an
landy Blight, Inflamed Eye* and Lids, innme*
of »t«bt, etc. It will be found very beneficial and ooohn
8o those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels the>
.0 strain their eyes. Highly recommended by the leadiu
Oculists.
j.; _ „ * The public are requested to notice th
UaUtlOn 1 words, " ROSE’S CELEBRATED EY!
LOTION," with tbe Trule Mark (a Bose) on Dark Blu
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing tb
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
“ fob boss's mmm eye unn
Not for Rose Eye Lotion,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palm?
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading th
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
531 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses
Established 1868 (By post, 3s. fid )
*»"■ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH kN’S’GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS
J- XT S T PUBLI a H E D
A ino-t Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUB.T LOTS.
It contains information most valuable in Nut-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rule-
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send- Post Free One Cory,
given away for the next Hx Months Only. Write
to Professor 11. T. SELBY, Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
\ WM
m
—We Can Recommend—
b. eugehe’s
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
Hair dressing: Saloon
As the most Central and Well-Appointed
of any in the City.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK. W
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Dooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address:
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MBLBOUKNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F, GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIB PL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF -ROMISk,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E. 8.11. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
11 For Framing a Picture Neat and Well 11
x : x
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&o„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edge .
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE YATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c.
Cooperage ;
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Bet eon Kit.g and Market Streets.
(
p
m
i
1 ■ m
m
■
5-’ -
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
TIKST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ala.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents t
DUCBIH, JOHNSTON and Co,
Commercial Chambers, Bond St., Sydney.
iIMBRI. LLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Framaa
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and mad*
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Stdhw,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly dona.
21
&
«AHUP«TUR£RS
ft IMPORTERS Or|
L-uIK. _»
HATS CAPS Ac
f ~*qr. ‘ >
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEY
Opposite LassetCers
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
//
00TC AST L£ | SOf/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
CIPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
O Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advanre), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
M
CONSULT
OORE &
H
OGG
THE EMINENT
_ SPECIALISTS,
On aTI Diseases cJTthe Genito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINOS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.SULTATIONS FREE* PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on. receipt of 2d, stamp
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
13 RIN C E OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated. tx
SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
' Parramatta ana Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Hun RTix Office.


MAteON BROTHERS,
(I/IMITWD,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNBT)
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS Sc SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
tm
ill! |
•fl
i
Beit tenb e e g & c 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wyntard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Tieatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
EABONSKT, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., See., wi hout consulting a medical man.
Address “ Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydaiy.
p
S 2)
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
Regular shipments 'of the be<t Buck hoard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seas, size, 28 xl6 x 6iu deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions and
shafts are light running and short, and for
durability and st*le cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Fur Pass anger Bmfeboards with pole,
&c, 627. E. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Work* in
Australasia. Call and sun us. Terms : Cash :or
Banker’s Reference COP® and NEWMAN,
Imaorters and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
R >ad, Brisbane (South).
or WINHS,
IKPOBTEB or
SPIRITS, BBBBS
So 0.
<SoO.
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameßon’a Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old);
' * Hennessy’s, Kartell's and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
W. Jameson’s, Danville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies.
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
US" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. OF All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottlbd Am and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
OF SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIESI-CLASS LADIES' EEIsFshIjW BOOM and LA7A7087,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedkbn k Sons).
-{;}■
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WTNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THK
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000. Reserve, £270,000.
Wool Season, 1888-89.
REGULAR SALES OF WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Woolf
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether from
large or small clips
I®" Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Pro-
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins*
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manage*.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loptus Stbebts.
Genuine Swedish made ‘crown
BRAND” HORSE IHOE-N AILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
a A. FALBTEDT,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Abenos Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the oiivlised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at Once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM, Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London, tgf Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pota.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
spurious
INSPECT THE SWEET
BURG PIANOS
AT THI
SE mm MACHINE DEPOTS
VICTO R I A.
I
MELBOURNE
91
99
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUOA
BEEOH WORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL...
■JALB
MARYBOROUGH...
Head Offioe: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
... ... Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... ... 56 Moorabool Street.
... ... Main Street, next Aesohlmann’s.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
... ... Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTS!
T, lE. GEDDES Co r
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
p
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Finishers, Plumbers,
Brass & Bell Founders, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittkrs, Art and Mediaeval Metal Workers.
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices 11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BOX ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Staumore Road, Petersham.
Perdriau • Co.,
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &o.
TENNIS SHOES and BALLS.
AUSTRALIAN RUBBER WORKS, m GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
p
CH
do
.«■'
-.'■■■
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
j.
US' Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
-Is}.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary fiat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S, A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, LT.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Waiohes. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold a*, vantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
CHROHOG
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
■
