

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIRST AWARD for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is hy the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award, for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended
“WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. Non-Magnetic Watches. —Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetic watches of this
exhibit, I have now the honour to report further upon it. Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palhard’s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion of an expert,
who examined one of the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches, as well as one of Eotheranrs Watches with Palliard’s non-magnetic balance. This expert (Mr. Kahan) reports as follows I have received
from Messrs. Robert Beeston and Co., agents for the Waltham Watch Company, a non-magnetic watch, for the purpose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
anTco’s i haw examined watch No. 3,292,923, lever escapement, keyless (Riverside). The balance (bi-metallic compensated) hair-sprmg (Breguet), lever, pallets, and ruby roller are made of such
metals that are not liable to become magnetised, and consequently these watches are well adapted for the purpose for which they are made. The balance and hairspring are not identical with those
“ The exhibitors have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department. This
report is as follows ; At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos.
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, losing. I then regulated it so as to bring it to a gaming rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days the watch was again used in the
dynamo-room, and without affecting the rate. I have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact with dynamos at work, having a magnetic field which I think would have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day. ’
“I have also a report of a series of careful experiments with one of these watches Irom Mr, R. C. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the result of which shows that these watches,
after being laid on the poles of the large dynamos at work for one or two minutes, and afterwards regulated and then exposed again for twenty or twenty-live minutes, did not appreciably alter then rates. r.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery.
“In consideration of these reports in connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company be given a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
NON-MAGNCTIC WATCH. R C J- ELLERY, E RA., CHAIRMAN.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions
PHILADELPHIA, IS7S, Pour Prise Medals; PARIS, 1878, field Medal; SYDHiT, 1830, field Medal, with Two Special and Pour First Prises; MELBOURNE, 1831, Two field Medale;
M ORLEANS, 1888, Five Prise Medals; MOTIONS EXHIBITION LONDON. 1883, field Medal; MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL IXHIBITI,IBBO-9, First Award, Non-MapetieWatches
. Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology. »
' Extract from the London Hußological Journal, July, 1889“ The Great Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express.’ .
AMERICAN WALTHAM V/ATCHES.-OOV3RNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
TENDERS hivincr been called for the supply of WATCHES for use upon the New South Wales Government Railways for the ensuing year, the preference was given to the celebrated
RATTW VY 'GUARDS’ ? W VTCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. This is the Ninth Consecutive Year during which the WALTHAM WATCHES have been
Siobbii by New
South Wales Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
f Sole Australian Agency: WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
rrHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY L.IMITEI).
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine and Mortuary Dividexici Systems.
BONUS YEAR.-—Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federated Sqxiatterß
-AND—
Fcl^me^s , Co-Operstive Association of Austrs.l3.si3,, Limited,
Q.TJ.A.Y, SinDHSTEY .
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mbdiasvad Metal Workers
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
ROLLER SKATES (any moke) with BRASS or WOO BEX WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
TayloHßro
HIGHLY NUTRITJVE
Coeoci
4-
MAY B£ OBTAINED IN LABELLED HNS Oft PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
CET Q(/\ '
d
05
X
V 1 H
\ ,h. 4
wmmM
t
m
/X
r/.
.
M
£1
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET Two Doors from Market Street. SYDNEY,
hig h-c lass i ztsr d i a nsr
&
CHHJTA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. And 40lb. Packages, and delivered at Is. Gd., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Priee. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, November 16, 1889.


TOBACCO
m
in
m
HF
1
*
C 2
o
3J
o
ftw'
X
o
SIR ROGER
o
50
o
\r
o
toil
DIXSQNS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Hu an enormous sale In England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.” K
Something New ! Something NeW 1
The £2 Package, “Can’t B Beat” (registered)
laiF” Smoker’s Companion! "Kt
containing the following : -
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
lib. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American To oacoo
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Out, American
Delivered Free at Rediern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
T> RITTENBERG & CO.
-*-*• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St„ Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
■urpaues all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRAHGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dealer t, and of the Manufacturer* —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark —“ White Rose ”on Golden
k Lyre, with Address In full. m
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
87 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Meroh.aiMt.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING —
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to all OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
X X
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. fid. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd.
■
...... .... _ -■»‘w
SAUCE
AUC
jfn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAIfCE aiithieh art calculated Jo deceive Jhe Public, Lea and Perrint
have to request that Purchasers Jt* that the flabel^o9livery bolt Is
'bears their Signature thus -9
&
without . which no 'hoitle of the, original W&KCESTEESHIRM
\SA UCEjis genuine.
Ask for LEA' end PERRINS' Sauce, and tee Name-on Wrapper, Label, Settle and
Stepper, Wholesale and for Expert by the Proprietors, Worcester; Cress* end
Blackwell, London, (r“e,, bre. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
VV ILLIAM OAIIGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States foi the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LB TVT 03NT S QXJEB ZERS, &©., & °*
ZMIcILoSLim. Bros. Sz X-itcL,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ Tbo Bulletin’s ” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents —Victorian ; A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland :J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10- No. 509.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1889.
Price, 6d.
Pm
The Fiscal Question-in New South Wales.
PLOTECTION HEN (to Freetrude Go[?]) NOW, THE QUESTION IS-WHOSE CHICKEN IS THIS GOING TO BE! YOU LAID THE EGG AND HAVE SAT ON IT "


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt strket, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly olr 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ■■■ 0G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'‘Correspondence'' column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 2000 words, arc specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Ncivspapcr-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin’’ will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
■in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
T^^xxlMzai.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1881).
Working the Oracle.
In days of old, when a momentous problem
of policy or action embarrassed an individual
or a State, it was customary to submit the
matter to some oracle. Of the ancient
oracles, none was so highly esteemed as that
of Apollo at Delphi. The trifling drawback
attendant upon reference to this, as to other
oracles, was that, when the deity had vouch-
safed an answer to the inquiry submitted,
the utterance was of so ambiguous a character
that it practically required the talents of an
Edipus to expound its actual signification.
Sir Henry Parkes would have made a first-
rate priest of Apollo. His explanations
with respect to the relation between the
fiscal question and the federation of the
Australian colonies have been thoroughly
Delphic in character. Speaking at St.
Leonards, he delivered himself of the mystic
declaration that, “situated as we are, the
tariff question ought not to be considered in
bringing about the greater consummation—•
the federation of these colonies.” The pro-
mulgation of this oracular declaration was
bailed with applause by his awe-struck and
open-mouthed auditory. It was so majesti-
cally incomprehensible that they felt dimly
that, inasmuch as its meaning was above
their level of comprehension, it must neces-
sarily he fraught with a stupendous signifi-
cance. Sydney Daily Telegraph receded it
with a superb faith, and entering with con-
vincing alacrity into the'Delphic spirit,
declared with appropriate vagueness that Sir
Henry's speech “ was almost more impor-
tant for what it elicited than for what it
conveyed.” The Sydney Morning Herald,
however, with a scepticism quite surprising,
jarred the sensibilities of the devout by
coolly asserting that the utterance “might
have been clearer.” The reason for this
deficient veneration appears to have been
that the Herald found itself confronted by
a dilemma. It has for the last few years set
an example of the must religions deference
to Sir Oracle Parkes, but it has always
grovelled before another oracle, the London
Times. Now the older oracle had most in-
conveniently uttered a deliverance which
jould not, by any exertion of mental
sophistry, he reconciled with the declaration
of the more recent one,, The Times had
pronounced that the adjustment of a federal
tariff is one of “ the special difficulties in the
way of immediate federation. ’ To a recog-
nition of the insuperable incompatibility of
these two statements is undoubtedly duo the
somewhat compromising hint that ()racle No.
i? would do well to have another shot and
mind what it oracled.
# * #
Thus appealed to, Oracle Parkes conceded
another utterance at Sydney Town Hall, on
Friday last. On this occasion he declared
that ‘ ‘ in the interests of the whole of these
Australian colonies you can make no con-
ditions at all ” (with respect to Federation).
“ We must trust to the reason and good
faith of the colonies who federate to settle
matters of difference afterwards.” But,
then, a few minutes later he observed that
‘ ‘ as to the fiscal policy, I say that, for the
present, I decline to look into that question
at all. For me, or for any party, to dictate
to the whole of this Australasian population
as to what the policy of the Federal Govern-
ment is to he in the future, is to needlessly
erect harriers to the consummation of this
great achievement.” This would appear
explicit enough—marvellously explicit for an
oracle, in fact—were it not that Sir Henry,
in the course of his previous speech, had
been at the pains to recount some subjects
which should property come under the scope
of Federal action. Among these were men-
tioned Railways, Influx of Foreign Criminals,
Fisheries, and a Court of Appeal. A
uniform railway-gauge was particularised,
hufc among the things which were not men-
tioned is an Uniform Tariff. It is not too
, much to say that this supreme subject is
“ conspicuous by its absence.” Its omission
renders the oracular deliverances, regarded
comprehensively, as still invested with the
traditional degree of obscurity.
* o CJ
ft was not thus with Parkes’ Treasurer,
Mr. M‘Millan. There was nothing oracular
about him. He spoke out like a little man
who had made up his little mind. He put
his little foot down with a smart stamp,
and asseverated that “the only Federation
which New South Wales will accept will be
the Federation of Freetrade,’ and he ex-
plained, with a natty particularity, that
“this must mean Freetrade with the world.”
Before this article can reach the eyes of our
readers, a day or two must elapse. During
that interval it will be discovered whether
Mr. M‘Millan’s foot is to remain where ho
planted it with so apparently determined
and so emphatic a smack, or whether he is
to take it up again. In fact, it will he seen
whether he had popped down his foot upon
solid ground, or whether he had inadvert-
ently put it into his own mouth. We
remarked, at the time, that we considered
he had opened that organ rather wider than
nature meant it to be stretched. This much,
at least, is clear, amidst much that is yet
obscure—that, whereas the Colonial Trea-
surer of New South Wales has declared
emphatically that he will never consent
to Federate except upon a Freetrade
basis, the Premier has jrist as emphati-
cally pronounced that no consideration of
that kind shall he allowed to intrude.
What the Premier has not said, however,
is that the tariff question shall be among
the subjects with regard to which power to
decide shall be transferred from the several
colonial legislatures to the proposed Federal
Parliament. Mr. Barton, at the Town Hall
meeting, expressed himself as being satisfied
that such was the Premier’s meaning. Mr.
Traill pressed for something more definite
and downright than Sir Henry Parkes had
yet committed himself to. If Mr. Barton
he correct, one Ministry can scarcely contain
Sir Henry Parkes and Mr. M’Millan. If
they continue to work together there will be
reason to suppose either that Mr. M‘Millan
has swallowed his words—in which case it
will be necessary for him to publicly open
his mouth again—or tint Sir Henry Parkes
has been able to afford him an assurance
that the oracular nature of his deliverances,
with all their mixture of suggestiveness and
omission, was employed to veil the fact that
after all lie meant precisely what Mr.
M‘Millan, less ambiguously dexterous, had
conveyed with inexpert directness of phrase-
ology.
# * *
Until Sir Henry Parkes says, right out,
without any obscurity of phraseology, that
he proposes that the Federal Parliament
shall he charged with the determination of
the fiscal policy of Australia, we shall take
the liberty of reserving our opinion as to his
buna-fifes on the whole subject of Federa-
tion. Meanwhile, the weaklings and trim-
mers in both the fiscal camps are smitten
with bewilderment, consternation, and irre-
solution. While there remains a chance
that the oracle may speak again and give
the decisive turn to his yet not conclusive
vaticinations, the sort of Freetraders who
are realty only Parkesites knock together
the knees of tiepidation and twitter with
apprehension lest they he required to declare
their views ; the bigots of Foreign-trade, on
the other hand, are in agonies of doubt. If
Parkes deserts them they feel that their
cause is doomed. They are loth to believe
that he is honest in the seeming sense of the
words, and are offering up prayers that they
may discover him to have been guilty of
fraudulent pretences of Nationalism, so that
lie may he worthy to he clasped to their
bosoms once again. To oppose the National
cause, they perceive to he ruinous and
hopeless. To assist it they know to ho a
penance too severe to he borne. For they
recognise, as all reasonable men must, that
Foreign-trade must he blasted by the first
breath of the Australian nation. The quan-
dary of the Foreign-traders is indeed a piti-
able one; If they assent to complete and
genuine federation they surrender everything
they have contended for during the past four
years. They tacitly concede that their argu-
ment! have been false and foolish. If they
intrigue for an incomplete Federation, they
recognise that once they allow the floodgates
of Nationalism to he opened the rush of
waters will sweep away their paltry inven-
tions and obstructions. If they remain in-
active they are doomed to witness complete
demonstration of the justice of the claim of
the Protectionists —we except, of course, the
parochial Protectionists Of New South Wales
—to the style of the National Party. Turn
as they may, there is no consolation on any
hand : whichever way their gaze is directed
a mortification presents itself to view.
* * *
We have always a heart to feel for the
wretched, and we hasten to pour balm upon
the lacerated pride of the Foreign-traders.
After all, we can assure them Federation is
far from accent lished. But, perhaps, they
may resent this style of consolation. It is
too frank in its implications. Who said that
they would rejoice if the National movement
proved a failure 1 they may ask with appre-
hensive indignation. Well, perhaps it is
merely our idea—an idea attributable to the
unlucky circumstance that we are unable to
conceive of any other suggestion which
would be likely to alleviate their woes. All
the oracles are against them. Oracle
Parkes declares that Federation must and
shall be. So far, at least, he is explicit.
Oracle Times pronounces that there can bo
no Federation without a uniform tariff.
Oracle S. M. Herald groans out that to
transfer the power to determine the fisqpl
policy of the colony from the local to a
federal legislature would he “to hand Free-
trade over to he slaughtered ! ” The
chain of doom lacks not a single link.
No hope remains. The cajolery that,
in assenting tp Federation, Freetraders
will place themselves in no worse position
than before so assenting, has not a scintilla
of relief in it. What heart can people have
in fighting to the death to maintain a fort
against local assailants when they know that
its surrender to the allies of those assailants is
as good as arranged ? Even should Federa-
tion not be realised yet awhile even
should Parkes return to their racked
bosoms with a sprightly air and the ex-
planation that he has merely been hav-
ing a little diversion, with what spirit,
with what countenance can they resume the
struggle ? The demonstration that their
cause is anti-National, that before Federa-
tion can he accomplished it must he aban-
doned or sacrified, has been too conspicuous
—too compromising. The logic of facts has
been too prominently expounded. There is
no more hope for Foreign-trade. Every
Nationalist perceives it is incompatible with
his supreme aspiration, and, as it must he
abandoned, may as well he abandoned soon
or late. Every trimmer will recognise the
hopelessness of the cause and will hasten to
throw in with the one destined to win, thus
increasing the assurance of success. Whether
Parkes now marches forward or attempts
to retreat the ultimate result will he the
same. He has dealt a deathblow to the
cause of Foreign-trade in New South Wales.
Mr. Murray Suggests.
Mr. David Christie Murray will not leave
behind him on the sands of Australian time any
very deeply-dinted or enduring footprints. He
seems to have tried hard not to do so. He has
walked lightly and circumspectly before the Corn-
stalk and the Gumsucker, and tiptoed his way
about our continent with a manner of humble and
earnest respectfulness. Whatever of individuality
or sturdy opinion he has about him does not seem
to have once been called into use ; he has been the
timid deprecator or the uncurbed admirer of every-
thing. From a capacious dilly-bag of inoffensive
generalities lie has managed to pull out something
to suit any occasion where lavish praise or ap-
proval would seem preposterous ; where they
seemed only less than that he has been a very
Daniel O’Connor come to judgment. He thinks
you have here indeed a magnificent territory mani-
festly destined to cradle a magnificent civilisation.
He also admires the genius of your Mr. P. J.
Holdsworth, and rises to thank his gods- with a
small “s,” please, printer—that he has lived to see
and hear Sir Henry Parkes. And so on ad
infinitum, chiefly slush.
# # #
Surety in the way of abiding and phenomenal
thinness no writings can well be found to excel
those which Mr. Murray has contributed to the
press during his sojourn among us. Of these, the
first, dealing with the London dock-labourers, had
some literary flavour and human interest, but the
rest are poor, indeed. They bear the impress of
having been produced to till so much space, and
are no whit better than any one of ten dozen hack-
writers in our midst could produce, Something
painfully like what everybody else has said, and
will continue ti say, about the Blue Mountains,
something p tiably padded and prosy about kan-
garoo-shooting, and a-glimpse into future possi-
bilities of Australia. It is with this latter that
we are going to con cm ourselves just now. In
the course of his article on the dock-labourers and
their troubles Mr. Murray hinted briefly that
there might be something done in the way of
peopling the great silent areas of Australia with
the tens of thousands who overpeople the under-
world of London. We had something to say about
that at the time : something showing that there
were untilled acres nearer home that would yield
a much better result to labour expended upon them
than ours. But Mr. Murray, in his last utter-
ance, returns to the subject in a more definite way.
He has a plan to propose, and he submits it with
deference and hopes there is no offence. He
specialty disclaims any assumption of superiority
in making his suggestions, and generally appears
to reckon that nearly anyone could have made
them. The same careful judgment which appears
to have controlled all his conduct is here mau : -
fested.
## . #
Experience has shown that arid tracts of land
can be transformed at a comparatively small cost
into cultivable and highly fertile areas. Central
Australia seems t« have an immeasurable supply
of underground water which only wants tapping
with that magic wand of science, the diamond
drill, to boil out high into the air and wash things
away for some distance around. The more such
water-supply is developed, the greater the quantity
of the fluid thus drawn from the bowels of the
earth, the greater will become the natural humidity
of the climate. That is inevitable, because Nature's
elevenpence-half-penny law of evaporation and con-
densation would fix it. Tims far, in effect, Mr,
Murray is quite right. He goes on then to
suggest that some arrangements could be come to
between Australia and the Imperial Government
—being careful to point out that lie does not for a
moment mean that we should thereby relinquish
any possession or privilege we now enjoy—
by which some such sum as £1,000,000 per
annum might be expended in the coloni-
sation of the interior. Certain eligible areas of
land should be chosen for irrigation mapped out
and put’in wdrking order at Imperial cost. The
occupants of the colony or colonies thus created
would pay to the Home Government a rental—a
purchase rental, Mr. Murray is particular to say
■ —which, in 20 years, would leave them in fp ( ’.
simple of the soil and their habitations. The
rental could be so calculated as to cover reasonable
interest upon the money advanced by the Imperial
Government, which need not lose a penny. The
scheme would provide the population that Aus-
tralia needs while the mother country would, gain
by the relief of her over-crowded labour market.
Thus, admittedly with diffidence. Mr. Murray’s
land-settlement scheme and the form of its
promulgation is so similar to that propounded
with more confidence from a public platform by
Major Dane, that it seems probable that the
American warrior and the British novelist have
been at least comparing notes over the matter,
* * #
Our first motion regarding his proposition is to
cast it forth upon the dustheap of dereliction with-
out undue delay; our next, to give reasons for
doing so. These are many, and, we think, solid,
Ho far as its effect upon refractory Nature is con-
cerned, the scheme is merely extended Chaffeyisin,
and as such can be classified without hesitation,
Beyond a doubt the desert may be made to bloom
and blossom; beyond a doubt science can grapple
with even the problem of climate by storing wafir
and attracting clouds to certain spots. Immense
populations may yet inhabit the world-wide
stretch of heated wasteland that has barely yet
been penetrated by a few pioneers in Central Aus-
tralia. But if the people are to be placed upon
the land on any such terms as those indicated by
Mr. Murray, no attempt is made to solve the
social difficulty. It is baling out the sinking boat,
not striving to stop the leak. It is deferring
calamity instead of attempting to avert it
altogether. If England’s labour-market is really
overcrowded there will come a time when the
pressure cannot be relieved by deportation. The
world will not always present new fields for
emigration. If the English labour-market is over-
supplied the time will come when the labour-
market of any other country growing up under
similar conditions may be over-supplied, and the
last vent hole before universal explosion plugged
up. If the assumption upon which Mr. Murray’s
proposal seems to be based—that at any time in a
nation’s history labour necessarily becomes too
plentiful—is true, “we need not tinker at this
leaking world ; ’tis ruined past all care.” Let us
examine that assumption though, before looking
forward to the early triumph of everlasting smash.
* * #
Labour is the universal provider. Acting upon
existing matter it gives to it shapes of use and
desirability. Everything needful or enjoyable is
the product of labour. There should be no labour
to be found involuntarily unemployed until either
every human desire had been satisfied or machinery
had rendered the exertion of man himself unneces
sary. In either case the unemployed might be
perfectly happy. But what we see in England
and everywhere is labour standing unemployed
while the keenest demand exists for the very
things which it could produce if allowed to go to
work. Bootmakers, tailors, butchers, bakers
begging for employment, while the great majority
of the people have not enough boots, enough
clothing, enough meat, enough bread is not that
singular? Does it not seem that there is some'
thing very wrong where such an unreasonable
and unnatural state of things can exist ? Isn’t
it worth while trying to find a remedy for it where
it does exist, instead of creating new centres for
its operation ? The people of England want boots,
clothing, food; they have in themselves the
potentiality of labour to produce something to
give in return to the bootmakers, tailors and
bakers, who are in dire want also. What is it,
then, that prevents all parties going to work at
once, to their mutual gain? This —they cannot
produce without raw material. The raw material
is locked up, and those only who can pa v die
heaviest bribes may have the key.
# # *
In other words, land-ownership blocks the way.
The few owners of England demand so much in
rent and royalty from the many users of England
that we see what we see. Professor Thokold
Rogers, in a scathing article published in the
Contemporary Review four years ago, in the
course of which he truly remarked : “ The two
Houses of Parliament are keenly alive to the
interest of the land-owner, and to the duty ol
robbing others in his behalf,” pointed out that
during th° last four centuries rent has increased
twenty-fold in natural pasture, sixty-fold in arable
land, and more than a thousand-fold in ground-
rent generally, “an increase effected without any
other labour than that of appropriation on the
part of the owner.” Rent has kept up with pro-
gress and invention, and with all man’s splendidly
increased powers of production, he is just a trifle
worse off in England to-day on the whole (unless
he is a land-owner) than lie was away back in the
comparative savagery of the fourteenth century.
If Mr. Murray would glance through the report or
the Royal Commission on the Depression of Trade
and Industry which sat in 188(5 he would pro
bably begin to see why poverty is at bay, and
why in England the labour market seems sc
especially glutted. What was indisputably proven
and set on record, was that “as the rents
of farms in agricultural districts have absorbed
the profits of industry, so in the mining districts
the dead-rents, the way leave rents, royalties, amt
similar charges payable to the land-owners, place
upon industry an undue and increasing burden.
It was also shown that the atrocious increase ot
city rents had so affected businesses of the nature
of the dockyards, that only by merciless economy
in the matter of wages and every ether expendi-
ture could the huge ground rentals be paid and a
miserably small interest upon the invested capita,
secured. There are cases of companies working
in England, which, with an enormous invested
capital, have never yet paid any dividend, biu
pay more annually for royalties than in wages.
Let Mr. Murray sit down and think such a thing
as that out right to the end, and lie will, perhaps,
have something better to suggest for the relief e
England than the establishment of little embryo
Englands in the heart of Australia. It may occur
to him, as it has occurred to some of our best
thinkers, that ample room and profitable employ-
ment could Ixi found in England for twice her pre-
sent pojxilation.


The twenty years purchase scheme has no heal-
j n g j n it, any more than the Irish peasant pro-
prietary scheme of which it is a counterpart. But
the Irish tenants in a position to purchase their
holdings and at some considerable cost you secure
a postponement of landlord shooting, but not
necessarily more than a postponement. For, after
a generation or so, some of the erstwhile tenants
would have become the landlords of others and rack-
renting, eviction, and independent hedge-firing
would have come in again. Make laud private
property anywhere and you can no more prevent
one man from selling the natural opportunity
which his children have a right to than you can
prevent another from buying it. Plainly speaking,
you cannot prevent him from selling the future of
his children and another from buying it. That
is just what has happened in England as
William Corbett showed more than fifty
years ago. We give Mr. Murray credit
for the best of intentions, but there is a
pain in the world’s heart which will need
stronger medicine than applied Chaffeyism to re-
move it. He writes good readable novels, and is
obtrusively agreeable among us, bub his complais-
ant little prescription will not meet the case. It
was civil in him to trouble about it, but social
conditions have got beyond the influence of brim-
stone-and-syrup and pap-and-treaele. There has
got to be an operation, and the longer it is put off
by such plans as he advises the worse it will be
when the time comes.
Profit-Sharing.
There is no shibboleth more popular with persons
professing themselves friends of the labourer than
profit-sharing. There are Socialists and Socialists
—men who look upon all capitalists and employers
as little better than robbers, and men who, rightly
or wrongly, accept existing conditions as a basis
for the improvement of the status of the worker.
It is natural that the former class should long
for the arrival of that blessed time when
there shall no longer be employers and. em-
ployed, when all the value which labour gives a
commodity shall be the exclusive property of
the labourer, and when all labour disputes shall
end and comfort reign throughout tho_ land.
People who hold these views point with high ap-
proval to the success of certain profit-sharing
establishments, especially in France, as examples
of the operation of a principle which might be
made universal in its application. Unfortunately
for the strength of the argument the places where
profit-sharing enterprise may boast of complete
success are of a very exceptional character. They
have been conducted by very rich men of un-
bounded philanthropy, and have had the further
advantage of being happy in their situation as re-
gards the markets which they supply. Besides
this, the success of such establishments has been
relative, not absolute—relative as regards the con-
dition of neighbouring industries and not absolute
as bringing about a condition of life to which
every labourer has a right to aspire. The conces-
sion of the principle of profit-sharing has been for
the most part prompted by a feeling of true in-
terest in the worker, but the end of most of such
experiments have been failure.
* * *
Co-operative societies are, as a rule, more suc-
cessful than profit-sharing industries, but here,
too, success has been mostly gained in businesses
where little foresight is demanded. Where higher
talents are required, such concerns either fail or
fall into the hands of one man. Some few years
ago one of the sections of the water-works near
Campbell town, New South Wales, was let to a
body of working miners, who, in spite of the great
consideration shown them, ultimately allowed
what must have been a profitable contract to fall
into the hands of a few of their leaders; who, in
turn, true to the instincts of their class, became
conservative contractors and exacted the same
labour from their employes and gave the same pay
that other employers did. In any body of men if
there be one who is naturally a leader, he will force
his way to the front. This is the universal experi-
ence. Aptitude for command wins its way,
whether it be among the bands of organised larri-
kins who adorn some of our suburbs or among the
legislators who infest our Parliament. Co-opera-
tion works best where the results of the business
are readily ascertained from day to day —and fails
where ultimate success depends upon patient
waiting and steadfast self-denial. The experience
of profit-sharing is, however, not exactly parallel
with that of co-operation, since the two systems
are themselves radically different. Profit-sharing
pre-supposes a capitalist and employer who shares
part of the earnings of his business with his work-
men, while, in a co-operative concern, what capital
is required is contributed by the owners who are
at the same time the employes. The weakness of
profit-sharing is, that at best, it is but a
remedy against an individual and not against
society at large. There is nothing in profit-
sharing per se, to benefit the condition of the
baker. A man may divide the whole earnings of
his business amongst his labourers, and their con-
dition may be not better than their neighbours’,
who .are not indulged in any profits. Thus, there
may be two mill-owners working side by side ; in
the one case A, who shares his profits with his
men, may pay them five shillings per day and
divide his profits with them to the extent even of
half his income, while B, who will not agree to
any profit sharing, pays six shillings per day,
which in the end may possibly be higher than the
combined wages and profits earned by A’s em-
ployes.
# * #
The worker may justly say, “ any employer who
gets more than he is entitled to out of my labour,
should share his profits with me, so that what his
■ capital earns through my labour may receive its
right reward, but no more.” The bargain is well
enough while profits are liberally earned, but
there is unfortunately nothing in the nature of
profit-sharing to ensure the success of a business.
Those who love a principle in theory are not often
ready to make sacrifices for it in every day life.
Society is not governed by sentiment, and men
and women will not buy from any manufacturer
or dealer, unless his wares are better or cheaper
than others, even if he divides his profits with his
workmen. Profit-sharing businesses are therefore
subject to the same vicissitudes and financial con-
ditions as other enterprises. It is reckoned that
at least sixty per cent, of those who start in
business ultimately find their way into the Bank-
ruptcy Court, so there must be, at least, sixty per
cent, of the labourers who will have no profits to
receive.
* # *
It is strange how even the best writers on econo-
mics look upon profit-sharing with favour. Wo
fear, however, there is much more sentiment than
reason in their predilection for this form of justice
to the labourer. An amusing instance of this will
be found in Professor .Tkvons. That distinguished
writer quoted with great approval the case of the
Briggs Brothers, in England, where the men re-
ceived two to five pounds a year out of the profits.
Unfortunately for the success of the illustration
the words had hardly been printed when the un-
grateful employes at Briggs’ went out on strike
for an increase of wages. We have in our mind
the case of a very large business in New South
Wales employing, say, 1200 men with a total
annual payment in wages alone of £150,000. The
actual capital embarked in the concern is, say,
£600,000. Suppose the principle of profit-sharing
were established by law, and all earnings on
capital over 5 per cent, were to be divided equally
between the capitalist and the labourer. In the
case before us the share of the labourers would be
£5OOO, so that for every pound in wages there
would be a profit dividend of eightpence, and the
man in receipt of 50 shillings a week would receive
the munificent addition to his wages of a trifle
over threepence a day. Yet this is a very favour-
able case, for few profit-sharing enterprises have
been able to give their employes more than 5 per
cent of the net profits, while in- this instance the
profits assumed to be divided are not less than 12J
per cent.
# # *
Can it be wondered, then, that the astute leaders
of labour in England and America have no trust
whatever in profit-sharing, and in their practical
way are far wiser than those who profess to teach
them economics. We have taken the trouble to
go through the valuations of a large number of
the superior class of businesses in England, show-
ing the capital employed, the wages paid, and the
profit earned, and it would appear that the total
wages paid are equivalent in two-and-a-half years
to the total capital embarked, and the profit
earned equals 5| per cent, on the money invested.
If, therefore, labour received the whole earnings
of the business the sum so obtained would be
equal to an advance of 13f per cent. The most
bigoted advocate of profit-sharing would pro-
bably be content with one-third of the profit, so
that the wage-earner would secure, when there were
profits, an advance of somewhat more than 4J per
cent, on his earnings. Here, again, the question
of the success of a business becomes all important,
and the same town or the same street would pre-
sent the spectacle of a business of the same class
paying different wages to their employes, which,
of course, would be antagonistic to the very first
law of trades-unionism.
# * *
The benefits which Labour has received from
trade-unionism can hardly be over-stated : shorter
hours, higher wages, and increased consideration.
Much, of course, yet remains to be done, especially
in regard to wages. We should prefer, and with-
out doubt the labourer himself would prefer to
leave the solution of the problem in the hands of
the leaders of the labour movement in preference
to the doctrinaire, the pseudo-economist. We see
no difficulty in the way of profit-sharing—as a
matter of practical business the objection is, that
it is an indirect and uncertain way of accomplish-
ing what can be done directly and with certainty.
It makes the business capacity of an employer a
factor in determining wages, which should alone
rest upon the labour of the employed. If the
workmen of England had been content to divide
with their employers the profits of their business
and had, if such were possible, received for the
last 50 years half the profits earned, their position
would be far worse than it is to-day. By com-
bination they have received an increase of wages
equivalent to 75 per cent., while the net profits
earned at no time amounts to more than 16 per
cent, of the wages. It would, therefore, have
been ridiculous to accept a division of profits
as in any sense a final solution of the pro-
blem. It is an encouraging sign that the robust
sense of the working classes has seen the weakness
of this industrial remedy more clearly than many
professed economists, and have not been tempted
to forego the tangible benefits of high wages for
the uncertain results of a plausible theory. The
strength of the position taken up by trades-
unionists is that wages are paid before profits
arise, and the weakness of the economists’ theory
is that the profits which labour is invited to share
may never be earned.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The New Union.
The shop-assistants of Sydney, like those of
Adelaide, have decided to form themselves
into a Union. The first object which they
hope to achieve by associated action is a re-
duction in their hours of labour. This they
are certainly entitled to. Assistants in Sydney
work ten, twelve, and sometimes sixteen hours_ a
day. They have beheld Labour straightening it-
self on all sides of them. Shoemakers, boiler-
makers, tailors, tinkers, navvies, and workers of
almost all sorts have cut down their period of toil
from twelve to ten and from ten to eight hours out
of twenty-four. These march up and down the
streets, celebrating their victory on string and
wind instruments. They flaunt it on flags and
banners. The triumphs were all achieved by
union, and shop assistants would be an un-
teaohable lot if they did not put their
heads together to fight Circumstance with a
similar weapon. A shop-assistants’ union should
be then on precisely the same moral and industrial
ground as a sailors’ or a tailors’ union. The mem-
bers are entitled to extract as much honey from
life as those occupied in other businesses. As
they have failed to win certain rights acting one
by one, they are called upon to renew the demand,
acting all together. So far, neither doubt nor
obscurity intrudes in considering the question.
Matters are not so plain, however, a step or two
farther ahead. How do shop-assistants propose
to cut down their working day ? We say nothing
of the difference between the work of a shop-
assistant and of a carpenter or stonemason, as,
notwithstanding the difference, the assistant in a
stuffy establishment may wear out more body and
brain in the service oc his employer than the
bare-armed, sun-browned worker at the corner of
the street. At any rate, it is a life given for the
means of living. As in Milton’s sonnet, he
works who merely waits. The point is—How are
shops to be served to full hours if assistants are
to be released after half or three-quarters of a
shop day ? The assistants say ; Shut the shops.
NoW, he is the best friend of the assistants who
refuses to take this as a good scheme. When
carpenters wanted eight hours, when compositors
wanted eight hours, did they demand that all
business should cease when they threw their
aprons off ? The compositor works his eight hours
and if his employer likes to keep open six-
teen he retires, and leaves room for a brother
worker, or as occasion serves, works on
for separate pay. Shop assistants on the
contrary demand' that the work they cannot
do to-day shall be kept over for them to-morrow.
The principle is utterly bad. The proprietors of
the large drapery and other soft-goods establish-
ments in Sydney make as much, and it may be
said more, out of their business in twelve months
than do the proprietors of printing and various
similar establishments. When, however, printers
wanted reduced hours they fought the question
with their misters, leaving their masters full
power to work their establishments as long as they
liked, but reserving to themselves the power and
right to cease work at the end of eight hours. In-
stead of acting thus, the shop-assistants propose
to save their masters any loss likely to arise
on the new arrangement. In other words,
they want to obtain an advantage without
paying anything for it themselves and without
allowing their employers to pay anything for it.
Under this aspect the shop assistants’ association
stands shorn of high purpose, and is in no. way to
be placed on a level with the workingmen organis-
ations which have done so much to elevate labour.
It.is, of course, said that master drapers and others
will not entertain the claims of the assistants un-
less they are guaranteed from loss, but that is just
the attitude the assistants are called upon to face.
The'same thing was said to carpenters, to_ brick-
layers, to masons, to all, but all stood to their right
for a fair day’s wages for a fair day’s work, and in the
end the masters submitted. Why must soft goods
employers, wliy must drapers, mercers and so on
be hedged in from the troubles which assailed
other employers ? This brings up the frequent
complaint made by assistants to this effect, that
the wives of workingmen are the most pertinacious
in following up late shopping. The reply is that
in the first place these working-women are quite
within their rights. When their husbands con-
tended for short hours the balanceof society was
not called upon to put shutters up in their behalf.
But in the second place, the women, without _ per-
haps knowing it, act on a great and true instinct.
The market for shop-assistants is crowded. _ If
assistants now employed will retire after eight
hours’ work, a demand will be created for the
services of substitutes. That is the real point of
difficulty the union, as at present organised, will
have to meet. If it only seeks a half-holiday now
and again, if it only wants a few hours for a
special purpose, the principles it goes upon will be
strong enough supports. As a concession to
harmless desires, as a proof of sympathy, the
public as a body may back up the assistants ; but
if the union claims the support of the public on the
ground of its being a great labour movement, in
the interests of labour and on the lines which lead
to great issues, it will discover itsjending in failure
and will from the best friends of labour hear its
best principles reprobated.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
On tee Only,
It was only a few weeks ago that the Sydney
Daily Telegraph told us of deep perturbation
among the Customs officers at Albury. An iEscu-
lapian pagan in his blindness, one Dr. On Lee,
sickbed o’er their brows with the pale cast of
thought by his proceedings. They, noting his pub-
lic entry by rail into their colony, demanded that
he should fork over the poll-tax which public
opinion, speaking through the brass trumpet of
Parliament, has proclaimed to be a fair measure of
reciprocity on the part of New South Wales for
the honour conferred upon her by the residence of
any and every Chow. But the medicinal
Confuoian, to the confusion of the Caucasian,
produced a permit signed with the awful
name of Sir Henry Parkes, authorising him,
On Lee, to enter and emerge again from
the Cabbage Garden without let or hindrance. It
was a triumph of mind over Government regula-
tions, and the crumpled official had nothing for it
but to salaam on sight of the potent signature and
allow the jaunty Oriental to go his ways. The
Albury underling, however, then consulted his
superior officer at head quarters about it, and the
consequence was that the latter expressed the
opinion that the permit granted by the Czar of
the South to the leech held good for one trip only.
Last week, however, Dr. On Lee, accompanied by
Mrs. On Lee, entered New South Wales once
more at Albury from a Southerly direction, with
all the easy confidence possessed by an orthodox
Christian. No deadhead bishop nor any younger
son of a British earl travelling on the cheap ever
entered Australian dominion with more affability
and publicity. This time, however, the official
worm turned. It placed its paws on the Doctor’s
shoulders and bade him pause : it regretfully, but
firmly, asked him to cheese it, and put him in a
wheeled vehicle and took him to an hotel, pending
further communication with Sydney, and set a
man out in a passage to keep guard over his medi-
cal body. Then the Collector of Customs wired to
his vigilant men at Albury ,to let the Doctor go,
and Sir Henry Parkes, who had granted him the
permit, in order that he might attend patients in
Victoria, declared that the action of the officer in
detaining him was unwarrantable. Then the
Collector of Customs took train to Albury
to investigate the matter, with the result
that nothing whatever seems to have been
done beyond the incurring of expense, which the
public are quite able to pay. It would consider-
ably increase the confidence of the people of New
South Wales, at the present time, if they only
knew for certain who was running it, whether On
Lee only, or the same alert heathen in coalition
with Sir Henry. These political uncertainties
have, doubtless, an injurious effect.
♦
Wrixon’s Bill to prevent the sale of newspapers
on Sunday was rushed through the Victorian As-
sembly on Thursday in the absence of the handful
of opposers who claim to have a little piece of
backbone left in them. Either the dissentients
were kept out of the way by some subtle mysteri-
ous influence, or else Wrixon sneaked his Sabba-
tarian measure through the House at an excep-
tionally lucky moment. Anyway, their hasty
third reading of this Bill to further reduce the
Standard of Liberty in Australia requires a little
explanation. A fortnight ago Mr. Wkixon allowed
it to be assumed that he would not pursue the act
of tyranny to its bitter end if the House would
graciously accept the principle —the good old
Scotch hypocritical principle. • His precious Bill,
so the public understood, was to be laid aside after
a second reading, instead of which it has since
been put through the thirdly and lastly stage, and
passed up to the good old Scotch Council to re-
ceive a blessing from Macßaxn. It looks as though
Wrixon and his fellow lambs of the Board played
a pious scurvy trick upon the ungodly.
♦
The Local Option Act in Victoria will probably
have to be repealed and reproduced in an altered
shape like many other freaks of recent legislation
across the Murray. The latest discovery is that,
if the number of hotels in every district were re-
duced to statutory limit, Gillies’ surplus would
be more than absorbed in paying compensation to
the condemned rum-retailers. On that princip’e
the Government can’t afford, strictly speaking, to
buy up one pub., and the only possible way of
establishing the Act upon a sound financial basis
will be to tax teetotallers so much per head, or let
them buy up the superflous pubs, themselves. A
district containing more than the statutory allot
ment of “ houses ” one year may have less th in
the legal limit next, and so on alternately. Tl e
number may be increased and decreased again in
definitely with the flow and ebb of population.
Thus we can suppose a town of varying fortunes,
which never contained more than 20 hotels at one
time, being under the teetotal necessity of closing
five of them every second year until the Crack of
Doom, the local bonifaoes being in an everlast-
ing state of getting compensation for one pison-
shop or a new license for another. This requires
careful thinking over.
The Hangman at Wagga.
Some time ago one of the greatest institu-
tions of New South Wales —an institution, seem-
ingly, as essential to the Imperial system as
Governor Carington himself—was assaulted and
kicked by the larrikins of Bondi, and the principal
instrument in the advancement of modern civili-
sation was chased down the road with a club. In
other words, four rowdy, ill-mannered cubs gave
practical expression to the feeling of loathing and
hatred which has followed the hangman ever since
the first hangman came into existence, and assailed
the licensed shedder of blood with road-metal and
violence. Their language was not select, and thei r
curses were painful to the cultured ear, but their
act was a genuine expression of public sentiment
all the same. The hangman, in his official capa-
city, has got to go ; and, in his private capacity,
any one sufficiently animalised to occupy such a
position might go without being missed. Old,
sodden Conservatives —clergymen, judges, and the
like—still hold that the noseless executioner, with
his soaped rope and running noose, is a necessary
aid to the spread of 19th Century civilisation; but
the people, who drag the clergy behind them, in
place of following their lead, view the hired vam-
pire of a dying barbarism with abhorrence and
avoid him as if he were a pestilence. Executioners,
as a rule, like lawyers, pirates, and the devil, are
not sensitive to mere public opinion, but when
public opinion takes the form of road-metal it
assumes a concrete shape which even the hangman
is forced to recognise.
# * *
Mr Robert Howard, the Civil Servant (£156 a
year, paid monthly), last week choked the youth
Reilly at Wagga. When he (Howai’d) arrived
by train at the local railway-station he could get
no cabman to take him or Lis luggage to the gaol;
therefore he had to walk ; a day or two later he was
hooted by the boys of Wagga. The typical cabman
is not so very averse to the shedding of blood. He
can endure a “scrapping match,” and he never
refuses to drive a surgeon, but he shares with the
rest of civilised mankind the horror felt at the
presence of the man who sheds the blood of his
brother-man—otherwise than in fair fight—the
unutterable loathing which civilised man feels for
the wretch who takes money for the deliberate
butchering of a human being. Therein lies the
whole philosophy of the ever-growing opposition to
capital punishment: the safely of society lies not
in any fear of death which may be felt by mur-
derers, but in the cultivation (to which the exist-
ence of the gallows is opposed) of that reverence
for human life which abides in the breasts of men
and women not foredoomed by heredity and en-
vironment to commit murder. The money paid to
the hangman is only An Annual Vote for the En-
couragement of Cold-Blooded Assassination, and
ought to be so labelled in the Estimates.
A Parramatta lady named Mance last week
had several portions of skin removed from her arm
by a surgeon who grafted it over a refractory
wound on her little son.
An Indian mutiny and general rising of
monstrosities has taken place at the “Royal ”
Museum, Melbourne, which used to be an abode
of peace and contentment when it was a waxworks
show. The breath of scandal never tarnished the
fair fame of Kreitmayer’s building in those happy
days of yore. Bill Beach and royal “Tummy”
were satisfied to remain where they had been fixed
up, taking things just as they came, and a swarm
of noted criminals of both sexes conducted them-
selves with a decorum which was positively mono-
tonous. But since Messrs. Washburn and Roberts
turned out the old waxen images to make room for
a cargo of horrors from Madras, the moral tone of
the premises has gradually degenerated. Officials
were arrested for embezzlement, and one of the
Indian jugglers hanged himself by the neck until
ho was dead. The other jugglers, also the
dusky Queen’s monkey-boys, Arab sheiks, and
a heathen sufferer from hydrocephalus became
possessed of a yearning to go back to Madras.
The jugglers made a wild rush for the City Police-
court one morning last week, with the gibbering
monkey-boys in tow, and the upshot of this
rebellion seems to be that somebody or other has
received orders to return the whole collection of
dirt and misery to India’s coral strand. Mean-
time Washburn and Roberts are entangled in
their own private complications, and the bewil-
dered Kreitmayer has annexed the Royal Museum
in lieu of rent, under which circumstances ho is
bewailing the honr when he allowed Beach and
the Prince of Wales to be displaced by a him »n
menagerie which is mostly bereft of reason and
seldom indulges in a wash.
The Tarn of Mute Despair."
At the foot of an iron-bound mountain, where the
dingo has his lair,
Lies a darkling Tarn and bitter in a region of
despair,
And in its brackish waters, as in a magician’s glass,
The mystic shapes of wrath and gloom in eerie
cortege pass.
There through the awesome midnight is heard the
bittern’s boom,
And the eldritch cry of the curlew, like the voice
of a coming doom,
And the shrieks of the unknown monsters that
brood o’er the lonesome waste
Startle the ears belated of a traveller in his haste.
O’er all the land accursed lies the bale of a witch's
rune,
And the stunted box-trees shiver ’neath the beams
of a spectral moon,
And an imprecation blisters o’er the bleaklands
sere and dun
In the brazen rays of the noonday and the hot
breath of the sun.
All nature pants and withers, and the heart of
hope is still,
And the song of a bird is never heard, nor the
rhyme of a babbling rill,
And the mountain grim and greenless frowns in
the smiting glare
O’er the brackish darkling waters of the Tarn of
Mute Despair.
Fred. J. Broomfield.
Nov. 1, 1880.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Cold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
K.vhibilion. ISBB, being higher awards than any
other Kuhihitioii of Watch on obtained.
[?]
546 Macquane-street North, Sydney, November 13, 1889.
Mv Dear Mooraisispa, —
Lady Cariugton, who has been at Moss Vale during Lord
C.’s urgent business trip to Adelaide and Melbourne, re-
turned to Government House in time to welcome her
travel-stained Baron, who arrived overland on Sunday.
By-the-by, those people who have been panting to know
what the little Oarington was to be named have now had
their curiosity satisfied. The christening took place on
Monday last, at St. Andrew's Cathedral; Sir Alfred
Stephen was godfather, and Miss Waillen arid Lady' Caring-
ton godmothers, and the youngest Miss Carington is in
future to be known as Judith Sydney Myee—Judith (after
her aunt), Sydney (after the capital of “Australia”)
Myee (after some apparently black person or Hindoo place
unspecified.) P.S.—I have just heard that “ My'ee ” means
“native-born” in some Australian aboriginal dialect.
Sydney' is a city of social mendicants. It was rumoured
the other day that a wealthy citizen was about to organise
a festivity, and hardly' had the report circulated than he
received a note from a well-known man; “Could he
kindly send cards for two ladies?” This was granted,
when another note came; “Two gentlemen had arrived
from Melbourne, cards for them also would he thankfully
received.” Fortunately' the festivity' eventuated next
evening or goodness knows how many more he would
have begged in.
A meeting of the committee of the proposed Sydney
Women’s College was held on Bth inst., when ten women
and a clergyman (or shall I say eleven ladies?) were
present. And the wag of tongues was simply deafening.
As the University will only grant a site on condition that
The college is established by March, ’92, it was decided to
make very special efforts to raise the necessary £5OOO by
“individually writing to their friends,” many of whom
are now understood to be in hiding.
I wonder wliat women find so attractive in the cloak-
room cf the Sydney theatres? Between the acts, when
pa arid Gussie have gone out to see if the moon’s risen,
behold the pansy-blossoms of the party straightway arise
and go in solemn procession to the cloak-room, and
whether it is because a pin has got loose, or that cloak-
room lemonade is sometimes served with a cinder in it,
deponent knoweth not. Something is responsible for
this sudden feminine tendency to get out during the in-
tervals.
And why on earth do actors almost invariably wear
squeaky boots ? In a scene where the players are sup-
posed to he out-of-doors, to hear the hero’s boots complain
about the hoards as he strides off is quite enough to
shatter the deepest illusion. Oiling the soles is a good
plan to prevent new hoots from disturbing an unoffending
audience. And, by-the-bye, 1 have never heard an
actress's boots creak yet.
If there had only been a moon Mr. and Mrs. Sydney
Burdekin’s moonlight picnic on the6th, in honour of Eng-
land’s most flrm’y-established baritone, would have been
an unalloyed success, but as it was (he Poet's Peg only
glimmered in the watery way at intervals, and girls who
wanted to quote things at liar had to play it all off on the
Chinese lanterns. But the affair was well carried out,
especially the idea of having the supper-tables on another
steamer anchored midway down the Beautiful Harbour,
and brilliantly illuminated with lanterns and lights. Of
course, the assemblage was mainly musical. Everybody
who raises his voice, violin, or pianoforte-lid, and is billed
in big letters was there, but—save the Sydney Liedertafel,
who sang one or two part-songs—the Sons of Art behaved
rather badly. There was a noted fiddler, but he wouldn’t
fiddle ; a great pianist sat in a corner all the time, and the
many singers present never offered to warb'e. There were
two gowns on board ; Mrs. Sydney Burdekin wore a twine-
coloured striped costume, floral toque of cornflowers, and
nosegay of red and cream roses; while a pretty-young
lady wore pale-grey with folded v est of white silk and
floral toque.
Entertainments to which professional musicians are
invited are usually songless. The long-haired are all so
strictly on their dignity as “guests,” and so resent the
idea that they have been bidden on the understanding
that they should sing for their supper, that they usually
behave like bears. And there’s a touch of avarice some-
times, too. I knew a Melbourne pianiste years ago who
received cards for a soiree rnmicale at a top-note house.
She went—was treated in every way as a guest—was asked
to accompany one song—and next day sent in her little
hill for “services rendered,” etc. She was never invited
again.
So Melbourne Cup is once more over, and womankind
with thirsty ears all over Australia learns that improvers
and high hats only merit Hie Jacet— that simple straight
draperies slightly bouffant, at the back and particularly
dodgy and cunningly draped bodices are in, with bronze
hoots, silk-lined dust-cloaks and French kid gloves, to the
exclusion of the übiquitous untanned, which look
economical at first blush, but cost far more ultimately
because of their soiling proclivities. And, speaking of
gloves, do 3’ou know that at the English Court the Royal
women alone wear evening gloves of twelve-button French
kid? However the other ladies feel about it they have
to wear Suede because it's Court etiquette.
Alluding to the Cup—it’s a great and solemn thing to
he the alleged Melbourne lady correspondent of a Sydney
daily gushing about the Flemington frocks. This gifted
inhabitant of Surry Hills, writing to Sydney D.T., of Bth
inst., ingeniously scribbles :
A girl all in pure white corded silk, made to simulate a
last century's riding coat, with a high turned down collar,
wide cuffs and pocket flaps of yellow velvet and a loose
skirt of yellow crfpe, looked like a butterfly ; her sun-
shade was in sections of yellow and white, and Irresistibly
reminded one of thing* that spin
While, curiously enough, “ Ethel Townmouse” in London
Life, of a June date, similarly says
A girl all in pure white corded silk, the dress made to
simulate a last century riding coat, with a high turned-
down collar, wide cuffs and pocket flaps of yellow velvet,
and a loose shirt of yellow China crape, looked like a
butterfly. Her sunshade was made in sections alternately •
yellow and white, which was not pretty, irresistibly re-
minding one of things to spin.
Quite a coincidence, wasn’t it ?
This year’s Cup trophy is decidedly foolish. An after-
noon-tea-set—very pretty, of course, and the best in the
market—but still—a tea-set! Bravo’s lucky owner may
have lately become a rabid temperance person for aught
the world knows to the contrary, but you can hardly pic-
ture even Evangelist Yarley pledging the winner iri milky
tea ! Someone suggests that the Y.R.C. hunt up a coat-
of-arras and get it emblazoned on a golden shield for
next year’s “ saturnalia ” and all subsequent Cups.
Oaks Day, at Flemington, was spoilt to some extent by
light rain showers and unfulfilled threats of storm, but
up to three o’clock the show of millinery and beauty was
decidedly above the average. White and cream em-
broidered muslins, Indian silks, nun’s veilings, and
cr6pes-de-Chine were dotted about the lawn in all direc-
tions, and gowns of heavier splendour were there re-
joicing in the opportunity to display themselves to
greater advantage than was possible at Tuesday’s crush.
Men unanimously agreed that Thursday was quite re-
markable for the scarcity of badly-dressed and unduly
stout angels, even the Hebrew contingent of the sex •
which was numerous, as usual —being constructed on
fairly graceful lines. For the matter of that, pretty girls
and sprightly matrons had things much their own way at
the Cup, far more so than last year when the dashing
Evangelist, Grattan Guinness, induced a lot of the
smartest sassiety sylphs to hold aloof from the annual
Festival, for the sake of their dear little souls. An
almost entire absence of willow (or apple) green was
remarked upon at the Oaks. Every fourth woman
sported a sash, streamer, or bow of the dreadful fashion-
able shade on Tuesday, but on Thursday one looked in
vain for anything so green as the grass. A quaint con-
ceit in sunshades, which attracted a good deal of atten-
tion, was a little bunch of artificial cherries growing out
of a rough oherrywood handle. Miss Hamilton’s bonnet,
consisting of little else than a wreath of wallflowers, was
also a pleasing departure from the beaten tracks in the
headgear department, where yellow straw-hats, ranging
from small Leghorns to large soup-plate shapes, pre-
dominated. Here and there the startled eye fell upon
tan-shoes, but those wicked devices for enlarging the ap-
pearance of the female foot divine have evidently passed
the meridian of their popularity.
The moral the average woman may chance to bring
away from “ Diplomacy,” at Sydney Criterion, will be so
obscured by the gorgeous and diverse draperies of Mrs.
Brough et Cie. .that The drama’s subtle lesson will only
lead up to another milliner’s bill. In act 1 Miss Homer, as
the rather-plated marquise, wears a tea-gown of slate-blue •
daraasse sijk over an underdress of plain silk, the whole
adorned with twine-coloured old lace. Mrs. Brough
(Dora) wears a trained gown of white with revers of white
broche over a full lace underdress caught with bows and
ends of white striped ribbon, while Miss Harwood wears a
skirt I have seen before and a flat hat, like a tip-tilted
pancake, trimmed with cream and green ; and Miss Enson
sports a smudgy grey and flowered gown and a smart
little bonnet livened with nasturtiiims. In act 2-Miss
Kohler's gown is of slate-grey silk cn traine, with side-
panels, puffs and vest of lighter grey armurc royale with
slate stripe, the bodice ornate with steel passementerie,
and a duck of a dandy grey bonnet with blush roses, in
front, Mrs. Brough wearing mushroom-coloured cashmere
en Directoire over a jupe with a floral design in paler
shades, with bows-and ends of fawn ribbon and high
bonnet of fawn and seal. Miss Enson chooses white
cashmere and stamped velvet and a white-and-green.
bonnet; and Miss Harwood wears a “Paul Jones” hat
ostensibly trimmed with mushrooms and blue gauze. In
act 3 Mrs. Broiigh wears rather an ordinary dinner-dress
of Jubilee-red silk, hut her dressing-gown in the’last scene
of this act—the under-dress and sleeves of cream motmelin
de soie, the flowing over-dress of moonshine green silk
and twice-rqund Roman sash of the green-was an
apotheosis of drapery. In act 4 Miss Enson wears a black
broche coat over carabia red draped in black lace, but the
martial plume in her bonnet doesn’t harmonise with the
other red, unfortunately'. Miss Homer wears vieux rose,
and Miss Harwood contents herself with a white cashmere
dolman.
I hear that the Australian Club ball held in Melbourne
Town Hall the other evening was a very big thing. There
were no dowdies to be seen and each woman on entering
was presented with an ivory bangle as a souvenir. The
display of jewels was simply paralyzing and Lady Loch
wore a trained gown of maize faille, the front draped
with designed crepe and finished with a bullion fringe.
Lady Kintore sported ivory satin mingled with laeo and
jetted net. And brother Rupert’s fiancic was there, too,
in blue and white striped with merveilleux.
I went to see a holiday dress-circle at Her Majesty’s on
9th inst. The house was crowded. The youths had on
flannel-trousers, sac-ooats, blazers—anything, and their
girls affected white blouses and bouquets of wildflowers.
Three maidens in white decorated each other’s hair with
actinotus as they sat in the theatre, another in spotty
print covered a picnic-basket with her skirts. Indeed, the
whole theatre seemed filled with the aroma of gum-leaves
and cheap trains. Of the two artists—Mr. and Mrs.
Ayrtoun—who made their initial how, nothing but pretty
things suitable for their scrap-hooks could be said if only
they had gauged the theatre more nicely and so not have
been inaudible most of the time, though the lady’s get-up
and business would show to greater advantage at a
variety-show than at the highly'sedate temple of Hand-
some George. By-the-hye, the whole end and aim of
“ Flying Scud ” appears to be to bifurcate the ladies of
the company. Even Emily Fitzroy comes out in a pair of
grey bags too long for her, Miss Watts-Phillips plays a
frail soprano lord right through, and the rest of the girls
swagger round in jockey cords and top-boots.
In umbrellas the very latest notion (Yankee, of course)
is a gamp with a little pane of glass in the top through
which you can see to steer. Quito a nice idea, isn’t it V
And then there is the additional advantage of being able
to seethe owner of the umbrella four streets off, and make
your course accordingly.
Even the cockatoo-farmer's wife's help knows now that
improvers are no longer fashionable, but I don’t suppose
that the fact that square shoulders are going out is so
widespread. The Princess of Wales, who is square to a
degree, set the fashion, hut now she isn't so young as she
was, and people want to change back to the old sloping
shoulder in an Indian shawl, over which novelists weep.
At present, the leader of “ old world ” fashions is Madame
Jane Hading, whose shoulder slopes like a champagne-
bottle, and so I suppose society will take to dumb-bells to
get its collar-bone down. I don't know what the athletic
girl will do about i(.
I hear that a favourite actress, at present taking “ a well,
earned rest,” and mainly remarkable for a thatch of
yellow hair and a B-flat voice, takes singing lessons still.
At first, when she screeched a semitone below the note,
she would say politely, “ I hog your pardon,” but now
lhat she has become moi'c familiar with her teacher she
acknowledges her mistake in a shrill whistle that would
ItMkvc Snatclle's stutterer nowhere
An athletic enthusiast tells me that a feature in the
lawn games of the coming summer will be the revival of
croquet. For those people who are either too elephantine
or rococo to negotiate the kangaroo-leaps of the tennis-
ground, croquet fills a long-felt want, and the amount of
meaning pressure the new curate can put into his fingers
as he places his partner’s foot on her hall, is sufficient to
instantly re-establish the popularity of the game amongst
fully-matured spinsters. And, speaking of open-air
games, I have almost wept at the sight of a poor, reviled
tennis-umpire perched in his high chair with only a
gaudy skull-cap between him and the “ Orb of Day,” in
hourly' danger of getting sun-struck. Everywhere hut
in Sydney the umpire’s chair is provided with a fixed
white umbrella.
The first complimentary plain and fancy dress ball
tendered by his pupils to Professor West at Leigh House
on Ist inst. resulted in a nicely-dressed crowd, a toboggan
floor, good music and an excellent supper. Those girls
who had adopted fancy dress mostly wore baggy garments
and their hair down - but a pretty, high-necked evening
costume was of China-blue liberty silk with front of folded
white silk and corsage-bouquet of roses—while a lady' in
shell-pink gauze with silk stripes, lightened by a big
white fan arrived there regularly, For an initial effort
the ball (which I believe to lie an annual experiment)
was a great success.
On dit that the biggest winner at the recent Y.R.C.
meeting started in life as a Ballarat bottle-washer,
speculated in mining, made three fortun s, and is now
disseminating a fourth ! He evidently confined himself
strictly to washing the bottles.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Sydney E. News is going to have yet
another sub-editor.
Lyons sausage is said to be made of don-
key- History repeats itself. The ass in the Lyon’s
skin.
The Duke of Edinburgh, it is stated in
the best-informed English papers, now refuses even
to speak to Mr, and Mrs. Fife.
The best restorative from the nervous
prostration induced by the excitement of Cup
week is Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Several very level-headed individuals are
now reaching for the hand of Australia’s richest
heiress. The brainy Professor is said to be the
fortunate man.
Much regret has been caused in news-
paper circles at the withdrawal from the leadership
of the S.M. Herald reporting staff of the veteran
Mr. W. J. Tarplee.
The man is unfitted to hold his own in in-
telligent conversation who has not carefully
studied The Bulletin's “ History of Botany
Bay. ” Price, Is. Illustrated by L. Hopkins and
Phil. May.
“ A Traveller ” points out to The Bulletin
that at Forbes (N.S.W.) gaol there are on the
average only seven prisoners undergoing sentence
and these are under the charge of no less than
nine paid officials.
Governor Norman, of Queensland, drew a
blank in the £50,000 sweep. There will conse-
quently be no Government House balls for some
time, as the £1 usually expended on refresh-
ments has been otherwise disposed of.
Here is a sentence from David Christie
Murray’s Cup article as set up by an Adelaide
comp. :
“It is the combined and multitudinous howl of the
modest hookey as he places his trade horse and caco-
phonous. and as persistent as a frog in a marsh or a cicala
on a hough.”
Single copies of the Christmas number of
The Bulletin, which will be the best literary and
artistic production Australia lias known, will be
sent to any part of Australia on receipt of sixpence
in stamps, or to any other address within the
postal convention on receipt of seven pence.
“ Woggs ” Alien, who died in Sydney
Hospital terribly battered 30 hours after falling
over the cliffs at Coogee, supplied the cricket and
musical notes to the Australian Star. When
his father, Pastor Allen, had closed the eyes of
the cheery lad, who was universally liked, he said
gently, with the stoicism of a Roman father ;
“Well, my poor boy is gone ; but I know where to
turn for consolation.”
It is likely enough that the cause which
impelled Premier Parkes to endeavour to change
“ Freetrade ” for “ Federation ” as a political war-
cry was his desire to free himself from the heavy
and so far salutary restraints which have notori-
ously been imposed upon him in his general course
of action by his colleagues Bruce Smith and
McMillan, whose political be-all and end-all has so
far been Freetrade.
A most useful and convenient little cookery
book has just been issued gratis by the Liebig
Company, showing the hundred and one ways in
which their extract of beef can be used in prepar-
ation of soups, game, poultry, fish, sauces, gravies,
vegetables, cold and hot meats, and invalid
cookery. There are 152 capital recipes contained
in this little book, embracing a wide range of
good things for the table, and nutritions foods for
the sick room.
Noting the fixed intensity of purpose with
which Jos. Syraes invariably spells God with a
little “g” in the Liberator, The Bulletin casu-
ally wondered what the editor would do if he had
to commence a sentence with the word. Rising to
the importance of the query, J.S. promptly re-
replies : “We should begin with a capital letter.
Of course, we always do. We respect grammar if
we don’t god.” An admission—in so far as the
grammar is concerned--which The Bulletin grate-
fully acknowledges, and hereby passes on for the
edification of its correspondents.
Fifteen hundred miners at Broken Hill
have struck work rather than work with non-
union men. Nothing has yet been advanced on
the part of the directors to show that the miners
are not well within their rights in striking. The
man who takes work with a blackleg enters into
conspiracy to degrade labour. It is all very well
to urge that the Broken Hill directors have always
treated their men well; but that is beside the
question. They may change their minds to-morrow
as to the rate of wages and, by employing non-
associated labour, leave the Union in the lurch.
No man, having others dependent on him, who
can assure his life, is justified in refusing to assure
it. In maintaining the Union the miners are only
assuring their lives and those of their fellows.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Grasshopper.”
Her Majesty's “ Flying Scud.”
Criterion “ Diplomacy.”
Gaiety Prestidigitator Perron,
School of Arts Picturesque Concerts.
Cyclorama Rattle of Gettysburg.
Palace Museum Reality and Illusion.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ Antony and Cleopatra.”
Princess’ “ Little Lord FaunMeroy.’ 1
Theatre Royal “ Tlie S’.iaughrauii”
Alexandra “ Sudan of Mocha.”
St. George's Hall Oogill Bros, and Coy.
Victoria Hall Novelty Company
The first night of “ Diplomacy ” at Sydney
Criterion was one of ovations. Each performer’s
entrance was the signal for tumultuous applause;
delayed somewhat in the case of Robert Brough—
the simplicity of whose disguise puzzled the public
—until his well known voice revealed bis identity.
This four-act comedy, admirably staged-—the
morning-room at the Monte Carlo caravanserai,
and the saloon at the Paris hotel, being
particularly fine—-is too well-known to require
description. As Dora, Mrs. Brough did not ap-
proach the high standard attained in her “ Squire
Verity,” particularly in the third act where her
denunciation of her unknown accuser and her hus-
band ’s attitude was absolutely tame, while the frantic
appeal to the retreating Julian lacked the con-
vincing intensity imparted to it by Annie Mayor-
now, by the way, winning golden opinions from
the New York critics. As the Comtesse Zicka,
Fanny Enson again aired the very fine foreign
accent of her “ Rocket” part, and, evincing great
ability for the pourtrayal of conflicting emotiojis in
several very trying scenes, made what was perhaps
the hit of the evening. Miss Romer’s Marquise
de Rio Zares, was a clever representation, but her
English was too unevenly broken to entitle
it to be accounted a level performance. The
Mion of Lilian Seccombe was chirpy and cheery,
and her Anglo-French chatter, creditable, while,
as Lady Henry Fairfax, Lucia Harwood was well
suited, bright, and amusing. G. W. Anson’s
Baron Stein was, in every particular, a great
piece of character acting, equal, perhaps, all
things considered, to anything he has previously
given us; but the Julian Beauolerc of Percy
Lyndall was over-acted. His attitudes were
stagey, his passion pumped-up, his second faint in
the second act, and the manner of Titheradge’s
assistance, narrowly escaped being ridiculous; a man
with such swooning propensities was scarcely in a
tit state to undertake matrimonial responsibilities.
The smaller part of Henry Beauolerc was in-
vested by Titheradge with a finish, except in the
matter already spoken of, that compelled ap-
proval, and the Count Orloff, also a minor part, of
Robert Brough was remarkable for its quiet force,
dignity, and excellent bye-play. Dion Bouoicault’s
Aigie, somewhat after his Talbot Champneys,
was all that could be desired, and H. Chichester
was admirably “ made-up” and otherwise effective
as Markham. Diplomacy ” will be run for
another week.
* # * *
The displacement of that Amurikau
hickory-nut, “ Held by the Enemy,” which bristles
with “Kernels,” for the recently-unearthed and
long-buried horse-chestnut, “Flying Scud,” let
loose the cat-calls of a highly-delighted Sydney
gallery on the scenes at Her Majesty’s, lately
made classical by the blank-verse bootings of a
Roman mob. It is not always pleasant to renew
the friendships of youth ; the friend on whose
shoulder you leaned so lovingly in salad-
days, met after twenty years’ estrangement,
may repel you with a malodorous breath,
dirty linen, or blood-shot eyes, and a highly-
decorated proboscis. Truth to tell, “ Frying
Spud,” as we fondly nicknamed it over a glass of
bitter some twenty years ago, is not gorgeously
staged, nor particularly well acted, nor are its
recent Loudon arrivals bewilderingly brilliant.
Madge Seymour, who dances fairly well, and can’t
sing much, has a fine all-round mirth-provoking
appearance in a jockey’s suit, and Frank Ayrton,
also a good danc. r, does not make more of Nat
Gosling than could any one of a dozen
others in the city of Sydney, though lie
looks the part down to the ground. Sterling
Whyte makes Mo. Davis a haggis-eating Hebrew
badly bothered with corns, and the Mulligan of J.
W. Sweeney is a fine Irish whisky-scented ruffian,
but Harry Jewett’s Tom Meredith is made whole-
somely attractive by reason of its breezy manli-
ness. The Misses Claudius, Fitzroy, and Melville,
are not by any means more than ordinarily suc-
cessful in the pourtrayal of outraged innocence or
lacerated affection, and the for ever moved -on open
air Christy Minstrels appealed more strongly to
the commiseration of a tender-hearted gallery
than all the woes of these distressed damsels,
while Miss Watts-Phillips looks well in “trews,”
butqs too pipey -voiced even for a Lord Woodbie.
The sporting phraseology of the “ Scud ” is some-
what out of date, and some of the numerous
Sydney “sportingeditors ” might, with advantage,
be employed to upholster it with an appropriate
measure of “ ri’ buck,” “ square dinkum,” &c.
si:- sit * *
“ The Grasshopper,” characterised by a
managerial note as having been “immensely suc-
cessful ” in Sydney in 18S2, was reproduced at
Sydney Royal, this week. The elimination of the
Grasshopper herself from the tissue of tomfoolery
which serves to introduce her to a Jbng-sutfering
public, would snap the only link of restraint which
now exists between them and anarchy. The
entire colonial forces, including Barkes and the
police, the Dog Act, and the Naval Defence Bill,
would barely prevent murder and sudden death
for everybody concerned in its production. The
adapter himself, who struggles heroically through
the part of Pygmalion Flippit, feels constrained
to admit, in the second act, that he believes he
has found his way into a private lunatic asylum,
the audience having been there all the time. Miss
Lee sings two songs which afford temporary relief
and make her feel better. Utter dreariness covers
all the rest as with a blanket. The piece is not up
to Miss Lee’s standard of ability, and might ad-
vantageously be salted down until required to
amuse the colonial peers of the coming Dominion.
The scrofulous German princelet who may then
order the band to play “ God Save Buie
Britannia.” would about tit the Grasshopper
style of comedy, if he is carefully preserved in the
meantime from the effects of summer heat ami
shiny green flies.
* * * *
At Sydney Gaiety, Professor Perron has
a good grip of the Sydney public, and well-tilled
benches are nightly convulsed when the magician
produces from a gigantic tea-cosy the fowl that
regularly lays a tray-full of eggs—varying in size
from that of a jenny-wren to that of a mo.v—a
sore-backed, lame, draggle-tailed, old rooster. The
dark-chambered spiritualistic act is, however. M
phosphorescent failure, and Ado Fit/.toy’s uiice,
not only wants training, but, a - a gap filler, ha*


Ben Franklin Printing Office
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IVT. MA CLARD Y
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, See., See.,
SUITABLE for
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. fST" A Lane Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Facers ami
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
nut sufficient volume to cover the clatter of moving
“ props ’’ behind the front-cloth.
* * -*
The Cyclorama still continues to draw
good houses, principally of the people whoso
patience has been worn out by delaying their visit
until the prices were lowered.
m &
The management continue to make things
pleasant at Bondi for the public, and a blazing
summer’s sun is the show’s best advertisement.
-*■ *- *
At the School of Arts Snazelle is bringing
an artistically successful season to a close. On
Friday evening (15th) he takes a benefit, when he
will be assisted by Mr. Imauo and several other
operatic artists, and a bumper house may be
prognosticated. A series of “ Picturesque Con-
certs ” are announced to follow.
Last Saturday night “ The Sultan of
Mocha ” made a gorgeous endeavour to give a
lucid account of himself at Melbourne Alexandra,
while the usual brilliant assemblage sat around
and wrestled with despondency. The honoured
name of Mr. Alfred Cellier was attached to the
music of this opera at a time when he was 13 years
younger than lie has since become, and, in the
first freshness of early manhood, he seems to have
sought the aid of a librettist who deserves to be
poleaxed for his pains. Furthermore, something
heavy ought to fall upon the head which localised
this production down to the level of Melbourne
intelligence, and aggravated the original offence
by sundry drivelling allusions to an extinct land-
boom. However, as time goes on, Mr. Bracy’s
company may succeed in shaking up “ The Sultan
of Mocha ” until that barbarous potentate gets
fairly endurable. Matters could be improved by
playing him backwards, or beginning in the
middle. There are many well-appointed legs
in the show, the scenery is irreproachable,
and the citizens are prepared to roll up
to hear any pretty airs which anybody likes
to drop into the occasion. In the matter of
plot this alleged comic opera is not much worse
than a pantomime, and quite as susceptible of
alterations and improvements. Miss Lilian Tree
was not sufficiently well in health to appear on
Saturday, and the management had to call upon
little Flora Graupner to fill the absent divinity’s
place. Flora did her- best in a character several
sizes too large for her, and Clara Thompson
took up the billet intended for that minute damsel,
but neither change had a beneficial effect upon the
tout ensemble. Messrs. Bracy and Knight Aston
seemed unhappy under the burden of inanity
allotted to them, and John Forde’s valiant
efforts to shove along the local allusions provoked
hysterical mirth from such as didn’t know any
better. Of the rest, a scraggy admiral was toler-
ably distressing, and the chorus made a creditable
display. If the “ Sultan of Mocha ” takes a turn
for the better, joyful tidings to that effect will be
announced next week. At a first glance it looks
like a hopeless case.
The above poem paves the way for a bare prose
record of another “Shaughraun” revival at the
Royal. It happened on Saturday, amidst many
symptoms of satisfaction, and Grattan Riggs'
corpse will probably be reaching for the whisky-
bottle for another week to come. A sufficiently
strong company lias been appointed to support
Mr. Riggs, and if they don't talk with the same
tongue as the greatest Irishman in the world (bar
Parnell and Dion Boucioault) it is because they
were not born that way. The calm, cool and col-
lected Sass plays Captain Molyneux in smart style,
and the ladies all look nice enough to die for,
especially Aggie Kelton. There is something
about Aggie which never fails to fetch ’em, bo it
in comic opera, comedy, tragedy or Irish drama.
She would made a bouncing Lady Macbeth, and
no mistake.
** * *
Meantime, “ Antony and Cleopatra” is an
imposing success at the Opera House. The
spectacle has been pulled together until the whole
catalogue of works of art—from Cleopatra’s
Palace to the interior of her monument—is ex-
hausted in three hours. At the end of that period
Antony’s ghost comes wading through the dark-
ness of a long black tunnel to catch Ids pansy
blossom as she passes away, and the audience dis-
perse with a weird, peculiar sensation of having
been knocked silly. The last act of “ Antony
and Cleopatra ” contains a noble sequence of
scenes, and the apparition aforesaid brings down
the curtain at a supreme moment.
-* * * *
Other Melbourne shows were booming on
Saturday. The Cogills came back to St. George’s
Hall like niggers refreshed with rum, and their
speciality company behaved themselves as special
as they could, considering. Slade Murray was
not permitted to go home before singing “ Good
Old Mary Ann,” the estimation in which that
comfortable widow is held in Melbourne having
mellowed during her long absence. She certainly
is a quaint female with a wicked eye, and the
royal “ Tummy’s ” fondness for her is rather in
his favour than otherwise. A Novelty Company,
including a glittering constellation of “six star
end men,” swooped down upon the Victoria Hall
with satisfactory results. The Silbons leave the
Exhibition after Saturday next, and a few other
entertainments are looking nice as usual.
“ Little Lord Fauutleroy ” is glorifying
the British aristocracy seven times a week (includ-
ing Saturday matinees), at the Princess’, and
unless it is “ put down ” by the Victorian Govern-
ment—^which is not likely to put down such an
insidious piece of snobbery—it will continue to
insult honest humanity for weeks to come. When
the new beardless Governor arrives he will have to
go and gloat over Mrs. Burnett’s play. Rumour
maliciously asserts that W. G. & M. intend to run
the show as “Little Lord Hopetoun” out of com-
pliment to their rising sun and charge twenty
shillings a time for dress-circle seats. There’s
money in the idea.
** # *
Never in the history of the Australian stage
have so many actors been “out of collar,” numbers
of them not at “ poverty,” but at starvation
“point.” We can name twenty. They are un-
fortunately men of the ancient school, and men
whom Sydney and Melbourne playgoers in the
days of the Queen’s and “ Vic.” and Princess’ used
to delight in honouring. They have been pushed
from their stools by the new school of actors and are
now down on their “uppers.” Numbers of them
are steady men anxious for work and unable to get
it. In the old days there was an amount of espnt
de corps amongst these people not noticeable to-
day. In the early days of the Australian drama
companies rather than see their brethren of the
<< Ho( l k and buskin ” idle. George Coppin, to his
eternal honour be it said, founded alms-houses for
aged members of the profession. There are now
in Australia wealthy professionals in retirement,
a , nd some managers are now making fortunes ;
there are actors in full work earning g<>od money.
Is there not a philanthropist amongst them who
can devise some means of starting a relief fund for
their poorer brethren? Some of them want the
means of taking them to other scenes, many of
them even want a soup-kitchen feed and tickets
for the Benevolent Asylum,
v
** * *
A Melbourne dramatist has conceived the
idea of fitting Alibi with the character of Napo-
Icon, lie is the only 1 iving actor we know of who
oou i d look the part and, at the same time, give a
talented rendition. A good Napoleon play would
ena ble him to shine in London, and be a great
staud -by through America, with all the advantage
Q f freedom from piracy,
Miss Fanny Brough lias just signed a two years’ engage-
ment with Augustus Harris at £l6 per week.
Mr. Santley’s new agent is Mr. O. G. Smythe, a son of
the “much-travelled,” his mother being the well-known
and popular Miss Amelia Bailey, who married Mr. Smythe
early in the sixties.
From a daily paper■
JIOR SALE, a choice lot of FAT. Apply, &c.
Can this mean that George Rignold has at last decided to
renounce the footlights ?
The Lord Chamberlain has prohibited Fred. Leslie’s
“ Irving in Skirts” in “Ruy Bias,” at London Gaiety.
Fred, Leslie has a new song—“ Stick to the whisky
you’re used to.” We do. It is manufactured under a
Sydney graveyard and smells like furniture-polish.
When Macready was acting at Drury-lane, in the West
End, and Phelps at Sadler’s Wells, in the East End—
Macready wrote a letter, something like the following:
“ My dear Phelps,—Why not come to the West-a great-
actor like yon ? Surely there is room for two I ” and so
on. To which Phelps replied ; “My dear Macready,—
How kind of you to think of me ! lam very happy at
the East End of London. I cannot act -as well off as I can
on the stage, so I will stop where 1 am.” As a hit at the
society-actor who makes his social position a means of
professional advance, this is more telling to-day than
when it was spoken.
When the mail left people were to be seen waiting out-
side the Lyceum at eleven in the morning to witness the
evening performance of the recently-revived “ Dead
Heart.” Irving’s latest predecessor as Landry was Ben-
jamin Webster, in 1859.
“ At present no fewer than 700 young ladies in New
York alone are studying elocution, with a view to becom-
ing public readers.” Seven hundred Finkelsteins ! What
a lovely time the R. S. Smythes of all nations are hooked
for !
Michael Watson, the ballad-writer, is dead.
Edwin Thorne’s D’Artagnan reminds one of Charles
Dillon, who followed up his famous Belphegor, at the
London Lyceum, with this part, in which lie excelled, as
also did Clarence Holt, the father of Bland and May.
Clarence and Hoskins managed the Melbourne Royal to-
gether, and Clarence always had an idea of acting Mac-
beth and Hamlet, and all those big things. So he would
go to Hoskins and say, “Billy, don't you think we had
better put up my ‘Hamlet’ for Saturday night?” Hos-
kins would place his arm round his neck and say, “No,
Clarence, we will put you up in the never-failing D’Ar-
tagnan, and ‘ThreeMusketeers.’ ” Clarence Holt had the
same aversion for D’Artagnan as .Macready had for his
popular-Rob Roy.
Bland Holt was to open at Auckland Opera House on
4th Nov. in “ The Union Jack.”
Frank Lincoln, after a splendid Auckland season, is in
Southern N.Z.
Mnocabe is in Auckland just now, and has dropped his
“ Begone Dull Care ” in favour of a gigantic Baby Show
for 7th, Bth, and 9th Nov. People want to know what his
qualifications are in that line, and he has appointed several
bald-headed parents as judges, just to stop further dis-
cussion.
Those whom the “gods” love don’t, as a rule, die in
the first act; they generally marry in the last.
“Mr. Sass excelled all his previous efforts with a really
masterly presentment of the stage poet ” should have ap-
peared in last week’s notice of “Led Astray” at Mel-
bourne Royal. However, a comp, made it out that Sass
was haunted by a “ presentiment of the stage.”
George Darrell has furbished up his “ Forlorn Hope, ’
for his New Zealand tour. When, ten years ago, he
staged it at the old Melbourne Princess’s the critics
laughed him to scorn for the absurd idea of sending an
Australian contingentof soldiers to the help of the British,
hut, loand behold! it came off. George knew that the
race of fools is perennial. Then Harris and Merritt honed
from George’s meretricious wc mean meritorious play
for 1 heir’s of “ Youth,’’ with its Egyptian campaign.
Spite of dirty Saxon sneerin’
At its praties and its pigs,
Sure the blessed Isle of Erin
Is the place for Oirish jigs.
May the divil take each traitor
\Vid the Tories and the Whigs,
And we’ll dhrink a dhrop of “ orather ”
To the lain! of Grattan Riggs.
THE REFEREE.
The moral of this Melbourne Cup is that
the middle weights were a very moderate lot, a
fact which became so apparent 24 hours befoi-e the
race, that nothing beyond Melos, Bravo, Carbine,
and Chicago, got favourable mention from good
judges. Singapore’s running on the previous
Saturday was not to be explained away, and
scarcely one among the thousands who maintained
that the three-year-old ought —on appearances and
Sydney form—to show his big hind heels to every-
thing in the race, had much hope that the dis-
graced favourite would attempt the- performance.
Only stable connections and the holiday punters
(whose weakness for fancying inferior class horses
at “a decent price” is incurable) would stand
Knight of the Garter, and the black Benzou’s
pretensions were discovered to be hollow as the
eventful hour drew nigh. Of the quartette first
mentioned Bravo seemed pretty certain to beat
Chicago and likely' to get in front of Carbine.
The only solid argument against the Ballarat
horse was that he couldn’t win last year with 21ba.
less to carry'. No Mentor, Tradition, or leniently-
weighted Yeoman was running for this Cup, how-
ever, so Bravo’s “form” which left him sixth in
last year’s competition, was good enough to bring
him home first, on Tuesday week. The race
wanted less winning—the time was two seconds
slower, by' the way— than in ’BB, and with that
important point in view The Bulletin went for
—and went bung with —a reputed “ great ” three-
year-old in Singapore.
* # #
The saddest sight at Flemington, after the
Cup had been run and won, was a certain book-
maker who “peppered ” Bravo on the strength of
information received respecting a cut heel. In an
attitude of limp despair that too impetuous Hebrew
leant over the railings of the members’ enclosure
and watered the turf with his tears, while his
professional brethren, who would merely grin at
the thought of a stone-broke backer blowing his
brains out, shook their heads in sympathy, and
said it was “cruel luck.” According to all
accounts Bravo’s pepperer must have gone clean
off his head. When the cut heel story first came
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO [?] BRIDGEST SYDNEY
Photo, by Tuttle & Co.. Hunter Buildings, Market-st., Sydney.
MISS KATE BISHOP.
to hand he opened proceedings by betting a lot of
money that the Ballarat horse wouldn’t start for
the Cup, and then laid long odds, to the extent of
£20,000, against the supposed dead ’un for a win.
It is stated that he once offered a thousand pounds
to a couple of drinks. Mad.
* *- #
Perhaps the most glaring instance of
reversal of form on record, was that of Oakleigh
in his performances at the recent V.R.C. meeting.
With 8 stone 2 up in the. Cup, he finished absolutely'
last, his stable companion, Bravo, finishing at the
right end. In the V.R.C. Handicap on Saturday
last, with 8 stone 11 up and the. jockey Anwin,
who also rode Bravo to victory in the Cup,
Oakleigh fairly romped in ahead of his field, doing
the mile and three quarters in 3 min. 4 sec.
* « #
The lucky winner of the first prize
(£23,000, or so) in the fifty-thousand-pound Cup-
sweep is variously asserted to be a lawyer, a
squatter, a banker, a banker's servant-girl, a
parson, a policeman, a publican, a butcher’s run-
ner, a broker, a Chinese cook in a Sydney hotel,
and lastly, Madame Rumtifoozle, of Woolloo-
nioloo. Who won it, anyhow?
* # #
The two big Sydney half-sovereign “Place
Consultations ” on the Melbourne Cup (Barrows,
junior, and Phin. Thompson)closed with 6299 and
4276 entries respectively. In the former Bravo jiaid
£2 16s. 3d. and the latter £2 10s. 9d. There are a
few “syndicates” who back every horse in the
race on the various “ tots ” on the off-chance of an
outsider running into a place, but they had a bad
time of it over the Melbourne Cup, as the “tenner”
paid in for the twenty starters only returned —for
first, second and third money—£6 ss. sd. and
£7 3s. 3d. respectively. By the way, we thought
the police (and “books”) had “put down” the
totahsator with a strong hand.
* * #
lo the unprejudiced looker-on it seemed
mat young Dunhey, on Sinecure, did his level
best to beat Abercorn, in the Canterbury Plate,
last Saturday, albeit some of the books grumbled
because Mr. White’s second string didn’t give
(hem the longed-for “ skinner.” They would have
it that Sinecure was cased coming down the
straight, which was bosh, inasmuch as Dunhey
never looked round for Abercorn, and couldn’t
have known for certain that it was Hales coming
after him. And when he did know, the boy
shook up Sinecure in a, very genuine fashion
as though' he had full permission to win
if he could, . and meant having a good
try. Abercorn’s great win, the “spinning ”of the
long bottled-up Oakleigh, and the defeat of
Chicago (proving conclusively that the big horse
is not good enough to win a Melbourne Cup) were
the remarkable features of Steeplechase Day at
Flemington. Take it altogether, the “ ring” didn’t
have a very successful meeting, and 90 percent, of
the general public dropped their money. The
V. R.C. picked most of it up in the form of
admission-fees. •«
- ' * * „,
The Messrs. Spencer, Searle’s principal
supporters, say they will never again back a man
to pull so far from home, the anxiety and suspense
being too great. They were heavy losers when
Trickett went under to the then invincible 'Haulan
on the Thames, and if report speaks truly, they
had a narrow escape of going down on Searle in
his recent match. Searle suddenly became ill,
and lost no. ■ less' than 4ilbs. in a few hours
not long before the race, but drastic measures
and a superb constitution pulled him through.
A girl located at or near the champion’s training-
quarters received the credit of giving the dose.
The Messrs. Spencer are enthusiastic backers of
any biped who can show them a good time-trial
over the Parramatta course. Matterson rowed a
good trial, and they pitted him against Beach ;
then the gigantic Clifford deceived them with the
watch, but with Searle they have turned up a
much-deserved trump. In the writer’s opinion
they place too much reliance on the watch, and in
many cases their men row their real races against
the chronograph and come out a few days later,
stale, to meet their opponents.
* * #
As was generally inferred from past per-
formances, Jem Smith, of London, had no show
with Peter Jackson, from America via Sydney, in
their match for a purse of £lOOO, at the Pelican
Club, London. The cable tells us that in the
second round Smith closed and threw Jackson.
This appears to have “riled ” the Australian, who
sailed in and knocked Smith helpless against the
ropes, finishing up by knocking him down. When
Smith rose he fouled Jackson, to whom the referee
then awarded the fight. The English papers are
talking of Jackson’s defeat at the hands of
Parnan, but at that time Jackson was an over-
grown stripling, and to the writer’s knowledge,
was in luck to get a meal of any' sold without
going into a proper course of training. In any
vase Farnan’s body-hit was a chance blow', the
Melbournian being as slow as a top. According
v .o one cable, Smith rushed at Jackson after the
fight and wanted him to “ scrap” with bare
knuckles.
* * *
The secret is out —Why Tom Lees has
secured a backer against Jackson ? Their shindy'
in America has been followed by another rougli-
xnd-tumble in London in which the white man
had all the best of it. Lees has all along asserted
that had he been allowed to go straight for Jack-
sou as he did for Farnan and as Farnan did for
tiie darkey, he would have won, and often asserted
Vis willingness to fight the battle over again. His
seconds, he said, made him keep off, with the re-
sult that Jackson gained confidence.
# # #
Backers of Bravo for the Caulfield nmp
were unanimous in thinking that O’Brien lost the
race through holding his horse back too long. As
a matter of fact, the archangel ic Michael couldn't
make Pravo go in the earlier stages at Caulfield,
and young Anwin had the same difficulty at
Flemington. Besides, the subsequent perform-
ances of Boss make it look very unlikely that
Bravo could have given him the weight under
any circumstances.
The reversal of form witnessed between
Melos and Carbine on Derby and Cup days proves
that weight does not trouble a good horse much.
There is no reason why horses in our big races
should not be weighted at least two stone, higher.
If one thoroughbred can carry 13 stone dyer a
trying steeplechase course, another should win the
Melbourne Cup with 12 stone on his back, pro-
vided the lower division were correspondingly
increased. Such a change would work wonders.
Men would replace mannikin jockeys, and seedy
weeds would give w r ay to animals of courage and
stoutness.
# # #
Woodhouse’s record of the Melbourne
Cups, issued in Melbourne, gives a dismal synopsis
of the breakdown of favourites. It was held that
Archer could not make Mormon gallop. Banker
and Lantern beat the favourites in 1863 and "64.
Toryboy was an outsider in 1865. The Bari) was
not the favourite in 1866, nor Tim Whittier in
1867, nor Glencoe in 1868, nor Warrior in 1869 ;
and what terrific outsiders were Nimblefoot
-1870, Pearl 1871, Quack 1872 ! Something of a
.favourite, Don Juan, won in 1873. Outsiders then
went in for it again -Haricot 1874, Wollomai
1875. Then we have such memories as Calamia,
Darriwell, Zulu, Assyrian, Sheet Anchor, Arsenal,
Dunlop. Only two or three favourites won in
all the list of Melbourne Cups. Therefore the
mere fact of a horse being the favourite is 10 to 1
against him. Just think that out.
* * #
Goddard, the Broken Hill smasher, is in
Melbourne, and going on with his smashing.
Fogarty met him at Nathan and Costello’s Hall
the other night, when he chased Fogarty round
the ring until the valiant James —who, by the
wayq can be valiant enough when the “ sugar ” is
on —lay down and declared himself vanquished.
Then Goddard requested them to bring fortli then-
best man, Costello for choice, and he would chaw
him up. Costello declined the job, on the ground
that it would not do for him to fight in Ins own
hall; so Mr. Buck was brought forth as the lamb
for slaughter. In a few rounds Mr. Buck was tn
quote an old sporting writer—a sight for a father,
as his mother would never have known him.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Berth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
WOIaFE’B SGII&PFg!
» ——
Be on your guard for Frauds wlien purchasing.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Bnow-whit»
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age
Use Batho's Baking i’owder.
A STORY OF SEPTEMBER, 1887,*
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My mate and I owned a blood horse, and we
entered it for a race at a station we will call Merool
in Victoria. We were selecting at this time,
and had it not been for that horse I am confident we
would have pulled through the bad times. We
were fairly stumped when the races at Merool
came to us as a godsend—so we thought—and we
tossed up to see who should take the horse over.
As bad luck had it, the lot fell to me.
* * #
It was a cold day, and my journey through
the mountains (well-known to the Kelly gang and
the wombats) was not a pleasant one. Towards
evening I left the main beaten track, aird followed
a bye-path, and when night came I found that I
was fairly bushed. I was riding a pony and lead-
ing the racer, so I took off the saddle, hobbled the
horses, got under the shelter of a tree, and tried to
fix myself as well as I could for the night with a
saddle for my pillow, I had not been settled long
when I was startled by a “coo-ee !” which, after
listening awhile, I heard repeated. I answered
the cry, re-saddled, and rode in the direction from
which the sound appeared to come, but found that
I was only following the echo from the mountains.
Then I turned back, and after a time saw—in the
semi-darkness— the figure of a woman dressed in
white. I called to her, she asked me to swim the
creek. When I got over she said in a disgusted
sort of way, “Oh ! it’s you, is it ? I expected to
see someone else.”
Having explained my situation to her, she said
she was glad I had come, as her husband had just
died, and she wanted me to give word at Merool
Station, but was afraid to leave the body in the
hut owing to the dingoes. She then invited me to
the hut. The first thing I saw on entering was
the corpse laid out on the table, with its boots on
and covered with a sheet. She asked me if I would
mind staying a couple of hours while she went
over to the station. I explained that I was not
particularly anxious to stay, but that, under the
circumstances, I would keep watch for her—l
would camp out in the
bush hard by until her
return. She laughed at
this and said : “ Don’t be
a fool! —a dead man can’t
hurt you. ”
* * *
As I did not care to
show the white feather I
consented, went to the
shed, and put the saddle
on her pony. Before
she left, she showed me
where to find wood for
the fire, as the night was
cold. I gathered a heap
together, and was enter-
ing the room where the
corpse was, when I was
almost paralysed with
horror on seeing, at a
glance, that the corpse
had moved its ai’m out of
the position in which it
was when I first entered.
By- and-by I began to turn
the matter over in my
mind, and concluded
that I must surely have
made a mistake—that I
had been deceived by my
imagination. Anyhow,
I plucked up courage
enough to go inside and
light the fire —looking the
while, I must confess,
over my shoulder from
moment to moment. Sud-
denly a noise behind me
started me to my feet,
and on turning round I
saw the corpse sitting up
on the table with a re-
volver in its hand. My
heart stood still. Had
no word been spoken I
must have died.
Presently the man said,
“Young fellow, what
the devil are you doing
here?”
I falteringly said that
I “ didn’t know. ” Then
the man who had risen
as it were from the grave
said that I was an in-
fernal liar and a spy of that
wretch the manager of the station. I said
that I was nothing of the sort —that I was a
stranger in these parts who had unfortunately got
bushed.
He listened to me attentively, and eventually
appeared to believe what I had told him. Pre-
sently he said, “Look here, lad, you seem afraid
of me, lam not dead, don’t you believe it. Feel
my hands. Do I look like a dead ’un ? No fear.
I am working a point, and, by the heavens above,
i f what I fear is true there will be murder here to-
il ight. But I may as well warn you that if by
word or deed you give me away the first shot will
be yours. ”
I said that I would much rather go, but he said
that I would have to stop. Seeing my shaky con-
dition he produced a bottle of brandy and gave me
a drink out of a pannikin, taking another for
himself.
' “ I-have a wife,” he said, “in whom I once had
every confidence. lam 40 and she is 26 years of
age. She is reckoned a beauty in these parts, and
God knows I always loved her. Some time ago I
received an anonymous letter informing me of her
carryings-on with the new manager of Merool
Station. This I did not believe — then —and as a
test lam trying the dodge you see. I saw her
put powder of some sort in my tea ; this I quietly
emptied out and went on drinking out of the
same tin, leading her to believe I’d swallowed it.
I then gammoned to be ill, which I thought
seemed to give her satisfaction, and appeared to
dife in great agony lying on the table. She then
left the house. Now,” he said, “she has gone
to the station to bring the manager over with her,
seeing that they have nothing to fear from the
dead. Well do I understand all now ; why I was
sent shepherding to the back of the run when
there was no call for it. He simply sent me there
to have my wife to himself.”
While we were talking he suddenly exclaimed :
“ What’s that ? ”
I heard distinctly, but said, “ I can’t say.”
He turned savagely on me and said, “Do you
hear horses ? Speak the truth or by I’ll
shoot you.”
I said I did.
“ One or two ?”
I said two.
“ A short step and a long ? ”
“Yes.”
“By heaven,” he said, “I thought it. God
help me to do right. It is that manager.”
He got on the table again and covered himself
witli the sheet, after threatening me that any sign
was instant death.
I heard the horses being put in the shed, and
soon after the door opened and in stepped a fine,
handsome fellow, who introduced himself as Bailey,
manager at Merool. He talked about the forth-
coming races; then, walking over to the table,
lifted the sheet and said ; “So poor old Bill has
pegged out at last! Poor devil ” —and that was
all. He noticed my nervousness and I said I was
perished with the cold. The young woman then
said they had some brandy and went to where
Bill had helped me from but found it empty. The
manager remarked that he expected that poor old
Bill felt bad before he “ croaked ” and must have
finished the brandy, but she didn’t say anything.
Soon after this the young woman and the
manager went to the other side of the partition,
after giving me a pair of blankets by -way of
bedding. I lay there fidgeting and uneasy ; pre-
sently the manager yelled out: “Why the ——■
can’t you keep quiet ! ” I replied with chattering
teeth that I was cold, whereupon he threw me
out a possum rug; but I, knowing that the end
of all this was not far off, got more and more rest-
less. The manager arose swearing dreadfully, and
I shall always seem to hear that dreadful scratch-
d
HEPATIC PATRIOTISM.
MOUNTED RIFLEMAN: “HELLO, HUDDLESTONE, YOU JOINED THE VOLUNTEERS! GLAD
TO SEE YOU IN THE RANKS OF THE DEFENDERS OF THIS FAIR LAND.”
INFANTRYMAN: “YES, THERE IS NOTHING LIKE IT. THE DOCTOR TOLD ME THAT A
LITTLE GENTLE WALKING EXERCISE WOULD DO ME GOOD, AND SO I JOINED.”
ing grasping search for the matches. When at
last he came to the door with the lighted candle
in his hand, he was confronted by the dead man
on his feet, who simply said, “Die! and your
blood be on your own head,” and shot him
through the heart.
X.Y.Z.
* As related to the writer by a man whose system ap-
peared to have utterly broken down—as the result, he
said, of a nervous shook.
The present market value of the Broken
Hill Proprietary mine may be reckoned at
£12,000,000, and the original shares carry a
proprietary interest over the other blocks, now
independent undertakings, which may be roughly
valued as followsBritish Broken Hill, £125,000 ;
Block 10, £500,000; Block 14, £000,000; South
Broken Hill, £700,000; Junction Company,
£400,000; Central, £1,350,000.
The lengthy Chippendale (Sydney) will
case, the entire costs of which are to be paid out
of the estate, appears to have been simply a re-
currence of the old story—nursing a dotard with a
view to getting his money. In the present in-
stance, Charles Child, aged 70, and possessed of
£40,000 in property and money, appears to have
been carefully shepherded in his latter days by
some dear kind people—and finally made a will
whereby the bulk of his property was vested
in trustees, who were enjoined to pay to the
testator’s only son 52s. a week “if they considered
him worthy.” The stuffing having been knocked
out of the reasons advanced in support of this
charmingly comprehensive little arrangement,
Judge Owen, in an admirably lucid judgment,
upset the will —with the result that the son takes
the money.
The Fifteenth of September.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Chanting their Jo triomphe they marched up the
green path to the Reformers Tree, with the white-and-
violet Union Jack of Australia, flanked by bouquets and
flowers on poles, in the van.” — London Star, Sept. 16.
So behind a flag, our flag, held up by hands that
in beseeching
Had been stretched to all the world, you’ve
walked in triumph, ours and yours—
Never will that flag be honoured with a crown of
honour reaching
To a glory passing this, while it or any flag
endures;
Neither was there homage paid in bygone years to
banners fateful
Lifted over fields of death like this to ours that,
borne above
All your shouting tens of- thousands, tells of
brothers who are grateful
Unto brothers, waves the message that to love
you answer love.
“ Gold, in God’s name, or we famish ! ” came a
cry from out the distance,
“ Gold, to strengthen us to stand upright one
hour and draw one breath,
Gold, to help us where we face them, maddened
to a last resistance ;
Gold to fight the damned tyrants who are driv-
ing us to death !”
We that listened knew the voices, changed although
they were and hollow
As the cheeks of them that cried, the toilers
fainting in their pain ;
Gold we sent them by God’s blessing, and with
twenty-fold to follow
Ere the burden they had spurned their wasted
hands should lift again.
What was gold to us to dare withhold a share
from trampled kindred,
We that, in a time whose memory burns our face
like flame, piled hoards
In a kingly dole to Murder, by no hint of con-
science hindered
Hired an angry setting out of sudden fools with
naked swords—
We that, dazed and drunk with boasting, sent
forth these to slay and ravish,
Spite of all the bitter laughter and the callings
out of shame,
Is it wonder that our best gave of their store with
hand as lavish
At the prayer of those that suffered in the land
from which we came ?
Dear our brothers ! who too long have borne as
brutes, and hoped and waited
Not from twenty or an hundred, like that offer-
ing accurst,
Came this gift, but from Australians one and all,
who, consecrated
To your freeing, bade you turn and bid the
drivers do their worst;
Not because of any glamour, or for prize of gratu-
lation
From the rulers and the mighty were we moved,
not now as then,
But that human moans and curses, rising from our
mother nation,
Told us men were making devils out of helpless
fellow-men.
For before your trembling lips had dared that
“No,” so resolutely
Hero re-echoed by strong friends with sharp
persuasion in their tones,
Bravely though you bore the torture, striving well
and suffering mutely
In a hell where they who earn the bread they
ask, receive but stones,
This we knew, that you, the sons of mighty sol-
diers, mighty seamen,
Sprung from them that swept oppression from
the shores and from the waves,
You, whoso fathers gave their lives to make the
world a place of freemen,
Seeing not how you were fettered, vaunting free-
dom, bent as slaves;
This wo knew that some among you, few and
scornful, sitting shameless
Upon coward heights of privilege o’er all the
rout prevailed,
Robbing, murdering the myriads who, not know-
ing, held them blameless,
Clothed in purple by wan multitudes who wrung
their hands and wailed ;
Masters lordly robed and sovereign, heirs of acres
purchased redly
With a letting out of blood, maybe, or meed of
harlots gold,
Bidding strength and virtue wither down in ken-
nels dim and deadly
Where all thought of Christ is barred and shamd
has prey of young and old!
Oh! we knew that in your England, standing
sceptred there and stately
By the grace of iron manhood in a past that
spoke for right,
Things that fiends might shudder thinking of
have been so many lately
That untroubled earls have merely shrugged
their shoulders at the sight ;
Weary age tricked out for market in a poor dis-
guise of vigour,
For an hour of desperate hope has stood among
the hungering crowd —
Girlhood pale and cowering graveward with a face
set from the rigour,
Of a youth that had no smiles nor time to stop
and sob aloud.
Wealth and splendour waxing fourfold, ease and
luxury and pleasure,
Wide domains and waving oaks for them whose
lordship held the earth ;
For the others filth and want, and degradation
beyond measure,
Sire and child and stranger huddled in one den
of death and birth —
This we knew, and that the tyrants against whom
you have so striven
In tins battle just victorious were not, as you
deemed, your worst;
They who spurred you without pity, without pity,
too, were driven
By a power enthroned beyond them, cold,
all-mighty, all-accurst.
You but saw who stood the nearest. O, our
brothers, shed your blindness ;
Look beyond the whip that scourges and beyond
the hand that drives;
There are masters of your masters, at whose nod
all loving kindness
Dies from hearts of men condemned to fight each
other for their lives.
Lift your eyes and look in theirs who stand to bar
you from God’s bounties.
You and others that you strive with in a bitter-
ness of need,
Ask them which of all their ancestors made one of
England’s counties
Bid them show the Maker’s signature or burn
the title-deed !
It was little you had asked. What gain ? To us
among all dowers
Time may bring of manly honour until all Time’s
course is run ;
This will stand the first, that you, beneath our flag
decked out with flowers
Marched to hail the first clear triumph for your
right beneath it won.
What to you ? A gain of brothers, firm to stand
for any issue
Side by side with you, believing, as in Heaven
that is above,
In the grander victory coming. So we lean across
and kiss you,
For to-day and all the future, answering back
your love with love !
Lewisham, Oct. 24.
HOHN FAERELL.
Moderate Drinking.
The Lancet draws attention to the prevailing
habit of nipping, as itself little less dangerous to
health and morality than occasional outbreaks of
intemperance. The curse of drink is, of course,
more palpable to public observation in the spectacle
of the drunkard, who has lost all moral control
over himself. But the ulcer which is eating into
the very heart of society, presents no gross or
repulsive features. It is beheld in the glass of
sherry, the nip of brandy, the tankard of bitter
beer, with which it is the modern fashion among
men of all classes —moderate drinkers —to clench a
bargain, discuss the news, or interchanee civilities.
The exigencies of modern habits and tire keen
rush and competition of business, without doubt,
create the appetite. Happy the man who escapes
the disaster which seizes upon so many, and who,
while playing with the fire, has not burnt his
fingers irremediably. Happy the man who has
strength to throw off the insidious habit of resort-
ing to alcoholic stimulation, and who has turned,
in time, to a remedy for the craving for liquor
which has grown upon him. Such a person is Mr.
G. G. Laurence, of Gipps-street, East Melbourne,
who, unsolicited, accords the following testimonial
to the value of a medicine which relieved him
from much pain, and great depression of spirits.
He says ;—“ I have been much troubled for many
years with a diseased liver, causing derangements
likewise of the kidneys and stomach. I tried
various remedies with but little success, until I
resorted to Warner’s safe cure. The result was
marvellous. My liver, kidneys, and stomach are
quite restored to normal action, and my appetite,
formerly very fickle, is now steady and good. My
spirits, heretofore much depressed, have resumed
their buoyancy. I have to do much walking, and
formerly, my digestion being impaired, I resorted
to the use of stimulants to afford me the necessary
strength to support me. I could not, otherwise,
have done my work. I am now thankful to say
that Warner’s safe cure has completely taken
away all desire or necessity for anything of the
sort. I feel thoroughly convinced by this ex-
perience that any persons suffering from a morbid
and dangerous craving for stimulants can have
that desire throttled, and find a path to renewed
and perfect health in Warner’s safe cure. I give
this testimony without solicitation from anyone,
and solely [for the benefit of those (and .1 know
their name is legion) affected as I was.” Mr.
Barton, raining manager, of Skipton Flat, Ballarat
West, also says that he noticed while taking the
safe cure, a total absence of thirst, and believes it
would cure those cursed with an inordinate desire
for stimulants. Conceive, then, the hope and
happiness which may result in a single bottle even
of this admirable agent! The curse of drink ia
probably the gravest disaster that has ever befallen
the human race. Its devilish results are seen on
the gallows, in prisons, in ruined homes, in lost
reputations, in abandonment to the lowest vices.
It is the true devil. Who then shall deny the
value —the inestimable boon —of a medicinal agent,
under the action of which this gaunt spectre may
be laid, and a terrible foe to the higher humanity
kept in due subjection ?


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made espec'ally to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one. , ,
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently ; m tact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magma*
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months' guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory alter
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
SpRCTAOT.E MaKRBS», OPTICIANS & KI.ECTRTCTANS,
474 & 537 George Street, Sydney.
Deaf Forty Years-
O
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ STANDING has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in tho
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Co.,
4 & 15 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Oar ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two yonng and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday First Lady; “That's
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been tho
reason?” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know? It's
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.” _____
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pcmell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s loft off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
165.)
Personal Items.
Sir Alfred Stephen has seen eight Governors
of N.S.W. come and go.
Sir Robert Molesworth, of Melbourne, is
Mie oldest living member of the Irish Bar, having
been “called” in 1828.
4 Newcastle coal-miner, named Duggan, is
said to have won the first prize of £22,000 odd in
Tattersall’s £50,000 sweep.
Mr. James White leaves for England by
next trip of the Orizaba. Nowadays Mr. White,
under medical advice, never attends a race-meet-
ing.
The full brother of a well-known and pros-
nerons English- Australian novelist was last week
‘dmitted to Liverpool (Sydney) Benevolent
Asylum.
Riley, the murderer hanged last week at
Wagga, was a cousin of Ned and Dan Kelly, his
mother being sister to the Kellys’ mother. Blood
will tell.”
The N.S.W. hangman and the principal
fio"ger are said to be very successful land-specu-
lators. Here is a pill for those who reckon up
people by their ability to become rich.
An exchange says that when John Dillon,
M P., and friends visited Jenolan (N.S.W.) caves,
a party of six or seven people whom they met
there lustily howled “ God save the Queen.”
Judge Manning, the newly-appointed head
of the N.S.W. Bankruptcy Court, comes from a
distinguished legal family ; his grand uncle was
Serjeant Manning, well known as a pleader in the
English law courts half a century ago.
fn his speech at the great Federation
meeting, Mr. E. Barton, Q.C., wanted a simile,
and took one from everyday life. “ Who would
take mutton-broth when he get turtle-
soup ? ” Not Toby Barton. You bet!
It seems that Mrs. May brick’s self-prejudi-
cial statement in court was made in defiance of her
counsel, Sir Charles Russell, who said to her—
“ My good woman, if you have no regard for your
own safety, please do have some for my credit.”
The smallness of W. B. Dailey’s estate is
explained by the fact that his father, John Dailey,
left all Ins property in trust for his grand-children.
It is also explained by the fact that Mr. Dailey
never troubled about money, and always had his
hand in his pocket.
The eloping Unionist lecturer, Parson Bar-
field, who deserted a wife and large family for the
twenty-year-old daughter of an ex-restaurant-
keeper, once addressed a long and unctuous letter
to the London Daily Telegkah as a contribution
to the “ Is Marriage a Failure ?” controversy.
Mr. C. J. Manning, the new N.S.W.
Bankruptcy Judge-salary £2ooo—was called to
the bar in 1865, and has enjoyed a large practice
on the Equity side. Judge Manning eschews
politics and devotes his spare time to floriculture,
his garden at Hunter’s Hill being a “thing of
beauty and a joy for ever.”
Harold Maclean, Comptroller-General of
N.S.W. Prisons and formerly Sheriff, who entered
the Government service in 1840, has died —and been
buried at Waverley. His first wife lies in the
little cemetery at the now deserted “early-days”
diggings township Sofala, on tire Turon River,
where in 1852, its busy time, Mr. Maclean was
Goldfields Commissioner
“Deny emphatically,” cables Mrs. Langtry
to New York Truth, “ reports about my divorce.
I have neither sued nor been sued for divorce, and
my relations remain as they have always been.”
Truth adds ; “ Mrs. Langtry, we have no
doubt would be very much pleased to bo relieved
of her domestic relations, and be left free to choose
elsewhere and again. But to this Mr. Langtry
himself interposes an emphatic and cold-blooded
objection.”
A collection has been made of the saying
and stories of Sir Wilfrid Lawson. One of them
is, that a well-known brewer having addressed the
Commons on the drink question, Sir Wilfrid, who
followed, said—“ The hon. member who has just
addressed the House on the drink question is
evidently full of his subject.” But we have heard
John Haynes make hundreds of better jokes than
that in the N.S.W. Assembly, and whenever John
makes them they are looked upon as gross imper-
tinences.
CarlLumholtz, the well-known far-northern
naturalist, explorer, &c., is about to publish a
volume. On a recent trip he lived on lizards,
snakes, grasshoppers (grilled), grubs, &c., &c.,
which he enjoyed so he says. Lumholtz declares
that “ The best part of a snake is the liver, which
in big snakes is over a foot long ; it is decidedly
good, and has a gamev flavour. ' He brings back
900 bird-skins, and discovered four new mammals,
three fresh varieties of the opossum, and the tree-
climbing kangaroo.
For the benefit of his health, Sir George
Verdon accompanies the Lochs to the Cape. Sir
George is the son of a Lancashire clergyman, and
arrived in Melbourne when he was seventeen and
the Southern city was in its golden glory in ’5l.
He engaged as wharf-clerk with Heap and Grice,
afterwards Grice, Sumner and Co., and many a
“ brickfiolder ” he has stood in while discharging
cargo from Tom Norton’s lighters on Throg-
morton’s and Cole’s wharves. The little “fishing
village” (1859) of Williamstown, and that canny
Scot, Sir James M‘Culloch, gave him his first
political “leg-up,” and from being a people’s
representative he has developed into a Tory of the
“bluest blue.” Sir George has been in turn a
wharf-clerk, a fireman, a volunteer, a barrister
(without a brief), a member of Parliament, Colo-
nial Treasurer, an Ambassador. Agent-General,
and is now head of a wealthy banking corporation,
a K.C.M.G., and a C.B.
How “Bunya Bill” was Caught.
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent,
“Paddy Melon,” describes how the bushranger
Bertram, or as he calls him, “Bunya Bill,” was
caught at Dillalah Station about twenty years ago;
but he does not give the correct version of the
affair, or he would not attempt to make the late
Mr. Edward Bradley the hero of that remarkable
capture without mentioning the names of the two
principal actors in the drama. It is a fact that
Mr. Bradley, an old Warrego identity and a very
hospitable and popular man, was, by the common
consent of those present, invested with the honour
attached to the capture of Bertram, and received
recognition from the Government as the principal
in the matter. Had it been otherwise, there would
probably have been so many claimants to the
distinction that the occurrence would have lost
half its romance. Your correspondent says that
Bradley was locked up in the store-room with the
other prisoners, and that whilst the bushranger
was ransacking the house in search of valuables
he (Bradley) contrived to force his way out through
a small window and hide himself in a dark passage
until the approach of the bushranger, upon whom
he sprang, etc., etc. —leaving it to be inferred
that Mr. Bradley alone, out of the eight or nine
good and true men present, was the only one bold
enough to face the desperado—which not only
looks absurd, but is positively untrue. He also
says that one foolish young man, who disobeyed
the bushranger, was shot dead (which, I may add,
is not true either); likewise, that Bertram was a
strapping fellow, about Gft. 2in. in height, and
had a Colt’s revolver in either hand—which is
“another one, if not more so.” Nobody was shot
dead at Dillalah ; nor was there a shot fired at all.
Although Bertram was a heavy lump of a fellow,
he was not more than sft. 9in. tall ; and, instead
of having a Colt’s revolver in either hand, lie only
had an old-fashioned pepper-box-sort of weapon,
that carried a bullet no larger than an ordinary
WHAT IT WOULD PAY.
ROGEYMANN (log.): “MEIN VRENDT. LET US CONKRATULATE OUR-
SELVES ON THE BASSING OF DE NEW SOUTH YALES BAYMENT
OF MEMBERS’ REEL.”
FRIEDSKI: “YES, IT I-H GOOT. THE TREE HOONDRET A YEAR VILL
ABOUT PAY DE INTERESHT ON DE FIFTY POUND DOT
SCOUNDREL DE MEMBER FOR DE BIG SCRUB BORROWED FROM
MEIN BANK LAST MONTH.”
pea, and which was, furthermore, very weak m its
hitting-power. You may judge for yourself when
I tell you that on the morning of his capture he
shot Bill Baker, the publican at Mangalore, in the
ribs with it, and, although it made a wound, and
lodged somewhere in his “innards,” yet Baker,
with whom I had several drinks next day,
assured me that he felt no very bad effects
from it —although it was for this * little indis-
cretion that Bertram was afterwards hanged in
Toowoomba Gaol. Old Mrs. Baker, who was a
pugnacious little Irishwoman, was the gamest of
the lot, for when the bushranger shot her husband
(more, I think, through nervousness than from
malice prepense) she “went for” that individual
with the broom-handle, beat him ignommously
out of the house and off of the premises, and did
not part with a sixpence to him. Bertram then
proceeded down the river with the intention of
“ sticking up ” the Cunnamulla mailman (that was
me) but first of all he had to get two good horses,
as his own animal was knocked up, and it was
chiefly for this purpose that he bailed up JJillalah.
He got one of the hands (Jimmy Smith, I think)
to drive up the horses into the stockyard, and
whilst inspecting a couple of the super.’s best
mokes who should come up but old Bradley driv-
ing his waggonette, and with him, unfortunately
for Bertram, two of the gamest and best men at
that or any other time in the Western country—
namely, Sylvester, or, as we used to call him,
“Big” Brown, and Harry Zouch. Both these
gentlemen were at that time squatters on the
Paroo ; they had come in for a spell and were the
guests of their old friend Bradley at Chaneville.
Mr. Brown was not only a giant in size and
strength, but was also a renowned athlete to boot,
whilst Mr. H. L. Zouch had inherited a fair share
of his father’s (the old captain) cussedness and
pluck. After introducing himself to the new
arrivals the bushranger marched all hands across
to the house and placed them in a row on either
side of the passage or hall, which ran i rom the
front to the back of the building, and this is
where he made his fatal mistake, for when he
essayed to walk down the centre with the afore-
said pepper-box in his hand, preparatory, no
doubt, to a general turning - out of pockets,
pouches, &c., the cool, determined giant marked
his man, and when he approached sufficiently near
grabbed the revolver in one hand and the bush-
ranger’s throat in the other. Mr. Zouch, who
knew well the sort of clay his big friend was made
of, and who at that moment read his thoughts,
was near at hand, and, it is needless to add, the
attack on the bushranger was not only simul-
taneous but decisive. At this juncture, Mi.
Bradley tocka leading part in the business, for
when Brown and Zouch had disarmed and diaggecl
their man outside, the old gentleman sat upon
him, and superintended the arrangements tor
fastening him up, and otherwise took the
custody of the bushranger until such time
as he was delivered into the hands of the
Charleville police. Had Bertram got through
all right at Dillalah, he would, in all probability,
have had a warm reception later on in attempting
to carry out his intention of sticking up the Cun-
namulla mail, for I happened to have for travel-
ling companions on that trip two Western celebri-
ties in the persons of W. B. Murphy and bcotty
Lawson. These two youths were, as usual, well
armed and could never have quietly suffered the
indignity of being bailed up by anybody—least of
all by such an unbushmanlike amateur as Bertram
seemed to be. I had a yarn with Bertram shortly
after his capture, and it struck me tint he was
not the sort of man that generally makes a suc-
cessful bushranger. The man who will embark in
the miserable, risky, and always unpopular bust-
ness of a highwayman should, besides being a dead
shot and a first-class horseman, thoroughly under-
stand Ir.rh navigation in all its branches.
Bertram was not built that way. Ho s\as
altogether too green or he would never have been
caught by any man or men without firearms. He
was a squarehead by appearance and a'cent.—
Yours, &c., Andy.
[We are much obliged to “ Andy.” It is the way of the
world to give the credit not to the man who does the
fighting, but only to the fellow who sits on the chest of
the beaten man. ” Look at the N.S.W. Education Act for
instance.—En B.]
Sydney District Court. —Solicitor No. 1 (to
doctor, pleasantly); “You want to chaige the
defendant £18 18s. for an accouchement, though
you charged me less than £7 7s. ?” Solicitor No.
2; “Oh, he was letting you down at wholesale
prices!”
A woman summoned in the Redfern Police
Court for not having registered her dog, stated
that it was 40 years old and blind. The S.M.
remarked that she should place it in the museum
as a curiosity. It would have been more courteous
to offer it a seat on the bench.
The Cobar and Louth (N.S.W.) paper
states that —
“ We shall commence the publication in these columns
of a highly interesting and original series of articles,
entitled: “English and Colonial Criminal Life,” by the
editor of this journal. Apart from whatever interest may
attach to these papers, we can promise our readers that
they will be found to embody a deal of useful and valuable
information relative to the modus operandi of pickpockets,
burglars, coiners and swindlers. The information which
w ill he given in the various papers constituting the series
has been acquired by the present writer during upwards
of twelve years’ journalistic experience in England and
the Australian colonies.”
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The Age could not even write an account
of the Melbourne Cup without having a fling at
the Irish.
It is said that Mr. J. P. Abbott wll bo
the judge of the new N.S.W. Land Court ; screw
£2OOO a year.
On a recent occasion Irish Secretary
Balfour in addressing the Commons had an
"udienco of two—the Speaker and one faithful
Tory.
Parkes in his Federation scheme proposes
that the whole island shall ho named Australia.
A few months ago he wanted to apply that name
to the mother colony alone.
Ignatius Singer, a Hungarian, once editor
of Adelaide Our Commonwealth, who went to
England with a wool-extracting patent, lately
made a telling speech at a Glasgow Single-tax
meeting.
John Pinney Bear, a very old 'S ictoriau
colonist, and founder of the Tahbilk vineyard, is
dead. His father kept Bear’s horse sale-yards, at
the corner of Bourke and Queen-streets, Mel-
bourne, in the early fifties.
Thirty thousand pounds was subscribed in
Australia for the dock -labourers’ relief fund ;
£15,000 was subscribed in England. We should
be careful about federating with a country whose
wealthy people are built that way.
It is alleged that several N.S.W. members
have refused to draw their recently-voted official
salaries on the grounds that they were elected to
honorary positions. 1 hey will let the money be
till after the next election, when, if re-elected,
they will use it. And if not ? Why, they’ll use
it all the same.
Sunday News Bailey has been beaten fur
Ballarat East and has styled another candidate a
“ mean, contempt!! >le thing; ” whereupon the other
fellow said that Bailey came round to his place
and expressed a willingness to bo bought out. At
this stage of the proceedings Bailey 7 said that
unless someone would hold him back, he would, &c.
Said Governor Carington in Melbourne -
“ In Australia Lord Knutsford’s name is as well
known as are the names of Sir Henry Parkes, Mr.
Gillies, or Sir Thomas MTlwraith.” Quite true,
but what of it? “Jack the Pipper” is also well
known. Knutsford has earned in Australia the re-
putation of a fatuous political imbecile, who thinks
that Wagga is governed by an aboriginal king,
and that ■Melbourne is the capital of Brisbane.
Editor Brown, of the Johannesburg and
Transvaal Mining Chronicle, has been arrested
for treason. In a late issue he states that
Our difficulties principally lie in what we have stated
over-taxation without a corresponding expenditure. Wo
s“ck relief from mal-administraiion, by the constitution of
a free Republic based upon reasonable and fair representa-
tion, together with such a conduct of public business as
will make prompt communication and redress obtainable
by and to every citizen of the country.
Sir Henry Parkes’ Federation manifesto
was delivered in the presence of an appallingly-
clismal crew of nonentities. “ Among those on the
platform we noticed the following Messrs.
Gould (Minister for Justice), H. Taylor, Roberts,
Ritchie, Dowel, Shepherd, Burns, Tonkin, F.
Earnell, Cullen, Fuller, and Morton.” Australian
Federation is a great cause. Otherwise it could
never survive the patronage of so melancholy an
aggregation of Commonplace.
Scattered over the various goldfields of the
Northern Territory there are about GOOD China-
men — mostly unprovided with licenses and
mightily successful in getting Government work.
John’s luck is largely due to his liberality in the
way ot tip. “ You gettee me eontlact, I giveo
you ten, twenty, one bundled pong,” says the un-
blushing barbarian to the young fellow who wants
to run down to the Cup, or the older man with a
large family and many debts. The latest tele-
graph-line contract has been given to yellow-skins.
Melbourne Evening Standard, which
made a feeble start on Tory lines, is now striking
out vigorously in a Radical direction. The evident
success of this unexpected move seems to have
knocked all the stuffing out of the Herald, and
that never very intellectual horgan has lapsed into
a condition of drivelling idiocy. In its despair the
Herald is publishing ghastly “cuts” of strange
pre-historic animals, labelled Boz, Hales, Dread-
nought, or Hon. James White, singly and all
together. It looks as though Editor Winter is
beginning to experience a frost.
The phrases per medium of which Parkes is
taken to have promised that the fiscal question
shall be remitted for settlement to the future
Federal Parliament are as misleading and in-
definite as those memorable words of his which
the guileless Water Jug Foster accepted as a
promise that Parkes would give him the first N.S.
Wales Supreme Court judgeship thereafter vacant.
“ I want you to become my Attorney General,”
said Parkes,” but whether or not you accept that
position it will make no difference as to the judge-
ship.” On analysing Parkes’ alleged promise on
the federal tariff question it will be readily seen
tliat it amounts to simply nothing.


T h e Federal Situation —in Victoria.
HENRY PARKES: WELL, DARLING. LET US SETTLE IT."
THE WIDOW GILLIES (who comes from scoutlond): "BUT HOW MUCH WULL YE SUTTLE ON ME? HOO ABOOT ME SEPARATE ESTATE?
RENRY (diplomatically): "LEAVE IT TO MR, DARLING. WELL SEE TO IT AFTER THE CEREMONY.”


if/f BLi itmm
"When the Lame lead tile Blind.” -Scripture slightly twisted
“Bravo is now thoroughly lame. . . . Carbine’s foot is in a hopeless condition." —Sporting Paper's before Cup Dog.
THE PUBLIC (in chorus): “WE ARE ALL VERY BLIND.”


-=fc.
m
INC
&T Celebrated
*4.
m
ps
jSolc e(!Whe:ELER& C?^4}a
SHEWED tipmSLV
AURORA-. IND. is
M 3, //> u .===
Sofoena wUatfreX'
CnXcf> Jso'izb anß>
Scvns otacfu).
ď
Cll-60 Wit
t’ eM luC'Ucai it
ax (V<>
F. B. WHEELER & CO,,
265 tla rente Street, SYDNEY.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
II
AYE
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of KTew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fennell, Linn, Ronisch. Bkthner Collard and ntw
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos a-t £45 and Eatoy Organa. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Rupert Carrington, brother of the N.S.W.
Governor, is about to be married—to the daughter
of Mr. John Horsfall, the well-known Victorian
squatter and business-man. Rupert is not much
known in Australia yet, but all who are acquainted
with his distinguished English career will cor-
dially join with us in congratulating Mr. Horsfall
on becoming connected with the old aristocracy
through the medium of so liberal and genial a
son-in-law.
* * *
The Honorable Rupert, by the way, has
arrived at the tender age of forty-five. Failing
certain contingencies he will succeed to the Barony
of Carrington,
» * #
Gov. Loch, when pointed to by Judge
Casey (at a dinner) as the future Governor-General
of the Australian “ Dominion,” modestly de-
clared that Lord Carington was most fitted to
bear the burden of such a mighty responsibility.
Were the Baron asked he would probably desire
to pass the honour onward to Leiningen, Batten-
berg, or George of Wales, or to His Serene High-
ness the Hereditary Grand Duke of Schwillen-
saufenneferwaschimselfatall von Germansausage-
schewidischturnipsteingerweit. It is manifestly
evident that the Federation kept in view by the
prominent bummers of Australian politics is of
the Imperial brand, and that if we do not desire
to be saddled with a branch hereditary monarchy
and an old nobility, we must keep our eyes open.
It is the first step that costs.
# # #
The fact that the “leading” English
journals are already congratulating Sir Henry
Parkes on his Federation scheme is in itself most
suspicious, and smells sti’ongly of a “ Royal ”
Governor-General at £40,000 a year with a weak
chin and the rickets. Then Parkes, it will be
observed, talks not of Congress but of an Austra-
lian “House of Commons” —inferentially, there-
fore, of a “ House of Lords;” he speaks of “the
Australian Dominion” (under whose dominion?)
and not of the United States of Australia. Also,
he talks with high-bred blastedness of “the Aus-
tralian Privy Council!”
# # #
The Bulletin has its eye upon all these
things, on which it will enlarge at the right time.
It is quite a pity to blight the hopes of those who
look forward to the establishment in Australia at
an early date of a court presided over by George
of Wales or by Parkes’ brother-poet, the Marquis of
Lome and his wife, the haughty, soured daughter
of the Queen for whose salvation we are always
praying. But unless some decent guarantee be
given that Australia is going to federate for her-
self and not for England—that she is going to be
“ Governor-Generaled ” not by a sprig from the
upas-tree of Royalty but by a plain citizen, who
can ask our girls to dance instead of sending a
flunkey to tell them that he has made up his mind
to dance with them, we hope and trust that our
so-called Federation may be put off until the
Greek Kalends.
* * *
The fact that more has not been done
to publicly commemorate the late Mr. Dailey must
in no small degree be attributed to mismanage-
ment. A preliminary meeting to move in the
matter was held at the Royal Hotel, Sydney, in
the December after Mr. Dailey’s death. A string
of resolutions was submitted, and a lot of more or
less distinguished people were invited to speak,
including Sir John Hay, Bishop Barry, Sir Alfred
Stephen and Mr. Edmund Barton, but several of
the speakers did not turn up simply because due
notice had not been given. Besides, the night
arranged for the public meeting was one already
fixed for a banquet to Mr. John See, which spread
was attended by about 60 members of Parliament
—a banquet to the living being far better, likewise
cheaper, than a statue to the dead —and this gave
a lot of people a good excuse for stopping away.
The speech of the evening was made by Bishop
Barry, and in the result a committee was ap-
pointed, who seemed to have since troubled thera-
selvs very little about the matter. Ultimately,
the whole affair has been left to Mr. Scarlett, Box
so-and-so, G.P.O. Three thousand pounds is now
wanted for a statue, and people are not quite
certain whether the committee has met,for a whole
year.
* « *
After all, Australia had just as well not
put up a statue to Mr. Dailey. The act on account
of which it is chiefly proposed to perpetuate his
memory in bronze was an anti-National deed which
we had far better try to forget. For the rest it is
hard to fix upon anything else of Mr. Dailey’s
which can well be commemorated in the manner
suggested. He was a man with a keen wit, an
eloquent tongue and a generous heart, but he
lacked the industry to crystalise his great talents
into enduring literary things. His kindly nature
will long live in the memories of those who were
privileged to know him as a friend, as also in
those of the hundreds who have heard him talk,
have eaten his dinners and borrowed his money,
for the return of which he would never ask. His
representative political act, now utterly disowned
by Australia, belongs exclusively to a country
twelve thousand miles away, and is already com-
memorated on a tablet in St. Paul’s Cathedral.
Mr. Dailey’s sons have been sent to England to be
Anglicised.
* * *
The case of Civil-Engineer W. S. Hamand,
of the N.S.W. Public Works Department, who,
like D. C. Murray, has been afforded an oppor-
tunity of reading his own obituary—a very flatter-
ing one, by the way—published in the minutes of
the British Institute of Civil Engineers, is inter-
esting. There it is asserted that Mr. Hamand
was drowned in Pagham Harbour, in September,
1888, and he has been asked by the N.S.W. Par-
liamentary Standing Committee on Public Works
to explain why he is alive.
* * #
We know in Sydney two other men whose
obituaries have been published ante-mortem. One
of them is supposed by his friends (and creditors)
to have been drowned at Sacramento, California,
in 1884 ; the other is a gentleman who, nine years
ago, left his clothes on the banks of a raver in the
Orange Free State, and incontinently scooted.
Henow has another wife, and is much re-
spected in religious circles. Then, by the
way, there is a wild-eyed gentleman who
once managed a bank in the western district of
Victoria and was engaged to be married to a
squatter’s daughter. Suddenly he disappeared
and went to England; we read in a Victorian pro-
vincial paper a most affecting account of how the
FLESH AND SPIRIT.
CLERICAL PARTY: “MY FRIEND, lAM DEEPLY GRIEVED TO SEE YOU
IN YOUR PRESENT POSITION. WHAT DOES THE HOLY SCRIPTURE
SAY ABOUT THE LUSTS OF THE FLE-H?”
INEBRIATED PARTY: “WELL, YER SEE, OLE ’FLER, MINE ISN’T A LUSHT
OF THE FLESH, IT’S A LUSHT OF THE SPIRIT.”
lonely man died at sea, and how there was not a
dry eye on board the clipper while the Reverend
Mr. Jobkins read the beautiful service of the
Church of England over the body of poor Mr.
S , ere it was consigned to that sea which
would one day give up its dead. (N.B. —Who
wrote that obituary and sent if out to Australia?)
Then, when we arrived in Sydney, we ran up
against the ex-bank-manager. He was eating
bread-and-cheese and telling the barman to be
sure and give him Schweppe’s soda with his dry
gin.
* * *
Further, it occurs to us that a certain
financier, who is just now very well advertised,
could a tale unfold about a gentleman who, some
few years ago, after a bath on the classic shores of
the river Rea, near Brummagem, omitted to claim
his clothing. His wife shed copious tears —and
two years afterwards she shed her weeds to join
her luvin’ husband at the Beautiful Harbour.
* # *
Then, again, there’s that well-known mer-
chant who left Melbourne in a hurry owing to a
little difference with his bank manager, accelerated
by a sneaking regard for the Tambour Major
troupe. He was also mourned as dead by a lot of
people until an old Australian friend ran across
him at Westminster Aquarium. He had the
same beautiful whiskers, “balanced by a siren
on aich ar-r-m.”
* * *
But, bless you, we could go on like this for a
week.
* # *
Saturday last, the 9th November, was the
forty-eighth birthday of our rickotty friend, the
Prince of Wales, whom we now cordially con-
gratulate on having concluded to renounce, in the
youth of his old age, the practice of trundling fat
women down-hill in wheelbarrows.
* * *
Infant shows are becoming so common
that we expect ere long to see in the evening press a
pitiful “ ad.” commencing—“ Wanted kind person
to adopt a baby-show. £lO premium.” At New-
town (Sydney) Trocadero, last week, 400 partially-
dressed babies, their mothers-in-waiting and
friends, glassily stared about 50 meek and uncom-
fortable spectators out of countenance, while a
brassy-band curdled the infants’ milk. The only
calm viewer of the ve ■ y much exposed exhibits
was a local butcher whom we saw eyeing the 15-
montbs, forty-pound Queanbeyan baby with an
early-lamb look which, though it horrified us, ap-
peared to give great satisfaction to the lady in
charge. The triplet prize was taken by three
strapping seventeen-year-old youths, the sons of
the proud mother of 17 more, and the grand-
grand parent of GO, but the “ma” of the pro-
mised quartette, up to the time of our leaving,
had modestly refrained from appearing.
* * *
The Age contained eighteen columns des-
criptive of “ Cup ’’-day, and the godly Melbourne
Daily Telegraph put religion in a back seat for
the time and devoted eleven columns of its space
to a glowing account of the great annual Victorian
orgy. Editor Fitchett and Co. know how to hold
a candle to the Devil.
* * *
Commissioner Walker, of Victoria, has
declined “the dignity of an ofiicership of the
Legion of Honour ” on the ground that Graham
Berry has been made a Commander of the Legion
aforesaid. Once upon a time, in the days of the
First Napoleon, the Legion of Honour perhaps
meant a little, although it must be confessed that
the great captain often threw about his favours
with a very free hand. To-day it means nothing
in particular, and is little less objectionable than
the Order of Saint Michael and his friend the
fraudulent contractor.
* * *
Paris Exhibition is closed at last. Here
is a letter sent us by this week’s mail, the writer
being an Australian :
1 have been to many big shows in my time, but this one
beggars description. Talk about Melbourne Exhibition
being big, it would be quite possible to put the whole of
the Melbourne show into the machinery garden here.
Compared with other places Victoria makes a most miser-
able show. It would have been much better had she
never exhibited at all. In the first place the Government
committed a mistake in making it a “Royal ” Commission.
People here appear to care little for “ Royalty.” All the
writing-paper, &c., belonging to the Victorian section is
stamped with a crown, and gives one the impression that
Australia is still a Crown colony. In the next place they
made a grave error in sending as head commissioner W. F.
Walker, an invalid, a man totally unfitted for the position ;
since the first week of July he has been absent from his
post, most of the time in Switzerland. During his absence
there were many congresses held here, the most important
for us being an international “Grain Congress.” Now, as
grain is one of Australia’s principal exports or products,
you would have thought that some one would be present
to put in a word for her, but no, we were utterly unrepre-
sented. Amongst other tollies Victoria has spent £2OOO
on a pavilion in the vicinity of the Trocadiro; this
pavilion was built with a view of selling her wines, but, as
scarcely anyone can find it, their average takings are
about nine francs a day. Attached to this pavilion is a
room specially built for holding receptions and giving
banquets to leading wine-merchants; one banquet ha's
been given and about six receptions have been held;
three-hundred pounds have been expended in gas-fittings]
which have been used but twice ; they are paying a high
rent for a piano which has been played upon once. From
beginning to end the Victorian appointments are unspeak-
ably bad; they could not have got worse men had they tried
to. Last Sunday, 29th ultimo, the awards were given out;
of course Walker was absent, but in the “ march past”
President Carnot, who do you think took a prominent
part? A man named Dennys, formerly a publican at
Melbourne, and now the butler to the Victorian Section.
The first time he confronted the President of the Republic
was when Carnot visited the Australian wine-pavilion. On
that occasion Dennys waited on hiui, and I can imagine
Carnot saying (he had a good, memory); “I fancy I have
met you before.” I tell you this to give you some idea of
the general management of the Court. The secretary of
the Victorian Court, Mr. Huybers, formerly a bank-clerk
at Melbourne, is a man quite without official backbone.
Walker got offended because the high officials of the Ex-
hibition did not make much of him ; he forgets that he is
in Paris. A Minister of the Crown is some one in Vic-
toria, but who the devil knows anything about Vic-
toria here ? There are several maps to be seen
throughout the Exhibition, in which Victoria is quite
ignored, the whole section being printed “Nouvelle Galles
du Sud!” And what are the few things we show compared
with the magnificent pav lions of the French colonies—
Algeria, Tunis, New Caledonia, and Tonkin ? And then,
again, the South American pavilions are spacious and
magnificent. 1 regard the representation of Victoria at
this Exhibition as nothing more or less than a job, and for
this job the taxpayer will have to pay about i'17,000, at
the very least. You will hear some big rows about it by-
and-bye. Perhaps up to the present you have read glow-
ing accounts of Victoria at the Paris Exhibition. You
now have a little of the other side. Although the cold wet
weather has set in, the people still flock to the big
show, the average weekly attendance being about a million.
The great success of the Exhibition has been the Eiffel
Tower. The tower originally cost; 5,100,000 francs : it was
paid for by shareholders, the original shares being sold at
500 francs each. The tower remains tile property of the
shareholders for 20 years and then becomes the property
of the city of Paris. When I tell you that shares are now
selling at 900 francs each, and that the shareholders har e
been paid four dividends of ICO francs each, you will be
able to form some idea what a good thing they have on.
The receipts of the tower from the 15th May to the 24th
September were 5,045,140 francs and from the 25th Sep-
tember to Ist October 261,674, making in all a total of
5,306,820, so you see the tower is more than paid for
already. The little railway which runs round the Exhibi-
tion, built and owned by a man named Decauville, has
during the last five months carried more than 5,000,000
passengers without a single accident.
* # #
The last man but one hanged in N.S.W.
was, in accordance with the eternal fithess of
things, executed on Sir Alfred Stephen’s birthday.
The last murder committed in N.S.W. took place
(also in accordance with the eternal fitness of
tilings) on the day of the last hanging—Riley’s. *
V %
Socially, Mr. Dan. Cooper appears to have
been remarkably successful in London. He is a
member of those two most exclusive institutions,
the Tui’f Club and White’s, for admission to which
the average wealthy man, whether English or Aus-
tralian, might knock till he was black in the face.
It is true that Daniel paid pretty smartly for his
footing, but then the English aristocracy, if they
can’t “have’’you for a little, simply won’t have
you at all.
* # *
Peter Egerton Warbnrton, explorer, solved
the greatest of all conundrums a few days ago,
starting from Adelaide on a final trip into the
unknown and unknowable “ Never-never.” Born
in 1813, he was for many years in the Indian
service, from which he retired with the rank of
Major ; was afterwards Commissioner of Police in
Adelaide, colonel commanding the volunteers and
other small matters of light work and good wages.
In 1872 he took the lead of an exploring expedition
fitted out by Messrs. Elder and Hughes, to cross
from Adelaide to Perth (W. A.), with four white
men, three niggers, and seventeen camels. After
wandering about for eight months looking for
native wells and eating their camels to keep body
and souls together, they made Roeburne on the
W. A. coast and returned to Adelaide by sea. The
Wai'burton Beetle (Stigmodera Murrayi) and a
record of countless billions of ants among which
they camped and suffered in the desert, remind
posterity at odd times of the expedition. Like
Robert O’Hara Burke, Peter Egerton Warbnrton
was an example of badly-chosen material. First
soldiers, then policemen. Good men both. But
the most successful Australian explorers have
been bushmen every time.
* * *
The present church-collection controversy
recalls a variety of more or less amusing stories.
In Melbourne, many years ago, a prominent mem-
ber of a fashionable suburban church, patronised
Oy vice-royalty, was an ostentations individual
who had made a big fortune out of “ horn and
hide,” and who never missed his pew on Sunday.
When the collection-bag—it wasn’t a vulgar
“ plate’’-—came round, he made a big display of
rattling coins in his pocket and dropping a hand-
ful into the bag. The churchwardens found in
that highly-ornamented receptacle each Sunday
certain coins which were utterly out of place in
such a congregation, and, having carefully put
two and two together, they laid a mean little trap
for that haughty saint. He sat close up to
the communion-rails, and on one fateful Sunday
the churchwarden paid him a visit first. The
same programme was gone through, the coins
chinked, the closed hand went into the bag,
and came out open—simultaneously with which
six fat pennies dropped on the floor with a loud
rattle to the chagrin of the donor and the amuse-
ment of the “worshippers,” some of whom had
been let into the joke. The wily churchwardens
had slit the bottom of the bag and had thus
brought about an expose which caused them to
have a desirable pew to let on the following
Sunday.
* * *
Another. Many years ago, in the same
city, the priest in charge of one of the best-
attended R. C. chapels had as a collector a very
pious young man, who, notwithstanding his piety,
looked after the things of this earth with surpris-
ing success. It was whispered to his “riverince”
that the Sunday offerings of the faithful ought to
be much larger, and Father Blank—he’s dead


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 -KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months ...
6 per cent, allowed on daily
... 9.', percent.
... St per cent.
... 7 5 per cent.
... s|-per cent,
balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid m addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. JONSOSf, Fit Hum's Certificated Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Halt-hour Private Lessons-Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
What Scott’s Emulsion HasDonel
Over 2 5 Pounds G ain in Ten Week s.
Experience of a Prominent Citizen.
The California Society fob the
Suppression of Vice,
San Francisco. July 7th, 1886.
I took a severe eold upon
my chest and lungs and did
not give it proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis#
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Fran cisco o Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Beott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from ISS to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. R. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Robertson’s Whisky. * ao ° 3priz:bs
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS :
10 of £5 each, 25 £2, ami 70 *l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, -A-T J.iT
& CO., Limttod, CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
now —fully concurring in the opinion, quietly dis-
tributed a couple of pounds worth of mar e
half-crowns amongst people whom he thou o ht h
could trust, for you never can be quite sure.
When the meek and lowly plate - humper
presented himself at the vestry but few of
the marked coins were accounted for. I’ atner
15 bluntly charged him with the theft, which
h 9 admitted. He had been for years robbing the
plate and putting the proceeds into bricksand
mortar, and of such is .the kingdom of Heaven,
u a N.S.W. seaport town a, trusted collector,
who now holds a big public position, was similarity
bowled out. Churches, of course, to avoid scandal,
do not prosecute in such oases.
* * *
As the Irish delegates left Sydney in the
’Frisco mail steamer the band struck up (probably
as a sly poke at Mr. Deasy) “The girl I left behind
me ” It is understood, however, that the young
l idy is a brick and that all will yet end happily.
This is only another way of saying that the
recently-circulated statement that Mr, Deasy had
been married is incorrect.
* * *
At a recent sitting of Sydney Licensing
Court an application was made by a lady for an
hotel license. The case was postponed, as the
applicant could not produce her husband, he being
supposed to have died in America. Which re-
minds us that some years ago a well-known Sydney
lady was plaintiff in a Supreme Court action in-
volving much money. When the case was called
on defendant’s counsel applied for non-suit, as
plaintiff was a married woman and her husband
should have been joined in the plaint. As hubby
happened to be in ’Frisco, it seemed as if the fair
one would fail, but she wasn’t built that way.
She got a postponement, set sail for ’Frisco, found
the husband, brought him back by the ear to
Sydney, produced him in Court, joined him in the
plaint, won her case, and recovered substantial
damages.
# * *
Lord Carrington skipped about like a two*
year-old at the Lochs’ “Cup ” Ball.
* * *
Everyone who knows aught of Mr W. T.
Jones regretted that the genial little stockbroker
wasn’t present to cry “ Bravo !” when his gallant
steed came in for the Cup. instead of being holi-
day-making in Very few men on ’Change
have as white a reputation as Jones, and his readi-
ness to help a lame dog over a stile is proverbial.
The little man is something of a masher in his
wav. He has a pardonable weakness for diamond
rino-s, and in the old days when he first came up
to Slelbourne from Ballarat, Jones’ velvet coat
was one of the sights of the town,
* * *
An amendment made in the Victorian
Divorce Bill by “Doctor” L. L. Smith allows
male sinners to go a trifle further than their good
ladies without snapping the sacred marriage tie.
Professional experience probably has taught L. L.
that sauce for the goose would be too strong for
the average gander.
* * *
The Bulletin must candidly admit that
Lady Kintore docs dress in shockingly bad taste.
# * *
No loss than twelve counsel were engaged
last Thursday in the N.S.W. Equity Court in the
case of Israel v. the Atlas Engineering Company !
* * *
Doctor Isidore Maurice Blake, for half a
century a resident of Yass, N.S.W., died last week
at his daughter’s residence at Grenfell. He was in
many ways a fine old gentleman and held the office
of district coroner for forty years.
* * *
A few months ago a well-known M.L.A.
was in a financial fix and his friends—three of
them—started a subscription. A fair amount-
some £2oo—was got together. A meeting was
called and the grateful member presented with
what was alleged to be a purse of sovereigns. But
ho did not benefit, as the “three” were creditors
and stuck to the lot after the most approved bank-
olerk’s-creditor fashion.
* # •
A pic-nicking Sunday-school teacher has
been killed by a Sydney tram. Is this “ exhibition
of Divine displeasure ” directed against pic-nics or
Sunday-schools ?
* * *
Willoughby Andrews, who last week fatally
shot Mr. Bartlett, the Sydney mercer, with a pistol,
is obviously a semi-crank —one of those abnormally
excitable persons who, at the best of times, are
uncertain in their mental balance, and who, by
the action of alcohol, are wafted on to or even
over the borderland of absolute insanity. Andrews
was sane enough to poll heavily in a N.S.W.
Parliamentary election a year or two ago, on
which occasion ho received from his supporters a
valuable souvenir. Had ho been returned he
might now have been decimating the Ministry or
Opposition, as the case might be, with his pea-
shooter.
* * *
The Secretary of State for the Colonies
asks Premier Parkes for information concerning
the working of the liquor-laws of N.S.W. If
Premier Parkes tells the truth ho will say among
other things that about half the _ grog sold m
N.S.W. pays no duty worth speaking of, but is
made by church dignitaries in Sydney cellars and
sent abroad under forged labels to poison the
population.
# * *
It is interesting to know that one of the-
very smartest of the Sydney public’s uncles has
been “ had” for £7OOO advanced by him without
security to an enterprising financier whose affairs
are just now under discussion.
» # *
Bishop Moorhouse maintains that church-
bazaars are a perfectly correct and Christian
means of raising the needful. So they are,
Bishop, but for a real, right-down, business-like
method of collaring the “oof ” in cold blood there s
nothing to beat a good big plate handed from pew
to pew. You can never say for certain how
much of a bazaar sticks to the fingers of the
pretty little stall girls. They don’t have a till, or
anyone to check returns, and although most of
them do sing in the choir, yet they are but mortal,
like barmaids. Bless your heart! Bishop, we
used to be kind of “ engaged ” like to one of these
holy, holy, holy little darlings. She gave us so
many handsome presents that we expostulated at
last, because she really couldn’t afford it, don t you
know. Then the maiden explained how she was
awfully lucky in finding money at the bottom of
her pocket after a church bazaar. She was a
terror for buying us ivory-backed Bibles, was that
girl, until we broke it all off in consequence of a
new ginger-headed curate.
An unfortunate woman, Sarah Clifford,
was lately sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment with
hard labour—afterwards altered to one of 10 years
with light labour—for pocket-picking. TheN.S. W.
j udge who passed this atrociously severe sentenoewas
surely either joking at the expense of the prisoner
or was really ignorant of the very slight differ-
ence between “hard ” and “ light ” labour. In the
OUR CHILDREN.
LITTLE CHARLIE (to his father, who has just given him a [?]shing): “LOOK HERE,
IF YOU BEAT ME AGAIN I SHALL TELL MY GRAND-MA—YOUR
MOTHER-IN-LAW.”
case of male offenders a sentence of “light labour
means exemption from stone-breaking, mat-
making, and other work requiring a certain
amount of physical exertion ; but in the case ot
females, who are employed in the N.S.W. prisons,
either sewing, knitting, cleaning, or cooking,
there is no such consequent exemption. ihe
two former employments cannot certainly be
classed as hard labour, therefore we must presume
that cooking and cleaning come under that de-
nomination. Now, to those acquainted with the
workings of prisons, it is well-known that these
are the occupations most coveted by the prisoners,
and generally given to the best behaved. lo
them pertains an indulgence—a small quantity ot
tea and sugar weekly, in addition to the regular
rations. The ordinary gaol cooking is done en-
tirely by male continees, but the chief gaol officials
generally have one or more female prisoners
at work in their private residences. the
advantages to these prisoners are better food and
quarters, and an acquaintance with the doings
of the outside world, in many cases small presents
from the gaolers’ wives during service, and occa-
sionally extra “ gratuity ” money when discharged.
However, as the judge’s sentence has nothing to
do with such gaol appointments, appearance and
prison behaviour, &0., being the necessary qualifi-
cations, it is impossible to say wherein toarali
Clifford has benefited in the alteration of her sen-
tence from “ hard ” to “ Ught labour.”
Pulpit Echoes.
(BY AN UNORTHODOX REPORTER.)
Dearly beloved brethren : We have watched the
current of social thought somewhat anxiously of
late and have discovered that there is abroad in
the world a widespread feeling amongst our
brethren of the lower classes that they are not
altogether receiving a fair share of that wealth
which they (in conjunction with the landlord and
the capitalist) create.
This belief may or may not be rightly grounded
in the recent case of the dock-labourers, but since
public opinion seems to be on their side and they
have actually obtained the concession they de-
manded, I think we may with some reasonable
qualifications safely admit that they were right in
their contention.
We would call your attention to the fact, dear
brethren, that even when the voice of the press
seems almost unanimous in upholding some
cherished institution, which the ruthless hand of
democracy would abolish, it is not always safe for
the Church to express its opinions too plainly.
Take the case of the abolition of slavery, for in-
stance. In that case the Church was led into a
grievous error, the effects of which are even ye
apparent. When all the influential journals of
America were unanimously upholding the cause of
the pro-slavery party, the Church public y
espoused the cause of the slave-holder. .
A great pro-slavery meeting was organised at
Baltimore at which delegates from all the various
churches attended—as the Herald of that date
remarked, “lending dignity and impressiveness
to the scene.” , uau
Yet, strange to say, the then despised aboli-
tionists gained the upper hand within a very short
period, and thus the leading representatives of
Christianity were reluctantly compelled to re-
model their discourses in order to uphold tne
views of the new (and victorious) party.
It is to be feared that the Church may possibly
be led into the same error to-day.
We have amongst us enthusiasts who declare
that the land value of any country belongs to the
community and not the individual land-owner.
Now, as some of our more wealthy brethren
who for years past have contributed largely to our
stipend are largely interested in prospective land-
values —we ourselves have invested a portion of
our modest pittance in the same class of security
we should perhaps be justified in expressing some-
what warmly our opinion of this class of agitators.
Yet the haunting fear oppresses us that there
is a possibility that after all the followers of
Henry George may be successful in their crusade,
and in that case the dignity of the Church and the
preservation of our position as an advanced
thinker demands that we should be able to claim
a share in the victors’ laurels.
The wisest plan under these circumstances will
be, not to express a decisive opinion in this matter,
so that we may be enabled to point out to the vic-
torious party that we, at any rate, never opposed
them.
Thus we shall be alike able to preserve our own
position and prevent the charge of “ time-serving ’
being levelled at the Church.
It is perfectly true that there are existing to-day
institutions which ought to be abolished, but it is
no part of our duty to point out what those insti-
tutions are or how they should be got rid of. We
once made this mistake, and the remembrance of
the unpleasant consequences which followed yet
rank amongst “memories which haunt us.”
Experience has shown us the folly of attacking
social wrongs and thereby risking unpleasant per-
sonal consequences, and the blessedness of a dis-
creet silence or a studied vagueness on these
subjects.
The early annals of Christianity bear abundant
testimony to the wisdom of the latter course.
In those primitive times the principles of the
Galilean Peasant (upon whom, of course, we have
greatly improved) were mainly inculcated by well-
meaning but indiscreet persons, who acted upon
the absurd principle of advocating right for right s
sake, irrespective of whether it was expedient to
do so or not. , ~ . ~ .
As might be naturally expected, the most disas-
trous results followed this suicidal conduct. ihe
sympathy of the members of the best society were
entirely alienated from them, and instead of till-
ing positions of comfort and dignity, such as we
ourselves occupy, historians tell us that these mis-
guided individuals wandered about clad in the
skins of sheep and goats and were actually com-
pelled to inhabit caves and other extremely un-
desirable places of abode. Even this social ostra-
oism did not in many cases convince these erratic
individuals of their folly, and we regret to say
that the most unpleasant consequences ensued.
It is true that to-day we do not stand in danger
of the same treatment, but still we are quite satis-
fied that it would be extremely unsafe for us to be
too explicit in any matter which affects the exist-
ing order of things. , ,
Picture to yourselves your pastor compelled to
assume the ordinary garb of humanity and join
with the common herd in their dirty tasks the
repulsive moleskins or the unsesthetic dungaree
taking the place of the sheepskin suit of olden
days. This is not to be thought of for one moment.
If in more primitive times the strict ethics of
Christianity were too rigid for practical appli-
cation, how much more imperative is the necessity
for judicious caution in delivering the Gospel
message to-day? ,
Take, for instance, the case of the well-known
injunction, “Take no thought for the morrow
Had the Church as a body literally obeyed that
command the extremely valuable sites for future
building operations now held by different sections
would probably to-day be in other hands.
If we turn to the individual aspect of the case
the injunction is even more absurd ; if it were
literally carried out, no minister of the Gospel
would probably own a single bank-share, and
would certainly never make a few thousands out
of a rise in silver-scrip or corner lots. .
In the case of the lower orders, unquestionably
the fact that they have from day to day the con-
tinual anxiety of not knowing whether to-morrow s
meal will be forthcoming or not, effectually pre-
vents their carrying out this scriptural behest.
Of course, we are aware that it has been urged
(rightly or wrongly) that if a better state of society
were brought about, that wearing anxiety as to
the procuring of the bare necessities of life would
be unknown, but it is no part of our duty to bring
about such a state of affairs. If we were to
attempt such a Quixotic task we should at once
alienate the sympathy (and the cheque-books) of
the wealthy portion of our congregation.
It is doubtless true, as Huxley and others have
pointed out, that millions live to-day under such
degrading conditions that belief in the goodness of
the Creator is impossible to them. But we must re-
member that this class of people are not likely,
under any circumstances, to contribute much to
the support of the Church, whilst the sanction of
our public approval to any radical reform which
would uplift such persons would be to court the
displeasure of the cultured class from whom our
stipends are drawn. _ . . ,
There are many weighty social questions winch
confront us in the 19th century, but the great
problem which perplexes us (as also the daily
press) is how to be sufficiently democratic in our
utterances to attract a congregation, and, at the
same time, sufficiently vague not to alarm the
capitalists and landowners who in times past have
contributed liberally towards our maintenance.
Let us trust that this may always be the case.
Amen.
The collection will now be taken up.
Dear Bulletin, —Jacky-Jacky was travel-
ling with a mob of Queensland cattle through
N.S. Wales. One of the bosses rode ahead and
every now and again sent telegrams to the drover
in charge, acquainting him with the whereabouts
of water, condition of grass, &c. This made
Jacky watch the wires with interest. _ One day
the head drover lost a pearl-handled knife, and it
was more than suspected that Jaoky had annexed
it. In fact, from certain signs and tokens, it was
believed that Master Jacky had sewn the missing
article up in the lining of his coat. That day the
telegraph-wires crossed the route. The head
drover beckoned Jacky, sent him up one of the
poles, and made him attach a string to the wire.
Then the drover gave three mysterious, masonic
taps to the post and placed the string to his ear.
After a few moments of eager expectancy (on
Jacky’s part) the drover took a telegram form and
pencil from his pocket, and wrote. Turning to
Jacky he said : “Boss tells me you’ve got that
knife sewn up in your coat.” J acky said nothing,
but produced the knife instanter. He’s as honest
as the sun now, and looks upon telegraph-wires
with great respect. —Bakblox.


Government Advertisements.
rjIEND
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 12, 1889.
ERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this ottlco.
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Roads Department Annual Stores,
1890. Deposit of £srequired for
each contract.
Drain Pipes
Engineers’ Stores
Timber
Tents, &c.
Brush ware
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Ditto ditto ditto, Erection, Con-
tract No. 2
Bridge over Box Creek, Road
Balranald to Ivanhoo
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Warialda
Bridge, Jiggi Greek, road Lismore
toJiggi
Bridge, Fairfield Creek, road Gun-
daroo to Yass
Concrete Lining, &c., Potts Hill
Reservoir (fresh tenders)
Removal of Rock at end of Wharf,
Cundletown, Manning River
Bridge, Hunter River, at Hills-
borough
Bridge, Myall River, at Bella-
delah. Erection (fresh tenders)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Narone Creek, road Mill-
field to Wollombi
Bridge, Byron Creek, 2nd Cross-
ing, road Clones to Byron Bay
Bridge, North Arm, Brunswick
River, road Tweed River to!
Brunswick River
Caretaker’s Cottage, Newcastle
(Water Supply)
Bridge over the Parramatta River,
at Hospital for the Insane
Bridge, Byron Creek, Ist Crossing,
road Climes to Byron Bay
Pipe Laying, Chatswood to St.
Leonards, Ryde to Hunter’s
Hill, Contract No. 04a, North
Shore, W.S.
Richmond Bridge, Redecking, &c.
Supply of Plate, Bar Iron, &c.,
Harbours and Rivers Depart-
ment, 1889 (fresh tenders), £5
deposit required
Broken-hill Gaol, Erection of
Broken-hill Post and Telegraph
Office, Erection
Court-house, Juneo, Erection of
Coraki Post and Telegraph Office
Bridge, Warrcgo River at Gum-
bali on roads Bourke to Wanaar-
ing
Custom House, Newcastle, Re-
pairs (fresh tenders)
Little Bay Hospital. Additions
Repairs, Court House, Armidale
Police Barracks, Deepwater-
Erection
Court House, Inverell—Fencing
Technological Museum, Drainage
(fresh tenders)
Low-level Bridge, Mangrove Wednesday
Creek-road, Gosford to Wok Dec. 4,
lombi at 11 o’clock.
Bridge in approach to Murray
River Bridge, at Mulwala
Alterations Protestant Orphan
Sclkx >1 Parramatta
Roads Department, Annual Cbm
tracts, 1890. A deposit of £5
required with tender for each
contract.
Ship chandlery, Supply of
Oils, Plates, &c,, ditt >
Plate, Bar Iron, &0., ditto
Ironmongery, ditto
Quar.y Tools, ditto
Indiarubber Goods, Hose, &c.,
ditto
Boats, ditto
Pilot’s Residence, Richmond River
Heads, Erection
Lockup, Yass, Erection of
Bridge, Parramatta River, at
O’Connell street, Parramatta —
Contract No. 1, Supply of Iron
Pipes
Contract No. 2, Erection o
Timber Bridge on Iron
Piers
Wedreslay,
I )cc.
at 11
o c
BRUCE SMITH.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OE
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Klnslie Mob, Grindery, «Ve.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
. 539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
J]DWIN G. GOERTZ,
Stock ami Share Broker,
ZHimT-A-PT CIAL AGENT,
BRISBANE
Member of Ike Brisbane Stark Exrhat
Amusements.
T H E A T RE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. .Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, TMr. John Wallace.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Miss Jennie Lee
in
The GS- raashopper.
Admission—ss., 35., is. Tickets at Maekay’s Hotel.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE*
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10. to.
To-Mghl anil Every Evening at S O'clock,
THE GREATEST RACING DRAMA OP THE AGE,
by Dion Boucicault, Esq., entitled,
Tli e F lying Scu d.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
gJCHOOL OF ARTS.
Every Evening at 8-MR. SNAZELLE.
“ An Incomparable Performance-”—London Times.
MR. SNAZELLE, A TRIUMPH.
Mr. James MacMahon has the honor to announce the
Complete Success of the famous Mr. Snazelle (specially
engaged in Europe, together with the' whole of his
entourage, by Mr. F. E. Hiscoks) and who will present
nightly his unique, beautiful and fascinating entertain-
ment,
MUSIC, MIRTH, SONG and STORY.
Incidental to which will be exhibited a series of marvel-
lous pictures by an entirely new scientific process, which
have proved a revelation to the Sydney public. This,
department will be under the d'rection of Professor
Hnddlestone and staff, who have accompanied Mr. Snazelle
from England.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and la.
Box Plan at Nicholson Co.’s Music Warehouse.
iJIOWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-o.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. JVL. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10,45.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
The Celebrated Play
D I F* L O M A O -S’.
By arrangement with Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
MUSEUM MUSEUM
PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
Immediately opposite Town Hail, George Street.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
A GREAT SUCCESS!
Five Splendid Floors Full of Attractions!
THE DAILY RENDEZVOUS!
Amusements and Exhibitions or alt. Descriptions!
toiiccrl Iteoin ! Fieak of Nature Room!
ILLUSION ROOM!
Mechanical Model Itoiim! Variety Kooin!
One Shilling to all. Children Sixpence.
OTIS ELEVATOR. ELECTRIC LIGHT.
NOVELTIES ALWAYS ENGAGED.
HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
QAIETY THEATRE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
The "outineulal bidorado Entertainment.
Professor W. Perron,
AND
Miss Ada, Pitzroy,
. THE ANTI-SPIRITUALISTS.
Prices, 35., 25., Is.
T. V. TWINNING.
JJONDI AQUARIUM,
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m" to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d,
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
UETTYSIU IU; CVCLOKAIH .4 t
What is it?
The grandest, the most instructive, the most
realistic in every detail of beauty and subli-
mity ; unquestionably the most perfect exhibi-
tion ever presented in Australia.
Have you seen it ? Have you seen it ?
Opposite Redfern Railway Station.
Admission (10 a.m. to 10 p.m.), 25,; Children, Is.
Special— lf ext Sunday, Bto 10. Half-Price.
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
Shipping.
JJIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract witlr the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed. - . r - '
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
•families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
fIOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
O TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers. Commander. l Lea ™ Sydney! Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. ; bourne4p.m
YARRA.. .. IBoulard
OCEAN lEN..lDidier
.. Nov. 25
.. Dec. 25
.. Nov. 28
.. Dec. 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
11. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton,
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO.. Agents,
5 O’ConneJl-strcet.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney arid Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted.with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 8501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of’charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
ion apply at the Company's Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Furniture, &c.
NEW T 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any mater al.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemeu,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 10 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Ml
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. (sd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending'
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
(> x <S, 8 x 8, !) x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 0 x 8, (is. Gd.; 8 x 8
Os.; 0 x 8, Os. (id.; 10 x 8, 10 s. od.; 12 x 8,12 s. (id.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O'Connell Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour,.Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch
for Invalids and Medical Men.
“DOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
d
d
MERIC AN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DR YEP.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheat.
NEWTON and LAMP.
ANYAS EOLDTNIr
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring n«u O CJonnerl Streets.
r AWN and PARK SEATS, Gft. long. Rustic
1 i Cast-iron Standards, 14s. Gd. each, Newton
and Lamb.
/ 4 ARDEN SEATS, Ills. Verandah Chairs,
Indian Long-aum Lounges. NEWTON
and Lamb.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
los.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12*.
Gd., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Peter Jackson was trained at Lowthei
Castle, the residence of Lord Lonsdale.
Says a Tam worth (N.S. W.) paper :
The Minister for Mines, Messrs. Wyman Brown, It, 11.
Levien, and John Sec, M’sP., left here l>y special train on
Sunday last, at 9.15 a.m., hound for the Cup.
Who paid, we wonder?
In the visitors’-book at Jenolan (Fish
River) Caves is now to be seen the following aris-
tocratic opinion :
The Caves are much over-rated. The accommodation is
very good for so remote a place. One is not repaid after
a drive of 38 miles through the rain.—DUnlo.
Poor Dunlo ! He dunno. As he pursues his
painful life-march he’ll find that everything under
Heaven is over-rated -yea, even the ballet. Be-
sides, fellah who goes for honeymoon without —aw
—ladyship—beastly kawlinies—gives fellah blues.
A love-sick swain, after serenading the
mansion of his lady-love for some time recently,
climbed up to the window of an upper chamber
where a night-lamp was dimly burning. There he
beheld no, not his charmer, but her venerable ma
busily engaged in cutting her corns.
Humour hath it that a gentleman lately
Woogarooed is to be an unwilling witness in the
forthcoming action, A.M.P. v. Geodes, and some
racy evidence as to the reason of his sudden lunacy
will be produced. However, the medico who
signed the order for his admission will doubtless
be able to explain.
“ Dagonet,” having ridiculed the Jews in
“London Day by Day,” T. P. O’Connor swears
that he is a Hebrew himself, and accuses him of
fouling his own nest. G.R. indignantly denies
that he has libelled the Jews in getting a little
fun out of a pronounced Petticoat-lane typo, and
assures O’Connor that, although not of Hebraic
origin, ho has the greatest respect for the
ancient race, believing as ho does “that there is
■i strain of Hebrew blond in m arly every man or
woman who comes to the front in the world of art
or letters. ”
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Soap
Best* Cheapest
Bar None!!
[jAvrsow
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.1’.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d.
CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
đ
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 71a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
What does Cardinal Moran mean hy this :
“No one hesitated just now to say that Aus-
tralia was on the road to become a great Imperial
nation ? ”
The Argus gets off this Tory drivel under
the disguise of sporting intelligence : —“ There was
a little speculation in the waiting before the race
as to the absence of the Governor, for, though the
pleasant smile of Lord Carington was noticeable
on the lawn and about the stewards’-room, while
the capable head of the Earl of Kititorr showed well
(bore most of his suite, Sir Henry’s distinguished
presence was missed.” Fifty females who had
taken their places early in the grand-stand, as
near the vice-regal box as possible, may have
noticed that Loch didn’t turn up on Steeplechase
Day. Of the other thirty or forty thousand people
present it may be asserted that they didn’t care
>ne curse whether all the Governors in Australasia
vere at Flemington or in bed. In no previous
year has such democratic contempt for vice-regality
been shown in Victoria as was glaringly apparent
it the late V.R.C. meeting. The prevailing “dis-
'oyalty ” was the chief subject of common interest
which Carington, Loch, Kintore. and Robinson
ound to discuss. It concerned them a lot more
than the ’osse*.
JNDISPENSAELE JPOS LADIES
AND ALL I’KHSON^
With a Delicate Skini 1
if you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HASDS and CRACKED SKIS, and 0* keep YOUR
OOMPLEXIOS in pood condition duririj the whole
year use
MOUSON’S
COCOA BUTTER SOAP.
(Savon au heurre do Cacas.)
I’hln celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter , (ex-
'ratted in the manufacture of Chocolate) which is THE
MILDEST FA T KNOWN, and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. The
leneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIN AS SOFT AS
VEL VET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSOS & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS.
FRASKKORT-OX-TTIE-MAISE.
London ; 32 & 33 hainsell-st., e.c. pares : 29 rue radzibrile.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouses & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.,
231 OLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRAL.ASIA.
cl
O
w
s
o
13
ft
i
K
T
o
U
T
d
SCENTS.
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3&«5 Barrack Street.
VViiat is Home without a Picture?”
L. BEEITASCO^I,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Out to any Design.
JOHKT BUCKHiV.M,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Bugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade),
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
We o?er our services as Advertising Experts. We
can show i on how to advertise, how to display, which
are the best media, how to make the most of your
money, bend for our
EVERY MAN TO HIS TRADE
Pamphlet on Advertising, and save money, time, worry
an I anxiety.—F. T. WIMBLE & Co’, Advertising
Contractors*, l:» Post Oflicc Chambers, Sydney.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
I*OUTLAM), VIOTOIIIA.
John Slioltoii - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMAS
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Afire ; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men's Hacks.
WHY
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
i ecause it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, Neuralgia, Ac.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO, Chemists,
78 KING STREET.
l or Sale by nil Chemists
M. W. 4 Co.
/COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, &0.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmposters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
tit A Its «V r«I!A((«MSTS SUSDKIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christinas Trade.
Prices on Application to
ii.. AVI. Marks «Sc 0(3.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AX LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
Dr. westcott’S amenoerhcea
PILES for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and I?- Ed.,
by post 3a. and ss. W, H. SOUL and CO., 1110
Pitt street, Sydney, Agents.
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which arc
'sleeted with the greatest regard for Purity,
and for the
SOOTHING and BENEFICIAL EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.
DR. SCOTT’S
GENUINE ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC BELTS
bR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSETS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC 11AIRBRUSHES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC FLESH-BKI 'SHFS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC T()OTH BRUSI iES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC INSOLES
DR. SCOTT’S
EL EOT KIC TlO ETIIIN G N ECKL AC ES
DR. SCOTT'S
ELECTRIC HAIR-CURLERS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSETS AND BELTS
are universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diar-
rhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronuhitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis,
Loss of Voice, Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases,
Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, Palpitation,
etc., and have cured some of the most obstinate
and distressing cases after all remedies (so-called)
have failed. Send for Illustrated Circular and
Price List, sent free to any address on application.
Pall Mall Electric Association.
62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
P.O, Box 221
CORRESPONDENCE
“T.M.R.” : He is all right up to date, hut we
have referred jour letter to him for reply direct.... “ No.
2 ■”; Your Vandemonian associations have blunted
vour humanitarian impulses. Figures may lie, but we
can’t accept the fabled storj' of Cain’s murderous propen-
sities as an argument for their confutation....“ The Old
’Uu’s Sister” : You have again missed the mark. You see
you didn’t start with a plot. Get a startling incident and
work it out “ X.Y.Z.” : You had pretty good materials
£ or a story. But why didn't you make the outraged hus-
band commit suicide—and then proceed to allow the
fascinating widow to originate another little domestic
icandal on your account ? A second bloodthirsty drama
with j r ourself as the injured husband and your racing
partner in the place of the wicked station-manager could
have followed. To quote Alfred B ,it would have
“taken well and given great pleasure to all.” “John
Whitford ” : Many thanks .“Manfred Downs”;
Please send us j 7 our name and address.... “ Disgusted ” :
To have to print an affecting three-column obituary
about the death of little Sammy and quote verses
from his favourite hymns—as it any little boy ever had a
favourite hymn is one of the penalties incidental to
being the large-familied proprietor of a country news-
paper. When we ran a country newspaper it was in a
mining community, where you could talk straight to
people without offending them. To groan beneath the
Czar-like autocracy of the respectable, black-coated, kid-
gloved chief-draper-mayor-J.P.-Sunday-school-superinten-
dent of a non-mining town, on whose nod depends the
food of your Pegasus, is indeed a ghastly bondage
“j. M Arnold ” : Not smart and of no earthly interest....
“Gills”: Now, tell us —is it original? .. “Anti-Tyranny”:
Write to Secretary Whitelocke, of N.S. W. L.V. Association.
“J. Alexander”: Your “mercantile” joke has no
interest for our readers “Commandments”: The
eleventh is “ Thou shalt not bore editors with doggerel.’
.. “ Beauty Show ” : Too unutterably dirty. .. “ Kew ”
Thankew “Sligoer”: Bather a thin climax, isn’t it,
for three sides of post paper?. .. “E.A.L.” ; Since the pro
hibition of sweeps we take no further concern in such
matters... “H. Campbell ”: To hand. Any decent news-
agent will tell you all about it “Anon;” The old
epigram applies—
When men of infamy to grandeur soar,
They light a torch to show their shame the more.
“ L.D.”: Your ocean story is sea-sick... “ W.S.J.”.
If Parkis is honest in his Federation scheme he is selling
Ihe N.S.W. Freetrade party like bullocks in Smithfldd
inasmuch as the relegation under existing conditions o)
the tariff question to a Federal Parliament inevitably
means the institution of an Australian policy of Inter-
colonial Freetrade and Protection against the world. Ii
he is not honest, then he is simply trying to break up tin
N.S.W. Protectionists—who, to protect themselves, must
exact from him a public and fully-recorded pro
mise in unequivocal terms to undertake on be-
half of his party that the fiscal issue shall be dealt with
by the representatives of the Australias in convention
Wai-Kimmerai ” ; Good. Kindly send us your name anc
address “J.A.F.” : Many thanks “ Haunted Digger,
&c.” : Do you write with a skewer? .. “ L.D.. ”:
There is an incoherent, vague, inarticulateness about j om
“Tale of the Sea” which no one but Alfred Bennett could
appreciate “Good Luck ”: Verse probably good .
penmanship illegible... “Jeremy Jumkins”: They an
“out of plumb”—with a vengeance “Young Aus
I ndian ” (Wagga): Will shortly give you an article on the
subject “E. J. Ross”: You might as well ask us hov
is it that all pious men, or men of alleged piety, in thi
heat of argument fall back, with assumed humility, on tin
set phrase, “ If you tread upon a worm it will turn ”?....
“W. F. Hewlett ” : You don’t send us anj matter—
“ Kickmansworth ” (Melbourne): You know a thing or two,
but you are trying to make Tut; Bulletin' the vehicle of a
personal “derrv.’ (Please give us something we dare print.
“Chiswick”: If you want to know anything about it
apply to the Manager of the Bank of New Zealand....
“J. Munro” : Thanks for suggestion ; sent to artist...
“Cosmopolitan”: Noticed “J.G.C.K.”: Thanks,
but can't very well republish j our forcible article ..
“J, O'Neill ” (Corrowong); Write to Government Printer,
who will give all information....“ A.W.” : You might
send us a statement of your reasons why leases should
never be granted.... “C.D.N.” : Your sketches are too
rough for use. You should get an artistic training..:.
“ E,A.L.” : Judging from the style of his letter, thi
honorary secretary, at Sydney, of the Australian
Natives’Association is just now in a very hysterical con
dition, and should be gently lifted on to a sofa and
treated with burnt feathers and sal volatile. “To arms
ye patriots ! ” and all that kind of tommyrot sounds
v eil to some people, but it would be just as well for thi
Australian Natives to beware lest they are being hum-
bugged into a military Federation having for its object
the defence of India, and so on. —(Many letters held over.]
THE VERY BEST.
A single pain is often the first indication, and
the last throe, in one, of a physical climax, and
the climax is death. That St. Jacobs oil has again
and again wrought its miracles just in the nick
of time, has bridged over the critical emergency,
and has
SAVED MANY LIVES
at the point of death, is fully attested by the
record of many extraordinary cures in which this
fact of saving life is duly set forth.
If to its remarkable virtues in the permanent
cure of chronic cases of Itheumatism, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Sciatica, after years of endurance,
wherein everything else proved-valueless, fortunes
were spent in vain, and crutches and crippled
limbs were the manifestations, is to be added its
supreme sovereignty over pain, even unto death,
it is wholly entitled to the appellation of
THE VERY BEST.
Its specific action is especially adapted with a
curative penetration and soothing effect, to arrest
any pain at the acme of its worst influence. St,
Jacobs oil applied externally is now known as the
best specific to arrest the fatal tendency of any
aggravated pain.
A MOST REMARKABLE CASE
can be cited in proof, which is thoroughly verified..
It is in its main features taken from a leading
Liverpool paper as follow : Two years ago, - ’
states Mr. William Buchanan, residing No. 8, St.
John’s-road, Kirkdale, Liverpool, and 24 years in
the service of the Cunard Steamship Company, ‘‘ I
was taken down with a most excruciating pain in
my head, which was followed by
ONE YEAR OF TORTURE.
All physicians believed that it would lead to
softening of the brain and death. Six of the
most eminent attended me ; but gave; no relief.
I had to be held down, and my screams were heard
outside. My case was deemed incurable. My
wife procured a bottle of St. Jacob’s oil, and
applied it to my head, it acted like magic. I
was cured by it, and am now in perfect health,
and I have not had the slightest return since I
was cured some months ago. Nothing more need
be added.
THE THREE WATERBURY WATCHES.
Watches that ke'p time, and watcher that impress
the bystanders with a sense of their intrinsic
va'ue when they are hauled out of the pocket‘are
as far apart as a dray wheel and a skyrocket. The
Waterburys are the timekeepers.
“Series E,” is the best form of the original
Waterbury. A good, cheap, serviceable watch,
with nickled case, stem-winder, and runs 28 hours
with one winding. These are made,by the best
automatic machinery. Price 13s. Gd.
“ Series J.” is the new Waterbury. Short-wind,
stem-set, enamelled dial, with seconds-hand,
jewelled, duplex escapement, same diameter as
“Series E.,” but not so thick. Price 22s Gd, or
with patent dial 20s.
“Series L.,” the Ladies’ Waterbury, is the
latest, and is a short-wind, stem-set, enamelled
dial, jewelled duplex escapement watch, smaller
than “ Series E.” and “ J.” Price 22s Gd, or with
patent dial 20s.
In Australia, as in Europe and America, the
sale of the new scries (J. and L.) Waterburys
since their recent introduction has been cjuite
phenomenal. Ask your dealer to show them to
you.


HOT WEATHER
To counteract the enervating, relaxing, and evi
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country during the summer months
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic,
it prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps up
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation,
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels ;
thus preventing liver and kidney disease, and
warding off their unpleasant symptoms, as head-
ache, constipation, piles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy,
apoplexy, &c, The summer is the time when
Clements’ Tonic is the medeoine par excellence
for the people. It prevents the relaxation and
depression so prevalent in the hot weather in
these latitudes ; it enriches the blood, aids
perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-power;
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and can be depended
upon to do good and cure disease. The action of
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt;
relief is felt immediately after taking the first
dose; it acts direct on the seat of disease and
cures the cause, and then the effects of that cause
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements’
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures ; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover,
Clements’ Tonic does not eonstringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
THOMAS GARRETT, ESQ., M.P.
(late Minister of Lands),
suffered from
Weakness I Indigestion !
AND
Poor Appetite!
he procured
CLEMENTS’ TONIC,
and gracefully acknowledges the benefit
he derived.
Sydney, October 18, 1889.
Dear Sir,— l have used Clements’ Tonic with Very
Great Advantage. It is very Stimulating, and a
powerful aid to appetite and digestion.—Yours truly,
THOS. GARRETT.
If you are a sufferer follow Mr. Garrett’s lead, take
Clements’ Tonic and you will derive the same benefit.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dkar Sir,—l have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of “Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was .most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. 1 now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to hear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to lie. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir, —Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results, obtained by taking two largo
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worry to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and 1 would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear test mony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAHAM.
When influential men like these allow their names to
appear in endorsement of a medicine, it proves, beyond all
question, the bona fides of that preparation, if you arc
still sceptical you can write to all or any and they will
answer you ; No other medicine can show such proof
although there are scores of counterfeits on the market,
it rests with the public to guard itself against imposture.
Only meritorious articles are imitated and pirated, that is
why so many substitutes for Clement’s Tonic ar# on
sale. Such imitation is the greatest proof of the reliability
of Clements’ Tonic.
Soldi Everywhere.
To our Patrons.
Some Chemists, &c., being so blind to their
own interests that they do not stock this line.
I will supply it direct at the f ollowing rates,
packed tree on rail or steamer:—
Half-doz, Pint (4s. 61.) Bottles for 255„ or
One doz. do. do. 455.
Exchange must ho added to intercolonial and country
cheques', and freight where goods have to ho sent by
steamer. Clements’ Tonic is a genuine article and
meets with patronage by all classes, always gives satis-
faction. Pirates only imitate, they cannot compete
with it.
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans:,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, CG Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and j our bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockings & Co., of 410 George-slreet, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
wool* BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, &c.
AUCTIOLIEEES.
Q-n.A.3:nxr
DR.
AMERICAN .DISPENSARY
3 X 3T or k Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he docs not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
TO YOX7BJG HUE !ES 3NT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
THE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.;—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should. Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1117, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
; ■' ■
V
u r It ",
f 1 M' ■W- r
t r I t .• ■■ ■ ~|
I- *r i r Vt I v T I
* :--* ;I | i. fc
-
-
U'v
-
tUtmC-fHaia-EHC. CQ., &BBID£EST» SYDNEY'
The °xforcl Hotel, King Street, Sydney
h. ~i - - s—£
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System
STOCK JUST LANDING-
Parleiffh, HXTettlieim, & oo
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the HOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in nil iwnii- ; - ,-
IMPORTED LEATHERS, Ac.; and of the following SmiAi, Links; lierlwiH
■(lacking. Tanners' Tools and Materials. 0T Indents Executed on Eavonrab" X,,W1,1,
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
II!!} !!|ll
CONSU
vl ISffiBKH!
imcmra
D« RICHARDS
ci
iiiwi
BWWTiCR
Hi
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi?
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
ihe day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful Is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenoe. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
I hough you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE
THE FAIRY PRINCE: "Isn't it hot ? ”
THE SPIRIT OF LIGHT: “Isn’t it? But think of the poor women in the
audience with all their clothes on!”—Ex.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
KTew Warehouse.
-
: - -rr
Q
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meanmg when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter', if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it ; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed. .
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale I atent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows ;
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwaids and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 & 184 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South
Wales and Queensland.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
M erchant, Sydney and M elbo
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
■, FHSTQNS,
PONY OAIIT3, &0., &a.
Express k Lumber Waggons,
Harness for Buggies andWagjns.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery,
I
P
Melbourne Ollice:
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street-
Sydney Office!
22 & 24 Clarence Street
PRINCE OF WALE S’ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... Proprietress.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
d
TJSE
liebig COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
M‘Nab’s Galley Brand Whisky.
■
CALLEY,^pRAND
FINE OLD HICML* ND
WH I 5 K „
clasco^
uyiil
r
it
m
P
U
/
" SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing' Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
& SHEET CLASS,
c P
o
m W
30 O
-a 33
n
cr* H
MERCHANTS
PA/A,
r
-i*
5$
ff\
e=
€
£
ES>
-S£
sam
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
THOMAS MCREERY;
VEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 1 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Special it >j.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
Eucalypte. Pit.
Victory Ointment*
X?
«?
v-
THE TREE OF LIFE.
n* glfgSifttfi-
The only pnrc Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy.
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot 251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
w/t
?MBRO»TIOf^
R
!S
a?
r i's
nr#
y\
SOLO
'\EVERY N WH£RE(i \h
m


HORDERN and COMPANY,
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
POE PEETTY DRESSES! ZFOIR- SWEET HATS ANTE BONTTETS!
EOE CHABMUSTG PAEACHITJTES I I3F" POE LOVELY GLOVES!
For all kinds of Holiday Attire (P ashionatale and Reasonable)
YOU CANNOT EQUAL
HORDERN and COMPANY, 488, 488, 490 Oeorg-e-street, Sydney,
Next Iloyal Arcade, right opposite Central Markets;
THE: SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD.
(Late Gnnsler’s Cafe)
175
itt Street, Sydney,
WLbll their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will gin
their new cusme a trial. JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony,
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £l« Each.
Small Deposit. 'Ea y Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Build ug Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plan*, and full information
posted to any address on application to
ibe Intercom! Investment So., liniiol
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
AGENTS WANTED in every town to Sell
Australian Natives Association's
W tional Pe e and Art Union Ticke s
fhOO in prizes; Is. each, or 23 for £l. For further
particulars, apply to SECRETARY, 119 Swanstbn
street, Melbourne.
iH
m
n s
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
F.re, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
KS ELIZABETH. STREET, SYDNEY/
ISSUES POLICI ES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY-
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
Eor conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH, ;
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT Sc GO.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
THE
PLUM”
It A ZOIC,
■ Hfpi
THE
PLUM”
IMXOIC.
have just received a further shipment of these celebrated Razors, and all Orders standing over
11 will be executed forthwith. We desire to thank those who have waited so patiently for this
shipment, and beg to say that we have made such arrangement as will prevent us running out of stock
in the future. Price-Single Razor, 10s. Gd.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 & 682 <3-IE O IRQ-IE STIRIEIET, S'Y'ZDZDsFjE'Y'.
rV
r j
E 3
B S
MON“
BON
—n
H ANTS
ER
BO
3
3
E 3
S=]
i
3’iii
R 0 B E R T S & 0 0.,
-WHOLESALE-
Ironmongers, Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Graceclmrcli Street, Loudon, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF—
lailway k Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FUR:
Korting’s Gas Engines- The best and cheapest yet. made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Brad.dock's Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Steading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
m
J. STANLEY, Concertina Doctor,
BATHURST, 3XT.S.W.
Importer of Musical Instruments and Fittings of every Description.
ANGLOS FOR HOT CLIMATES.
Extra Loud Steel for Dancing, with Levers screwed down, Bushed
Keyholes and other improvements.
PRICE LIST and ILLUSTRATED ALMANAC POST FREE.
TESTIMONIALS.
Caiwarko, Paroo River Island, October 10. 1880.
I received the Concertina safely and am very much pleased with it. It
is the best I ever had in my hands. —G. A. BUCK.
Denny Kymink, via Cobbora, Merrygoen, Nov. 3, 1880.
I received the Concertina safe and sound and am well pleased with it.
It is the best instrument I ever played on. —G. C. NUNN.
777®
1
EER
ESI
CTIO
mmm
JLZ
BAILEE & CO.
R
o'i!) tollies Slrcel, UcllMiuriir.
OYAL HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. HILDA. VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to, Pier and Baths. Ten
. . ■ . • minutes from Station. :
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.’
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone GS2.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
CHUBB AND PRAEGER,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES
BE A LE'& ('HA ME EES.
482 Sc 481 George Street, opposite the Markets.
FOR High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography in the Aus-
tralian Colonies,
Note the Small Charge now made for Photos
of the Best Quality and Finish.
TAKE ELEVATOR.
J. LUD6' WI Cl & sens,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ď
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Makket Streets.
đ
WINCHCOMBE. CARSON & CO.
Wool Stores : CENTRAL WHARF ; Produce Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY ;
Offices! AS TUI S’X’JEXE.'O’jr JMCFiXII, S"XT33JNJ.TE?3T


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Flans from Intercolonial Investment 00., Ltd.,
9b Bathurst-street, Sydney.
BOOKS for COUNTRY READERS
—AT— ,
20s. for TWELVE MONTHS.
♦O,OOO VOLUMES TO CHOOSE FROM.
The large LENDING LIBRARY(4O,OOO volumes) of the
Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts
is now available to Residents in Country Towns adjacent
to any Railway Station, to which books can be sent under
Specially Reduced Rates.
A large Catalogue, of 850 pages, giving titles, authors,
and dates of publication of all the books available, will be
forwarded to any address, post free, for 21 penny stamps.
Full particulars as to Subscription and method of ex-
changing books, etc., will be sent on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope, enclosed to the Secretary, Sydney
Mechanics’ School of Arts, 275 Pltt-street, Sydney.
CYRIL HAVILAND, Secretary.
Business Announcements.
-A.3XT. SXTX-X-ICV^wIKr
(Late of Brisbane Cafe),
Has bought MATTER,SON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter’s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD RKPUTA
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAM. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havan •• all Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated Flor «s<‘ ISoulto
Brand of Cigars and ** Empire Cigarettes,”
v„\ I / / / ,
V 'Photographic.
v \ \ Views
316. C
Portraits
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotel).
w
E beg to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Moderate Charges—
BIMI & K A.TS,
PROPRIETORS.
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’. AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded hic/hcst honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle .
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
tsii
AbcV'llK
a,
4k
JJ
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Rooms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Omens
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor.
Bkancii
OFFIUKB
BROWN'S
mmm
roc
?X*D>* S
,
T^V“
Tf*ONKS* c * C
/ironic*]
) BOSTONJj
Medical
*
The Seven Cuticura Boys
These seven beautiful boys owe their beauty of
skin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or scalp to the celebrated Cuticuka Remedies.
For cleansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
of children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
skin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cuticuka, the great skin cure,
and Cuticuka Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticuka Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
Infallible.
Your most valuable Cuticuka Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who are troubled with
skin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMER, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticuka Remedies are in great demand.
The Cuticuka Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticuka Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say it is the best for babies, preventing and curing
scall head and similar diseases.
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
m
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by CuticCra Soap.
Our little son will be four years of age on the
25th Inst. In May, 1885, he was attacked with a
very painful breaking out of the skin. We called
in a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
tressing. We were frequently obliged to get up
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than six had attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse, until about the 20th of
last July, when we began to give him Cuticuea
Resolvent internally, and the Cdticura and Cc-
ticup.a Soap externally,and by the last of .August
ho was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and he has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady.
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., 111.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, 1887. C. N. COE, J. P.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuba, 50c. ; Soap,
25,c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
s sg~ Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
BABY'S
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau*
tided by the use of Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
'l®
ur
V*
m
//wii
’m
SSK
a\g&
Ik
Ijmmi.
Jlflj
lliii
iro
1
I'm
\\M
“M u «
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Bale A.le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purvetobs to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London,
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents: Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M, B. FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
“ BUGLE” IBIR, JAHSTID .A.LIE AUD STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed IT on the public
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and t • state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any inhumation respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ’’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules «ill be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to ju-tice the perpe f rat rs of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA-LCHIKT, JOEGXT3TOKT & CO., Sydney,
Agents eor Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
A for Knpper’a Sllaerfold. Xj. a, tejg r ZB eer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
The Old “Broker.”
An old stone-breaker, 70 years of age, known as
„ Growler” and “The Duke,” was lately found dead upon
his pile, near Elaine (Vic.). He still held his hammer in
his hand, and appeared to have fallen whilst at work. He
had been breaking stones for 30 years in the South: —
Xo Growler let me gage my gracious verses
And poetise a played-out pioneer,
Despite my hero’s dire decuple curses
And base, prosaic appetite for beer.
Perchance a “ broker ” with a vandal flavour
Of beer and “ toby,” and a sun-tanned hide,
Is no tit client for the Muses’ favour,
Their ladyships have donned a world of “ side ”
Since yielding to the'poets who inveigle
The Nine to give performances at Court,
According to commands nem. con. and regal—
As Maids-iu-Waiting to the Queen in short ;
gut though Calliope look cold and scornful,
And hold my subject commonplace and cheap,
J find a touch magnificent and mournful
In Growler dying on iiis ‘‘ducal ” heap.
The “ knapper ” in sarcastic moods would swear he
A “ diamond-cutter ” was, “ expert in stone,”
A‘‘two-inch mason,-” or a “lapidary,”
To me the joke lacked pith and point I own —
“ The Duke” worked square, and broke his rock
to measure,
He never built his pile about a log ;
If use had weight like ornament and pleasure,
Old “Broker Pete” would head the catalogue.
I ne’er admired his facial expression—
His nose was sprung and shifted to the right,
And; like a number in the same “profession,”
One eye was gone from its unsightly site.
His hair was thin and grizzled, and his figure
Was bent and shrunken like a buckled gum,
But, spite regretted years of toil and rigour,
He looked as tough and good for years to come.
When slogging spawls on his metallic hill he
Came sometimes pretty close to calm content —
A taste of “ tangle ” in the blackened billy,
No danger of the “ damn Benevolent.”
’Neath canvas ’twas the Growler’s great ambition
To live his life, asylums he abhorred ;
His six-by -eight, with rug and “ ammunition,”
To him was quite Elysian bed and board.
The sobriquet he bore was fit and proper—
That knapper’s not the best of friends with Fate
Who’s seen the prices come a painful cropper
From twelve-and-six a yard to two-and-eight.
The strongest point was national retrogression,
This brag about the country’s wond’rous “go”
Made Growler’s language leave a warm impression
And odours of that lurid place below.
He swore the land was wending ways infernal,
And proved his proposition through and through,
The argument ran hourly or diurnal —
He got ten bob a yard in ’62.
The towns are full of rogues in fancy raiment.
Who get big screws to rob and do the Block,
Whilst honest fellows for the paltry payment
Of one-and-nine are crushing four-inch rock.
This plan of running up a stable nation
Gave Pete his grievance, he was wont to snort;
“Who’d build a house t’ crush its own founda-
tion ?”
With ornamental oaths not used in court.
Tho’ poorer than his means was Growler’s know-
ledge,
He had that problem’s measure to an inch —
It seldom takes a lengthy term at college
To teach a fellow where his bluchers pinch.
Full threescore years and ten had silver-crowned
him,
When Pete fell stoic-like to his last sleep;
And after sixty years of toil they found him
Still napping on his desolated heap.
No more the metal chips will fly before him,
His hammers ring along the roads no more.
The mirage mists may glance and glimmer o’er
him,
His toilings and his thirstings now are o’er.
They summed deceased’s estate up to the letter :
Tents, blankets, billy, trousers, boots and socks —
Our Yankee friends appreciate much better
The man who leaves his heirs a “ pile of rocks.”
Alas 1 we lack the soul of veneration !
Where be the songs of praise, the sobbing odes,
The sapphic sadness of the favoured nation
Bequeathed a noble heritage of roads ?
If there be virtues still in honest labour—
And sure there be—the Growler had some grace
(I don’t forget his language, dickered neighbour)
And finds a meed of favour and of pace.
Vale, Growler, vale, the Powers are all-forgiving,
I deem it well you’ve jerked the weary job,
There’s little joy in labouring and living
To see the prices fall another bob.
EDWARD DYSON.


*gr READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s ; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., forallimpurititsof theblood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &0., &c. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s ; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Cd; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 80s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure-of toothache. Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes), lid ;5s doz.
Armstrong's Dam ruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; X2s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen silk
muslin. Is; 8s per doz. 1 ' a(s
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valmhl
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & ig s d O2 019
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is;ss & 8s doz. a ’
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic, is; g s (j 0! ,
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in timo
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d; 6s 6d & 12s doz. 1
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment for horses. 2s; & ig s doz
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wonnHa
among stock. Is &Is6d ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy f ot
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horws
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, & 0 .~!
all ready' mixed. 6d ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. G. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY,
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
EOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Cuarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL .... £500,000
Sydney Branch :
Coiner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD AND ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances up n
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six „ ... 7 „
Twelve „ ... 8 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, per ceiit.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OB’ THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
A. MILLER. Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 U
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office:
301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
' immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits :—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATIN
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (M ssrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunmngar Wor s, Harden; Charp.es
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete^assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
Tor further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The British and Nov South Wales Investment
and Financial t'o.. Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office': 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
D Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: —
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
8 Months
10 per cent.
0 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
Dv order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
-THE-
AUSTSALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
m
Head Office
—THE—
OlcLst Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
lion. Georye Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
a
* r
a
BourkeS t
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
II
......
ns
• -v
m
ms
t -
V
A.WILSON
PROPRiETOP
.G.W.CLARE
manaceb
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURSE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hundred Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT &. COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
m" Each Floor has a Range of Lavatoeies and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies,
TWO OTIS LIFTS.
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms*
)-(
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Sc Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6G. per KTiglit.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
d
A Certain and Immediate Relief
in all Cases of
lUieiiinalism Neuralgia,
Sciatica.
Sprains and Bruises.
Being used at Victoria Barracks,
General Post Office, and by the
Sydney Omnibus Co.
Invaluable in the Stable.
Hundreds of Testimonials as to
its effi'*'’ °v Everyone should use
“S. OIL.”
Sample uottle gent Post Fiibe for
Three (3) Penny Statnps.
at all Chemists, or tom the SHARK OIL MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
poet Offiee Chambers. Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Medical.
J33=1.. SMITH, IT.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... Prom 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOE THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Fees.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strekt West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address; “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
F. C. NICHOLAS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks^
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 738
HAYMAEKET.
Steam Works
6tT. 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, See., Made to Order.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Boiler Blour and ©rain Stored,
cxsc) ©s^s
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : •- 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RtO,
oTUDY ECONOMY
* and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Kuual to New, at
J , fs Vlilj IV A N S».
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
bet men
Liverpool it; Bathurst
Parasols made to mutch go -
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturer of allk nds < f Tins for Confectioners)
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kind
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice an
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery
A. Trial Solicited-
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning tW
Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMP .
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. <3d-, P® - e
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Area
Country Agon™ wanted—Stationers.


Aledical.
NERVOUS MEN.
u
pfllfl
VI \ EUREKA \
ELECTRIC BE
i
\s
BELTrt 1 ,
: v ■
n
h
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM!.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Tains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
eelves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a2d stamp for
postage. •»
Address
VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.E.0.P., M.R.0.5., L.S.A., ROND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—is—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-TJrinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston <t Elizabeth Sts.),
IVIE3L.BOXJR.INrE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
|3F" All Personal Consultations are fees ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s. 6d. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Caution!
The Public are requested to notice the
words, |ST" Rose's Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC. A.. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
|®“ Manufacturer of Dr. SOXJTHAN’S GOUT Sind
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JjJ ERV O U S DEBILITY.
Consult free, personally, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a Id., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Hbrr Rass-Musskn’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Musscn, “ Koselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Htqiknio, Infallible & Preservative,
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
■ecent or chronic discharges of the urinary organa.
Sold in Paris by
—J. FERRE, —■
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 roe BioheUeo.
Agent in Sydney:
XL. DOUBLET. 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Cues oI « Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation,"
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Bead
(opposite University),
S Y X> 3NT JBI "ST.
CJLA
%
&
PATENT
PILLS.
w
&
$
y 5?
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Bee chain's Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ined
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY
CONSULT
Moore & {}ogg
TTTT3 EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On afl Diseases tffthe Genlto-Urlnary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner 0/ George
’ and Elisabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.SULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp i.
Hotels.
Tth
H °
til
• «
■i
QWOCNS MBOWflEiagKTri
BOWDBKT’S hotel,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN €. BOWDEN ... - Proprietor
WBSTERKT HOTEL,
War mam bool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. SSS" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
fW livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE ■ Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Reaci ! Read ! Head !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One SHilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland) Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide; Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ Tor Framing a Picture Neat and Well.”
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Be-gi'ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
ď
mm
'fKtUMM
HAHUfA«TuR£R9
* IMPORTERS or
436 CEORCE 8T
3VDNEV
0/yoosite Lasse [Cert ?
\se>
Branch :
67 8 GEORGE STREET,
BUIU.KIKLD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
* 4
HATTERS
TURING
REET
GEORGE
§
N
mm.
IMPORTERS OF AILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Vud at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
w
flUCH'S
<w
rp
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
0*
esf
aUCH
Jt
INC
PO
g? °(S/UUWM Starts* £ r=S
BLcicW r-* all a SSore*t*fitrt>
Business Announcements.
QIHE THREE GREAT EIGHTS I
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
ii. t. smith: & co.,
494 Kent Street South. SVOXIIY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send for Price List and Circular I
AUTOMATIC
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOB
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving J ars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE <sc CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited. .
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
OI every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth, and
Neatsfoot Oils.
-——The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
Keen's Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
LIMITED.
Factory and Offices m Castlereagh Street,
(Late 245)
SITIDICTIEjIZ".
New Style of Tree.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture all kinds
of Saddles. Price £3 and upwards. Any infringement of
the Patent will he prosecuted. No Saddle genuine with-
out our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,C^«- oURS 4 Paints.
WALL PAPERS From.
. PEP
ROLL
29 George
Brickfield Hill, ——
m
BathurstSt
WALTEE HOIFIE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, eta,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS, subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situ ted.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Art* Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Xiondon JPasliiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only.
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China ami
EARTHENWAR E,
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. M ELY! N and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
§r i
rxniBi
P. K. liARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
lUES, x SPIEITS, x BEEE S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hknnessy’s, Kartell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.8..L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 A 780 George Street.
ami Singh; Buttle Departments, anfl 284
SEND FOB A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS ■•TREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
—) x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinglmrst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
Eir
WALLACH BROS.’
nxriEs-w
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From. lOb. 6d. to £35.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE HEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season* 1888*89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHR greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
JL Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application,
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. j
Free Freacriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Eree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY;
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T>
®6
COCOA
FRY’
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Briyiiion of Uew South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchf
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o’clock daily and Sundays. Nq expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mra. 33CXX ■TVTT , T\rs*JL'JESJrC., Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JONG’S IMPEKIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample dooms
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel
TOWNSVILLE
tiioMAS V\ ALILAC bJ,
Proprietor.
s>
u
COMpifxit
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’ I
□ACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co’our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EE UKOIN I A, & Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — Whitk, Rosk, and Ckkam. Ask Chemi ts and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
Hay Bt., Hay market, £sydis.ey,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h;.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
cum pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latb.es.
DUG MACH NEC,
&C*| &c.
% A
SM m
|I I iilifl in
-
..
. ' ’ ;IV
"''•'"W^LUlimuuumn
wmmm
mm ijj
a
'iiißi
i jXjtu '
mmW&£SZS&?C. ■ '• %
■ -
WINDING ENGINES,
Eauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
EICUS-MU E
IllMNl
ENGINES
FOB
Electric Lighting.
Vortical Boilers.
Multitubuiar Boilers.
COKM'II KOI LK lIS.
Ac., Ac.
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
120, 131, 133 & 135 BCiSLY STHHET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
