

WALTHAM WATCHES.
n
Best Timekeepers in the World.
Have obtained HOLD ** *"*
The AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES are constructed upon the soundest principle of horological art
and of the very best materials throughout; they are adapted to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are no,,
liable to get out of order.
EVERY WALTHAM WATCH k fitted with “ Logan’s ” Patent Brpguet’ oS
This prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occuirence in wa ■ being the exclusive
watches in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s” Celebrated Lreguet bpnngs, the pat,.nr iux
property of the American Waltham Watch Co. . , wberehv repairs can be effected in any part
a Hparts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the unchangeable s a
of the world where Waltham Watches tite sold as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., y . • fly . bac k. .
WALTHAM CHRONOGRAPHS, infallible for accuracy of timing, register 1-oth oi V • £’ 7
WALTHAM PRESENTATION WATCHES, Unsurpassed for and all other Colonial
WALTHAM RAILW \ Y WATCHES are used upon the New South Wales (*o\eminent Ka y
Lines the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
' to, Th„ latest discovery
de
fSI
ptf f MATS S
i
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
BOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA,
tt 1 t? T BEBSTO KT and. C 0.,
Messrs.
WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
’ mtttti tt-nttoiiata irTvanoiu
nnji, r»TTr' uniTT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
BRANCHES and Mortuary Dl-eldena Systems.
Policies issued under the srd.ina.ry, “ oc , Omnnuennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
BONUS YEABi. —Books will be closed on and the tjumq
Fed-eratedL Sqxa.a/fc'ters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
QTXA.XT,. S
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Hates, Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mbxal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN" WHEELS.
Voritv’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already xn use.
Wrters ?nd Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron SS?Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCOED WOEKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Eoad, Petersham.
See your Dress as others see it.
'I I
3k
\ c>
3)
&
3
\\s
L
'
fee
A*
I
\ v
V'K)-Xli
)'-V'V
-v &
wj w
“ This is something awful I declare I
shall never again attempt to drape a dress
without Eastway Bros.’ Dress lobm.
“Now that is perfectly splendid. Think oj
being able to drape one’s own dress, and not
have to stand and wear one’s self out before a
mirror, as teas the case before ice purchased
this East way Bros.’ Dress Form.”
EAST WAY BROS.,
G-3003E&C3KES ST., SSTST:o:KrJES“Sr
GET o</X^
L
Q
r^_
'M
,v <th
\ ' 4 ,
"'mi
mm:.
£
%
1
L & S
//
rm
m
The LONDOM & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
Hi G- H-O LASS lITDIAU & CHII<rA
Packed m 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d and 2s, per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Saturday, December 14, 1889,


TOBACCO
m
mm
m
*
o
o
o
X
☆i
o.
9o
, SJ R ROGER!
0
90
a
z
fiOi
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
Foe INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
. Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
«s every Wise mother will certainly
use it. .
Sr. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
v’aosTpir'
SATIN
XAt ? 0 1 ! 3 '
XfIUNKS».C»C
/3JT7?rAV*i 6
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 I Frankfort, 1881
1 ans > 1878 I Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
or other «Vi UK ! fonn a,ld 18 applied to shoes
to the f f father by means of a sponge, attached
anvol withLt -v’ S °^ that the blackilJ R can be used by
fs rea d' th ( 1 . 9 1 "' g the « n K ers - No Polishing brush
dnes nn, iiediately after being applied, and
' vdl oot soil the most delicate clothing. Pi ’
and°DejdCTg, ly “ Australia throUbdl Commission Merchants
B. T. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
JJ RITTENBERG & CO.
* IMPORTEKS,
SI Clareuce St,, Mynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance,
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
' under the same name.
Of all Dealers <tn<i of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark— “White Rose” on “Golden
lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
8
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN EABELUO.TINS.Off PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.,
Insube* Youb Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the •Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Lest Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to all OTHERS!
(Vido Medical Testimonials* Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x———-
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
X X
Sold in Bottles at Is, 3d., 2s. 63., 3s. 63. Each.
Wholesale Agents; Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
|M
m
D
tomiqJTeme 9 / THE : 'WOR CPS TERSMIR&
IfC£s.whichareZealculated _(o deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
fi avt jo request that Purchasers K-tee (has (he iLabelen leverv boltU
Hears (heirJ&gnatursjfhus~
Os
'Stofpe
Wg&MfJbofrPhesorigtnal, WOR CESTERSBIRk
ISA UCE is genuine,
’ oauce, :ar.d see tJame.cn' Wrpptiev, Label, BoSh am 3
Worcester ; Crone , - end
throughout the World.
s ffS ”4 tfori&Vdrt by the Proprietors, Worcester ;
euae Swell; IfnJfftC&fay &> .■; and by Groeers and Odmcn throughout t
WILLIAM'— CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Ivilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
A£z*s. JEi-XXjHVXmXTS'II7 OTLEn*eaa.ctLoxx Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor,
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY,
F. SHBOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Hornes and Vehicles of every description for
Salu-or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
meni's Hacks.
JOOEITKr 33-0-OSS:S3C^3VE,
449 Elizabeth Sti'eet, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Unities, Coolers, Whim
thickets, Horse Rugs, Xo.sc Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
boor call at »aS.V
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBO*S»4*i"
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SI’ECIA L IT V.
TMO MAS M‘CR IS E SFfc Y=
iVEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, 1 doors above Eilcy Street.
• Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
.. **a 1»> a* " r»> \
'-* A»5_2S s 3 -%Ax i-s^sCi _
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dijr Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMIOKT SQUEEZERS, &c., & c .
Bros. <£z Big'g-, XAd...
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 1C —No. 513.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1889.
Price, 6d.
iNr
A 6^
THE TWINS -After a recent (word) PAINTING by Sir Thos. M'Ilwraith.
“Mr. Morehead has all his life been one of a pair of twins. He has over had a peculiar faculty of discarding his twin and assimilating another. Mr. Pattison is his
latest twin.” —M'Iluraith in the Brisbane COURIER.


Hotioe to A.ge3o.ta,
With the SPECIAL CHRISTMAS NUMBER
of
“THE BULLETIN”
(To be Published on 19th December)
Will be given Gratis a Magnificent and Artistic
Supplement, entitled
"ON THE MASH”
(An Australian Idyll),
By LIVINGSTON HOPKINS.
PRINTED IN SIX COLOURS.
THE Christmas Issue will be more than
Double the Usual Size, and will contain
Original Contributions from the pens of some of
the leading litterateurs of Australasia
Victor J. Daley,
E. Dyson,
E. Fisher,
“The Banjo,”
“ E. Lowe,”
W. H. Traill,
P. J. Broomfield.
Jas. Marsh,
Arthur Gayll,
Henry Lawson,
and, Olliers,
And will be profusely Illustrated by
L. HOPKINS, PHIL MAY,
G. R. ASHTON, E. ATKINSON,
H. Egersdorfer, J. H. Hunt,
Ami other hii/h-dass Artists.
This really absolutely Original and Interesting
Number will be published at the usual price,
viz.,
-SIXPENCE!-
The literary matter will, like the illustrations,
be absolutely original; it will comprise the most
fascinating collection of prose and verse ever sub-
mitted in a single issue of any paper beneath the
Southern Cross.
Judging from the experience of former occasions,
on which it has I>ecn impossible to satisfy the enor-
mous demand for Thk Bulletin’s Christmas
Number, it is imperative on Agents to send in
their orders for extra numbers without delay.
Owing to the great expense incurred in the pro-
duction of this superb Christmas Number, it will
b't IMPOSSIBLE TO ALLOW UKTUUNS.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO,,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J, F.
Archibald.
The Editor ivill carefully read and acknoivledyc in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Terse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOW words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But wc
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with wham we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1889.
Tooralooral!
If it was nut the late unlamented Joseph
Miller, it was one of his immediate suc-
cessors who proposed the test of pronouncing
“ the British Constitution ; Truly rural ” as
infallible for ascertaining whether a person
were ebriate or otherwise. The alleged
humour of the conception lay in the assump-
tion that, when a certain stage of intoxication
was reached, the nearest a bibulous person
could attain to the pronunciation, was
“ Bri’shs'tushun tooralooral.” An ulterior
result, undreamed of in the Joe Millbrian
philosophy, has been to illustrate the evil of
taking in vain any sacred name. The British
Constitution has never been the awful and
venerable thing it was, since it has thus been
associated with rusticity and muddle. De-
nuded, by this absurd accident, of the attri-
bute of divinity which once hedged it around,
the British Constitution has been exposed to
a scrutiny unqualified by reverence of mind.
It has supported the investigation extremely
ill. The discovery has been made that it is
little better than a pretentious sham. Magna
Charta, The Petition of Right, The Habeas
Corpus Act, The Act of Settlement, are but
pretty baubles to amuse the vulgar. Each is,
all are, naught when put to the test. Habeas
Corpus, the very essence of the rights of the
common people, was suspended ten years
after it was passed, and has been pretty con-
stantly in a state of suspense ever since
whenever it would have been serviceable. It
is, like other British constitutional rights,
purely ornamental, used for show when there
is no need for it, and thrust aside when there
is equal justice for the poor and the rich—
that is Constitutional also. It is likewise
strictly Tooralooral!
* # #
We need not go back into far byegones to
illustrate our contention. Two recent inci-
dents will serve our turn more than amply.
The “ Maiden Tribute ”is one. The recent
Club scandal is another. First, the Maiden
Tribute. Here are the facts, touched as
lightly as may be. A certain man, a
journalist, learned that the destruction of
female virtue was not merely a casual,
statistical concomitant of the unequal con-
ditions which subject very poor girls to the
temptations offered by very rich men.
It came within his knowledge that the
inevitable was systematized —that it had
become a regular traffic, attended with con-
ditions brutal and unnatural. The pre-
destined victims of an evil derangement of
society, known to humbugs and fools as
“our modern civilisation,” were not even
permitted to suffer by their average fate.
They were cozened and decoyed like lambs
—sold and butchered. The Scotch name fox-
butchers is “ fleshers.” In London, female
children of tender years were just handed
over, like calves, to fleshers. Girls of riper
age were sold likewise to similar buyers.
They were swindled, unhappy creatures, out
of the poor solatium of their doom. They
were not even permitted the dream of true
love which precedes for those less miserable,
the disillusionment of betrayal and abandon-
ment. The very language of misfortune
with them assumed a grimmer and
more morbid meaning. They spoke of
being “ seduced ” when they were being
outraged. All this one man told to the
world” It was too shocking. It was not
fit for a Christian country to hear. A Chris-
tian country shuddered —and stopped its
eax-s. The accuser ottered proofs. He was
prepared with names of “ fleshers.” A
Christian country, thereupon, stopped not
merely its ears, but his mouth. Not one
soul guilty of the horrors disclosed was ever
brought to justice. Not one of the blood-
hounds of the law was evex- put on the track
of one of these gilded ravishers. There
seemed almost to be an apprehension lest
the bloodhounds, if fairly loosed, might be
found baying on the doorsteps of mansions
perchance of a palace. Ihe mighty arm of
Justice was, indeed, raised once. Her hand
fell weightily on the shoulder of , the
accuser! _ _
# # *
The second instance is but of yesterday.
It is whispered that a horrible scandal in
what is termed “high” life has occurred.
An heir to a dukedom, an earl’s brother, a
clergyman, a small troop of military officers,
and a little crowd of other persons of fashion
are alleged to bo implicated. There is a
swift undercurrent of rumour, a hasty
scuttling beyond seas of notable poisons, a
simultaneous resignation of commissions by
dandy officers of Her Majesty’s bodyguard-
save the mark ! Then, once again, a man
speaks out—a journalist again. The storv
is one which is associated with a pillar of
(•alt, with fire and brimstone from Heaven,
of cities laid desolate. It is a story which
recalls the obscene revels of Tiberius at Capri,
of Caligula, of Commodus, and all that
human vermin who filled the Imperial Throne
of Rome, The names of the participants arc
given to Justice, and the Goddess, momen-
tarily half-awake, grants warrants for the
arrest of the offenders and lifts her sword.
But that feat accomplished she nods again,
and lets her weapon fall with a crash upon
the head of the journalist who had dared to
disturb her slumbers ! It is almost the same
story as the first, repeated. Till this moment,
although the principal alleged offenders are
known, not one arrest has been made save that
of two miserable participants, one a boy and
the man who ventured to accuse one of the
former by name. Upon him has fallen swift
retribution. He is subjected to prosecution as
a criminal and bail is, at least temporarily,
refused, while the modern emulators of
Caligula and Commodus chuckle at his
dilemma from their retreats across the seas.
# * *
It is incidents such as those which presage
revolutions. The epoch of the Fare aux Carfs
was succeeded by the epoch of the Reign of
Terror. It will be vain to keep prating to
the people of England that the law of the
land recognises no distinctions of rank or
condition—that there is not one law for the
poor and another for the rich, when such
telling lessons are given that although the
law is the same for all conditions of men, the
administration of it is mighty different. It
was but the other day that a Royal Duke
assaulted a reporter, and a servile magistrate
refused even to grant a summons calling
upon the notorious danger-dodging Field-
Marshal to answer for his ruffianism.
A judge did indeed grant a mandamus
compelling the magistrate to do the first
part of his duty. But no mandamus
could compel him to do more, and
the case was, when heard, dismissed. A
little later a flunkey of the Heir-Apparent
was summoned to answer for having
kept a flunkey of his own—on the
principle of little fleas having “lesser
fleas upon their legs to bite them ” —without
out paying flunkey-tax. The great creature
—a Groom-Porter or something equally
majestic—did not condescend to appear. He
caused the Court to be apprized that he was
detained elsewhere in attendance on his
majestic master. These are but straws.
Meanwhile, the course of ordinary justice
runs smoothly on. The bank-clerk who
embezzles fifty pounds, the starveling who
steals a loaf, the ruffian who beats his wife do
not find that in their cases warrants remain
unissued or unserved, or that prosecutors
are adroitly clapped in limbo for daring to
accuse them. And the people of Great
Britain silently take note of it all, and the
police cannot be trusted now to operate
against dock-strikers, although but the other
day they were to be depended on to break
John Burns’ head and club the people who
attempted to exercise the constitutional or
tooralooral right of public meeting in Tra-
falgar-square. And the Guards cheer the
strikers’ processions. The whole tribe of
Caligulas and of Podsnaps —singular con-
junction of types —adopt the system of Diok
Swiveller’s “Marchioness.” They “shut
their eyes very tight and make believe very
much,” and persuade themselves that their
is no flavor of revolution in the air.
* # #
If there be any sense in the teachings of
history : if there be any rational system of
deduction from the promptings or human
nature, the rottenness of Society and the
corruption of Government in Great Britain
is approaching the point at which the whole
thing bursts and explodes. The extraordinary
reluctance to put the machinery of the law
into motion against the distinguished in-
dividuals who have emulated in London the
manners and customs of Gomorrah might
serve merely to instil conviction that the
offenders have it in their power to implicate
some personage whose involvement might
occasion a shaking of the entire structure of
the Constitution itself. Nations have endured
such things and worse, to escape what
appeared at the moment greater evils. But
the natural mind revolts and rages at an
absolute perversion of justice. The mighty
may escape their due disgrace and punish-
ment, but that the lash arrayed for the back
of evil doers should be directed against the
innocent is a sort of outrage which no
people has ever submitted to for long. The
case of a community in which such symptoms
of decay and corruption appear is simply
hopeless. No empirical or merely makeshift
treatment will cure such disorders in the
body politic. It is mortifying and must die,
unless an entire change of regimen be re-
sorted to. In that way only can it purge
itself of its morbid grossness and survive.
If it be allowed to run its course, the
grave of nations which has closed over so
many mighty empires will swallow it, and
from the swelling corse of a people which
falls into dissolution from diseases so horrible
it cannot be hoped that, as in the old ballads
of buried lovers, a rose and a briar will spring.
It is not from the foul remains of a bawd,
but from the “fair and unpolluted flesh” of
an Ophelia, that violets spring.
* * *
If England will not purge herself, lot Aus-
tralia see to it. It will not servo to be
twinned with a corrupt nation in the hour of
her corrupt dissolution, like the unhappy
survivor of the Siamese brothers. Better
an operation, however severe, however
risky, while health remains unpolluted than
the dreadful, hopeless task of severance from
a loathly corpse.
Peculiarly Australian.
Some time ago Max O’Rell was asked to visit
Australia, and it was reported at the time that that
observant bookmaker declined the invitation, say-
ing that he looked upon Australia simply as “an
England upside-down.” He knew England, had
studied the manners and institutions of its people,
and what he meant by calling Australia an up-
side-down England was that except in the matter
of geographical position he considered he had no
prospect of discovering anything new at this end
of the world. Max O’Rell, if he really ex-
pressed himself as reported, was more than pre-
cipitate—he w’as wrong. Australia does possess
peculiarities, and had Max O’Rell accepted the
invitation he would, beyond a doubt, have found
work for his keen eye, sharp wit, and breezy,
Gallic style.
* * *
Look at the New South Wales Supreme Court,
for instance. So far from all-round similarity,
there is amazing contrast in many respects between
that court ancl the highest court in England.
Recently Lord Coleridge, the Chief Justice of
England, was pressed by counsel and jury to con-
tinue a case after 6 o’clock' in the evening. He
declined to do so, as there was danger of its being
unfair to the prisoner concerned. A maxim of
fifty years’ standing in English judicial circles is
that very little justice is done in courts of law by
candle-light. Lord Coleridge quoted the maxim,
approved of it, and acted on it, notwithstanding
the appeal of counsel who wanted to hurry the
case through, and of the jurors who wanted to get
it over. Recently, in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, on the other hand, a judge kept up
the hearing of a capital case, involving the lives
of eleven persons, four of whom were subsequently
hanged, despite appeals for rest, from day to day,
from night to night, and while prisoners’ advocates
declared themselves prostrated—and some jurors
dozed, if, indeed, they did not, as publicly de-
clared by counsel, actually sleep. Yet that judge
continued to hear the case against a dockful of
youths, until, by evidence that was in part true,
that was in part false, a verdict of guilty was
arrived at and nine sentences of death were re-
corded. In that respect, at least, Australia differs
from England otherwise than geographically.
* # *
Again, it is an accepted theory that every man
charged with crime should be treated as if he were
innocent until he is legally proved guilty. In a
certain sense, to be accused is to be made suffer.
Arrest means deprivation of a number of rights
and privileges. A man is placed in the dock as a
preliminary to ascertaining whether or not the
dock is his proper place. These are evils which
the innocent may suffer, which innocent persons
have suffered, but when looked into they admit of
palliative explanation. We make no allusion to
these at the present time. When we say that a
person should be treated as if he were innocent
until the crime charged against him is legally
proved, we mean that no one has liberty to injure
him in mind, body, or reputation by saying in his
presence, or in presence of others, that he actually
committed the crime until, after due legal investi-
gation, his guilt in that connection has been offi-
cially recorded. That sentiment is at the bottom
of modern jurisprudence—of all jurisprudence. No
civilised country, as a country, disputes its jus-
tice. The New South Wales public cling to it,
grip it tightly as a cardinal principle, and are in
the abstract strongly opposed, as a public, to let
it go. But all the time the judges, whom this
public pays, utterly ignore and ffout it. Let us
illustrate.
# * *
Within the last fortnight a young man named
Raper, a clerk in the New South Wales Registrar-
General’s Department, was charged with criminally
appropriating some of the funds he handled.
Chief-Justice Dakley presided at the trial, and
after hearing evidence and deliberating for an
hour and ten minutes the jury returned with a
verdict of not guilty. The Chief-Justice accepted
—had to accept—this verdict, recorded it, and
ordered the discharge of the accused. Then
Raper was again tried on another similar charge,
before Judge Windeyer, and again he was ac-
quitted. Up to this everything was regular and
in accord with the legal principle of which the
public approve.
* * *
But as soon as Raper was for the second time
discharged he was re-arrested on yet another
count, growing out of the same alleged abuse of
his official opportunities. While awaiting trial on
this new charge he was attacked and denounced
by the Supreme Court judges as a criminal, in
respect of the reputed acts of which the juries
had acquitted him. Judge Windeyer was tne
judge who thus harked back. Judge Windeyer,
in sentencing forger Hiddilston, said that he had
talked with Chief-Justice Darlky about Raper
and that he and the Chief-Justice both came to
the conclusion—which the Chief-Justice had con-
sented in joining to publicly express—that notwith-
standing the verdict of the jury Raper teas guilty of
the crime charged against him / Bear in mind, first,
that when Judge Windeyer thus spoke, Raper
was preparing to again stand in the dock at the in-
stance of those who accused him of abusing his
official opportunities. Judge Windeyer, from
the Supreme Court bench, announced to all and
sundry that this twice-acquitted man, then
awaiting another trial, was a thief. Despite
the verdict of the jury to the contrary he
announced that lie and” the Chief-Justice had
talked the subject over and that there was no
doubt about Raper’s guilt. Shakespeare says
that it “is easy off a cut loaf to steal a shive.”
It is easy to damage a reputation already
damaged. It is easy to kill a dog with a bad
name. Raper was entitled to meet his new jury,
his new judge, his public, with a character
challenged only by the latest indictment preferred
against him. Judge Windeyer sent him forward
for trial, smirched, smudged, morally cropped,
morally hand-cuffed, morally leg-ironed, a criminal
who had previously escaped by the ignorance, the
incompetence, or the favouritism of a jury.
# * *
Is judicial conduct like this paralleled in Eng-
land or anywhere else in civilisation? But, in the
second place, even though Raper were not re-
arrested and ordered up for a third trial, this
judicial utterance, publicly declaring him a
criminal when the jury, under oath, had declared
he was not a criminal, is, we contend, a challenge
to a democratic community. In such a community
the judge in gown and wig should be as much
under law as is the journalist, or the ploughman
in hob-nailed brogues. The pressman, the plough-
man, the tinker, the tailor, have as much right to
stigmatise as a criminal, a man acquitted by a jury
as has a judge. When a jury decides, the ultimate
democratic tribunal has decided. The judge is
the servant of this, not the master. He may ex-
plain, he may expound, but no statute empowers
him to coerce, no statute entitles him to affix
crime where a jury have refused to do so. If a
jury have declared a man innocent, the judge, who
has sworn to obey law, is false to his oath if.
cloaked by a privilege which is a fungoid exeres-


ence on his office, he circulate that that man is
guilty. And it must not be supposed that Ave speak
only of Judge Windeyek in this connection. The
other day Chief-JusticeDARLEY had a man named
Fullegar arraigned before him on a charge of
perjury. Fullegar Avas acquitted, but two wit-
nesses in I ullegar’s favour Avere informed in
open court by the Chief Justice that had the ver-
diet of the jury been the other way he would have
committed them _ for trial. The meaning is that
a testimony Avhich the jury appear to have be-
hoved, or which, at all events, they did not dis-
believe. the Chief Justice summarily from the
bench stigmatised as perjury, and indicated that
had not the verdict of a jury intervened he
would make those Ayitnesses atone for their
crime. All those judicial vagaries come under one
heading. They help Sir Alfred Stephen on-
ward with his published scheme for the aboli-
tion of juries. Sir Alfred plainly says
juries are not Avanted. He, once a • judge,
and now an ex-Judge, declares that in the law-
courts of New South Wales, juries stand in the
Avay of Lawyerdom. Sir Alfred has been de-
feated whenever he offered his views to the pub-
lic, but Chief Justice Darley, Judge Windeyek,
and others actively exercising the judicial func-
tions, give, as far as they can, effect to those
views. They dwarf the jury, they belittle the
jury, they frustrate, override, insult the jury. So
far as concerns the reputation of accused citizens,
they, as in the oases of Fullegar and Rater,
abolish the jury.
This aspect of Australian affairs would give'
Max O Rell play should he arrive here a little
later on. He may yet visit us and discover a
New South W ales Supreme Court Judge winding
up an assize-sittings Avith a review of the verdicts
given : — “Smith, tried here yesterday for murder,
but unfortunately acquitted by a sAvinish jury, is
a shocking type of ruffian. He has escaped gaol,
but my opinion here delivered will stop people
from regarding him as an injured saint. His
Avitnesses Avere clearly a lot of degraded perjurers.
I never in all my life before met so deliberate a
set of liars.” And so on—Avhich Avould be but a
step from the present situation. Ncav South
Wales has long permitted her judges to discredit
her juries. If the enduring patience Avith which
this kind of thing has been tolerated is the logical
outcome of the present brand of Australian demo-
cracy, let us, in the name of Heaven, have Imperial
Federation at once. Or let us revert to first
principles and try Lynch law for a change.
Is it a Failure?
Mrs. Mona Caibd, and all the legion of writers
Avho a little while since urged their theories re-
garding marriage upon the attention of the public,
looked at the matter from only one point of vieAV
—that of the persons immediately parties to the
contract. We purpose giving a s'omeAvhat differ-
ent consideration to the question, not concerning
ourselves as to whether it be the rule or the ex-
ception, that married people are as happy as they
deserve to be, but as to the duties which the State
requires of such persons, and the manner in which
these duties are performed.
* -* *
In Australia marriage is far more a question of
the exercise of freedom of will than in other
countries. In the first place there are no prohibi-
tory la\vs Avhich render the contraction of mar-
riages difficult as in France or Austria; nor is there
compulsory military service to make it impossible,
during the best years of his life, for a man to
dream of marriage. Still, even in the absence of
these barriers, the exercise of free wi 11 in marriage
affairs is much more circumscribed than most
people are in the habit of supposing. True it is,
a man can say to himself I can marry or I can let
the business alone, there is no power to prevent in
the one case or compel in the other. But this is
at best only a confined vieAv of the question, as
we shall presently see. The hiw requires a man
to be of the full statutory age before his marriage
is legal. Society requires that he shall marry in
his own rank of life; prudence requires that he
shall postjKme his marriage till he is in a position
to support Avife and child, and religion influences
him in choosing a partner of his own faith. These
are some of the principal agents at Avork upon the
marriageable subject, and combined have a strong
influence in opposing the natural desires of man
and his longing for marital pleasures and domestic
life. The resultant of these opposed forces, the
prudential and social, as against the natural, is
seen in the uniformity of the marriage-rate which
everywhere obtains. It would appear that though
it may be unsafe to say what course in regard to
marriage the individual John Smith will take, the
conduct of all the Smiths of the community can
easily be predicated. In the circle of every man’s
acquaintance there are those who have delayed
marriage till near or past middle age, Avho are like
the withered ]>each on the leafless tree, a solitary
memento of the others that have ripened and have
been of use, or perhaps like a finger-post set up as
as a warning to life’s travellers to aA’oid the road
which leads to a solitary old age. These stranded
individuals one and all take consolation in that
they have exercised their free will in refraining
from marriage, little thinking the facts are quite
otherwise, and that they are simply the playthings
of circumstances whose current has carried them
away from the haven of domestic life.
* * *
Hoav true it is that there is little or no freedom
in the matter, the records of marriages in this
country afford ample proof. In no year do we
find less than 71 marriages to every 10,000 per-
sons nor more than 80, the former being the rate
for 1888 and the latter for 1883. To a superficial
observer there would appear between the maxi-
mum and minimum just given ample evidence of
the exercise of freedom of will, for if as many
persons in each thousand of the population married
in .1888 as in 1883 there would have been 1000
additional marriages last year, and therefore at
least this number had a free choice. Not so, how-
ever. Just the same natural forces were at work
m both years urging men to marry, but to the
ordinary prudential restraints there was added
the additional restraint in 1888 of a bad season.
The year mentioned stands out in the annals of
Australia as the worst ever experienced, Avhile
1883 Avas one of marvellous prosperity. Hence
the difference in the ratio in which marriageable
people took up the responsibilities of the conjugal
state. There would, therefore, not be left much
scope for the exercise of freedom in a man’s re-
fraining from doing that Avhich his circumstances
render impossible for him to do.
# * *
The marriage service of the Anglican Cnurch
sets forth in plain, if somewhat broad, terms the
aim and end of matrimony. The chief concern of
the State in regard to the marriages of its sub-
jects is that Avhat the church service calls the pro-
creation of children, shall be duly attended to. It
is usual, in order to test the fruitfulness of mar-
riages, to compare the number of children born in
wedlock in any year avith the marriages of the
previous year. The test is empirical, but experi-
ence has shoAvn that it is fairly accurate. Apply-
ing this test to the leading countries, it will be
found that Ireland stands first in regard to the
children born to a marriage, and this is somewhat
singular since Irish marriages arc contracted later
in life than those of other countries. After Ire-
land comes Australasia, and far beloAv all other
countries is France. Putting aside Ireland, “the
Niobe of nations,” whoso case is unique, the
general law may be laid down that where children
are required, there are they bora. Agreeable with
this law the number of children to a family is
higher in new than in old settled countries, and in
prosperous lands than Avhere the struggle for
existence is keen and life is cheap. It is, perhaps,
in this matter of children that the exercise of
freedom of Avi 11 is most displayed. Thus France
lias a birth-rate of 24*5 per 1000 inhabitants, while
in Australasia, the proportion is 34 per 1000, and
as deaths are relatively much more numerous in
I' ranee than here, the net addition to the French
population of 38 millions, by reason of excess of
births, is annually about 97,000, while to the Aus-
tralasian population of 3,700,000 the increase from
this source is 75,000. The proportionally difference
between the two sets of figures is astounding, and
points to as astounding a difference in the social
life of the chief representative of European civi-
lisation and that of the youngest of the nations.
* * *
\\ hatever may be the verdict of moralists on the
practice of exercising a check on the increase of
population, the matter is of extreme moment to
the states in which it obtains. To France the
custom already presages the extinction of its
importance as a European power, and is the
forerunner of the peaceful conquests of its
territory by the Germans on the one side
and the Italians on the other. Already there
is a constant stream of immigrants to France
from the countries named, and that the deaths
have not already exceeded the births is due
in no slight degree to the fecundity of the immi-
grant population. Whatever can occur to France
may happen to other countries and Avill interest
us, according to our opinions either as an example
or a warning. As to Australasia, there is ample evi-
dence that the custom is not general, for as a whole
our country stands amongst the highest, both in
regard to its birth-rate and the number of offspring
to each marriage. From Mr. Coghlan’s book it
Avould eA'en appear that the number of children per
marriage is increasing in some of the colonies,
notably in South Australia. As for New South
Wales, the proportion slioavs no decline ; in
Queensland and New Zealand there Avould ap-
pear to be a decline, Avhich possibly may be due
to causes other than the exercise of a check upon
births. "Victoria, hoAvever, occupies a unique posi-
tion, in point of procreativeness, among the States
of Australasia. In 1876 there Avere usually over
5‘4 children to a marriage; now there are hardly
four. From 1876 to 1882 the average was fiA 7 e;
from 1882 to the present time it has been about
four. There can be no doubt as to the meaning of
these figures, nor does there appear to be any in
the minds of the Victorian authorities. There is
an evident disinclination on the part of a large
proportion of the Victorian married Avomen to
become mothers and the disposition is a growing
one. Its effect is manifest in the easy manner in
Avhich Ncav South Wales in spite of a handicap of
227,547 persons has overtaken her neighbour
within the past seventeen years. During the
period named, Victoria has had an annual increase
to its population by reason of the births exceeding
the deaths of I*7 per cent., while in New South
Wales the ratio lias been 2*3 per cent. ; the former
unassisted by immigration would mean the
doubling of the population in 41 years Avhile by
the latter, the time required AA-ould be 30 years
only !
# # #
The question herein raised is an important one
for Victoria, not so much because her natural rate
of increase is below that of the other colonies, but
because it is a decreasing one. It is not a pleasant
thing to contemplate, that thus early in her
career she has entered upon a course so calculated
to mar her future. In Victoria . there is none of
tliat grinding poverty and fierce struggle for life,
Avhich mark so many old-world countries and
justify, if there can be any justification for this
custom. Victoria is singularly rich in all
the elements of material greatness and requires
only population to complete her development.
Nor can the practice of Malthusian precepts he
the result of godlessness, for Victoria, as everyone
knoAVs, is a pious country.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The best proof that J. Burns and Co. have pu
the Dockers’ Relief Fund surplus to good account
is seen in the hysterics of Tory organs like St.
James’Gazette. The Gazette, it seems, “pro-
tests strongly against the sum of £12,000 being re-
paid to other trades-unions, and urges that money
subscribed for a certain benevolent purpose ought
not to have been misappropriated.” Without
pausing to sneer at this outburst of bogus concern
for dockers, Ave may remark that no Avord of com-
plaint respecting the disposal of their funds has
been raised by the men themselves. They are in
Avork again, the fear of starvation has passed, and
they perceive the Avisdoin of repaying the moneys
contributed by brother toilers of other trades. In
a similar spirit they (the dockers) applauded the
proposal to devote a feAv thousands of pounds to
forming the nucleus of a Union-fund, on Avhich
they may be able to fall back at some future
time. And it is because Capital sniffs danger in
this thrifty, farseeing management that the Tory
press howls for the 80,000, or so, dockers to re-
ceive each their five shillings of surplus that they
might spend it and so lose the incentive of savings
to save. Otherwise, Avhence this unnatural con-
sideration for the welfare of men about whom the
Tory press is not wont to trouble itself? Bah!
Leave these dock-labourers to the leaders who re-
tained their confidence during the late strike. The
Avhole amount of money subscribed represented
less than £1 per man for the Avhole Aveary time
they were out of Avork. That they managed to
pull through the ordeal and still have a balance
left in hand, is a credit to the men.
+
“ Betting,” says the well-known Bishop Magee
of Peterborough, “ is not per sc a sin. ft is, how-
over, a crime if the State says so, and, perhaps,
the State should ; for it doesn’t seem to conduce
either to useful industry or to high monetary
ethics.” Holding somewhat different views from
the Bishop, Vicar Medland, of Hav.erstock Hill,
lost £4OOO by operating on the “Universal Stock
Exchange,” and having lost, repented him of what
lie had done, and appealed to Justice Kekewich
to get him back his lost cash. The Justice, how-
ever, very unfeelingly, described the issue as
merely “ whether in these gambling transactions
the defendants had gambled according to the rules
of the game,” and decided that they had. On
Mr. Medland explaining he “would not back a
horse,” because “that would be immoral”—“l
don’t see the difference,” quoth brutal Mr. Lock-
wood, Q.C. “ Neither do I,” rejoined his lord-
ship. So Vicar Medland Avas nonsuited. The
English judges might surely have had the grace to
reserve their decision in the matter, pending the
arrival in England of Mr. Sharebroker Parmer,
of the New South Waies Stock Exchange, who
detests gambling--but holds stock-dealing to
be angelically moral.
«.
~•,.. , . .
MEEUiL JiNE Age in a recent article, jumps to the
false conclusion that Home Rule for Wales
volvmg disestablishment of the Anglican State
Church m lummv s mountainous principality
cannot he an accomplished fact until the House o
I eers ,s abolished. So long as the Chamber,
says the Age, continues m existence the way ,s
blocked against the progress of the great const,-
tutional change which Mr. Gladstone and Ins
adherents advocate.” Remembering how Glad-
sroNE abolished purchase in the army, brushing
aside the steadfast opposition of the Lords with a
so-caUed Koya; l Prerogative (vm., the Prerogative
of the Liberal majority in the Commons) it is safe
to assume that the .Grand Old Mail would not
allow the dukes and bishops to choke any great
national measure that had been carried by his
Government. Ihe Royal Prerogative ’,s a
trump-card which only a Liberal Premier can
play, for that the lories would use it against
hereditary allies is not to he supposed.
Who could imagine BEAOONSEiEi.iI or Saris-
brky commamlmg his Royal Mistress to squelch
i ai-iful j>eeiB and (biye another nail into
Monarchy s coffin t But Gladstone, hack in
powei and his leturn is only a question of
hea th with hua-would prefer to work the will
of the people m the teeth of the Lords, inasmuch
as those nob e obstructionists might be encouraged
to show further cause and reason for the,r ultimate
A P^iSy 81011, ~^ ia t Gladstone will hve to abolish
the Upper House is not very likely. He can-
not shake himself entirely free of his own ansto-
cratic associations, and would rather leave to
others _ the task which must be accomplished
smithy. Lut that Gladstone will live to make
many great constitutional changes, whether the
Lords block the way ”or not, is, happily, very
Vh J ''} deed ' H the Age imagines that no part
of the blessed constitution can be wiped out with-
out the consent of the Peers how does it perceive
any possibility of them ever being wiped out them-
John Woods solemnly warns the Victorian
Legislative Assembly that another deadlock is
coming on with the Legislative Council. And,
indeed, it is plain enough. The Council has
of late claimed an equal representation of
the people with the Assembly, whereas the
Council only represents Property, Graham
Berry foresaw all the trouble when he tried to
centre all representation in the Legislative
Assembly, making the Council a mere sus-
pensory chamber to prevent hasty legislation,
but in no way to interfere with the fixed will
of the people. Dbakin has lately been orating
to his constituents on the liberal triumph
in Victoria, but the leading Conservative organ
very properly brings him to hook. Berry had to
give in to the supremacy of Service. Deakin is
an understrapper to Gillies. If this be liberal
triumph, it is strange. Deakin thinks it is all
right merely because he has mopped up a big
salary for six years. The Coalition is bran and
clay at the best. Australia wants none of it, no
compromise between Democracy and Monarchy,
Right and Wrong, Truth and Error.
Song of the Workers.
[Translated fram the French of PIERRE DUIONT
by JOHN OXENFORD.]
We whose dim lamp, the dawning day,
Is lit when cocks begin to crow.
We who for our uncertain pay
Must early to our anvils go;
We who with hand and foot and arm
With want a war incessant wage,
And nought can ever gain to warm
The dreary winter of old age—
We’ll still be friends, and when we can
We’ll meet to push the wine about:
Let guns be still or make a rout,
We’ll shout
Our toast: the Liberty of Man !
f'rom jealous waves, from niggard soils,
Our arms for ever toiling tear
A mighty store of hidden spoils,
Ay, all that man can eat or wear ;
From plains their corn, from hills their fruit,
Their metals, pearls, and jewels tine ;
Alas ! poor sheep, a costly suit
Is woven from that wool of thine.
We’ll still be, etc.
What from the labour do we get
From which our backs thus bent must be ?
And wherefore flow our floods of sweat ?
Machines and nothing more are we.
Our Babel-towers the skies invade.
The earth with marvels we array ;
But when at last the honey’s made,
The master drives the bees away.
We’ll still be, etc.
Our wives for pay their milk bestow
On scions of a puny i ; ace,
Who think, when they to manhood grow,
To sit beside them were disgrace.
The landlord’s claim we know full well,
It presses on us like a vyce;
Our daughters must their honour sell
At every counter-jumper’s price.
We’ll still be, etc.
In darksome holes, in garrets foul.
In ruined shells, with rags bedight,
We live—the comrades of the owl
And thief, the constant friends of night.
Still through our hearts hot blood-beats run,
Still through our veins live currents flow',
And we could love the glorious sun,
And that deep shade the oak-trees throw.
We’ll still be, etc.
But every time our good red blood
Is on the earth like water poured,
The fruit that’s nurtured by the flood
Serves but to feed some tyrant lord.
Let not the stream so rashly flow,
War doth not equal love in worth,
But wait till kinder breezes blow
From heaven—or e’en perchance from earth.
We’ll still be friends, and when we can
We’ll meet to push the wine about ;
Let guns be stdl or make a rout,
We’ll shout
Our toast : the Liberty of Man !
Tal rnage says ‘ ‘ that there is not a healthy
labourer in the States who within the next fifteen
years, if he will refuse all intoxicants and tobacco,
may not become a capitalist on a small scale.”
Rot! A man’s economy and sobriety won’t
amount to much if he has an extravagant wife.
Give the Poor Fellow a Start.
Wanted, a duly-qualified medical man — badly
Avanted Avhen people know there is none nearer
than Bogaboo, fifty miles off -; but not so much
Avanted Avhen he is visibly extant.' At any rate,
avc needed a doctor - Ave, that is the neighbouring
station-hands, had built a hospital, and the same
was subsidised pound for pound by Sir Henpeck
Lark’s Government. So avc advertised fur a
medico and guaranteed a practice of £3OO a year.
We, that is the guarantors, felt just a bit uneasy
when three months had elapsed, bringing in one
case of what the patient called Barcoo rot. He
positively refused to pay more than half-a-crown,
medicine and bottle included, So avc, the respon-
sible people, met and consulted over some so-
called whisky. Something must be, done, and we
were valiant in our cups and swore to give tin-
doctor a start. I’ll not tell my part in the pro-
ceedings, but I’ll show hoAV the P.M. and Bully,
the storekeeper, helped him.
An old fellow Avho had long- been ailing dropped
dead at Sandy M'Scot’s hut door, 20 miles from
the toAvn. Sandy tooled him in his buggy and a
blanket and told the P.M. Now, what did the
latter do ? Give a burial-order? Not such a fool.
An inquest was necessary ; had not the man died
suddenly ? So lie was autopsied, and this meant
£lO for the medico besides free liquor from tin
publican, who did a good business as long as tin
corpse Avas scattered about his wash-house. The
bits had been cemented and boxed and labelled
when in drives Mother Whackem, Avhose Chinese
overseer had died not quite so suddenly, but
the P.M. ordered the pill-box off at once to cut
the Chinkie to bits for another tenner and mileage.
On the way the doctor met a squatter Avho had
been gazing on the oil of fusel, and he said :
“ Doc, ole fler, I’ll give you a lift ! My men are
all blacklegs, and I’ll make them sign to pay you
say half-a-croAvn apiece during shearing, and have
a nip to bind the bargain. When shearing ar-
rived the men growled, but signed, and it was a
big shed —close on 200 men employed. Then the
doctor SAVore one morning, when he was on a visit,
that two of the jackeroos had consulted him the
night before, and the squatter backed him up and
he sent out various nasty drugs and a bill for £T>
each, although the patients were in perfect health
and remembered no consultation except as to
whether the tipple should be hot or cold. The
bottles are kept to this day untouched, and if the
doctor dines at the bachelors’ barracks they are put
on the table and handed round along with the rum
and so on.
But perhaps the ’cutest man is the storekeeper.
Lots of the cookies owed him money and he pre-
tended not that he doubted their willingness to
pay but that he feared they might die and leave
him in the lurch. He got each of his debtors to
go to the doctor and get stethoscoped—price tAvo
guineas. Even the publicans help the struggling
creature. If a cheque-man gets very drunk they
run in the doctor and he gets one, tAvo, or three
guineas next day, according to Avhether the per-
jury is a fit, a fight, insensibility or only a gravel-
rash.
So you see, my friends, there are ways and
Avays, however mean, if you mean to give a helping
hand to a felloAv fraud.
This short sketch is respectfully dedicated to
the people of Yarrajabowlahmine.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Some humorous New Zealander has worked
off the Biblical fairy tale of Esther, after some
necessary excisions, on a Northern paper as an
original contribution.
Mail the Christmas Bulletin to your dis
tant friends. The best six-pennyworth ever issued
beneath the Southern Cross. And buy no shilling
paper until you see what The Bulletin gives for
sixpence.
The light of the Christmas Bulletin will
in comparison with that of its envious contem-
poraries be as the radiance of the entire planetary
system as against the sparkle of a dead China-
man’s eye. If you don’t buy it at once you won't
be able to get it at all.
The Bulletin’s Christmas Pantomime is
to be in four scenes, and is entitled “The’Ouse
that Hi Built, or Harlequin Fee-Fi-Federation
and the Fairy Bulletin. ” It will be performed
in the Bulletin’s Christmas number by Mr.
Edmund Fisher, who furnishes an admirable
Australian antidote to the Old-Worldly flam set
before the public by the theatrical-managers.
Dear Bulletin, —Numbers must have
read, with delight not unmingled with awe, Mr.
Meston’s account of his recent explorations of the.
Bellenden Ker. One proposal made by that gen-
tleman is worthy of especial notice. It appears to
be the custom of every irresponsible ass who
thinks “ the rustic cackle of his bourg the mur-
mur of the world, ” to name any conspicuous and
beautiful landmark on which he can lay sacrile-
gious hoof after some local hole-and-corner poli-
tician or some bald-headed prinoelet of a distant
and benighted land. Mr. Meston proposes, and
no doubt the proposal will meet with the approval
of all sensible men, that these pettifogging desig-
nations be altered to the original euphonious and
sonorous native names. But, alas ! for the consis-
tency of human nature, Mr. Meston, after giving
this excellent advice, immediately proceeds to
christen half-a-dozen mountains after members
of his own family. Now, Sir Bartle Frere
may not have done much for Australia,
but surely his name is as well worth re-
nown as that of any member of Mr. Mes-
ton’s family. Not that the writer would de-
tract one iota from the merit of the daring ex-
plorer Avho has bearded the ferocious myall in his
den (a creature, by the way, about as dangerous
as a wild guinea-pig), but one cannot but regret
that such iron endurance and dare-devil courage
should have so paltry an arena in which to ex-
hibit itself; for, probably, at no time were the
members of the Bellenden Ker expedition more
than 20 miles in a bee-line from the nearest town-
ship. The Queensland Government has presented
the leader of the expedition with £lOO, a most
paltry and inadequate reward for his arduous ser-
vices, but -why not go further ? The Dark Island
is still almost a terra inm;n» ita, and as Mr, Meston
plaintively observes, tire despatches of the
Governor of New Guinea are flat, stale, and un-
profitable. Sir William M‘Gregor, who ascended
Mount Owen Stanley, is evidently not the man to
make the most of his opportunities, for his des-
patches are certainly deficient in those corusca-
tions of genius which make the report of our own
explorer a thing of beauty and a joy forever. Why
not place a few thousands of pounds at the dis-
posal of Mr. Meston and start him for New
Guinea ? It may safely be predicted that the re-
ports, if not the results, would startle the
civilised world. The feats of Burke and Wills, of
Eyre and Landsborough and Leichardt, nay of
Livingstone and Stanley themselves, would take a
back seat. At any rate the reports would be
worth the money.—Yours, &c., Bushman. Mont-
albion, N.Q.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
[?]
546 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, December 11, 1889.
Mr Dkar Moorabinda, —
Jn answer to Mrs. Todd’s letter setting fortli the ad-
vantages of a servants’ emigration society with a ladies’
committee at this end, an English periodical—alluding
firstly to the fact that the Church Emigration Society is
continually dispatching relays of “mothers’ helps” (a com-
modity that, with governesses, is the drug of the Austra-
lian market), milliners, &c., escorted by a matron who
doesn’t lose sight of her precious changes until they have
secured snug situations —remarks
“ The great probability is that this carefully guarded
flock of respectable and capable young women will be im-
mediately snapped up. as wives by prosperous artisans
and settlers.”
So the old leaven sticks, and these alluring fairy-tales
are recklessly disseminated in face of the solemn fact
that the marriage-rate all over Australia—where the
women outnumber the men—is not too high, and a
bachelor-tax is threatened all round. And it is this care-
fully-fostered idea of the bronzed and affluent squatter
who is believed to infest the wharves with the object of
leading Mary Jane a blushing bride to his palatial home,
that causes her to become fractious when she finds hersel:
in a suburban “terrace” family with ten children and
locks to all the cupboards. In Australia we don’t want
any more lady-helps and milliners who come out with one
eye on Hymen and the other on the labour-market, but
good, efficient servant-girls, who, though they may give a
thought en route to the flirtatious qualifications of the
antipodean baker, quite intend to demand on arrival
something under one pound per week and every night out.
Speaking of immigration, the class we do not want but
who yet come in shoals, and, because of their imported
poverty and overwhelming culture, find room for com-
plaint in every phase of the democratic, high-priced Aus-
tralian life, are professional people—doctors, lawyers,
“ journalists,” clergymen—accompanied, as a rule, by
high-toned wives, who want to spend their days in ar-
tistic contortions over a green and yellow plaque or in
discussing the thusness of the wherefore with some
Platonic soul left at home. Before they emigrate they
should remember that one Southern servant snaps up the
wages of two or three English “ slaveys,” and that the
soulful mistress must perforce use her palette fora pastry-
hoard and line cake-tins with her foolscap when she sights
gum-trees, unless hubby can still afford plurality of help.
And as hubby is usually painfully shiny on the shoulder-
blades he generally dispenses even w ith one, and his soul-
ful incompetent Amanda is booked for the whole of the
housework until better days dawn. As for ladies of the
educated class making for Australia to amass shekels on
I he strength of their wits, 1 am told that a young married
lady of literary proclivities who taught in a high school
until she came out to Australia was thankful to get a day’s
w ashing in one of the Australian capitals.
I am sorry for Governor Hopetoun. 1 am afraid he is a
young man who “doesn’t feel well.” It is to be hoped
that Lady Hopetoun is of better grit than her lord and
master. His levees are annual occurrences only, and he
can spend the intervening twelve months in dumb-bell
exercise and chicken-broth, but “At Homes’’and recep-
tions arc continuous, and unless “Her Excellency” is
attacked on her “days” by Lady Loch’s mysterious in-
disposition 1 should recommend Indian clubs and raw
steak to carry her through her term of office. It is
argued from certain little facts which have transpired
since her arrival that she intends to make the Government
House mob extremely “snide,” and that the awful
creature in burst boots and three red feathers in iier hat
w ill be politely 1 towed out by the “ not at home ” flunkey
and left to vegetate wrathfufly on the door-mat. Should
this idea he strictly adhered to there won’t be enough
people in the gubernatorial hoarding-house to make up a
sideless quadrille!
People who intend taking part in the return hall to
Mayor Harris had better see about their gowns at once, as
I am told that when the date is finally fixed the notice
given will be very short. The Centennial Hall will be the
scene of the festivity. By the way, all the guests at the
Mayor’s hall are to receive gorgeous invitation-cards com-
memorative of that dazzling event.
What I have expected for years (never mind how many)
has come at last—public outcry against the liveliness of
insect life at the theatres. Letters have appeared in the
press and remedies are suggested all round but the pulex
(pulices) keep on biting, and only the other evening 1 saw
quite a nice young girl reach surreptitiously down her
l>ac,k with her fan-handle and agitate it violently when
her escort wasn’t looking. Speaking for myself, I have
found only one Sydney theatre thoroughly unbearable
from the cause named.
In the report of the trial of an Adelaide gentleman,
who tried to kill his wife, the comment appears:—
“ In spite of the treatment she had been subjected to,
the woman did her utmost to shield her husband, blaming
herself awl glossing over the circumstances of the at-
tempt lo kill her.
Woman-nature is the same everywhere. I can remember
sympathising once with a woman whose husband upset
Hie w hole decalogue daily, and who kept a strap specially
to correct the wife of his bosom. She accepted my
practical condolence witii extremely bad grace, and
finally burst out triumphantly : “ Art er all, Jack don’t
even look at another ooman ! ” I left.
I am told that a venturesome young lady, who was
dying to gaze on the Victorian vice-regal countenance 1
borrowed the evening suit of her younger brother, crush-
hat, tie and all, and, as her hair was cropped and curly,
she made up a very presentable dude, took a cab and
attended the first levee! Whether His Excellency felt
her hand-shake more magnetic than the rest 1 don’t know,
but she confided to a friend that he " sat down soon after
I went through.” I am told, by the by, that this young
person isn’t wholly unconnected with the drama. Mel-
bourne is getting on.
Rather a pretty dance has come out in England this
season. It is to three-four time, and you and your part,
ner, side by side, make four paces as if marching and then
go in and waltz four bars, after which four paces again
and so on. It is said to be “very stately,” and the possi-
bilities for cooling off in these recurring four paces make
it the very thing for our summer season.
1 am told that Amy Sherwin’s pet flautist is about to
lead to the altar, or the registrar, a near relative of Miss
Aggie Kel ton.
At Sydney Criterion on 7th inst. a large aggregation
attended the initial performance of “In Honor Bound ’’
and “Turned Up.” One lady wore a weird white frock
with a red sash round her shoulder and hitched below her
waist as if she were that historic female Mason we have
all heard about. Another, in pale-blue made on the bag
plan, belied the extreme airiness of her manner by
arranging her looks Madonna-wise in two smooth pats on
either side. A large person in cream and gig-lamps
created a mild sensation by arriving late and enquiring at
“prairie-pitch” if it had commenced; and Lilian Sec-
combe wore strawberry silk, a shell necklace, and a white
plume fan. In “In Honour Bound ” Mrs. Brough wears a
cream silk and broche-trained dinner gown with Bertha
bodice and a cluster of scarlet flowers: and Miss Temple
(who really ought to overcome her lately-contracted habit
of smiling like a rat-trap) wears cream silk, too, and
rather spoils the ensemble. Titheradge plays the incom-
prehensible husband for all he’s worth, of course, but
Lyndal, as the spiritual if not actual co-respondent, gasps
through his lines as if he’d swallowed a fish-bone. By the
way, the stage act in this piece is really “ inward ” —the
soft firelight and the subdued half-light helping the
exalted-cion-very human sketcli a long way to its success-
ful curtain. Of course “Turned Up,” with its whirligig
of piebald bigamy and family skeletons “not so black as
my hat,” rounded off by a razzle-dazzle undertaker in
wedding garments, went as of yore, though Miss Bessie
Major’s accent wasn’t so convincing as Sam Keenan’s, and
the General Baltic of Lash Gordon (what an odd nom-de-
theatre, isn’t it?) was simply Sir Geoffrey Ohampneys
under a new sign. “ Betsy ”is billed for 14th inst.
New presents for babies are coming to the fore largely
just now, and people who are hidden to sample the
christening cake needn’t wade into silver mugs and rattles,
but can manufacture even nicer gifts at home. A lovely
idea is a swandown pillow in white silk, edged with lace
with baby’s monogram, a spray of flowers or “ good
night ” embroidered in marking silks in the left lower
corner. Another pretty little gift, easily constructed, is
a cot-quilt in white satin, quilted on to wadding and lined
with pale-blue or pink. If edged witii lace with a scent
sachet put among the wadding, and sprays of roses, or
forgetmenots, according to the lining, worked in filoselle
or painted in three corners it looks simply delicious and
makes the fortunate kid a perfect dandy when he’s tucked
in.
“Lost” advt. culled from a Melbourne paper:—
QJOME False Teeth in black kid glove, last Friday.
Finder rewarded. Address S.T., Cooney’s Agency,
Hotham.
But only fancy the tragedy that may have happened—
Says a Melbourne paper: —
“ Do not have your girdle too tight—it will make you
uncomfortable, will deceive nobody, and will probably
make your nose red.",,.
And that simple little remark will probably do more good
than a mile of doctors’ ipze dixit on the painful position of
a tight-laced liver. For wherever else pearl-powder may
stick, it leaves the tip of your nose hare and shining the
instant you put your puff down, and there is no hope any-
where.
The very latest trap to catch the Imperial sunbeam in
Sydney is the “Children’s Ministering League,” instituted
by Lady Somebody—Lady Carington to become patroness
if the lodge works. The three little Caringtons are
members (of which there are 47—an easily-seen-through
distinction being made between members and “ associates,"
of course!), and everything is painfully up to the Little
Lord Pauntleroy standard. The confessed object of the
League isn't quite clear, except that it will worry poor
people with sudden gifts of tough blanc-mauge, and sail
as (dose to the insufferable heroes and heroines of Sabbath
literature as it can. The real idea is to fix up those silken
bonds, etc., and to impress Young Australia with the
glory of being in the same society as the Caringtons (whom
the fore-doomed “associates” will probably never see)
and how great a thing it is to be patronised by their
mamma, and this with some fairy lamps and currant-buns
is expected to carry the juveniles. A child is easily im
pressed and the impression is lasting- and the average
mamma, too, is a copper-toed snoh when it comes to dove-
tailing Mary Anne among the “nicest children.”
A very jolly cricket match eventuated in the presence
of Oov. Carington and a posse of women in gay attire at
Double Bay on 4th inst., between a team of Thespians got
together by Brough, and the I. Zingari backed up by
several army and navy officers. None of the scores were
paralysing— Lord Charles Scott, who bats in the most tin
expected manner, going out for three ; while one or two
dashing officials made a nice large duck-egg. The result
was a win for the theatre—which scored very decently
sometimes —by 7’2 runs.
Quite the latest craze in notepaper, which changes on
the average once a fortnight just now—is the Raven—a
jet-black page upon which you unburden your soul in
wiiite ink. It is not intended for the sole use of persons
in mourning, but is equally the medium for love-letters,
young ladies’ correspondence, and so on. At first glance
it looks most depressing, and it will probably be as short-
lived as the preceding melancholy fashions.
V.R. night at Her Majesty’s on Oth inst. didn’t attract a
gigantic d.o.. though the vice-regal box was well filled, as
usual, with a bevy of men in nice boiled shirt-fronts
headed by the Baron in a white weskit and worn and
weary eyebrows. As Kip Van Winkle, M‘\Vude simply
steals the ’art out of yer buzzum, as a large boarding
house-looking lady remarked behind me coining out, and
the loud, wide smiles and doleful, watery sniffs that greet
each point in the performance point the moral that Mr.
M‘Wade has “struck it.” Steenie receives happy treat-
ment at the hands of little Albion White in act 1, who is
the dearest little Dutchie possible, but the grown-up
Christina of Louise Halbee (an importation with a, to me,
rather unfetching voice, and an ever-anxious eye to the
tail of her gown) plays it low down on her infantile pro-
mise. There was one pretty dress worn by a lady under
the escort of a moustachoed ’Murkan consul, and it was of
cream silk relieved with pearl embroidery, vandyked
collar edged with pearls, cream plume fan and black
velvet opera cloak. And, by the by, in “Rip," they
shouldn’t let those horrible Kaatskill ghosts wear squeaky
boots —It destroys half the oold-shudderlsnt.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
He followed her from Collins-street,
And rapt admired the dainty waist,
Tire tiny hands, the twinkling feet,
And felt the bliss that lovers taste ;
When, rapture, lo ! she drops her glove!
He saves it—a cab-wheel beneath—
When—what a knock for new-born love !
Out fall her little pearly teeth !
My Wife.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My name is Henry Petrel Simpson. I inherited
the first and last of these names from my father
before me; the second (suggestive of a life of ups
and downs) fell to my lot owing to the fact that
I first saw the light on board the good ship Petrel,
bound from London to Melbourne. The exact
latitude and longitude of my birthplace have never
been known to me; enough to say that I was
hatched on the ocean-wave, somewhere in the
“ roaring forties,” between the Cape and the land
of the Golden Fleece. For many years after the
death of my parents I knocked about the world in
an aimless fashion. It mattered little to me
where my local habitation was, so long as rations
were not wanting.
True to the habits of the proverbial rolling
stone I gathered little moss. But it chanced one
fine morning I totted up my bank-book and found
myself the possessor of a few hundreds, as the
result of an honest and happy bit of speculation.
So, as I sat puffing my morning pipe on the
verandah of a well-known Melbourne hostelry, I
turned over in my mind the various ways that lay
open to me of increasing my small nest-egg.
It was in the fifties, the early days of the yellow
fever. I saw multitudes around me possessed by
the malady in its fiercest form. Never a day went
by without crowds leaving for the diggings in their
search for fortune; and many doubtless found
what they sought. As for myself, however, I was
not drawn that way. The rough, hard life of a
digger offered no attractions for me. What was
to be done ? I was no scholar, though, for the
matter of that, I was a better man than many
round me, and in my various wanderings I had
learnt the art of keeping my eyes open, and was
looked upon as tolerably keen and energetic by
those who knew me.
On this occasion I finished my pipe without
having reached any satisfactory result in my cogi-
tations. Suddenly, however, as I strolled along
Collins-street (a very different thoroughfare then
from what it is now) my eyes alighted upon a
theatrical play-bill. 1 read it through, not once
but twice; the first time listlessly, the second
with keener attention, till I came to the last line,
which ran thus “ William Stevens, Manager.”
A brilliant idea struck me. “ The very thing,” I
said to myself; “ I will be a theatrical manager.”
No sooner had I decided upon it than I put my
wits to work, and before long I was running a
travelling company of my own, and had no reason
to complain of any want of luck in the various
places where I pitched my show.
After some months at this business I found my-
self in the course of my travels at a township, not
far from what is now Maryborough, in the centre
of the goldfields. I had to build my own theatre,
•which was but the work of a few days, and we
opened to a crowded house. For a few nights all
went merrily and the money flowed in. But I
soon found myself face to face with an unlooked-
for difficulty. It was simply impossible to keep
my company together. One after another my
“ stars ” yielded to the craze of gold-digging, and
the actresses got married as fast as they could —
sometimes a little faster. Of the majority of my
players—good, bad, and indifferent—l remember
little worth repeating, but I do remember one
story and am now going to tell you it. It con-
cerns a man who for a time was my leading
tragedian.
# # *
His name was Robert Saint Clair. As an
actor he was, at any rate for my purposes, simply
grand, for he had a vyce-like “ grip ” of his audi-
ence. He stood six-feet-one in his stockings, and
had a bony, wiry, and immensely muscular frame.
He could soak up “ Old Irish ’’ like water. He
wore long wavy hair and had a curious “ leary”-
1 poking pair of eyes. He never looked straight
at you ; his eyes were a green sort of bright-blue
and always on the move ; they seemed to suggest
a touch of delirium tremens, a bit of affectation,
and a grain of genuine raw madness. Saint Clair
was the possessor of a truly prodigious voice. Ho
could roar like thunder, and in tragedy always did
so roar% which was one reason, no doubt, of his
popularity. The men to whom he played liked
the thing hot and strong. He could shout loud
enough to deafen you, and could drink deep
enough to drown you. I believe he came to Aus-
tralia via California, but I met him first in Mary-
borough, Victoria, and soon spotted my man.
His manners were very polite, not to say stagey ;
but I hadn’t had the pleasure of his acquaintance
many hours before I found that he had a way of
looking nasty whenever his temper was crossed, at
which times a bad scar on the 0.8. side of his
mouth used to look particularly ugly. He was
always painstaking and punctual, and never owed
a copper. So, altogether, he was a great addition
to my fast-diminishing company.
One night at B , after playing in “ William
Tell ” (which was always a popular piece, seeing
that the diggers to a man were sweet upon re-
volutions and liberty) Saint Clair came up to me
and said : “ Captain, I want to go home.”
“ Home ! ” cried I, in some amazement ;
“ home ? Why, Bob, you’ve got to play in the
farce ?”
The farce happened that night to be “ The
Rendezvous,” a regular screamer, and Saint Clair
was billed for the part of Captain Bolding.
“Yes, I know,” said he.
“ Captain Bolding,” said I.
“ I know,” said he, “but ”
“ But what ”
After a moment’s hesitation he went on : “Well
you see, boss, I’ve broken my arm.”
“ Broken your arm, man ! Why, how on earth
did you play William Tell with your arm broken?”
“Managed it somehow,” he replied, more
gruffly than was his wont, “but now I’m just
about done up, and want to go home.”
So it turned out. He had played through four
acts with one arm badly broken ! There was
nothing for it but to send him home, and someone
else had to go on as Captain Bolding. In course
of time Saint Clair got all right again, but I never
exactly know (though afterwards, as you will see
why, I had my guesses) how he met with his
accident.
Three months afterwards Christmas came
round, and we put on a Grand Comic Spectacular
Pantomime. For some reason it didn’t draw after
the first night or two, so I made up my mind to
get back to legitimate drama. But at this time I
was without a leading actress, and was at my wit’s
end to know where to look for one, for I had
counted on the pantomime running for several
weeks at least. Just in the nick of time 1 was
lucky enough to secure a lady for the vacant post,
who was well-known as “ the celebrated and world-
famous tragedienne, Madame Anna Champer-
nown.” She, poor lady, had been recently in
trouble. She had been doing good business in
various parts of the colony, when, on a dark night,
as she and her husband were journeying along
with a good deal of “ plunder ” in hard gold with
them, they were attacked and robbed, Mr, Oham-
Kown was a little man, and as game as a ferret |
lade the best defence he could, but his assail-
ant, a very tall man, vat too much for him. He
was stabbed several times, and his wife rendered
insensible while the robber made off with his
booty.
When the unfortunate couple were brought into
B , Champernown was thought to be dying.
But he lingered on, and his wife, who was terribly
cast down at the loss of her hardly-earned money,
was in no mood for haggling over a bargain, and
thus it was that for a small salary I was able to
add her name in all the glory of two-inch letters
to my flaming play-bills. She was billed to appear
with Mr. Saint Olair on the following Monday in
the celebrated and soul-stirring melodrama of
“ The Stranger.”
Poor Mr. Champernown lay in a pitiable con-
dition, for he had been terribly mauled. His face
was like the proverbial “trod-upon raspberry-
tart,” and probably he would have died straight
away but for the skilful nursing of his wife.
Madame Champernown quickly won all hearts in
B . Whenever she passed along the street the
men lifted their hats to her, in return for which
courtesy she would give them a bow like a queen.
In fact, the diggers one and all went half mad
about her. They even went so far as to serenade
her in the hotel, and rent the air with their shouts
till she came out and bowed her acknowledgments,
at the same time begging them to go away, as her
husband could not bear the noise.
I do not know (for it is many a long day since I
was inside a theatre) whether “The Stranger”
still keeps the boards ; but in those days it was a
very favourite piece and often played, so there was
no rehearsal called till the Monday morning.
Saint Clair, who had gone on a visit to Melbourne
during Christmas week, turned up at my place
just as I was starting for the theatre. “Well,”
said I to him over a friendly drink, “ Whom do
you think I’ve got to play Mrs. Haller with you
to-night ?”
“ Can’t say,” he replied.
“ Why, didn’t you see the poster outside ?”
“No, boss ; I came in at the back,”
“Come along, old man,” said I; “here’s a
poster that will take your breath away. I’ll swear
you’ve never seen the like of it on this side the-
water.”
So I took him round the hotel-corner and
pointed to where the huge poster beamed forth
in all the colours of the rainbow. Then I looked
into Saint Clair’s face, expecting to see it lighted
up with an extravagant joy. He was the colour
of a turnip.
“ Why, man alive, what’s the matter ?”
“ Nothing,” he faltered, “ nothing, captain,
only a bit of cramp in the stomach, captain,
that’s all.”
“ Well, another nip of Irish will soon put that
to rights. But isn’t it a grand poster ?”
“ Beautiful, captain, beautiful,” and his teeth
began to chatter like the bones of a corner-man at
a nigger show.
s Sol took him back, and after another whisky,
I said, “we must be off. Eleven sharp’s the
word, and we’ll be just in time.”
“All right,” said Saint Clair; “I’ll just step
round and look after my duds and follow on.”
As he spoke there was a quick, shifty look in his
queer blue eyes, and instantly the thought flashed
on me that all was not quite on the square. I
don’t know why the idea came to me, but I was
instantly possessed of the notion that my friend
was on the point of breaking his engagement.
Could it be that he was jealous of Madame’s
name in letters as big as his own ? Did he mean
really to throw me over ? There certainly was an
extraordinary change in the man all of a sudden.
He had been as jolly as a sandboy when we first
met, but had turned as cold as a codfish since he
had read that poster.
“ Here’s Jem coming along,” said I, as we
turned towards the theatre; “he’ll mind your
traps, so let’s look sharp and get straight away. ”
At that moment up came Jem with a hastily-
scrawled note from Madame Champernown, say-
ing that her husband was low and restless, and
she could not come to rehearsal, but she would
play at night whatever happened.
“All right,” said Saint Clair, briskly, “I’m
your man. Here, Jem, carry along my things,
and I’ll walk with you, Captain.”
So we went to rehearsal. I kept my eye on
Saint Clair the whole time, for there was still that
strange something in his manner. I couldn't get
it out of my mind that he was waiting for a chance
to give me the slip. When all was over I said to
him, “Look here, Olair, we’ll spend the day to-
gether : come along and dine with me. ”
“Thanks, Captain,” he answered, “but I’ve got
to look over my wardrobe, and——. ”
“Wardrobe be blowed !” said I; “come, I
won’t take no. ” I had quite made up my mind
that X wouldn’t let him out of my sight for a
moment. And I didn’t. I watched him like a
cat, and as the afternoon wore on I could see that
he grew more and more restless and unlike him-
self.
At night I went with him arm-in-arm to the
theatre and saw him into the dressing-room, and
helped him to dress. Much to my surprise (for 1
had seen him in the part before), he finished his
toilet by sticking a vast quantity of hair all over
his face, and I couldn’t help remarking that I had
never seen him makeup for The Stranger like that
before.
“No, I daresay not,” he said, with a queer look
again in his eyes; “ but I like to make a change
now and again. It’s a new idea I’ve got to-night. ”
Well, the curtain rose to a crowded house, and
Saint Clair, when he went on in a fine suit of
black and furs, was tremendously cheered. But
that was nothing compared to the greeting given
to Madame Champernown—the house simply rose
at her. I thought the diggers would never have
done shouting. Indeed she looked a fine woman.
If you’ve ever seen “The Stranger” you will
remember that at the end of act iv. Mrs. Haller is
introduced for the first time to the Stranger, and
recognises in him the husband whom she has de-
serted at the same moment that ho sees in her his
wife. During the piece I had been standing at
the wing, and had taken particular notice of one
tiling in Saint Clair’s behaviour which I could not
quite understand. Each time he left the stage he
dived straight down into his dressing-room and
there stayed, like a badger in his hole, till his next
call.
As the great situation came near, I stood ready
to ring down the curtain. On came Solomon, who
said that the Stranger “ begged leave to have the
honour of an introduction.” Then the Count re-
plied, “Welcome, welcome, show him the way.”
Then in stalked Saint Clair as the Stranger. “My
dear sir,” said the Count, “ Lady Wmtersen,”
and introduced the Countess; then he said, “ Mrs.
Haller.”
According to stage directions, Mrs, Haller, as
soon as she saw the Stranger, was to shriek and
fall into Lady Wintersen’s arms. But on this
occasion there was an innovation. The Stranger,
having cast one glance at Mrs. Haller with horror
depicted in every feature of his hirsute counten-
ance, turned and fled from the stage, in his exit
running smash up against mo, and all but spin-
ning me off my feet, Mrs. Haller sprang forward
at the |ame instant, and with an appalling shriek
screamed out as the man disappeared :


Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors.
Strictly Original mailer contributed to The Bulletin
will be paid for. The Editor will be glad to receive and
consider contributions as under ; —
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
S. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
S. Short Australian or other stories, up to, sag, 0000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on Onk
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS, itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, >J
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope »><■
•urrapper, every effort win be made to return. them
The Editor doer not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
“ Stop him ! seize him ! the robber ! he killed
my husband ! ! ”
In one half minute the stage was rushed by the
diggers in front. The whole house was in a frenzy
of excitement; from all parts the audience
crowded to the footlights. I ran round to the
front entrance and made sure that all was right
with the money-boxes. On my way I met Jem
who told me that Saint Olair had just rushed
through the stage-door like a madman.
“ After him ! catch him ! lynch him, the sneak-
ing devil! ” shouted the now furious diggers.
Madame Ohampernown was equal to the occasion.
She ran out of the theatre at the head of the
roaring throng. It was a tine, clear night, almost
as bright as day. The scene was an exciting one.
Every nook and corner in that street and the next
and all the others was searched and searched
again. N*w and then a wild 44 halloa” rang
out through the still night air; but the fox was
not to be caught. Lucky it was for him, for the
diggers’blood was on fire, and I believe if they
hail laid hands on him they would have made him
into mincemeat.
I found out afterwards that my friend, Robert
Saint Clair, had been a convict. He had escaped,
and from time to time, from sheer love of excite-
ment, had gone back to his old trade as a highway-
man. Those who had known him of old said he
was always looked upon as a man with a shingle
loose —a little mad, in fact. Not long after I
heard the last of him—he turned at bay in one of
his marauding expeditions and was shot by a
policeman at Spring Rush Creek.
Within a week after that scene in the theatre
Madame Ohampernown was a widow. Many
months afterwards I met her again in Sydney,
looking handsomer than ever. She is now Mrs.
Henry Petrel Simpson.
A.W.
The next Melbourne Cup will have £lO,OOO
added money.
Dom Pedro, of Brazil, denies that he has
abdicated, and says that those who deposed him
have given him no money. The Bulletin will
open a subscription for Dom P. after it has got its
readers to put up a statue to Peter Lalor.
According to Sir William Harcourt the
difference between most of the Unionists and
Gladstonians is merely a verbal one. One party
favours Local Government, the other clamours for
Home Rule. The difference is infinitesimal.
4 4 Many of the churches in Manchester
were closed last Sunday night, there being no gas
a vailable owing to the strike,” says the cablegram.
Mere moonshine. There was plenty of gas avail-
able for the churches, but, as usual, there was no
light.
That good paper, the S.M. Herald, has
become brutally cynical:—“ London, Dec. 9. The
strike of gas-stokers at Manchester is paralysing
trade. Several churches in the city were closed last
night, in consequence of there being no gas avail-
able.”
Attention is directed to the splendid col-
lection of Eastern and Continental works of art
now exhibited by Messrs. Newton and Lamb in
conjunction with Messrs. M‘Lean Brothers and
Rigg (Ld.) at Leigh House, Oastlereagh street,
Sydney. Descriptive catalogues on application to
either of the firms.
44 It is expected,” says Sydney Daily
Telegraph, 44 that the cost of the locomotives to
be made in N.S. Wales will not come to many
hundreds of pounds beyond what is now paid for
the engines from home. ” Not many hundreds of
pounds each, we presume. It will be observed
that the Calico organ talks about “ home,” and
says that the engines will not cost many hundreds'
more—which is and must be all flam of the baldest
order, as the agent of any British engineering firm
will tell you; more than that, he will be ready to
back his opinion with thousands of pounds. And
yet the D.T. is the paper which goes straight for
absolute Freetrade, and loathes the creature Pro-
tection, by which the general public is robbed.
The D.T.’s “ only a few hundreds ” is the story of
the poor girl with the sinful baby over again.
“Please, mum, it’s only a little one.”
Henry Ernest Searle, that fine young
representative of Australian muscle and endurance,
who, after defeating all comers in sculling matches
on Australian waters, went to England and
showed how vain it was to dispute his claim to
the title of champion oarsman, is as we write,
lying in his coffin at the Williamstown Sana-
torium, Melbourne, having been carried from the
ship on which he returned from England to die of
typhoid fever, after a desperate struggle with that
malady. That so strong and plucky a young
fellow should be stricken down in the flower of
his youth is doubtless distressing, yet, on
reflection, it will be seen that his early
death, under such circumstances, may, after
all, have been about the best thing which
could happen for his future fame. Searle,
a sculler pure and simple, who did not pre-
tend to be anything else, had attained the
summit of that ambition which was the main-
spring of his existence. Around the memory of
the game English oarsman, Renforth, there lingers
all the romance with which it is possible to
enshrine the recollection of an athlete as an
athlete. Renforth died in his boat while success-
ful contesting a four-oar race in American waters
and Searle left Ins boat only to die—-in his own
country. Now, when one looks down the long
list of successful athletes who have from time to
time within one’s memory been the pets and idols
of a fickle public, what do we see ? One man dies
unremembered in the Benevolent Asylum with-
out friends to send him tobacco on Christmas
Day ; another, struggling to retain the mastery,
is defeated, and has the wreath of gold
which, in these latter days, has sup-
planted the wreath of laurel, torn from
his brow in the presence of a populace
ever ready to force its favours on the man above
want and to smile only on the successful man of
strong heart who needs no encouragement.
Another retires with money and lends his name
to a public-house; yet another leaves the arena to
sell drink and debase manhood, and, shorn of all
his physical proportions and manly beauty, in his
latter days holds up the wall of a dram-shop and
exhibits to passers-by how terrible a thing it is to
have been an athlete in the long ago. Speaking,
therefore, as one of those who would like
to have seen Searle return and receive the
felicitations of those who sped his departure
from this country, The Bulletin, while re-
cognising the awful calamity that has fallen
on the relations and friends of the athlete
whom Death only could conquer, is inclined to
think, in no Mvolous or unkindly mood, that
without doubt Searle’s early death has served his
fame more than half-a-dozen other easy victories.
He was a mere boy and yet the world’s champion,
with an unbeaten record, an unsmirched name,
and we venture to predict that his funeral will
eclipse any similar ceremonial that this continent
has yet witnessed.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre R0ya1.,.. Good Old Working-Man.
Her Majesty's...., “Rip Van Winkle.”
Criterion. . “Betsy.”
Oyolorama Battle of Gettysburg,
Palace Museum “The Midgets.”
Gaiety Theatre Thiodon’s Wonders.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ Richard the Third.”
Princess’ “ Yeoman of the Guard.”
Theatre Royal Grattan Riggs’ Farewells.
Alexandra “Martha” and “Maritana.”
St. George’s Hall Coghill Company.
Victoria Hall Variety Company.
Athenaeum Hall Miss Von Finkelstein.
The Sydney Press, with one exception,
has slobbered Robert M‘Wade’s version of “Rip
Van Winkle ” with meaningless eulogy. With
that gentleman as an actor little fault can be
found, but a very much bigger man would be
flattened beneath the crustacean nightmare which
he vainly attempts to throw off his chest. For
the play, considered as a literary production, is
feeble; its language rarely rises above the dead
level of the music-hall Dutch landscape, and any
humorous lines it may contain have such an
ancient and fishlike smell that one feels compelled
to enquire why the actor-author, when wading
out for winkles did not net a fresher one. The
first act is the most somniferous we ever sat out.
This, however, may be high art; it is, perhaps,
the author’s endeavour to place his audience in
the physical condition that would best appreciate
the actor’s prolonged slumbers. If so, the first
act is harmonious and well-conceived ; if not, then
is it a verbose wilderness without one literary oasis.
In the second act, the ghost-scene is fairly well
staged and enacted, but the days of supernatural-
ism are numbered ; on and off the stage, demoniac
machinery and ghostly gibberish meet with sneers
instead of shudders, with laughter in place of
SOCIETY NOTORIETY.
A MAIDEN’S STUDY OF POSITION—WHICH SHALL IT BE!
lachrymation from a highly sceptical generation.
Therefore, when Rip goes to sleep in such a
manner that only half-crowns are required on his
eyelids to ensure the attendance of an undertaker
at the stage-door, most people felt inclined to say
—poor fellow, R.I.P. In the concluding act
M‘Wade’s make-up is very fine, and his display of
weakness, consternation, incredulity, and physical
inflexibility are highly impressive, but common-
place language and weak support combine to
kill the scene. It is not surprising that a young
actress like Louise Halbee should fail to depict
the varying emotions that would possess the
daughter who welcomes a father’s return from the
dead, but the resuscitated cornfield-deserting
scarecrow was received on all hands with little
more surprise than if he had just returned safely
from a trip to Melbourne, and so no feeling of
realism, no spark of emotion was kindled in the
breasts of a willing-to-be-deceived assemblage. It
is said that Mr. M 4 Wade contemplates some
abbreviations, and as judicious excisions may liven
the thing up, these will undoubtedly be beneficial.
Rip runs for another week.
$* « *
The disgusted professional theatre-goer
invariably enters Sydney Criterion with a feeling
of relief. Here, at least, he soliloquises, one is
sure to witness high-class plays, admirably staged,
and intelligently acted. To this rule “In Honor
Bound” proves no exception. The busy Q. 0.,
M.P., as conceived by the clever lawyer-author,
Grundy, could scarcely fall into better hands than
those of Mr. Titheradge. Perhaps in the opening
lines there is a tinge of antagonism in Ins per-
sistent interrogation of Philip Graham that might
possibly arouse the suspicions even of that butter-
fly, for it at once suggests to the auditor who knows
not the story that the questioner’s interest in the
fickle wife is a personal one. Mrs. Brough is equal
to the occasion, and Emma Temple acts with a,
freshness and forgetfulness of surroundings that is
charming. Percy Lyndal fits his part better than
his predecessor, but his method of evincing emo-
tion is, to our mind, unnatural. As for “Turned-
Up,” it is almost a profanation to stage that
farrago of absurdities on the. same evening as the
curtain-raiser. As Undertaker Carraway Bones
(why not Cartaway?), Robert Brough is a con-
tinuous cackle, the facial contortions of George
Anson would make a circus-cloAvn blench, and
Cecil Ward is chirpy, but Dion Boucicault is
scarcely in his element. Miss Romer, as usual a
man-hunter, makes the most of her show, and the
other ladies have little to do but look pretty, and
that, of course, to them is easy. Our old friend
“Betsy’’comes on once more at the end of this
week.
* * *
At Sydney Palace Museum the lioyed
American Midgets, at million prices, are a big
draw. Why they are called “ Royal American”
Flynn only knows, and he might just as well talk
of a eold hot day, or a temperance-intoxicating
drink, considering that the last king has just been
thrown out of America on his ear. Barnum, we
see, has also got some midgets, but they are not
so small as those daisies of Solomon’s, who don’t
toil much, but can spin some vei’y nice little fairy
yarns.
>|c- -;'c- *
At Bondi Aquarium Duncan 0. Ross, hav-
ing induced Captain Jennings to gallop to the
scratch, fairly waltzed round that gentleman;
scoring eight points to his two and thus retaining
the championship. The Herculean Duncan nearly
cut the head off Jennings’ Rosinante with one ill-
directed blow, and with another swoop, which
would have decapitated that swordsman near the
stirrups had he not avoided it, nearly levelled the
switchback railway to the dust. Thp potato, after
all, is a watery vegetable, and there is a deal more
nutriment in oatmeal.
*# * *
This week we have not had an opportunity
of viewing Thiodon’s Wonders of the last century
at Sydney Gaiety, but we are told that the show
is good and that the audiences are large and
appreciative.
#» * *
Messrs. Snazelle and Imano, two stage-
struck millionaires, have been largely benefited
during the week, and now we want to see some of
the Poverty Point crowd supplied with much-
needed hash in a similar manner.
** * *
The Cyclorama is still open every day,
but as we have no bulletins lately from the field of
battle, we can make no authoritative statement as
to the probable result.
** * *
Probably the Triumvirate’s lump-sum
agreement with Gilbert and Sullivan has
hitherto kept “ Olivette ” off the boards, as it is
a big draw, the wisdom of this is not evident. At
present, the Sydney Royal’s precincts are occupied
by the Good Old Working-Man who gives way to
“ Aladdin,” with Jennie Lee, George Walton,
Teddy Royce, and other good people to the fore,
on Boxiug Night.
* # * ;k-
A vast quantity of pot-plants and similar
incentives to “ loyalty ” adorned the dress-circle
entrance to Melbourne Princess’s l%st Saturday
night, in honour of Lord and Lady Hopetoun {and
suite), who had “ graciously signified their inten-
tion ” of being there. From the fact that the
faithful Triumvirate omitted any mention of
“ Vice-regal Command,” it may be assumed that
the new Gov. has graciously desired the suppres-
sion of that old V.R. fiction, which was ever the
inanest piece of grovel bred in a theatrical imagin-
ation. His Excellency went through the ordeal
of “ Little Lord Fauntleroy ” without giving
serious cause for alarm. Messrs. Garner and
Musgrove took frequent observations of their dis-
tinguished visitor through a telescope, Garner
having charge of the sal volatile and smelling-
salts, while Musgrove stood ready with a water-
bottle and sponge. Luckily there was no occasion to
administer restoratives, and when the curtain fell a
telegram stating—“ He bore up splendidly, never
fainted once,” was despatched to Mr. Williamson,
in Sydney. Whereupon the senior Triumvir didn’t
wire back: “ I think Victoria is very fortunate
to have such a robust Governor, and he must
indeed be a veritable salamander—God Save the
Queen. ” In connection with this great occasion a
souvenir was distributed about, regardless of ex-
pense. The souvenir took the form of a small
piece of music in a gaudy wrapper, on which were
medallion portraits of Olive Berkley, Gracie
Hopkins, and Mr. Edwards, surmounted by 3
beautiful vision with its flair-parted in the centre
This turned out to be a Mr. Wotherspoou—agent
for the play, or something of that description—a
gentleman in whom the world at large ought to
feel deeply interested. The pudding-headed poet
who shrieks “ What is fame?” might well be re-
ferred to this lovely picture of Wot her spoon for
his answer. As regards the performance, both
Olive and Grade appeared as little Lord Faunble-
roy in one act or other, and each betrayed symp-
toms of knowing that a Scotch noble, with an
especially unintellectual head, was giving his dis-
tinguished patronage to the occasion* On Friday
the Fauntleroy boom terminates, and on Saturday
a short revival of “Yeomen of the Guard”'will
introduce Miss Clara Merivale to Smellbourne
notice.
■sfc *- * * ‘
“ Hamlet ” bobbed up again at the Opera
House with real artistic success. Toned down by
ill-health—which was painfully apparent for a
moment, when his memory quite failed him—Mr.
Miln’s rendering of the long-winded Prince was
a fine piece of work. Ophelia is Miss Jordan’s
best character, and many of the company have
mightily improved upon their performances of a
few months back. “Richard the Third,” pro-
bably, will be relied upon to pull them through
the quiet time before Christmas, and Banquo's
ghost purposes shaking iiis gory locks at Macbeth
on Boxing Night.
* * *
“ Sultan of Mocha ” fell into a rapid de-
cline last week, and a change in the Alexandra
bill was to occur on Wednesday, 11th. “ Martha”
should be running now, with “ Maritana ” to fol-
low, until the eve of the coming festival, when
Lilian Tree, Bracy, Knight Aston and Co.
warble away to Ballarat. Grattan Riggs con-
tinues to keep business above the average of these
dull times at the Royal. On Saturday the ad-
mirers of that distinguished Italian rolled up to see
him personate a panorama of character in “ Shin
Fane,” a drama identified with his first appearance
on the Australian stage. A farewell ben. is
announced for to-morrow (13th), on which occasion
a purse of sovereigns will be tendered to Mr.
Riggs. This unusually genuine “token of love
and esteem ”is open to all classes of society, and
anyone desiring to express his regard for a grand
old comedian, man, and brother, can signify the
same to Mr. Alfred Dampier, at the Oriental
Hotel, Melbourne. Various other shows are
struggling along, and Miss Von Finkelstein re-
appears at the Athenseum on Friday, when she
purposes, with Divine assistance, to start a fare-
well season of three nights only. After that
the massive daughter of Zion will take one last
lingering look at R. S. Smythe, and return to the
other side of Jordan.
** * #
As a satire on theatrical criticism in the
daily press the following, from Melbourne Evening
.Standard, is worth re-printing. “Mr. J. H-
Clyndes, as Jacob M‘oloskey, does justice to one
of the most admirable and charming characters
ever created by the genius of Boucicault; and Mr.
Edward Sass’s Salem Scudder is quite the typical
Yankee sneak who is doomed, sooner or later, to
suffer ‘ Lynch law. ’ ” It happens that Salem is
the admirable character while Jacob is the typical
sneak, and Olyndes, not Sass, was the man who
escaped Lynch law to be killed by an enraged red
Injin. Whereupon we rise to assert that the
Standard critic never knew anything about this
old play, and most certainly didn’t see the reci-
pients of his jam play characters exactly the oppo-
site of what he thought they were.
** * &
Harwood is off in double harness again
with Frank Thornton, for the “Private Secre-
tary.” In this fast moving time Harwood's
management at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
seems like a geologic period, to look back upon,
when his present wife, Docy Stewart, used to
warble in the pantomimes, and Maggie and Nellie
Stewart did the inevitable double song and dance.
Harwood was the most versatile man we ever
heard of. He acted every male part in “Hamlet,”
save the Prince himself. Whiteman, and all that
school, distinctly remember Harwood as the King,
Gnost, Polonius, Gravedigger, First Actor, and
Osric, at various periods, dating from G. V.
Brooke. Tragedy, comedy, farce, burlesque,
Harwood was good everywhere. They don't
make ’em nowadays.
*4 * *
In the London divorce-case of Blake v.
Blake, Fred Storey, who was here with the Gaiety
Company, said that in 1887 he was touring in
Australia and America. He knew the respondent
and met him at Chicago with Mrs. Storey.
Mr. Blake, whose stage name was Granville,
said he was very fond of her and did not
intend to leave her, as many a Johnny would have
done. (Laughter.) He understood the parties
were now living together as man and wife. He
had written to the respondent thanking him for
taking such a wife from him, (Laughter.) His
lordship granted a decree nisi, with costs.
* *
Owing to the want of appreciation on the
part of a public who will not put up with indif-
ferent plays indifferently performed, the Achuroh-
Charrington season at the Adelaide Royal» ha?
rather abruptly terminated with two nights of
“The Doll’s House,” which proved an attraction
and should have been produced earlier. Herbert
Flemming was tendered a benefit prior to the
close of the season, but the attendance was any-
thing but gratifying to the popular actor, who
certainly deserved better recognition. Professor
Kennedy has done well at Garner’s.


Use Batho s Ba.king Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best S.vow-wiiitk
Patknt Uoli.kr Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
Be on your guard for Frauds when purchasing.
An Electioneering Incident.
The influence of Are and water is well shown in this
election, as one booth is burnt down and another is com-
pletely covered by water, so that voters had to be carried
by boats to an imaginary polling-place situate in a launch
placed over the site of the real booth.”
Ihu late election for the Victorian Legislative
Council was particularly cheerful in one depart*
inent, in consequence of an intervention of Pro-
vidence in the shape of a second-rate deluge'
which overflowed parts of the Northern Province
and made it exceedingly difficult for the free and
enlightened electors to trot up and record then-
votes with the promptness and vivacity that are
so refreshing in taxpayers of advanced intelli-
gence. In one or two places the theatres of
action were laid waste by the wet, and a
great expanse of dampness, floating water-logged
dogs, cramped cats, drowned cows, tables, chairs,
out - houses, and other stray features of a
submerged civilisation, hung over the country,
and junks, scows, and other marine vessels were
moored above the sunken booths, and the poll
(that palladium of Victorian liberty to which the
duly qualified voter is earnestly invited to repair
early) was set up in imagination on their decks,
and to these “ booths ” the electors had to sojourn
through the wide waste of waters before they
could record their votes for Protection and free,
secular and compulsory education.
No country could reasonably expect a voter to
go over two miles of water to exert his privileges
if lie hadn t a boat, but such is the patriotism of
the dwellers in that devasted neighbourhood that
at the time appointed numbers might have been
seen paddling for the [Kill in wooden tubs, hog-
tronghs, barrels, and tanks, while others launched
themselves on hollow logs and wrecked cattle, and
risked the dangers of the deep whilst floating off
to the ballot-box to plump for freedom and light.
I here were others, however, who were accustomed
to wading to the poll through a sea of beer, and
who regarded with alarm the increasing influence
of the temperance party on modern politics—the.
abstained from voting altogether out of blank dis-
gust for the change.
For the convenience of the aged and crippled,
and to facilitate the approach of influential elec-
tors stranded at a distance, a service of boats was
put on and electioneering agents hired mud-punts
and moved over the face of the waters to trawl for
derelict property owners and pick npsuch supporters
as might be cast adrift rudderless on the raging
deep. Of course, under such a stress of circum-
stance,, warm party spirit was excusable in the
aquatic touts, and no maudlin sentimentality was
allowed to interfere with the pressing business of
getting the right parties to the poll. When a
tout, who was out fishing in the interest of the
11eetrade candidate, came alongside a submerged
house and found a mother and seven children
stranded on a barn, the cat hooked to! the clothes-
prop, and the husband and father clinging to a
chimney, he invariably hove to, and hailed •dm
wreck :
“ flotsam, ahoy there ! what politics? ”
If the swam[>ed householder ran up Protectionist
colours, the tout would intimate that lie did not
want, him on the voyage and sweep the horizon
for other prizes, and that family had to hang out
there in the wet till an agent sailing under a
friendly flag came along and picked up the sur-
vivors,
Electors were found suspended in trees and re-
covered from off hen-coops, stables, monuments,
and other elevated [daces, and the sup[>orters of
the two causes had a very hot time pulling up and
down stream and hallooing across the waters after
castaways who might have a vote to spare for the
right party. One man named Jones was parti-
cularly zealous in the interests of Free trade (this
is not the Jones you know—his name is John
•Jones). Jones was a disciple of Cobden at
thirty “ bob ' a day. He is a selector be-
tween elections and an energetic man, goes
at a thing when he undertakes to do it and
rips through like a steam saw at a pine log.
There’s no holding Jones. He launched his own
boat and did more for Foreign-trade that day than
the N.S. W. Association can lump up in a month ;
he tugged his old mud-punt about the face of
nature for fourteen hours, chasing drifting electors
and plucking qualified voters who swore by his
man off spars and barns, and hauling piled-up boat-
loads of the saved to the. anchored official scow,
there to poll straight for the abolition of tariffs and
Bibles in State schools. Jones worked himself
pretty well out of his skin, and then, when there
was only about time for another excursion, lie was
taken aside by a prominent politician and re-
freshed with rum and pressed to excel himself in a
last spurt round to glean some more votes from
the remorseless waters fur the salvation of the
nation.
Junes buckled up again, and pushed off in his
Dutch-built junk. Fired with renewed enthu-
siasm, he swept the waves far and wide, but all
the voters appeared to have been taken off by this
time, and the enthusiast was despairing of re-
covering any more souls for the glorious cause
when he was delighted to see a free and indepen-
dent elector making signals of distress from a dis-
tance. The taxpayer had drifted into the current
of the Campaspe, and was bowling downstream
at a tremendous rate, reaching for straws and
similar visible means of support, and making a
terrible splash in his anxiety to secure a per-
manent place on the surface. Jones dug in his
oars, and laid for the stranger. It was a stiff
race, but the tout overhauled his man ami pulled
up alongside and furled his sculls.
For the love of heaven, reach me a stick!”
yelled the elector, spurting out about half-a-gallou
of flood-water.
AL. Jones kept his barque off, and floated
a-breast of the castaway.
Have you a vote for the Legislative Council ?”
he queried, with some show of anxiety,
J he stranger s affirmative answer bubbled up
through the fhiod as he went under again.
hat are your political opinions, now ? ” re-
sinned the tout, endeavouring to assume a casual,
disinterested tone, as the swimmer came up, and
took some fresh air, “ Freetrado, I supjiose ? ”
No—protection to native industries, free
secular and compulsory education, and Australian
nationalism.”
“Dear, dear! that’s unfortunate,” mused the
electioneering agent aloud. “ I’m a Freetrader
myself. I m out soliciting the suffrages of the
electors for the Fivetrude candidate ; I’m sorrv to
have troubled yon.”
<»reat Ciesar, man ! shrieked the swamiied-
out patriot, “ain't you going to fish me out of
this ? Can’t you see I’m catching my death of
cold?”
“No doubt you have never given due considera-
tion to the relative advantages of Freetrade and
Protection for a young country like this,” con-
tinued Jones in the same musing tone, and affect-
ing not to hear the Protectionist’s plea. “Now,”
said he, seating himself on the edge of the boat,
“suppose we argue the matter out.”
The stranger struggled gamely to hold himself
afloat, but a wave struck him and filled him nearly
up to the chin. Mr. Jones gave the man time to
empty himself and control his feelings somewhat
before resuming.
“Have you paused, sir, to consider that the
new impost put upon eggs by the present Govern-
ment will practically preclude the families of poor
working men from indulging in that nutritious
diet during the close season ?”
To li 1 with eggs !” spluttered the free and
independent elector ; “ this ain’t no time for poli-
tical arguments—l’m nearly done up !”
“Let me see,” said Jones, drawing out a bulky
pocket-book, “ I have here several columns of
statistics bearing on the two questions ; if you’ll
excuse me I'll read them to you.”
Ihe elector beat the water with failing energy,
and there was a look of despair in his face as he
pleaded to be lifted out of the stream, but the
1* reetrade agent went ahead with his statistics,
and reeled off long, agonising lists of figures, and
a Sff> fava ting statements, and deductions calculated
to unship the intellect, whilst his audience was
being bowled along in the water and making wild
but ineffectual endeavours to reach the boat.
“Now you will appreciate the advantages of
r reetrade,” said Mr. Jones, closing his note-book.
1 he elector appeared to waver.
“ You recognise the force of my arguments ? ”
The elector went under and came up again,
spirted, and seemed almost convinced.
“ T am here soliciting votes for the Freetrade
candidate, a cultured gentleman who will work
himself threadbare for this district. Can I ”
ST. PETER AGAIN.
(Scene : the Elysian Fields.)
ST.PETER: “AND WHAT DO YOU WANT?”
APPLICANT: “TO COME IN,”
ST.P. : “WHO ARE YOU?”
A.: “WHY, I’M MISTER JONES.”
ST.P.: “OF-”
A.: “ROCKHAMPTON.”
ST.P.: “WELL, I’M DASHED IF I KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH YOU. YOU
CANT’COME IN HERE FROM ROCKHAMPTON, AND IT’S NO USE
SENDING YOU TO HELL.”
“ Book me for straight-out Freetrade and
Denominational grants !” shrieked the elector.
Jones grabbed him as he sank, and hauled him
on board unconscious.
The Freetrade canvasser pulled back to the
ixilling-placc in the shortest time mentioned in
history. The converted elector was pumped out,
and zealous partisans applied hasty remedies for
the restoration of the half-drowned, to which the
rescued responded just in time to record the last
vote for the noble cause of Freetrade and the con-
solations of religion in common schools.
EDWARD DYSON.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies' man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young 1 and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday : —First Lady: “ That's
a sad affair about Mrs. ——- eloping with her hus-
band's coachman. What could have been the
reason?" Second Lady ; “ Don't you know? ft's
tlie talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.’’
Just about the time chlorides were first
found on Broken Hill Messrs. Harnett and
Charsley pegged out seven leases on what wa a
then known as the “Razorback.” They sent one
of the party who was interested in the leases, a
man named Graham, into Silverton with the
money to lease two blocks ; but instead of doing
this, Graham spent the £75 in champagne. After
that things were made warm for him there, so he
thought he would go for a trip Mount Brown way
until things cooled down somewhat. He got as far
as the Paoksaddie, and by some means fell in with
a number of squatters there. Ile wasn't there long
before he had humbugged them into the belief
that he had found a lode that would put Broken
Hill in the shade in no time. One of the squatters
had an assaying plant that had been left at his
place by Mr. Flude, of Ballarat, who some years
before had been prospecting in the district.
Graham had a rough idea of assaying, so he
borrowed the assaying plant. And then the fun
began. Graham would procure a number of
sixpences and melt them down into little buttons.
Them he would give to the squatters and assure
them that they were the results of assays made
from his wonderful lode ; and, as most of the
assays gave returns of over 20,0000 z. to the ton,
for a time squatterdom in that district went wild
with excitement over the riches of their wonderful
silver mine. Graham was the lion of the day.
(Squatter vied with squatter in doing homage to
him. He was feted and champagned to his heart’s
content; and then, squatter like, they determined
to lease mile after mile of lode, and so have all the
country to themselves. Graham got £l5OO out
of them to lease the ground with and for part
payment for some of his interest. Of course the
lode was a myth, and, instead of leasing any
ground, Graham got up early' one morning and
started for Queensland, and the poor squatters
were left, like Lord Ullin, lamenting. But
Nemesis, i.e., Constable Bolster and a black
tracker, were soon on poorGraham’straok. Graham
had 300 miles start when the human sleuth-hound
got on his tracks at the Packsaddle. For day
after day they rode at almost a gallop, but never
tor a moment did the snake-like eyes of the tracker
leave the ground. Jt made but little difference
lo lum though their way was over stony hills or
soft yielding soil, and so they rode until they
came to a fence. Here, to all appearances, the
tracks ended. Not a sign of them was to be seen
and any ordinary mortal would have given the
chase up m disgust. Not so the blackfellow.
After making a circuit of about half a mile round
the place the tracks were lost. He returned, and
said “ Baal that fellow go that way,” pointing
north; Baal that fellow go that way,” pointing
east. ‘ Me been thinkit go ’long a fence.” So
they rode slowly along the fence for about two
miles, when, sure enough, they came on the tracks
again. Ihe poor, hunted fugitive had thought to
battle his pursuers by walking for two wearv miles
along the wire fence, until the agony of holding
on to the thin hot wires was more than he could
stand. After a few more hours’ gallop they came
to the top of a rise. The blackfellow drew up his
horse, and, pointing forward, said, “ Budgery '"
A few minutes afterwards his horse was saddlele'ss
and in hobbles, and he was fast asleep under the
cool shade of the tree. His part of the contract
was done. \ es, there, not half a mile ahead, was
poor (.raham, walking leisurely along, uncon-
scious of the nearness of his pursuers. In a few
minutes the trooper was abreast of him, and,
drawing Ins revolver, called on him to bail up.
But, instead of doing so, Graham started off at
full speed, and, drawing his revolver, snapped it
twice at the constable’s head, but luckily it missed
hrc each time. Bolster then lired,' and shot
[] raham through the head. The bullet went in at
the back of his head and came out between the
eyes, and ho fell on his face, stone dead. That
was the end of the first great mining swindler on
the Barrier. Graham was a bit behind the times,
though. We should have liked to have seen any of
the boom swindlers run away.— Barkikk Miner,
The Emu of Whroo.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
We’ve a tale to tell you of a spavined emw,
A bird with a smile like a crack in a hat,
Who was owned by M'Cue, of the town of Whroo,
The_ county of Rodney—his front name was Pat,
The bird was a dandy, tho’ p’raps a bit bandy,
Her knees, too, were orouk and her neck out of
cn
She d eat what was handy, from crowbars to
candy,
Was tall, too, and tough for a chick of her age.
But her taste and her height, and her figure and
smile,
Were the smallest potatoes compared with her
guile.
This here bird had a name, Arabella that same—
A name that was given by Pat, we may say,
T° the rnem’ry and fame of a red-headed flame,
Because, as he said, “she wuz builded that
way. ”
The bird Arabella let nothing compel her,
t Her temper was bad when disturbed, as a rule.
She’d rupture the smeller of any young “ feller ”
Who teased, with a kick that would honour a
mule.
And the boys and the girls who were then living
near
Were all minus an eye—those with luck had one
ear.
That emu with her smile would the new-ohum
beguile
To step up and study the great, gawky bird,
And then let out in style, and she’d hoist him a
mile—
The sound of his wailing would never be heard.
At which she’d look stately, and mild, and
sedately,
And seem to be steeped in some deep inward
woe,
Or wondering greatly what happened there lately
That people found need togo tearing rounding so.
P. M‘Cue overlooked his long bird’s little craze,
For, he said, it was only her emusing ways.
Is it strange that ',in time these outrages should
prime
The neighbours with ire and profanity dread ?
And at every crime, with good reason and rhyme,
They’d bombard the bird with old iron and lead ;
Their weapons would whistle by Bella and hissill,
The bird only smiled as they yearned for her
gore
They wasted their gristle, she scoffed up each
missile.
And placidly looked on and waited for more.
Her digestion not stones nor old nails could upset,
It is strange e’en the men disagreed with the pet.
The late Mr. M‘Cue, of the town of Whroo,
Would hear no complaints of his biped absurd.
And with little ado put the biggest man through
Who’d lay “ a ’er a finger ” on Bella, the bird.
I f father or teacher came flaunting a feature
Removed from a boy, say, an eyelid or an ear,
lie sooled on the preacher his feathery creature,
Or offered to fight him for money or beer.
And to shoot this emu was to labour in vain,
She digested the slugs and she came up again.
But M.‘Cue, for his care and anxiety rare,
'lot meagre rewards from his camel-shanked
fowl,
For when out on a tear she’d uproot his back hair
And peck at his ear and snatch scraps off his
jowl,
A kick from the shoulder, a shock like a boulder
That weighed half-a-ton being twisted in quick.
And Patrick was older and very near cold ere
Thetime he recovered that feathered mule’s kick.
At the worst he but sighed, and regretfully said
It reminded him so of his wife who was dead.
Lo, the time came at last when anxiety cast
Its spell o'er the bird, she grew dull and
deprest—
She felt glum, and she passed to hysterics as fast—
All day she sought round in sore mental unrest.
She seemed mad or “slewed,” she was fev'rish and
moody,
And slipped now and then a vague, aimless re-
mark.
She dropped ev’ry feud —we may state she was
broody—
And yearned in the chick-rearing biz to embark.
The momentuous importance and stress of her case
Were quite plain in her actions and seen in her face.
She tried sitting on stones, and on brickbats and
bones,
But moped all the time and supped grief to the
dregs—
There was nothing in cones, and in harrowing tones
She spoke her great yearning to cultivate eggs.
One morning, day-dreaming, all glossy and gleam
iug,
She saw the bald head of the neighbour next
door.
It’s round, egg-like seeming, set Bell wildly
scheming
To sit on that skull or to never smile more,
And she laid for the man by the dark and the day,
And he cursed and he kicked in a terrible way.
From that day, it is said, Arabella she led
The bald-headed men who lived near a hard
life;
They all held her in dread—for her manners ill-
bred,
M‘Cue spent his time in tempestuous strife.
With eye speculative, she cornered each native
To find if his skull would just suit her complaint.
The man’s strength was great if he saved all his
pate, if
She failed to secure half his scalp in distraint.
And her owner indulged in Satanic delights,
And he egged on his bird to more furious fights.
But the downfall of spite and the triumph of right
Are bound to come round, fight we ever so hard ;
On one March morning bright, Old M‘Cue, very
tight,
Returned to his home and dossed down in the
yard.
He’d not long been sleeping when Bella came
peeping,
And viewed with delight his bare head, like a
cast.
And into her keeping sin* raked it, and heaping
Her ribs on the skull she was happy at last.
And she sat till the day and the night both were
gone,
And next day and next day was she still sitting on.
It was thought Pat had fled, and a week or more
sped v
Ker folks caiile, to search, and they found for
their pains
P. M'Cue lying dead with the bird on his head
Still stolidly striving to hatch out some brains.
No priest at Pat’s croaking, by blessings invoking,
Had served to make easy the poor sinner’s death!
Some folks blamed his soaking, the jury said
“ choking ”
The bird was found guilty of stopping his breath,
And for peace, and for quiet, and morality’s sake
She was kdled with a slab from a Cousin Jack
cake.
EDWARD DYSON.


The
Marvellous
1 Qe.
ioS. Oil,
OPTIMUS
WATCHES,
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarcpitee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney. .
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE. {New number,
m.)
Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Sxow-wuitb
Patknt Kou.f.r Fi.ovr. It is the greatest success of the
uge.
Everybody says— and what everybody says must be ( rue
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd,,
90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded twr
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney —B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
T, S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage of all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years 8£ per cent,
12 months 8 per cent,
0 months 7 per cent,
3 months ... ... ... 6 percent.
Communications to be addressed to “The
Managing Director.”
Personal Items.
Dead-heafc Dougharfcy left nearly £200,000
behind him.
Penny postage in Victoria comes into force
on Ist January, 1890.
That clever young N.Z. artist, Mr. Robert
Atkinson, has left for Europe.
It is proposed to raise a monument to
millionaire David Berry at a cost of £3OO.
A Melbourne newspaper, in a leader, in-
sists on Duncan Gillies becoming a married man.
The “Much-travelled” was overlooked
when Robinson was offered the Governorship of
Western Australia.
Thirty years ago the late Mr. Harold
Stephen’s father, E. Milner Stephen, was Acting-
Governor of South Australia.
Melbourne is not going to have all its own
way with a new Governor; a baby donkey has
just arrived at a Sydney aquarium.
The late Wilkie Collins left £10,831 11s.
3d. Money is a mean standard of greatness. No
loan-office proprietor ever leaves so little.
Polack, a well-known Adelaide crank, is
petitioning the Emperor of Germany to declare
war upon the South Australian Advertiser.
Mr. Sylvester Browne, “the big Austra-
lian,” was married recently, in London, to the
eldest daughter of the late Chief Justice Stawell,
of Victoria.
We are threatened in the autumn with a
biography of pink-eyed Bob Lowe (Lord Sher-
brooke), who spent some eight years in Sydney
nearly half a century ago.
It is stated, on indifferent authority, that,
in order to prevent any more manual agitation,
the new Governor of Victoria means to wear
boxing-gloves at his next levee.
Some venomous Tory at Auckland, N.Z.,
sent to John Dillon, the Home Rule delegate, at
his hotel, a box of loathsome insects. Now that
the Tory has combed and scraped himself, he must
feel a lot better.
Bishop Barry, late Primate of Australia,
who has been playing second fiddle to the Bishop
of Rochester, is, it is said, to succeed the present
Bishop of St. Albans, whose emoluments are
£4500 a year, a palace and perks.
Mr. Sydney Burdekin is likely to be Mayor
of Sydney for the coming year. He is popular with
all parties, and being one of the wealthiest men in
Australia (his private income is said to be over
£BO,OOO a year) he can afford to “set ’em up.”
A Queensland paper states that Robert
Louis Stevenson wrote “ Treasure Island ” in half-
an-hour. Now, “ Treasure Island ” contains three
or four hundred pages—very much more printed
matter than an issue of the aforesaid journal.
Therefore, &c.
They have banqueted merry old Sir Jack
Robertson on his 73rd birthday. The path of
Jack and his friends along the road of life is
marked by a string of dead-marines, each birth-
day of each man being commemorated by a gigan-
tic heap of bottles.
Jos. Symes writes an address to Governor
Hopetoun commencing : “ O Lord, may it please
the excellency of you to read my address,” It is
full of the nicest nasty things imaginable : “If
you are a man you must be sick of being ad-
dressed as if you were a superior being, which you
probably are not ” —and so on.
Dr, Ricord, of Paris, a Baltimore (U.S.)
native, is dead at the ripe age of 90, and has left
L. L. Smith without a rival. The great specialist,
who made and squandered piles of money, was
owner of 200 decorations, and had thousands of
imitators who borrowed his name, and followed his
system, but never in any case possessed his
ability.
Tolstoi, the Russian novelist, is organising
a society to preach the advantages of poverty over
wealth, and the richest old miser in all Russia has
offered to contribute to the support of Tolstoi’s
missionaries. The Czar is also expected to sub-
scribe a bit, and if Victoria Regina doesn’t want
to give a little cheque we shall be greatly sur-
prised.
Ninian Melville, the working-man's mem-
ber, seems to have become quite Imperial in his
ideas since his accession to the local Chairman-
ship of Committees and £BOO a year. The glitter-
ing legend about Premier Parkes’ £4OO bed at the
N.S.W. Colonial Secretary’s Office pales before
the story of the luxuriance with which Ninian has
had his Parliamentary room furnished.
London Echo describes the manner in
which Sir William Harcourt gets rid of his little
jokes : —“ His face reddens and broadens into a
Falstaffian smile, and the raucous voice chuckles
and chortles as the mountain of cacophony
gestates the epigram—conceived in the New
Forest, and nursed and swaddled and reserved
for the House of Commons or the platform. ”
Mr. William P attison, Queensland’s Trea-
surer, between whom and Sir Thomas M‘llwraith
there is bad blood at present, is a man of many
stormy characteristics. He is as peaceful as a fat
lamb while given his own w T ay, but when crossed
he kicks with as many legs as would carry a whole
flock. Most of Mr. Patti son’s political experience
he acquired in Victoria. All his money he made
in Queensland.
Howard Spensley is back again, and no
wonder. “I have,” says he, “the original title-
deeds of the half of an acre of land upon which
the Royal Arcade (Melb.) now stands, and which
was sold at the first local land-sale in 1843 for
£4O. 1 apprehend that the land alone is now
worth more than a quarter of a million sterling.”
It is only the man worth a quarter of a million
who has enough leisure to say “apprehend.”
When Lord Onslow visited the N.Z. West
Coast Goldfields, not long ago, he was accosted by
a miner, who, in the language of the country,
invited His Excellency to “have a wet.” The
invitation being declined with some hauteur, the
digger remarked, “ Oh, I suppose you are one of
these Salvation Army coves. You couldn’t put
on more side if you was the Governor of New
Zealand himself, but you can’t convert me, don’t
you think it! I’ve seen too many of your kidney
in my time.” The Governor passed on and left
the digger talking.
On Friday last, during the hearing of the
Schey-Bennett libel-case in Sydney Supreme
Court, the proceedings were interrupted for some
moments by shrill shrieks some little distance off.
Sir Frederick Dailey inquired if they proceeded
from the Girls’ High School across the road, but
Mr. Pilcher blandly informed his Honor that it
was his learned friend, Salainons, Q. 0., address-
ing a jury in No. 3 Court. Which recalls the cir-
cumstance that a man who lodged in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, some time ago, had to leave his
rooms because of the nightly shouts of the
members of Parliament opposite. P. S. —‘ ‘ Shouts ”
may be read according to taste.
Anecdote of that “charming, well-man-
nered gentleman,” the Shah. One evening the
Persian potentate attended a gala performance of
a ballet at Berlin Opera House, when, being
seated in a central court-box, between the Empress
and a Prussian princess, his Oriental Majesty
“cleared his throat once, twice, thrice with ever-
increasing vigour, and then deliberately spat into
the stalls.” The stalls were thronged by the here-
ditary and official aristocracy of Germany, whose
behaviour on the occasion was a signal triumph of
court decorum over human impulse. “ Neither by
word or sign did the occupants of the stalls betray
their indignation and disgust, and the perform-
ance was continued as though nothing extra-
ordinary had happened.”
1J
Iv, SdKfiy To' SEE you COmimS OUT of A PUBLIC HOUSE
n'srSoT r,-, rAUITCoyIKAOR mr - CHUCKLED ME DOTH
Poor old Martin Tupper, poetical twaddler
of twaddling prose, has ceased to be the greatest
living curiosity of literature in the world. Had
he died 40 years earlier Tupper would certainly
have enjoyed a tablet in the Poets’ Corner at
Westminster Abbey, yet the news of his death,on
29th November last was probably Young Aus-
tralia’s first intimation that Martin had ever been
born. The poetry of this extinct volcano was an
apotheosis of platitudes, but the man’s capacity
for grinding it out by the yard was, at least, some-
thing out of the common. Tupper never rose to
the height of genius, nor sank to the lowest depths
of puerility, as real poets are apt to do when the
divine afflatus is temporarily turned off. He was
a very sausage-machine of a bard, and there was a
time when his savourless sausages found a ready
sale by the hundredweight. During the latter
half of his life Tupper must have looked back at
his old self with sad amazement, scarce able to
realise that the hero of then was the laughing-
stock of now. It has been erroneously stated that
Tapper died in easy circumstances. One of his
last effusions that found its way into print con-
tained the wail that he was, in his old age,
“troubled with a cursed want of pence.”>
Treasurer McMillan, of N.S.W., proposes
using the trust funds in the Savings Bank when
next he is short.
Sir Andrew Clarke, the eminent military
engineer, says that any fears of an invasion of
Australian territory are purely mythical.
Davitt denies that he is preparing to enter
Parliament. “ The first Parliament in which I
intend to sit,” he says, “ is the Irish Parliament.”
Bishop Harrison (C.E.), of Glasgow, or-
dained four priests last year. Three of these
have already left the church and the faith, and
the fourth has notified that he is going.
The gun-carriages in use on board of
N.S. Wales naval training-ships, are, it has been
elicited by Dr. Creed, M.L.C., “ of a similar type
to those used at the Battle of Trafalgar.”
Parkes claims to he the political father of
about forty of the old gentlemen in the N.S.W.
Legislative Council. The worst of it is that a lot
of them are his illegitimate political offsjiring.
It is a peculiar thing that the majority of
of Victorian footballers bear Irish names; still,
judging from the recent disclosures of profes-
sionalism, the game may be said to be more fiscal
than popery.
The Scotchmen of Ballarat have put up
statues to Burns and Wallace, and the Irishmen
have erected a statue to that nice, glib-tongued
gentleman, the poet Moore. But where are the
Australians ? What about Peter Lalor’s statue ?
Gladstone, it is cabled, has just remarked
that “ the Irish Home Rule agitation afforded a
long-sought-for excuse on the part of many wealthy
people to desert the liberal ranks. ” What nasty
things this man Gladstone does say about David
Syme !
Sir Dreary Macßain congratulated his
brither Scots in Melbourne on the fact that
“ some of the best noblemen at home —such men
as Lords Kintore, Carington, and Hopetoun—are
now being appointed to Australian Governor-
ships.”
When Buchanan, M.P., enquired who had
instructed N.B. W. Agent-General Samuel to pro-
mise the loan of the Australian navy to England
in the event of the latter country ever wanting it,
Minister Suttor replied that the Governor “ had
never instructed the Agent General what to say
after dinner.” The Bulletin reckons that this
answer just meets the ease.
At Bathurst the other day two little boys
were fined for killing a dog by pouring kerosene
upon it and then setting fire to the oil. By
and bye one of those little boys will sit on the
bench as a police-magistrate and sentence a
labourer to be flogged (in accordance with Sir
Alfred Stephen’s Criminal Law Amendment Act)
for making scratches with a lead-pencil on the
wall of a public building.
In a resume of Davitt’s Irish policy defence
speech the Pall Mall Gazette reports that he
said that —
On the morning of the 7th May when the news of the
Phoenix Park tragedy had spread over London, hundreds
of sympathising callers left their cards at the house of
Lady Frederick Cavendish. Among these was the late
Mr, A. M. Sullivan, and on the Bth May he received a note
from Lady Frederick Cavendish, in her own hand, thank-
ing him for his sympathy and assuring him that she did not
believe the Irish people sought her husband’s life. “ Truly
noble woman !” as Davitfc exclaimed in a broken voice. He
then went on to refer to the second incident, which in
brief was as follows: —“ While the Invincibles sentenced
for the Phoenix Park murders were awaiting execution, a
Sister of Mercy, with a face of unusual sadness, visited
the prison almost daily, and was most eager in her
administration of spiritual comfort to the convicts, and
especially Brady. He never knew who she was. She
was (said Mr. Davitt) t he Sister of the man he had killed’
with his own hand in Phoenix Park—Mr. Burke, the
Assistant Under Secretary. In the face of such conduct—
conduct which, as Mr. Davitt pointed out, was only to be
compared with i hat of Out who forgave the erring mortals
who nailed Him io the cross—it was easy enough to set in
te proper light the infamous action of the liars and
forgers of Tun: Times.”
From the Pall Mall Gazette
A Presbyterian church in Melbourne has introduced
some innovations into the service, which, although hap-
pily blending patriotism and piety, would startle the
sober-minded Scotchman at home. The choir, composed
of gentlemen wearing the Highland kilt, and girls attired
in the costume of the Lady of the Lake, sing their hymns
of praise to the music of the bagpipes. Tnese “ original
effects” have naturally proved a great “ draw,” and the
ingenious parson who contrived them has his reward in
greatly enlarged congregations.
Who has been “running ” Stead?
The following arc the rules for the conduct
of visitors to the principal hotel in Oklahama, at
least so says an American exchange:—
“ If the bugs are troublesome you’ll find the kloroform
in a bottle on the shelf.
“ Gents goin’ to bed with their boots on will bo charged
extra.
“ Three taps at the door means there is a murder in the
house and you must get up.
“ Please rite your name on the wall-paper, so we know
you’ve been here.
“ The other leg of the chair is in the wash-house, if you
need it.
“ If that hole where the pain of glass is out is too much
for you, you’ll find a pair of pants behind the door (o stuff
in it.
“ If you’re too cold, put the oilcloth over your bed.
“Don’t tare off the wall-paper to lite your pipe with.
’Null of that already.
“ Guests will not take out them bricks in the mattress.
“ If it rains through that hole overhead, you’ll find an
umbrella under the bed.
“ Two men in a room must put up with one chair.
“ Please don't empty tire sawdust out of the pillers.
“ Djon't kick about the cockroaches. We don’t charge
extra.
“ If there’s no towel handy, use a piece of the carpet;”
Dear Bulletin, There is something
peculiarly stimulating to the bile in the an-
nouncements of the Melbourne Ormond Leo-
pold Working Man’s College. The way the
working man, that horrid proletarian, is getting
broken into harness there is beautiful. He
is washed, shaved and put into clean linen.
Bills are out for a grand working man’s Ormond
College concert at the Melbourne Town Ilstll,
under the patronage of Hopetoun, Speaker Davies,
and all the magnificoes. A grand item is the
Earl’s March, dedicated to the Right Honorable
Earl of Hopetoun, G.C.M.G., and it is to be
hoped there is nothing ricketty in this measure.
But the biggest billed item is The Revenge,’ a
cantata by Dr. Stanford. We don’t know
what it is about, but know what it isn’t about,
viz., any such a revenge as the Dock Labourers’
Strike. Oh, you bet. But what a suggestive
title. Is it not dangerous on the programme, Eh,
Speaker Davies ? But no, a string of about 11
guaranteed working men, in evening dress, and
white chokers, wharf-labourers, pickaxers, plate-
layers, and all those sort of coves, will walk
solemnly in procession, on the platform, open
their throats, and warble softly, something like
“ Little Birdie Ely Away!” How sweet! Yes,
the Proletariat is smoothed down. Go away, Joe
Syraes, nasty man. We are civilizing ’em up at
the Ormond, Leopold, and will trot them out at a
Government House Garden Pawty.—Demos.
Says a correspondent; Everybody in
Adelaide knows Sam Cashmore, the blind book-
maker, who travels about arm-in-arm with a
deaf-and-dumb man. During a race the deaf-
and-dumb man holds the blind man’s hand
and tells him what is going on, and so rapid
is the signalling between them that the blind
man will often shout at the last turn that he
will lay So-and-So, which horse the dumb man
has communicated to* him. is already beaten. I
have spent many an hour watching these two.
It was only a few years since that I was up at
Tattersall’s rooms when 1 saw the blind man
sitting at a card-table. I strolled up to see what
interest this could have for him. My dear sir, he
was playing , and playing a game that a good
whist-player takes some time to learn— i.e., solo-
whist. The cards were marked on the face by him-
self with a pin, and so accurate was his sense of
touch that he played as fast as any of the others, and
a much better game, too. I spent an hour watching
him and saw him win a few pounds. Unless I had
seen it I never could have believed it. Everyone
must have sympathy with the blind, but the
extent to which some of these latter trade on it is
such as to have made them wealthy men. There
is a man whom I have seen in Melbourne off and
on for the last fifteen years. He used always to
be in Elizabeth-street, but I see he has now shifted
to a better position. He has reduced the art of
begging to a mo-1 perfect science. The man who
first posed him was evidently an artist. He stands
with a studied melancholy under a brilliant gas-
lamp which displays the evidences of his afflic-
tion ; I defy any man who is not aware, like
myself, that he owns a few thousands and plenty
of property, to boot, to pass him by without prac-
tical sympathy. Well, he deserves all he gets, as
there can be no compensation for continual dark-
ness, and if lie is clever so much the better for him.
I suppose if a man is blind from youth it doesn’t
trouble him much. I must say one thing of Sam
Cash more—he is a fair, straight bookmaker, and
takes life as he finds it. He goes to the theatre
and tells you afterwards that it is the best thing
he has ever seen, and he has seen it really as well
as any of us and enjoyed it just as much.


Q»*t• I
\[j e r roiy^
O c
pi/ '
o r a I los^i
I \janA±
' a\\e r oil I
bi/l m y r>o ia» 1 H Ijj
be irj \\rj« f a f
oil Ibe s orr->e '
V f*
Q iuocesiior; |° p
O<D Wme
Đ
C a ;i)
JORibs
Mr
” j(W o
/y-f
J O^'J 3 •
£)h tb*
Jr o ts>Q iis-H
H cs»d 1 OWr)6 f it •s,
} t/voulcl
1
THE HOPETOUN LEVEE.


Ak fan*
Mf/arejou faulty cr
- '*>M/*"/'?"
/£? Jad&e JiZyS
\ S^*fe
-A)
Pi
r
I
<a
&
London, Monday.—A syndicate has been
loomed for the establishment of a “ corner"
in the diamond trade.
fZr ht/u/?aA?/y. ’#///'
/z/rf/f' //S'
- <y* (||w
v
Mb. J. C. Ston 1 ?, who has conducted a missioft
am on pa I the Chinese in the Canterbury district, has
received a largo consignment o£ trade printed in
the Cbinaao laotmago for u?o in hia work. 0X
ly///!/ ' Maw/?
y /^p
S/K //;Aq
rfy) yy %T /?/}<? r.
S/en/6f>rf ds fflss/fof - fay
//tr 6r fa CUr//~
\ facJ • fats? t?p/y Jvjf
fay up /£ afsao) out
falar/&syapcS/& u
fsfiec/- /yt-p ri, y/ytAJ e I
faoy ayfa/- fafg j<°<S / I
. OS Course Sfr'tt ><
fare d Ow/W'/opa>f‘"-ty pus ' e f
f s'tecatattyf fr
az/Ss e/c.
A '
s><-
to
l.i
\
Sf / JSA/jry stfpr
tPa/.
"V * v*tr Henry ex-
r.enstM an cmphalir opinion that, federation
y™ ? <«erumf v. As to the seat of Government,
if it. lay hetwepf, New S oul b Wilea and Vic-
term, it nxiffht Vie soarrang*»d that it be part, io
• the former ami part ,n the latter, with the river
onir a silrcr line o' ‘Headlines* »*, •
w
fty&/d- 1 e
f f //f*or-
yes afac( , /#fa C e& fas* u S**fa A / **
‘isfA f<° <?,&■(/ <zf- 70/z ~ ~ /' /
r<?/v ~ &“ A/
/?yc/ t fya y fri e>^rr / "
THINGS IN GENERAL.


6o
ing
& Celebrity)
&A
jSofg 6Uj.gAvt>. F. B^heeLEß*& C?-B^ho^
IND.a
Ull »L
Deaf Forty Years.
o
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ STANDINO has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J- H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKER ONLY BY
James Inglls & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’h Place, SYDNEY.
softcm tcaMiex-
CuA-c-o SolM aTuj>
.bmu? ctacfid.
Ď
CiXao K Ae
tU](’l t
Vli of Ci) ct tV of
F. B. WHEELER & CO.,
*«5 Clarence Sired, SVUVKV.
w.
H.
PALING & COMPANY,
LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
IT AYE .Tost Opened a Magnificent Lot of UNTerw Pianos from the
11 Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45
celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner; Collat'd, and
Bstey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Oa.su or Terms.
Otllf
Society
I It appears that in N.S.W. a member of
Parliament’s official honorarium of £3OO, though
protected against his creditors in general, is not
protected against his wife’s claim for alimony.
1 his we regard as likely to press most unjustly on
those members of Parliament who happen to have
two or more wives.
* * #
Mr. Justice Stephen says that a want of
politeness is a marked characteristic all over Aus-
tralia. Quite so, Judge, and nowhere is it more
apparent than on some judicial benches we know
of. We knew one polite Australian judge in our
time, but he did not belong to New South Wales.
His name was Barry - Redmond Barry—and he
sometimes carried his courtesy too far. He has
been known to apologise to a burglar for keeping
him waiting for his sentence, and has been heard
to order a bushranger to be “ detained ”in penal
servitude for so many years. Barry had
a horror of counsel so far forgetting the
proprieties as to appear in Court without
having an attorney to instruct. The late
Myles Garrett Byrne, who was originally a
schoolmaster, and who read up for the Bar, was
defending a prisoner before Barry and was con-
stantly “ popping up ” to consult his client in the
dock, when the judge blandly ordered the court-
iner to provide a chair for Mr. Byrnes’ client
alongside his counsel, “so that the prisoner should
lot be inconvenienced.” This was done, but, as
isual with poor Byrnes’ clients, the prisoner
ound his way back to the dock and from thence
he polite Redmond sent him to Pentridge.
* # #
. The latest fashion-paper started in Sydney
fives a recipe for “Schnapper h la Carrington,”
vhich, it appears, is boiled in champagne, “with
alt and parsley to taste.” The sauce is made of
‘eggs and cream.” The Civil Service will only
•e able to afford Schnapper a la Carrington about
he first of the month.
* * #
Which reminds us of the fact that some-
ody is permitted to occupy several inches of the
.M. Herald’s space with this Sybaritic com-
laint : “ The stern fact is, that out of five pub-
c dinners that have been given during the last
iree months oysters in their deep shells were
;rved at only one. Men have been blown away
■om cannons for much more venial offences than
lose caterers perpetrated who gave us oysters
Ihering to their flat shells.” New South Wales
is her Nero. Now she is going to develope her
eliogabalus.
* # *
A London reporter has been fined 10s.
id costs for kissing a barmaid at the Barleymow
ivern. She stated that he took hold of her and,
■arly pulling her over the counter, kissed her
-ice. She threw a glass of water in hi s face and
Id him not to insult a respectable girl. The
fendant said the barmaid took his flower out o
s coat, and he kissed her. The complainant, i
swer to the Court, said she had permitted tl
fendant to kiss her hand, which was quite
mmon thing for the customers to do. Austr;
ns don’t kiss barmaids’ hands. A barmaid’
nd is just about her worst point, as it is almos;
variably nasty and red and chapped from wasl
I glasses and being exposed to the injuriou
cab of soda-water. In Australia, we hav
‘’ays found, a barmaid uses both hands to hug
r best customers.
* # #
Phe fact that the somewhat ricketty young
ivernor Hopetoun, shook hands with the guest
his first levee until he fainted reminds us of ai
venture we once had in Queensland. The pre
t writer went to a saleyard to see some horse
1, and being very tired, was glad to be able t(
down awhile on some bags of chaff in the glar
sun. Presently there approached him a big
y, cross-bred Newfoundland dog, with a strong
lin of the mastiff in him. Tyke had lost an
; he had had one of his ears badly chewed, and
igether was about as villainous-looking a ruffian
‘an lie imagined. We didn’t want to have any-
ig to say to him, but he claimed our acquaint-
e and by-and-by sat down and put one foot on
knee. Then we patted him on the head and
growled savagely. Then he took down his
; and put the other one up and made signs that
ranted to shake hands with us. Deeming him an
esirable acquaintance we declined to take his
d. Then he puckered up one side of his mouth
ferociously showed a gleaming set of teeth—
reupon we took him by the paw, knowing that
re held on to his toes and squeezed them he
dn t bite. But when once lie had been en-
liastidally shaken hands witli his temper
?ared to improve, and he went on shaking
is and we kept on squeezing his paw with
h empressement under penalty of being chewed
up. Presently, say in about a quarter of an hour,
the morose dog thought he would like a change,
and sullenly departed in search of another victim.
# * #
Last week Governor Hopetoun occupied
Our spat on the chaff-bag, and the Victorian pub-
lic was the sociable pup.
* * *
“Fainted,” “exhausted,” “somewhat
overcome,” “somewhat tired”—a beautiful des-
cending scale —are the different ways in which
the Melbourne Herald, Telegraph, Age, and
Argus, respectively, describe the collapse of
Governor Hopetoun. The last-named paper’s
‘somewhat tired” is characteristic. As to
the cause of the said collapse, it may have
had something to do with the fact that the last
man who shook hands with the young Earl was a
plebeian who had lost a couple of fingers chopping
wood—a common complaint in this country—and
the Queen’s representative, never having chopped
wood, sustained such a shock to his feelings that
he sat down suddenly, with the impression of
those two lonely digits and that one thumb still
on his pallid palm.
* # #
“ Wonderfully robust and well he looks, to
be sure,” is the latest “loyal” fiction which Mel-
bourne sassiety and officialdom would ram down
the public throat. There is a most insane anxiety
to talk about Lord Hopetoun’s evident capacity
for work, and extraordinary powers of endurance.
“ Vou wouldn't think he was as strong as he is,
would you ? ” is the everlasting enquiiy of
O.M.G.s with their tongues in their cheeks. But
why trouble to make it appear that Hopetoun
isn’t a rather sickly young person ? Anyway, he
is strong enough to do all the “ work ” required of
him. And if they feed him up on scientific
A MATCH FOR HER COMPLEXION.
MISS made-up pi ece of goods, to the hotel cellarman) :
“JOHN YOU SHOULD BE ASHAMED TO COME IN HERE IN SUCH
A COSTUME.”
JOHN: “AH, I THOUGHT YOU’D OBJECT TO THEM YALLER BRACES OF
MINE. THEY MATCHES YER NATURAL COMPLEXION TOO
MUCH.”
principles, give him a good galvanic shock at the
last moment, and sponge his hands after eacii
presentation, why Hopetoun will get through his
next levee without making a few nervous people
think that the deputy Lord’s Anointed is passing
away.
One of the Health Officers at Port Phillip
Heads was called upon to explain whether he did
not detain the Britannia, with His Excellency, the
Earl of Hopetoun aboard, for a whole quarter-of-
an-hour. The officer stated that he did not detain
the said vessel, with its illustrious burden, for the
long time stated, whereupon the Victorian Board
of Health decided to regard this explanation as
satisfactory. But it is hoped that the officer will
take warning by what might have occurred, and
be careful not to repeat his offence.
A member of Parliament against whom a
divorce-action has been entered is understood to
deny that he is married. The staff of -this paper
are beginning to think that after all they’re quite
moral.
# * *
Governor Hopetoun (without the Countess,
who belongs to the Church of England) attended
Scots Church on his first Sunday in Melbourne.
Rev. Marshall preached him a very 'mournful
sermon, all about “leaving the old land,” and “a
distant shore” and “memories.” His lordship
behaved very well, in a doubled -up position,
nursing each knee alternately.
* * *
A lady visited The Bulletin office the
other day to ventilate a new theory concerning the
origin of the Marble Man. She asserts that he
was made at Cow Flat all right enough, and that
the fact that analysis of a section of him exhibits
not only chemical constituents of marble but also
those peculiar to human bone, is due to the fact
that the Man’s basis or framework is a real skele-
ton. The enterprising man who made him, the
lady avers, possesses the celebrated Italian secret
of liquefying marble. He got a human skeleton
and filled it in with liquid marble—plagiarised a
paragraph, as it were, and then expanded it into
a leading article.
* # *
A stained-glass representation in a Sydney
suburban church of the Madonna and Child, after
Raffaelle’s great Adoration of the Magi picture,
dedicated to the memory of Darcy Wentworth,
has lately excited much sectarian feeling. Pastor
Guinness desires its removal and he is backed up
by the Protestant Standard, but the trustees
object, while declaring their willingness to band
oyer to him the church and all that is therein if he
will clear off the debt thereon. A small boy and
a large stone will probably arbitrate in the matter
ere long.
* * *
For the garden party given at Parliament
House, Melbourne, by Speaker Davies and Presi-
dent Macßain, no invitations were issued to those
who voted for Lady Loch’s diamonds being bought
in these beastly kawlinies.
* # *
“No more tick!” as the usurer’s bailiff
said when pulling the bed from under the dying
man. This joke is copyright.
m # *
The story goes that the Centennial
Magazine people are about to publish an English
edition. One thing is certain : they had better
not export to England poetry of the sort you
ordinarily read in the Centennial.
* * *
A certain juicy forthcoming divorce-case
is calculated to cause a gentle flutter in New
South Wales Y.M.C.A. circles.
# # #
At the Rutherglen (Vic.) police-court a
witness, attired in a clean shirt, trousers and vest,
who had evidently washed, brushed his hair, and
been shaved for the occasion, dared to enter the
court without a coat. The presiding magistrate,
an automaton named Dobbin, thereupon severely
reprimanded him and declared “ that if he again
appeared in court without his coat he would be
committed for contempt of court.” Probably if
the witness had come in reeking with filth, but
coated, the magistrate would have said nothing.
Our horse-hair, rabbit-skin system of judicature
favours the possession of the bench by tailors’
dummies instead of live flesh-and-blood men.
* * #
Tambo (Q.) has petitioned the Presbyterian
Assembly to send to it “a soul-stirring and heart-
searching minister.” But the Assembly is out of
stock in that line. Men who can stir souls and
search hearts go to the Bar and never open their
mouths under “ 20 gnas.”
Editor W. H. O. Smeaton, of the Dailv
N viTHERN Argus, Rockhampton, denounces bar-
m uds, and calls upon the Queensland Government
to suppress them. Have the Capricornian Hebes
been letting the ex-reverend New Zealander stand
in a cold place at the lower end of the counter and
sip his cheerless seltzer while they leant over
the bar and peered languishingly into the eyes of
that rascal the rival editor?
# * #
Melbourne diocese sent only £lOl7 to the
Pope in the last 12 months. Next year Arch-
bishop Carr intends to rustle about more in the
interests of the “poor prisoner.”
* # *
Marriage would appear to have been a
failure in Sydney in 1811, for we find that in that
year a man sold his wife for £l6 and got flogged
for his share in the transaction. At this moment
there is living respectably in a Western (N.S.W.)
town a woman who admits that she was purchased
by her late husband from her former “ protector ”
for a bottle of rum.
* # *
A birth-notice and marriage announcement
came out thuswise in an English paper ;
On the inst., by the Right Rev. the
Lord Bishop of Sodor and Man, the wife of Dash Blank,
Esq., of twin daughters.
* # *
A Sydney Civil Servant, the father of 16
healthy children, being a man of system, has
named them, like so many pigeon-holes, in alpha-
betical order —thus number one is called Arthur,
number two, Bertha, number three Clara. He is
now trembling at the prospect of having to enlarge
the alphabet.
* * *
Robert Binks, of Fitzroy (Melb.) has been
fined £5 for selling one shillingsworth of groceries
and a tin of jam on the blessed Victorian Sab-
bath. The octogenarian Cowie, who sat in judg-
ment upon Binks, admitted that the law was a
tyrannical one, and offered to put defendant in
the way of petitioning for the return of his
HOPETOUN’S FIRST LEVEE.
It was a sight beyond compare,
A spectacle most grand ;
Two thousand podgy men were there
To clutch their Guv’ner’s hand.
I Ijxm a dais red he stood
In suit of blue and gold—
The type of all that’s great and good
In institutions old.
The podgy men of high degree,
Whose “ loyalty ” is law,
Before their idol bent the knee
And shook his little paw ;
The podgy men of less renown
Then followed in their trail,
To glorify the Queen and Crown
Through this exalted male.
The vulgar herd had just begun
To form a podgy line
And greet his lordship, one by one
(Each full of joy divine) :
They praised his feeble form and face,
So like the blessed saints,
When lo ! a cry ran through the place—
“ His Excellency faints !”
“ A noble creature,” murmured Brown—
“ A perfect god,” said Jinks—
“ The finest man in all the town,”
Cried Macintosh and Binks—
“ The kind of person,” all concurred,
‘ ‘ That fancy sometimes paints ”
And then the awful cry was heard,
“ His Excellency faints !”
Great Kevins ! back upon a chair
His lordship limply slips !
But Duncan Gillies “gives him air,”
And blows upon his lips—
Then orders “ Water !” waves a fan,
Puts perfume on his brow—
Till through the throng the tidings ran,
“ His lordship’s better now !”
But, laokaday ! the podgy men
Who rolled up after that,
They did look so unhappy whom
They found his lordship sat;
Their anguish wild burst out afresh,
They shrieked and groaned aloud—
“We never touched his noble flesh,
His lordship merely bowed.”
A GOVERNOR’S GORE.
What is known as ‘ white blood’ is the
particular illness from which the Earl of Hope-
twin suffers. ’ —Melbourne Herald.
Was it for this that we turn’d out
On street, on balcony and roof,
And greeted with a “ heartfelt ” shout
An Earl with outriders and oof ?
“Blue blood,” we murmured with delight—
The base deceiver’s gore is white.
On Treasury steps we hung out flags
And built a Bunch and Judy show,
We swore him in with loyal gags—
We didn’t know, we didn’t know.
If R. S. Smythe now only knew
This Earl whose gore is white, not blue !


Fhe SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET -90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9i per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months 75 per cent.
3 Months H per cent.
S per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Dent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors. _
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manaobr.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
scorn
EMULSION
OF PURE COD LIVER OIL
Atm HYPOPHOSPHITES
Almost as Palatable as Milk.
So disguised that it can be taken,
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
cannot he tolerated; and hy the com-
bination of the oil with the hypophoi-
phites is much more efficacious.
Remarkable as a flesh producer*
Persons gain rapidly while taking ll*
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged bf
Physicians to bo the Finest and Best prepar
ration in the world for the relief and curs of
CONSUMPTION. SCROFULA,
GENERAL DEBILITY, WASTING
DISEASES, EMACIATION,
GOLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children, Sold by all Chemists.
ROBEETSON’S WHISKY. £2OO PRIZES.
<i I VEX AWAY IN THH COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS ;
1« of 15 each, 35 12, and 70 11,
Pamphlet) * from the Agents, A.X* Xj"X" &:
CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE. SYDNEY
“fiver.” Meanwhile, the rest of Binks’fellow'
countrymen are endeavouring to persuade them-
selves that they live to rejoice in a popular form
of Government and are not the spineless victims
of Scotch cant.
At a very swell affair the other day down
South, not unconnected with the public presenta-
tion of certain jewellery, there occurred a slight
misunderstanding between the chairman and the
reporters. Before the official business commenced
.Sir Podge arose and loudly requested the aforesaid
reporters to hadvance to ’is hend of the room, so
has to catch heach of the golden words that fell
from his knightly lips. The scribblers declined,
and after a short but spirited argument Sir Podge
spake to the low vassals thus: “Look ’ere, you
fellows, you didn’t report My Lady’s speech right,
last week, and you didn’t report mine correctly
heither.” “No,” exclaimed one of the litterateurs,
“ we put in the Aiches.”
* * *
No one could grumble at the excuse made
by that young man who was found sleeping on the
floor in a Sydney boarding-house, a few mornings
ago. He said that there were so many mosquitos
on the bed he couldn’t find it.
* * *
Revd. de Witt Talmage has a beautiful
scheme for reducing the whole world to “ Chris-
tianity.” He has satisfactorily figured out that if
every Church Christian makes one convert a year,
and each convert does ditto, at the end of ten
years there will be 1500 million “Christians” to
wear long black coats, take up collections, sand
the sugar, and file their shovels. The world
would require another great Flood and a fresh
start.
# # #
The usual thing when a fashionable doctor
recommends a change of air to a young English
nobleman, with £40,000 a year, is for him to
dart to the Riviera, Cannes, or some of those
places. A pleasanter fashion is to get an extra
£lO,OOO a year as a Colonial Governor. We ought
to have had Prince Leopold in Australia, and
would have cured him, besides sending him home
to his ma with £50,000 to the good.
# * *
“ Woe unto you, lawyers,” used to be the
saying, but now the lawyers boss every church.
Lawyer Maddock, of Melbourne, is a star at the
Sunday-school Union. The other day he read a
paper on “Why there is such a discrepancy be-
tween the male and female Sunday-school
teachers.” Well, Maddock, it is this way: the
women getting just a little bit “ off ” rush there for
husbands. The parson smiles over a vision of
two, three, or ten sovs., and is always impatient
to say, “ Bless you, my children.” When the
husband is snaveiled good-bye to the mission and
Sunday-school.
# * *
In Sydney lately, one woman thrashed
another, and the assaulted one obtained on suit a
verdict for £6O and costs. Plaintiff’s husband has
since squared the affair with defendant’s husband,
and how the plaintiff is “ mad ” (in an American
sense) because her husband has got the money
which she earned by being “licked.” Here is
another of woman’s wrongs.
# # #
“ Cherchez la femmez.” This is Evening
News French.
# # »
Same old collocation : Choir-practice and
the Bastardy Act. It has accurred in Adelaide.
The wicked man is a most melodious person.
* * «•
In all seriousness it is time that whole-
sale ceremonious handshaking were abolished in
Australia. “ Look here, boys,” says the first Pre-
sident of the Australian Republic, “ I’ll take a
drink with you all or I’ll fight the best man in
the crowd, but I’m not going to shake hands with
4000,0 f you on this hot day,”
* * *
__ The other day in Sydney a young man of
25 married a well-gilt woman who has been para-
lysed in the lower extremities for 10 years. She
went to the ceremony in a bath-chair and the
documents were witnessed by a doctor and a
nurse.
He found two hairs in his soup. “ Here,
waiter !” he shouted, “ you forgot to bring me a
comb. ”
Mrs. N, Peck : “So you thought I was
an angel, once, did you ?” Mr. N. Peck ;“ Yes!’
ONE OF THOSE THINGS THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN SAID
DIFFERENTLY.
(Mrs. De Neville-Jones is servantless and so has herself to buy the fruit and vegetables
from Chow Hong.)
MRS. De N.-JONES (who is an indifferent arithmetician): “ A SHILLING FOR
APPLES, TWO AND SIX FOR PEARS, SIXPENCE FDR TOMATOES
AND SIXPENCE FOR LEMONS—THAT MAKES FOUR SHILLINGS,
DOES IT NOT, JOHN?”
CHOW HONG (who is an indifferent English scholar): “YOU LIE.”
Mrs. N. Peck : “And you don’t think so now,
eh?” Mr. N. Peck :“No ! But-1 live in hope
that you soon will bo, though !”
The last quarterly payment to the pro-
prietors of the Times was just one quarter the
amount that it was prior to the sitting of the
Special Commission. For the two previous
quarters they received no dividend at all.
The Tory papers are endeavouring to prove
that the London ’busmen are not badly used.
Says one writer :—-
The other night I questioned a driver on this point.
“ People fancy,” he said, “ that we have to work our 1(5
hours at a stretch, as though we were on' IKe treadmill.
But take my case. I get half-an-hour’s rest at the end of
each journey, so that I am not on the box -more than 12
hours a day! Many ’busmen,” he went bn,'“did not
know when they were well off. If the companies reduced
the hours they would very soon reduce also the pay. Be-
sides,” he added, “ look at the perquisites attached to
driving. Not a night has passed this week without some
gentleman offering me a cigar. And then, on my last
journey to Liverpool-street, there’s a gentleman gets up
who gives me an extra sixpence for catching his train at
Broad-street. He’s done that every night for the last
three months. It saves him a hansom.”
This is the reasoning born of slavery.
Simple copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
number, which will be a unique pictorial and
literary treat, will, when published, be mailed for
six stamps to anyone who cannot obtain it through
an agent. Orders for copies to be posted abroad
must be accompanied by postage.
It is said that twenty millions of sheep
have lately died on the River Plate. They have
had heavy rains and the disease seems to resemble
Huke ’
Brown: “Where is your diamond ring,
my dear?" Mrs. Brown: “It is being re-set."
Little Johnny (who had been out with his mother):
“ Does the man always give you money, ma, when
you take anything to lie repaired ?” -Ex.
Bays the editor of the Tam worth (N.S.W.)
Advocate, with a defiant gorgeousness born of
the knowledge that the eyes of Imperial Europe
are on him, and that Bismarck is thirsting for his
blood :
Sink or swim, or whether libel actions be threatened, or
other measures be adopted to silence us, we will not re-
tract one word we have written on matters whereof we
have personal knowledge and practical experience. We
would wrong no man, but across the copy that is written
in the interest of everlasting truth the Divine Author of
the Universe traces in letters of fire this word. STET !
Some time ago Mr. Griffin, U.S. Consul
at Sydney, was desired by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment officials to send to tne States for a quantity
of salmon ova wherewith to stock the waters of
the colony named. The request was courteously
acceded to, and the other day the Consul notified
the Fisheries authorities that his Government had
cabled over that a large consignment of ova would
arrive in Sydney on a certain date. But, unfor-
innately the Commissioners were squabbling
among themselves at the time as to some point of
precedence &c., and in the result Mr. Griffin was
told that there was no place to put the ova in, and
requested to communicate the fact to the U.S.
Government. This Mr. Griffin declined to do,
and there the matter rests !
If you’d keep life’s fluid cool and clean,
Why, go for Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
The oldest medical practitioner in Sydney
is Dr. George Bennett, of William-street, now 85
years of age, nearly 60 of which he has spent in
Australia. As far back as 1844 he was one of a
commission appointed to enquire into the sanity
of a scoundrel named Knatchbull. This ruffian,
who was a member of one of the oldest and
most aristocratic families of Great Britain, had
been “lagged” for theft, and repeatedly mixed
up in terrible crimes in the colony and at
Norfolk Island, culminating in the murder of a
poor woman in Kent-street, Sydney, near mid-
night on the Gth January, ’44. He was defended
by “Bob” Lowe (now Lord Sherbrooke), was
found guilty, and left for death. All means of
saving him had been tried, the judge (Burton)
and the press—such as it was —declared that if
Knatchbull were reprieved capital punishment
ought to be abolished. It is, perhaps, a pity, in
view of this, that he was hanged. Influence
having failed, a Lunacy Commission was ap-
pointed with Dr. Bennett at its head. They
found the man was sane enough, and he was
hanged accordingly. At the execution he was
attired in a new suit of black, sent him by Lady
Gipps, who was said to be related to him.
At the conclusion of the inquest on Mrs.
Jamieson, the murdered woman, the Inspector-
General of Police sent a carriage and pair
to take the criminal to gaol, but the
Coroner refused to permit this mode of convey-
ance, “as,” said he, “notwithstanding his high
connections, he must march through the streets
hand-cuffed like any other criminal.'’ They don t
666111 to have had a Black Maria’ in those days.
The authorities, however, carried their point on
the score of danger of riot, and Mr. Knatchbull
was driven to Darlinghurst in a carriage and pair
of the orthodox sort.
Gentlemen from the Australian quartz-
mines will tell you that the toughest comestible at
present undergoing consumption is of Cornish
origin, and is known “below ” as the Cousin Jack
pasty. This wonderful article of diet does not yet
hold the position in contemporaneous literature
and domestic jurisprudence to which its stead-
fastness of purpose and originality of architecture
justly entitle it, and though the item has no par-
ticular bearing on any current disturbance or
astronomical prophesy The Bulletin may be ex-
cused for mentioning it as a dangerous element
that is spreading in a young country and
threatening to extend its ramifications to public
provender dep6ts and hash-houses frequented
by the people. The Cousin Jack pasty is
a gob of dough, shaped like a crescent and enfold-
ing a barrow-load of scraps, chiefly cold potatoes,
left steak, cabbage-stems, bread-crumbs, sour-
grass, and other remains and waste ends within
reach of the particular Jenny who is fabricating
the hamper of desiccated hash. This heap of
quiescent dyspepsia is then subjected to pressure
and untold degrees of Fahrenheit, and appears
later as the crib of a long, yellow Cornishman, who
looks wasted and weary in consequence of the
great aggregation of indigestible substances
weighing solidly on his conscience and dragging
him down to an early funeral. Though its
influence is making itself felt in city restau-
rants, the pasty proper is rarely met outside
the mines, where its reputation for durability
and a constitutional stubbornness that resists
all atmospheric and chemical influences and renders
it impervious to all forces, moral or physical,
barring the attacks of a gargantuan clay-puncher
from Cornwall, has made it a permanent feature
in subterranean story and entwined it,for ever in
the exogenous traditions of mining life. The
pasty has been dropped down mines innumerable,
wrecked the cage, and smashed through the well-
boards ; it has appeared, emptied of its debris,
rigged on wheels and run as a truck ; it has sur-
vived incalculable falls of immeasurable masses of
rock, slipped into battery-boxes and wrecked the
stampers, withstood the waste and wear of de-
vastating years, and hung to the poppet legs as a
symbol of eternity and patient endurance under
tribulation. If you are a man and a brother and
ever go digging for a living, and chance to board
with a Cousin Jenny, shun her pastry ; it is an
unfathomable mystery—it is kept open during the
week to receive contributions and officiate as a
barn for all scrag-ends and unrecognisable scraps
that appear in the way, and on the seventh day it
is closed in accordance with the Act; then its
constitution is inured to crime in a kiln where
they stiffen bricks, and after that, till subjugated
by the prevailing “ K.G.” (K. for Cousin, G. for
Jack), it stands round in a crib amongst more sus-
ceptible victuals, and invites the stranger to wear
away his bright, young life in wild and impotent
endeavours to form a digest of its multifarious
components, and many a promising youth has
dashed his good-as-new _ constitution to chips
against this monument of immutability.
Josiah Jones he stood behind
The counter at a draper’s;
His one ambition was to find
“ J. Jones ” in all the papers;
He had a raging thirst for fame,
Beyond his rank and station —
He did so want to see his name
In some big publication.
To editors he used to write
Long yarns, in which he hinted
That something wasn’t “ just and right,—
He never got ’em printed.
He’d ‘ ‘ hope to see these lines appear ”
(And as a favour ask it),
Yet day by day and year by year
J. J ones went in the basket.
Josiah wept in sheer despair
Upon the silk and satin;
He wrote a letter on Sea Air—
An editor put that in,
The letter brought but further gloom
To Jones, poor diatriber !
They crushed him with a won de plume
And called him “A subscriber.”
Determined still to make a splash,
Josiah, in his fury,
Stole money from the petty cash,
And came before a jury.
He got three months —“ a painful case”
His Honor said he thought it;
J ones found no fame in this disgrace—
The Press did not report it.
No billet, when he’d done his time,
Could Jones get at a draper’s :
He looked in vain to find his crime
Once mentioned in the papers,
But reading them with many a sigh.
Cast down and discontented,
“ The Gov’nor’s levee ” met his eye,
Thought Jones “ I’ll be presented.”
In evening costume trimly dressed
Jones made his morning call: he
Sent in his card with all the rest
And shook the “ Guvner’s mauley
His name appeared in print next day,
In quite a good position,
And J ones attained ’neath letter J.,
His summit of ambition.
To Grovellers.
It is well to sing of the dear old land
Where the bones of our kindred lie,
To boast of the host with the bloody hand
Where the gory banners fly.
And to brag of the Anglo-Saxon race,
To worship “the good, old Queen,”
To swear that the glow on Australia’s face
Is the glint of Britannia’s sheen !
To cheer with a will for the silken cords
That two distant lands unite,
And make lowly lout to the exiled lords
Whose mission’s to draw them tight,
And to grovel before the cultured swell
Who comes out from creation’s hub
And all its gilded joys to dwell
In this land of “loathsome grub,”
And to pray for the monied philanthropists,
Be they Christian, Greek or Jew,
Who in moments rash have advanced us cash
At rates that are high, ’tis true,
To kneel down humbly in the dirt
To give highest place and pay .
To the foreigner with the ' 1 clean, boiled shirt,
That is—lf you’re built that way.
But ’twere nobler still to cheer with a will
The land where we earn our bread,
And to shout—Hurrah ! for the Southern Gross
In the blue sky overhead,
While we staunchly swear with an arm that’s bare
That we’re here and have come to stop,
And will hold no share in Imperial ware,
Though we fight to the heart’s last drop.
GEOGE BLACK.


Amusements.
<J> HEA T R E ROYA
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodin
BOXING NIGHT, DEC. 26, AND EVERY ENKND
Williamson, Garner and Mnsgrove’s
GRAND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL,
AX.ADDIKT. ALADDII
Admission 55., 3s. and Is.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATR
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Kignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.;
GENUINE AND ESTABLISHED SUCCESS
or’
RORKKT II * W t l> K
AH
RIP VAN WINKLE
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Brices as uau
J. P. Macdonau), Acting Manager
CRITERION THEATR]
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicai
General Manager . ~ Mr. Mai ne
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
of
TIKNfiO UP, preceded by IN HONOI 1C BOHN
Interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14,
Betsy. Betsy. Betsy.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.i
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
Royal museum oyal museui
AS I) ASI)
PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
Opposite Town Hall, George Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomo
Five Floors lull of Attractions.
THE M IDGrETS!-
General asm Mrs. Mite.
AND THOUSANDS OF NOVELTIES
ADMISSION—One Shilling. Children Sixpence.
HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
O N D I AQUARI U M
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS ok AUSTRALL
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff lo Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphali Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitor
Open Daily from in a.in lo 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate Fare, k
QYCLORAMA
The greatest battle in the world's most me
mentous civil war is fought to its dread close dail
at the Cyclorama.
Where is it? Opposite Red fern Terminus.
Open 10 to 10. Sunday Next (Half-price), il to K
Have you seen it ?
»|IOWN HALL, YOUNG
(1-ate Mkcuamcs’ Insxitutb).
y
The extensive Additions and Impkovkmentk
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capabh
of seating about 700 persons) is now available fo
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Change
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the wholt
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER.
Town Clerk.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BVCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wooif Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets. Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Ix>in Cloths. Sene
to or call at
44«» ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Bilejr Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF. SHROEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
MAYOR’S BALL.
Messrs. CHAKIiKAIONT ami Un.,
Of the Royal Arcade,
Kesjiectfully beg to intimate to all the ladies who
attended the Mayor’s Ball, held in the Centennial
Hall, on the evening of the 27th ultimo, that they
are now getting up an Album to contain Photo-
graphs of the ladies who attended the above-
named ball. To attain this object Messrs.
Charlemont, through this medium,cordially invite
all the ladies present at the ball to a sitting in
their studio at an early date. No responsibility
will be incurred by the sitting,
OROSVENOR <l4¥,l,FKir». Royal Arcade.
Medical.
A Wonderful Remedy-
MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderfu
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervou
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss o
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Aloholk
Craving, Premature Decline, Impoverished Blood, 1m
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseaset
conditions of the system preceding from Deficiency o
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford relief, whilst i
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc,,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. ■ The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and ia
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
410, George Street, Sydney.
N.B. —In consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark:
“Tonic Nervine.”
JNDISPEITSABLE poj RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin!
If you wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HAN DU and CRACKED SKIN, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEX TON in <jood condition during the whole
year use
COCOA BUTTER SOAP.
(Savon au beurre de Cocas.)
This celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter, (ex-
tracted in the manufacture of Chocolate) which is THE
MILDEST EAT KNOWN., and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. ‘ 'The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIN AS SOFT AS
VELVET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beantifier, and a balm to
young- and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TUE-MAINB.
London: 32&33hainsell-st., e.c. parts: 29ruekadzierilb*
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOEK AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
WHY
YOU SHOULD USE
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
HEALTH-GIVING
INVIGORATING TONIC.
It is used and endorsed by all Physicians
because it is the best.
It is superior to all other Tonics.
For the Liver, Kidneys and Blood it has
no equal.
It is wonderful as a Flesh Producer.
It is the best remedy for Wasting Diseases,
Sick Headaches, Bilious Complaints, Fever,
and Ague, Neuralgia, &c.
Price, 2s 6d and ss; By post, Is extra.
PREPARED ONLY BY
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING STREET.
lor Sale by all Chemists
M, W. SCo.
■ ••
Z 2. B. MODINI, Gunroakcr. informs bis Customers
and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. (Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers;—J. Purdbv & Sons, Cu. Boswell, JoiinKiobv
and Co., Joseph Lano & Sons, Cu. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of v arious other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Weblbv,
Hollis k Sons, Ktlet and C'asiimore. AH goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-strect, Sydney.
Price list on application
Shipping.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
- NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
Sc".
3*l
•3-S
◄
Carthage .. JsOllV .A. Wheler .. Dec. 21 ’Dec. 27 Dcc.’iO
Victoria .. 6208 G. F. Catfes .. Jan. 4 jjan. 10 | Jan 13
Valetta . .J4919H. P. Briscoe .. Jan. 18 Jan. 24 Jan 27
Ballaarat .. 4748 E. Ashdown ~ Feb. 1 Feb. 7 Feb 10
Parramatta 4771 B. G. Murray .. Feb. 15 Feb. 21 Feb 24
Oceana .. '6362 P. S. Tomlin ..Mar. 1 iMar. 7 Marin
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 26th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Mac<|uarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTW ERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED BATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FHEDK. BETZ & CO., Aurnth,
5 O’Connell-strect.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn. "
Under Contract with the Postniasters-Oeneral of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under: —
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisoochoioeof
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of tlie Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. "Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu.de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may he had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Oflßccs, 15 Bridge-street.
FRF.DK. W. JACKSON Manager.
N
Furniture, &c.
BWT O N AND LAM B.
WBNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPUING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
P ( .?r ()l T{ riuS ’ b - v R - LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFBLD and
COebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGA TELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
B
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
'Meet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
T Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. —The Economic!
bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with lowel Rad, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable earl
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, wit!
silvered plate-glass door ; Washstand, with marbl
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table
W!th Swmg Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboar.
and Iwo Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Đ
Ci ANYAS FOLDING
/ COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE~ BAMBOO BLINDS'
(i xB, BxB, oxB, 10 xB, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, G x 8, Gs. Gd.; 8 x 8,
Os.; oxB, Os. Gd.; 10 xB, 10s. Gd.; 12 xB, 12s. Gd.;
12 X 10, 16s, Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting'chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful— a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
D
MKRICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
K-<6 Rob of 1 landing space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON anm LAMB.
r
QANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Sttuno and O'Connku Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, Oft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
£ A ARDEN SEATS, It Is. Verandah Chairs,
V7T Indian Long-ahm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
1> ATT ANY ER AND AH LOUNGES, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O'Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
KWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


Artificial Tooth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Pees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5; Gold and Vulca-
nite, £10; Gold, £IB. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. (id. J. 1. Marshall, Dentist. Only address-
-410 Georgc-street, Sydney.
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Best* Cheapest
Bar None!!
Dawson i
DAW SOU'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT,STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IK THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
1>
f-
m
'I?
d
o
s
T
o
li
T
4^=3
/Uenlts
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3aJ Barrack Street.
OITNTRY STOREKEEPERS, &o
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—IM PORTE BS OF
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade
Prices on Application to —
A.. M. Marks & Co.,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON,
Telephone, No 919.
Sihnuhl 'trvi'Jpnv pnJJ. <i)»n
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
You can send the Christmas Bulletin to
your friends abroad for sevenpence, including
postage.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of The
Bulletin : “ A Golden Shanty —Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers.” The brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
sd. extra.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 10, 1889.
[IENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies,
Dates to wtich
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Lockup, Yass, Erection of
Bridge, Parramatta River, at
O’Connell-street, Parramatta —
Contract No. 1, Supply of Iron
Piers
Contract No. 2, Erection of
Timber Bridge on Iron
Piers
Supply of Building Stone, Sydney
Gaol 1890 (fresh tenders)
Removing Snags from Mullet
Creek, &c., &c.
Painting and Repairs, Police Sta
tion, Tighe’s-hill
Additions, Lock-up, Urana
Erection of Shed at Tatham
Wharf, Richmond River
Bridge, Mulwarrie Creek at
Tarago, Lower Bero-road
Bridge, Back Creek, on road
Gloucester to Copeland
Construction of a 350-ton Hopper
Barge, for Dredge Sampson
Bridge, Little Jilliby Creek, road
Cooranbong Wharf to Maitland-
road
Contract No. 57, Sydney Sewerage
Ventilating Shaft, Bondi
I Bridge, Bishop’s Creek, road Car-
lingford to Rydalmere
Bridge, Middle Creek, Gundagai
Flat, road Gundagai to Race-
course
Roads and Bridges Department
annual contracts, 1890. £5 de-
posit required with eacli tender.
Cement —Supply of
Bluestone Spawls, ditto
Surveyor’s Instruments, ditto
Drawing Materials, ditto
Construction of a “ 24-ton ’’ Hop-
per Barge for Dredge Service
Wednesday,
Dec, 18,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, Court-house, Windsor
Additions, Police Buildings,
Grafton
Additions, Police Officer’s Quar-
ters, Grafton
Woolgoolga Jetty, Construction
of
Byron Bay, Cottage for Whar-
finger
Coffs Harbour Jetty, Construction
of
Hillston Gaol, Additions, &c.
Verandah, &c., Post Office, Wind
sor
Crookwell Courthouse, Erection of
Ulladulla Lighthouse, Keeper’s
Quarters
Bridge, Jiggi Creek, road Lismorej
to Jiggi, Erection of (fresh
tenders)
Painting, &c., Hospital for the In-
sane, Callan Park
Alterations to Windows, &0.,
ditto ditto, Gladesville
Iron Bridge, Hunter River, at
Elderslie, Contract No. 2, Erec-
tion of (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Eneeumbene River, road
Cooma to Kiandra
Hospital for the Insane, Parra-
matta, Additions (time ex-
tended)
Repairs, Boatmen’s Cottages,
Newcastle
Clock Tower, Coast Hospital,
Little Bay, Erection of
Australian Museum, Additions
(fresh tenders)
Lockup, Broken Hill, Additions
Wednesday,
Jan. 8,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
" ELECTRICITY IS THE SEEM OF LIFE,"
If you have any pain, ache, or ill feeling from
any cause, and do not “feel up to the mark,” if
you suffer from a general weakness and lassitude,
we strongly recommend you to at once try the
remarkable curative and invigorating properties of
Dr Scott’s Electric Appliances,
which have now been favourably known to the
world for a quarter of a century.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Belts and Corsets
CURE Nervous and Spinal Complaints, Lum-
bago, Backaches, Impaired Digestion, Inver
and Kidney and Functional Disorders.
RESTORE Health, Strength and Vital Energy,
and acting as a tonic to the whole system.
PREVENT all disorders of the Nerves, Stomach,
Liver and Kidneys.
The celebrated Dr. W. A. Hammond, of New
York (formerly Surgeon-General of the U.S.
Army), lecturing upon the application of Elec-
tricity or Magnetism in relief and cure of disease,
advised all medical men to make trial of these
agencies, describing, at the same time, most re
markable cures he had made, even in cases which
would seem hopeless.
Dr. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC FLESH BRUSH
is a valuable companion to sedentary habits and
impaired nervous powers. It keeps the skin
healthy, beautifies the complexion, and imparts
vigour and energy to the whole body and acting
quickly in Stomach, Liver and Kidney troubles
is a valuable assistant in their treatment. It
quickly relieves those “back aches” peculiar to
ladies. Royalty, members of H.M. Government,
and many professional gentlemen who have tested
the power of the brush are unanimous in its praise.
For free Illustrated Circular and Price-list of Dr.
Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances send to the
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
56 Maroarbt-stuket. Sydney.
Box 221,
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Truth ” (Cunnamulla) ; Have met your tneory
before. Gerald Massey told us that his wife was for some
time dominated by the spirit of a departed murderer. As
we do not believe in spirits of any kind, and have still a
reputation for sanity, we cannot accept your incoherences
as an explanation. As there must be hundred of millions
more “ stiffs ” than live folks, every individual must be
dominated by numerous spirits, and the murderer who
died 4000 years ago is surely as dangerous as the one who
died yesterdayA.W.W.” : Well, then, become a
baby-farmer. Its quite safe now in Sydney and wonder-
fully profitable. Compared with it, pig-farming is
a delusion and a snare “ E.K.S.”: No, he
won’t be hanged. He’s not ragged enough
“J.A.F.” (Junee): Ideas good; diction execrable....
“ J.1.A.T.”; A notice that passengers’ boots would be
blacked free was posted in “Sleeper” in July last
“W. Elton Dillon and his associates don’t handle the
money collected, which is, we are assured, remitted direct
to Ireland . “U.S.” (Cassilis): Yes, he still runs it.
Sydney will find him....“ J.M.” : Good anecdote
“L.A.”; We can keep “A Secret.” Our readers shall
never hear a word of it ... “ K.O’i).”: We are just read-
ing the b00k.... “ Erie Fritz” : Your lines being “ written
on a skull ” excuses the undeoipherableness of your pen-"
manship. ' Next time you write use a table— ■“ Anti-R.”:
Quite true “Winton” :We believe that the Carden
Company left Sydney for the Clarence and New England
districts “ Punch” ;As you say, the death of Searle
mixes things somewhat. The late champion retired un-
beaten, having neither lost or resigned the title to anyone.
Who then is champion ? The Americans will doubtless
claim it for some of their numerous scullers, but Tin?
Bulletin thinks that Peter Kemp, from whom Searle
wrested it, is now the lawful custodian of the champion-
ship [Many replies held over.]
Messrs. Mason Brothers, Limited, of Syd-
ney, are advised by MM. Lucien Foucauld & Co.
of Cognac, France, for whom they are agents in
the Australian colonies, that they have been
awarded the Gold Medal at the Paris Exhibition
for the excellence of their brandies in bulk and
case.
An eminent surgeon who was attending a
fast-living swell caused a daily bulletin to be hung
out. Thus the physician wrote Tuesday,
9 p.m.—Sir Blankity Dash is scarcely so well.
Temperature higher.” Then there followed
“ Wednesday, 9 a.in.— Sir Blank died last night.”
Then somebody added ; —“ Temperature higher
still.”
It is the proud boast of The Bulletin
that it is the only paper beneath the Southern
Cross from whose columns could be gleaned such
a brilliant collection of prose and verse as that
contained in “A Golden Shanty” now in the
press and shortly to be published at one shilling ;
if posted, sd. extra.
One of the features of The Bulletin’s
splendid Christmas number, which will be pub-
lished on 19th inst., and can thereafter be ob-
tained from all agents (or will be mailed direct
from the office for six stamps to any Australian
address) will be a pantomime in four scenes, en-
titled “ The ’Ouse that Hi Built; or, Harlequin
Fc-Fi-Federation and the Fairy Bulletin.”
A clergyman, lately preaching before our
beloved Colleen, in Windsor Chapel, warming
with his subject, repeatedly addressed the congre-
gation, chiefly the Royal household, as “ dear
friends,” “my dear hearers,” &c. At the con-
clusion he received the usual stereotyped message
of thanks from her mighty lowliness in the vestry,
with this addition. “ Her Majesty has commanded
me to convey her opinion that your language was
far too familiar. ”
Mr. W. J. Tarplee, who has lately retired
from the leadership of theS.M. Herald reporting
staff, was last Saturday entertained at a farewell
picnic under the auspices of the N.S.W. Institute
of Journalists. The chair was occupied by Sir
John Robertson, and the gathering was perhaps
the most influential one which ever assembled in
Australia to do honour to a newspaper-man. Mr.
Tarplee leaves the press with the cordial friend-
ship of every man with whom he has ever served.
The dames of Melbourne society were
put to gorgeous confusion at the Parliamentary
garden party, by the discovery that it is bad form
to “do ” such daylight functions in a bejewelled
condition. The “ wealthy lower order ” flounced
up prepared to dazzle Lady Hopetoun with the
flash of many diamonds. And when it transpired
that the noble “ female lead ” had left her precious
stones at home, sassiety knew that it was making
a red-faced object of itself, and perspired freely.
Lady Hopetoun reserved the famdy brilliants for
her first appearance at the Princess’s, on Saturday
night, when some big diamond stars gleaming on
her bonnie black hair, gave her the appearance of
a fairy queen. The loyal creatures who had
bought adjacent seats at Williamson, Garner and
Musgrove’s auction were visibly impressed.
A priest, with a merry twinkle in his
pye, lately stepped into a Queensland railway-
carriage and seated himself opposite a commercial-
traveller. After gazing at the bagman for a
moment or two in silence, the reverend one asked
in sententious tones, “ Young man, are you pre-
pared to join me in prayer ? ” The latter, taken
somewhat aback, answered “No.” “Well,
then,” said his reverence, “if you are not pre-
pared to join me in prayer, perhaps you are pre-
pared to join me in a game of cards?” and with
these words the disciple of the Scarlet Woman
produced a pack and a spirit-flask. This query
was answered affirmatively, and an hour or two
sped pleasantly by. Then as the train drew up at
a wayside station the priest threw a neat packet
into his companion’s lap, observing: “ You’ve
won all my money, and you’ve drunk all my
whisky, now you’d better eat my lunch, as you
haven’t given me time to look at it ” —and shutting
one eye he vanished.
The reverend Headlam has asked the
Chairman of the School Management Committee,
London, “ Whether he is aware that, in the prizes
given for efficiency in Bible knowledge, it is stated
that the world was created in the year 4004 B.C.;
whether he is prepared to defend this statement;
and if not, whether he thinks it conducive to
healthy morality for the children to be taught as a
fact that which, when, they grow up, they will find
to be an absurd fiction ?” The reverend Coxhead
thereupon indignantly moved that so wicked a
question, veiling an attack on sacred principles,
and most painful, be not put. Mr. Headlam re-
torted that the , making of false statements in the
name of religion conduced to the making of
atheists. The intelligent clergyman is beginning
to discover that the telling of lies is not conducive
to the bolstering up of fables. The modern method
is to acknowledge the fable, fo ask the opposition
to disprove it, and to point out that the dis-
believer runs great risk if after all the fable should
turn out true.
HER AMBITION.
I want to be a dancer,
And in the front-row stand,
The limelight on my forehead,
A puff-box in my hand.
With precious little on me
Except the baldhead’s glare,
And a mighty heap of grease-paint
To cover wear and tear.
Then right before the mashers —
What giddy boys they be—*
No one in all the ballet
Will kick so high as me;
But yet I’ll scorn the chorus,
Those supers in the soup,
I’m going for a husband
Outside the blooming troupe.
And when “off ” I’ll be as modest
As any maiden may,
Thus I hope to scoop a fortune
On the breach of promise lay.
B.
TO THE DOMINION-MAKER.
The hero is unknown to yon,
The hero nought would own with you.
That hour comes, big with Freedom’s creed,
That gave the Swiss their Winkelried —
None of these bonds !
You fain would chain us to the Past,
To forms decrepit, dying fast.
The “Now” is fraught with noble thought,
For “Rights of Man”brave deeds are wrought
None of these bonds !
Here we will build a Commonwealth —
None sneak the Empire in by stealth.
This nation be a brotherhood.
Where none too rich, none lacking food —
None of these bonds !
Springs, 24th Nov., 1889.
K.K.
THEIR ONLY HOPE.
As a prompt relief and cure for rheumatism,
neuralgia, backache, burns, scalds, sprains, an<f
bruises, and as a general pain-reliever and healing
liniment, no preparation on earth equals the greru
pain conqueror, St. Jacobs oil. Its remark abU
action has mystified medical men, delighted
sufferers, who, after years of torturing pain and
unceasing doctoring, found it
THEIR ONLY HOPE
and cure ; and it has dispelled the doubts and pre-
judices of the most incredulous. It can be safely
stated that no dealer who has sold the article will
say that these assertions are not justified by facts.
An external remedy is universally acknowledged
to be the safest ; and St. Jacobs oil will be found
to be the surest, simplest, and cheapest. As a
trial entails but a comparative trifling outlay,
everyone suffering with pain can have cheap and
POSITIVE PROOF
of all these Throughout Australia the
Sydney Bulletin is widely known as one of the
most outspoken journals in the land. Hear what
it says about this great remedial agent; —“ The
college erected out of the profits of Holloway s
pills cost £800,000, and is most elaborately and
elegantly fitted. There should be a big college
built out of St. Jacobs oil some day. This
remedy is more popular than ever the delicacies of
Holloway were; and The Bulletin thinks a lot
more efficacious. Its immense sale and the
testimony of those who have tried it both afford
INCONTESTABLE EVIDENCE,
of its value.” A single pain is often the first in-
dication, and the last throe, in one, of a physical
climax, and the climax is death. That St. Jacobs
oil has again wrought its miracles just in the nick
of time, has bridged over the critical emergency,
and has
SAVED MANY LIVES
at the point of death, is fully attested by the
record of many extraordinary cures in which this
fact of saving life is duly set forth.
If to its remarkable virtues in the permanent
cures of chronic eases of Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Sciatica, after years of endurance,
wherein everything else proved valueless, fortune?
were spent in vain, and crutches and crippled
limbs were the manifestations, is to be added its
supreme sovereignty over pain, even unto death,
it is wholly entitled to the appellation of
THE VERY BEST.
Its specific action is especially adapted with a
curative penetration and soothing effect, to arrest
any pain at the acme of its worst influence. St.
Jacobs oil applied externally is now known as the
best specific to arrest the fatal tendency of any
aggravated pain.
A SENSIBLE PETITION.
One of the features of the Paris Exhibition is
the handsome prism-shaped stand of Waterbary
Watches containing several thousands of these
cheap but astonishingly accurate timekeepers.
They are all in full going order, and there is
scarely half a minute’s difference in the time to be
seen amongst them. It takes two men several
hours every morning to wind them up. The
stand, which is some twenty feet in height, is the
subject of much curiosity and admiration. By the
way, there is quite a joke in our office over the
fact that some of the successful competitors in our
sports a fortnight ago, to whom the silver watches
fell, have petitioned to have them exchanged for
Waterbnrys. Their request is a very sensible one.
I have three or four gold and silver watches at
home, one of them being a presentation watch
from H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge, whom 1
once gallantly rescued at the peril of my life in a
street scuffle from a ferocious and murderous
reporter. But I leave these watches at home, and
have carried a Waterbury for years.— Sporting
Truth.
NOTE.
“ Life, however short, is made stiil shorter by
waste of time.” — Johnson.
Moral: Buy a Waterbury.
All the parts of the Waterbury Watch are made
by beautiful automatic machinery, so wonderfully
perfect that it seems impossible for human in-
genuity to accomplish more. The various parts
are for this reason interchangeable, thus enabling
the company to repair, at a nominal charge, any
watch made by them which may have met with an
accident.


HOT WEATHER.
To countekact the enervating, relaxing, and evi
effects of the heat and depressing nature of tht
climate in this country during the summer months
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic,
it prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps up
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation,
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels ;
thus preventing liver and kidney disease, am
warding off their unpleasant symptoms, as heac -
ache, constipation, piles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy
apoplexy, &o. The summer is the time whei
Clements’ Tonic is the medecine par excellent
for the people. It prevents the relaxation am
depression so prevalent in the hot weather ii
these latitudes ; it enriches the blood, aid
perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-power
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and can be dependec
upon to do good and cure disease. The action o,
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt
relief is felt immediately after taking the tirsi;
close; it acts direct on the seat of disease anc
cures the cause, and then the effects of that caust
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements’
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures ; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure ;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. .Moreover,
Clements’ Tonic does not const'ringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
THOMAS GARRETT, ESQ,. M.P.
(late Minister or Lands),
suffered from
Weakness 1 Indigestion 1
AND
Poor Appetite 1
he procured
CLEMENTS’ TONIC,
and gracefully acknowledges the benefit
he derived.
Sydney, October 18, 1889.
Dear Sir,— l have used Clements’ Tonic with Very
Great Advantage. It is very Stimulating, and a
powerful aid to appetite and digestion.—Yours truly,
THOS. GARRETT.
If you are a sufferer follow Mr. Garrett’s lead, take
Clements’ Tonic and you will derive the same benefit.
“ Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.’’
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
I Irak Sir,—l have very much pleasure in bearing witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, anil their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and lalvorious to me. I tried several advertiser)
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory'. After
taking one bottle 1 found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
I Kittles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect healt h as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary w’ork can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
ny signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
I’. JEFFERSON WALLACE, ‘
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir, Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. 1 had hail a great amount of business worry to
•ontend against, which, together with the long hours I had
duck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
quite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would l»eat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aOhing limbs, and quite unrefreshed. 1 hud no
ap|H'lite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ments to try Clements’Tonic, and am a different man
ever since; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh. I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear testimony to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, Ac., W. 1). HI! A H AM.
When influential men like these allow their names to
apjH-ar in endorsement of a medicine, it proves, beyond all
question, the bona Jides of that preparation, if you are
still sceptical you can write to all or any and they will
answer you : No other medicine can show such proof
although there are scores of counterfeits on the market,
it rests with the public to guard itself against imposture.
Only meritorious articles arc imitated and pirated, that is
why so many substitutes for Clement’s Tonic arc on
sale. Such imitation is the greatest proof of the reliability
of Clements’ Tonic.
Sold. Everywhere.
To our Patrons.
Some Chemists, See., being so blind to thoir
own interests that they do not stock this lino.
I will supply It direct at the following rates,
packed free on rail or steamer:—
Hnlf-doz. Pint (4s. 6d.) Bottles for 255„ or
One doz. do. do. 455.
Exchange must he added to intercolonial and country
cheques, and freight where goods have to he sent by
steamer. Clements’ Tonic is a genuine ariicle and
meets with patronage by all classes, always , iv.s s*atis
faction. Pirates only imitate, they cannot compete
with it.
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plan.*,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
( When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hoc-kings & Co., of 410. George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BBIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, it-
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
ATJCTIOLTEBES.
ORiVIIM S^LESMEINT.
DR. SPESR’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
3 1 Yo r k Str e e -fc.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular'Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, ‘ 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). . The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
•£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. o 12 a.in. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.ra. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
:
is f - - ; ?
$
L4JT
:
/
TO YOUINTG IMCES3NT.
DR. FLETCHER S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
directions contained in -this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cur e same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. li. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney,
i Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
i signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
j be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
i m
rf-'T 1 UxCSSS
i
r mM*.
ry/
«r ear-. _.
inn &
ijnl
:>•' -■
tUfililfr sunmLhb £o* SYUNfct/
Tlxe Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney
H - THORPE ■ I’: 1 'l‘HIKToii.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STO C XX JUST LA XX ID XXX G-
Farlelgh, KTetthelm, & Cri
TANNERS AM) LEATHER MERCHANTS
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDKTE'V-
Solo Agents for the above for .New South Wales and Queensland. *
Sift? gSapjKi * mm r-.
Itlr.i’biits Tanners' Tan,. a.,0 UWH.V 'A' SgSS *%*■ 'W«
Medical.
DR. RICIIAIiDS.
ROOMS
ltin
CONS
3
MuiirniniimnßtniininmnTftr
DR. RICHARDS
i
i
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulncss, discontentcdncss, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-ROUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecejsary ex pence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every oxjierienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence : enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of earofully-prc-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but (he purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 eases since coming to Australia, and
Ims permission from at least 10,000 jorsons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNE Y.
Be sure to meution this paper when writing
CONSTLTATION F RE R.
VERY WIDE-AWAKE PARTY: “Now, then, what do you want?”
BURGLAR: “Your money or your life.”
V.W.P.: “HA! HA! HA! My dear fellow, don’t be so ridiculous. I belong to the
Sydney Pree Institute.”


Beale cc Co.’s New Warehouse.
*■ ' ift'-' -i
-Vi'-t*
• r • 522ffi^K£i
J- - - £j»
OCR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES I
483 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
FHE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That We have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This iilating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. W hen closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge. , . , „ , , ,
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o- (ells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
coni and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding - , make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colour's, and stitch it on at the
same time ; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily ami rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance- supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and s( ays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
nnv material whatever. lon can darn upon any i\o\en
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet boles do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine. , , . , ,
Any of these performances will be show at om shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a bck-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can he done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children s clothes
are intended to be altered. ,
We have a special word for husbands; When the day s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife- and perhaps the sis! or or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the w®rk with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her. but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost. If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
cro'wn a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
oreased comfort your household expenses Mill not be en-
larged but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences . The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your oyyn, earn-
ing or saving ‘fuonov as before. Is it not fairly to he
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
492 A 404 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Merchant, Sydney and Melbourne.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
SB, rsm bdcmms,
PONY CARTS, &c M &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
% 4m
%kmMi iiiiX
1
Melbourne Office*
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street*
Sydney Office*
22 & 24 Clarence Street
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus;—
#
XJSIG
DEBI& COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
HIGHLY NUTRITJVE*
oeoa
MAY Bt DRAINED IN LABELLED JlNS_oftf ACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Portable Houses
—FOB—
Fishing Parties, Surveyors, Miners, Squatters,
And GENTLEMEN’S SEASIDE RESORTS.
rvtilriren’B Play-Houses for the Lawn.
Đ
WILLIAM FLEMING
MERCHANT & IMPORTER,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET,
SYzonsriEY,
AND
No. 2 St. James’ Buildings, William Street.
MELBOURNE.
Drapery.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XH
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
A SHEET CLASS,
immmmmmi 0 0 i
o
z o
30 O
-B 33
CTS
merchants!
PA'4,
/
IS
L XJ
SlS''
%
■it
€
£
t<3
Si
W
r ° CHUStf&
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
CO
CO
o£
Eucalypte. Oiu
m
(i
Victory Ointment*
THE TREE OF LIFE I
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy.
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skir, diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabkth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
ows
R
EMBROCATION
¥
tw
■ yv
- V 4?
Ml
\\SO LD
'\e\/ery n where(l
m


HORDERN andl COMPANY,
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
FOE
For
IP 12/ ETT FT X) IP IE SSIE S I IE OIP S"W EBT UHL _A_ T S -A. XT ID POXTIN 3L X *cj !
POP CHAPMIFIG PAPACHXTESI XOE LOVELY GLOVES !
b ll kinds of Holiday Attire (Fashionable and. Reasonable)
YOU CANNOT EQUAL- —
HORDERN and COMPANY, 486, 488, 490 Georg*e-street, Sydney,
Next Koval Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
fCjjlpO
MPA NY, L
(Late G-unsler's Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MARQUAND, Manager-
■vvill be Publislied Shortly,
“A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and Verse
By ‘Bulletin’ Writers.”
A Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, sd. extra.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide * planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant’s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book, extra large,
Is. (id. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s. Aristotle, complete,
3s. 6d., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. 9d. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matrons Manual ot Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs; price 75., posted 7s. 6d.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price 6d.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. 6d.
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling any one to become an expert Boxer and
Atfilete, illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free. Agent for London Reynolds, Referee, Dispatch,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
Six* Robert Bear,
Radical Book Stores,
10M PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Cities’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... *200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
ISTew Business :
1887 There were Issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 34,(»84 „
1889 up to 2811 l October 48,838 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death,
JAMES P. GARY AN, \
WM. ALEX. SMITH, /
Managing Director.
Secretary.
burglary.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire. Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
All communications to be addressed to the
Managing Director.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
• THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDBES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask for the UT| S W 'NT ” CTG A R. _ . 0f aM .
Unequalled Uii l* n OU, Olixnn, Tobacconists,
D
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A
PRINCE'
. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
OF WALE S’ H O TEL,
S-t. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
Falls B ridge Family
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, &e.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURBAN! ... ... Manager,
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
JjDWIN G. GOERTZ,
Stock and Share Broker,
-A.GKBUSr'T,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
Bon Accord Estate,
WAVEELEY.
CHOICEST LAND in this FLOURISHING
SUBURB.
SALE of this VALUABLE SUBDIVISION,
on the Ground,
On SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14.
CLARKE and MTNTYRE have received in-
structions from the Trustees of the late
Francis Smith, Esq., to sell, as above.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
Terms ; 10 per cent, deposit, 15 per cent, in 6
months, and the balance in 5 years at 5 per cent.
ARTESIAN WELL SUPPLY 00-.
New York anil Pittsburgh,
Manufacture Everything for Oil or Artesian Well
Boring, Drive Pipe, &c.
Competent Drillers sent when Required,
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Aoknt,
22 and 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
-THE—
Christmas “ Bulletin ”
WILL BE
Published on Thursday Next,
19th DECEMBER.
NOTICE.
NEIGHBOURS.
A NEW NOVEL,
XV By the Author of “Tiff,” “A Great Mis-
take,” “Ruby North’s Lovers,” &c.
Is Continued in
UAMILY HERALD PART FOR
i 1 NOVEMBER,
Which contains also the continuation o£
fJIHE STORY OF AN ERROR.
A NEW NOVEL,
jT By the Author of “His Wedded Wife,” “A
Fatal Dower,” “Ladybird’s Penitence,” &c.
Also complete Stories, Essays, Answers to Cor-
respondents, Cookery, Miscellanea, Enigmas,
Charades, Riddles, &c.
UAMILY HER ALD PART for NOVEMBER.
Jl The Australasian says:
“ This favourite domestic magazine retains all
its old interest and variety. ”
The
P AMILY HERALD may be haa in Half-yearly
v Volumes and in Monthly Parts of all Gplonial
Booksellers and Newsagents; or the Monthly
Part direct from W. Stevens, 421 Strand, London,
England, for 14s. per annum, post free.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
OAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office—
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourne Branch: 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
A For Constipation, Indigestion
Stomach & Liver Complaints f
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA'
MIS
iU
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
VICHY
SPRINGS.)
GRAN DE-GRILLE. -For Affections of th«
Liver, Biliary Organs, A o.
GELEBTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goof
Rheumatism, Diabetes, Ao<
HOPITIL.— For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIVE. — An excellent t able Wataa.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Wool.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON &
__ , , 1 ■ 1 «- — .
Wool Stores: CENTRA!; WHARF; Produce Stores : CIRCITTiAR QUAY;
fHoU* 40 MAOQUARIHI STREET NORTH,
00.
SYDNEY


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Prankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
—THE-
Fresh Food & |ce Co.,
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over pee Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART I
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
"TOTeelslsr Accounts.
WOOHLa. WOOIj.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Reason, IBBBhB9 +
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rpHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
ISjf” Growers Advised and Consulted ivith before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
af Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
ISP’ Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loptus Streets.
Business Announcements.
P. C. NICHOELB & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
TSO Greorg'© Street, 736
IL A YMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
IjONG’S imperial hotel;
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LON& - - Late of New Zealand.
\n\ 1 / / / ,
V rHOTOGR/\PHIC „* s'
\ Views ImPo
R
O T E L,
Ten
YA L H
Esplanade,
ST. HILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY .... Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
I irst-olass Accommodation for V isifors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
Ď
Đ
THE BEST IN THE WOULD,
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
331 Clarence Street,
First Prize—MEIiBOUSHE EXHIBITION.
J. LUDOWICI & SOUS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
m
Tangye Pump
, Leathers.
All goods bearing the abbye Trade Mf3k are warranted to
give satisfaction, or ma| be returned at our expense;
o i / -
Office and Factory: IS2 Clarence-St., Sydney,-
Between King and Market Streets.
(YDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
OS KE3XTO-
(Directly opposite the Arcade)*
NOW OPEN,
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled,
an Establishment that Sydney can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons,
A largo staff of the very best Gentlemen Work-
men are employed in the Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OF
Gentlemen's Mercery* Perfumery.
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Cash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, Ac., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Daily and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen are invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m, SATURDAYS, 9 p.m.
We offer our services as Advertising Experts. We
can show you how to advertise, how to display, which
are the best media, how to make the most of your
money. Send for our
RY MAI TO HIS TRADE
Pamphlet on Advertising, and save money, time, worry I
and anxiety.—F. T. WIMBLE &Co , Advertising
| Contractors', 15 Post Office Chambers, Sydney.
Medical
.r-x
K 1
C 3
tl hm
, '
J
ss
4
* • *4
9 =r
E w ..
n\' %| S
ft
■ ,•>
v^d-"
*
\
■
r <saS
crx Q*
c;;
-- ' 44^’
The most distressing forms of itching aild infiam-
matory diseases of the skin and sCalp arO instantly
relieved and pcrmaaoutly cured by thd Cuticura
Remedies, wheil ail others fail.
OoticurA, the Great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
feoAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the now
Blood, Purifier, internally, cure every form of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply dis-
eases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss of
hair, from infancy to old age.
I have been cured of a most unbearable itching
skin disease by the Cuticura Remedies. They
have enabled me to escape years of suffering.
You may use my name as a reference, and any one
who, wants to know about my case may write me,
inclosing stamp. W. B. BROOE3,
47 Grove Street, Providence, 11. I.
I am a canvasser, and one year ago I was badly
afflicted with salt rheum, so that I was unable to
walk. I tried the Cuticura Remedies, and they
e_tirely cured me. P. E. PERRY, Romo, N. Y.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c, ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co,, Boston, Mass.
>B®* Send for “ How to Cure Skiu Piseosee,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials,
PIM
[PEES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
I oily chin prevented by Cutjcura Soap,
Two-yeafs ago. I_was attacked with eczema. I
feannot tell you what I snffpred, I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw .Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the CtrpicuEA
Remedies. I took seven bottles, .with the Cuti-
CUHA and Soap, and the result is a permanent
cure. I thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it bas proved all you said it -would
do, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY,Xeaveftown, Ohio.
I, John J. Case, D. D. S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-fivd years, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted ns I have been tor tile
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticura Rem-
edies cured toe of Psoriasis, or Scaly Skin, in
eight days, after the doctors with .whom I had con-
sulted gave me no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, D. D. S.
The Ceticura Remedies have permanently
cured me of dandruff and facia! eruptions w'hon all
other remedies had failed. Por nine months my
head has been entirely freo from the slightest signa
of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I wao
a boy, LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
D
Soft, white,-and free from-chaps and
redness, by using Cuticdba Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Ď
Đ
D
Dii
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
'FIRST QUALITY.
Bass 5 Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial &Indian Exhibition, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents: Balchin, Jo Imston & €© D 5 Sydney,
M. B, FOSTER & SONS, LONDON,
tc BUGLE” BEAUD .A. Xj IE A UnTID STOET.
PUBLIC )( NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed cff on the public
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear tlieii’ name anti address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Poster’s Bugle Brand - ’ offered
for sale without these corks, and capsules will be esteemed by the umhrsigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
23His3E3C I*I3JCT, C3IOCJKT£3 "jL“OI®" &: CJC3., Sycdney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
for Elberfeld lOooi*
(Specially Brewed Tor Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Doctor Sartor’s Wild-Boar Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
The whisky had gone round several times, but
there were no dead marines, for we sent the
youngest jaekeroo on the station over to the big
boss s house with a jug- when we wanted more.
Ihe -Duke kept a puncheon-finding it better and
cheaper to supply himself and us in bulk. I con-
fess that I had stretched my veracity to the limit,
although far be it from me to peril my immortal
soul for a tiger, elephant, or canvas-back duck. In
this tiresome wait between the second and third
jug the overseer said, “Scotty, Doctor Sartor has
been in India and has also had an adventure with
a wild boar.” Then he added, as an after-thought
a very wild boar !”
* * *
I shall tell you it as far as I can in the doctor’s
.own words, but I promise to omit shekhari, nullah
jmgal, cliillum, and chillumchee brandy pawnee
and kuch-purwanee, just to oblige my Australian
.readers. Thus the doctor : “You see, Mr. Scott
I was brought up as a medical man, and I’m only
a new chum yet. lam what is called Colonial
.Experience for old Drummer over there. You
-can’t expect a man to be a practised bushman all
;at a jump. Well, one day last year Mrs. Drum-
mer asked me to drive her to the Black Swamp
-railway-station. She was going to Albury, and I
had to bring the trap and a parcel back. When I
say to drive her, 1 mean to be driven by her •
•catch her trustin’ Dawvid Sartor wi’ the reins
when she was in the buggy. At the Stump I found
the parcel was a live pig of the boar breed, and
biggish at that. He was turned loose in the pub-
lican s paddock and I had to catch him, which,
of course, I could not do, so I got awful fou’ the
first day, and the second was like unto it; yea, and
would have been even unto this day if my money
would have stood it. W hen I was getting short of
cash, the publican, who, by the way, is cousin to
Mrs. Drummer, copped (that is his word) the
brute and tied him in the buggy and started me
ion the road. At the next pub., at 33ullybebung‘,
they persuaded me that the pig wanted a run and
:a drink so I let him out for a three days’ spin
My credit was good there and they had blank
cheques. But they knew Mr. Drummer would
soon want the buggy again so thev let me go on
the fourth morning; an old splodger (colonial
word again) caught him with a bit of liver and a
noose. I had only driven four or five miles when
bumping over a little gutter out shot the
porker, but luckily he was well entangled with the
ropes. On sober reflection I wish he had not been so
well tied for then he’d have gone to meet his master
the Deil. He was too heavy and savage to lift up
single-handed, so I took off my paper-collar and
wrote : “ This is Mr. Drummer’s pig—Bittern
Plains—trespassers will be prosecuted,” and was
about to tie it to his tail when a swagman hove in
sight. I had whisky ! so I got help to lift him up
and we—that is, swaggy and I—drove on to Galli-
pot station. Here the pig was really dry and we
gave him a run. The station hands promised to
help me in the morning to yard and ship him.
Ihey forgot that next day was Sunday, and then
they said they’d see me anythinged twice before
they d catch pigs with their best togs on. I drove
off in disgust, and, as far as I am concerned, that
wild-boar is at Gallipot to this day. But here’s
young Mr. Jack A 800 with the jug, and, indeed,
that is all I have to tell about my only adventure
with a wild-boar.”
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.


r: READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad vvatefi, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong's Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &0., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Bye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
nunjerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in 'cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &c. 8s fid; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough ’Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is (id; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s:
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 8s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsino Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 80s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is (id; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &o. Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz,
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &0., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per don.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s don.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline).for china,
glass, wood, leather, &o. 6d.& Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d ; 6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is6d; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment—the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 'ss &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c.—
all ready mixed. 6d ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. O. ARMSTRONG, G-eorge Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Larged Stock in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND EOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
Tub capital city op western Australia.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 pel' Foot,
BUILDING SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Uadi.
Small Jbeposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, IVtarked Plans, and full information
posted to any address bn application to
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limits!
06 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager,
-TUB-
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 It
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney OHlec: .... 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
=CLYDE=
SMELTING, CRUSHING and CHLORINATION
WORKS,
CLYDE, near GRANVILLE,
New South Wales.
/
Lead and Silver Ores,
ALSO,
Gold Concentrates,
Purchased in any quantity.
Miners and others are invited to send Small or
Large Parcels of Ore to the above Works, which,
on being assayed, Cash Returns will be at once
•emitted.
Tariff of Charges forwarded on application to
the Secretary at the Works, Clyde.
The Itritlsli mid New .South Wales Investment
and Financial to,, Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
T>ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
3 Years .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 0 per cent.
6 Months 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Komis on Rci ewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ti . 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
I
■A*
.
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon, George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church
Manager.
r
, r
SslHT§
□
<Sc
ftTants
N
ONM
r_ ■
Wg&
jg a aq I fei
™8
ROBERTS & 0 0.,
WHOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, B.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers’
Squatters’
Requirements
IN '
Great Variety.
* IMPORTERS OF-
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Couchbnilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR: .
Korting’s Gas Engines -The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines, and Weighbridges.
the
“PLUM”
1C A/OIL
.
THE
PLUM”
ItAXOIC.
WE recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try..,the “PLUM” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and we guarantee each Razor for two
years. Set ready for'use. Price,- single Razor, 10s. (kl. ; dr.a pair of Razors, Black Handles, in
Strong Leather Case, £1 Is, In Ivory, single Razor, 15s. Pair in case, 30s. Send P. 0.0. Every
Razor sent by Registered Post.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
“ POTOSI ” HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 G-EOEGE STREET SYDRTEY.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO 4. CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Ifavniinah Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ S’le. <3c IConilo”
Brand of Cigars and *• Empire Cigar: ”
JOA-IST. SULLIVAN
(Late of Brisbane Cafe),
Has bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter’s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o'clock everyday.
Medical.
PULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “ Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST Sc.
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strebt West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Hr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselvesof Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address : “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxfoe»-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Business Announcements.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Roller Flour and Grain Stores
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
WCOVtiRECt
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined, and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool S Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners)
Tea; Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c„, also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited..
MUSICAL,
"PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And .IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. Cd., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotel).
WE bog to inform our Friends and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVAi'7. LTJNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Moderate Charges—
mni cSs KikTC'Z,
PROPRIETORS.


Medical.
NERVOUS
m
ill
i
pra
dielectric BELT.
'
V<i> -
71*
\ v \
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system:
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 am
upwards. This famon ; Electric Magnetic Belt will cun
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in thi
Back, Lumbago, Giddiwss, Rheumatism, Kidney am
Bladder complaints, and in fart any disease of the Nervou:
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt hi
the wearer. It lias great improvements over all othei
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved therm
Belies what wo represent them to be. Those belts ar<
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three months
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any dis n a eof the Nervous System, will b«
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp foj
postage. > *
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, Q-. P. 0., Sydney.
Br. James B. Llewellyn,
L.E.C.P., M.E.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New Soutl
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Cfenito-Urinary Diseases
may be consulted daily at
-325 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
rv/' All Personal Consultations are free ; but bj
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail oi
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
‘‘lSiervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. (id. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, ‘' The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery,
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
X and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling - to those who have weak eyes, or whoso
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
P<sll + 1 Afi ? T ,le Public are requested to notice the
Wdu HUH ! words, Kosc s Celebrated Eye
lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor's extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
TK, A.* J]=t
Expensing and Manufacturing Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISiS. By J'ost (is. (id.
VW" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERV O U S
DEBILITY,
N
Consult FKF.U, FKR,SON ALLY, 01’ HY POST HERR HASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped s?lf-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Ilmui Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Pri.rj, £1 2s. Od. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address -
Herr Rass-M ',13.33 a, “ Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
SROTf’S INJECTIO.N.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT. FER ES,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney;
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
Dr.
WHY NOT CONSULT
iTd
SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR,
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m,
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
fit 'ST KT 3ES "ST.
Medical.
r WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Bills
c ha
PATENT
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on, the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box,
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them’ carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each hox they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, anl found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech AM’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in - the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
ft
CORE & rlOGG
ft
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cJTthe Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.BULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Hotels.
m
BOWDEN
HOUI
33?
BOWJDEKT’S hotel,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St ), Sydney.
JOHN €, BO WHEN ... Proprietor
WESTERN 3EIOTJSSX.,
AVarrnambool, Victoria.
miHcJ. old-established and well-known Family
h an 1 Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Glass Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkia’s
River, whi jh affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fish mg' Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. SOT Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Gold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
|3F“ Livery and Leltlu* Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Go. ’s Coaches. Thbs.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.,
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in' Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit,
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
SrS.OEi.c3L ! El.oei.c3. ! Elead S
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Eotany Bay,
Dy Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Frice ■» One SlxilLlixxs
Per post, Is. 3d.
Wholes ale Agents :
Victoria; A,’ Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: ,T. H. Thompson, Bookseller, Georgc-street.
Adelaide : Neville _& Co.,
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
E PPi’S
(jEATEF QL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Ď
SSAMU?A«TUR£RS
& IMPORTERS OF
ffjKil i« ■■ >' » , l
HATS CAPS it
438 SEORCE ST
■ 3VDNEYI
0/o/} 031 Ce Lass ttCert
■^V
f/
&
W'yp
Jwr
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
IANU FACTURING
HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
D
EY
S
Y
N
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST; SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
i '■ - -
(
m
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
! 8
o
NUFACTURED 6Y <S /
'JjVMCS CjHANNO/H JZarboirrSt A rr~!~
Sold. In, all Sas,p H ..A
: asasMsa
Business Announcements,
«|*HE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The 'Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND TUB i
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition fdr; our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and arc; suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
131. "XL SMITH SSz GO.,
494 Kent Street South, SYDNEY ;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send for Price List and Circular!
“NO TENSION" SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING,
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND ODES NOT INJURE HEALTH!
ALSO BOR
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Egg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE «5c CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearins and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*-
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. BBBISrASCOISri,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maher,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
Si. HILDER,
BOOT - UPPER MANUFACTURE 11
, IMPORTER OE
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Wei), Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■
5
PB&
ROLL
■ $ - Sf; ' ;!-:f '
:•*
■iJfef-J
s®
BjVckf/eld Hill. ——
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant. & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Phodcck, Livk Stock, etc.,
> received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order?
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-hrcd Poultry and Eggs for Settin”
to he addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyru-S
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-— The Sydney Bulletin..
O Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advanre). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, cr One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
ORTNCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
JL nearOpcraFouse,Bourkc-st.,East,Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Central 1 r
Situ ted.


SHEVILL CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Hinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS;
House; Land;, and Estate Agents,
SU
; ;
m
’
WmfttC
<:
m
Jt J
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce,
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted-
BElsciri
‘dlFticES
(
32 Cliapel St., Prabran.
2 Albert St., Windsor.
Branch
Office
*». a*.
IMPORTER OP
± IST' IB S* * SIP r lES ± T i3| x lE3 IE IB l£?< £-3, * BIO.}
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
. . . . ■ „,
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); w. Jameson’s, Dunvillk's Hoe’s and Wise’s (old C'ori) Whiskies.
Mknnkssy’h, Maetkll’s and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in tvood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. fST” All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Mfiolesale an ft fftngle Bottle l)cjiai|tmcnts, anti
——- SEND FOR A PRICE LIST,
FIRST-CLASS LADIES 1 REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
fiffiPS STHEFIT (Opposite A; Horcitst’ii &
„ , r .. „ )x( .
Produce Stores* Gipps Sts, and Darlingimm Hoad;
HEAD OFFICE: GIPFg SUBSET (Nest Fringe of Wales Hotelj.
ALLAGH BROS.’
Đ
ssraErw’'
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
Yorit Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10.600
IProm ILOs. Ocl. ■fco sSSScs*
BAILEE & §
GENERAL AUCTIONEERS AND K TATE AGENTS,
325 Collins Strw*t, Melbourne. ami 61 Chaim
SI rod, South ¥arra.
3E»ar escripti -o ss. ss
~ in the “Eight and EifiV
„:1y Clife of KSflvous IdKntufr a«<l
Diseases, &c. A fcopy .of this hc;ok tfill
bfe gfeUt l>ee; sc«lod» for Rix Penns* RAnirt'T.
Actdi’fts- ■
S. WARS & CO., SYDNEY PHASMaOY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tTi
m a
MA&ON BROTHERS,
D
Ď
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Hove always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only ,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass* < iiiiiii ami
K A R T H K N W ARE.
inS’Ek BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MEI, V I N AND SONS’
Edinburgh Bale Ale.
HR. xr.s.^,..
MEDICAL EXPERT—
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SeNfA
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & B First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
pßorsiKToa.
A
■ >
I La
m
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests r..-U.»»>fltss,
Strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant ar.d gl -fsy
growth ; also prepared in a 11 olden Colour.
R©¥i/LANDS’
©DONTO.
A rums, non-g kitty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Rem ves Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE 4.W«
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chomi.ds and Perfumers for ROW HANDS’
Article?, of 20; Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
'STEII3,
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H. p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
X«eft/fcl3.es.
mm mash is,
&0,, &c.
-■
■
- ■
wm
►SP.WK.-Vj
m ißß* '-:w?s
: iHS'-K
rikuUjtjy’.foivj
VSm!»
U
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUR-MILL ENGINES,
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Mtillituklar Sellers,
<OKM*II ItOISJJCS.
&0., &0.
We invite al those requiring M V;; rv of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or imt, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
12 0, 131, 133 & 135 EiA-ST STKEET, HAYMA.HKIE T, BY33WEY.
