

A V'Z, to.
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the beat Ale or
-Lancet.
For CONVENIENCE, and DURABILITY is the DESIDERATUM.
ilfHii
allilllSL .
ni M isim ifirt 1
«
KIIUI
l? 1 '
Extract from Sydney Morning Herald of
August 15th, 1888, referring to the exhibits in the
United States Court, Centennial International
Exhibition, Melbourne, says “ A little more to
the Westward, the visitor finds a platform on
which are placed a number of Hammoquette
Reclining Chairs, one of the latest things from that
ingenious class of Americans who devote their lives
to the invention of objects which shall minister to
the fastidious tastes of the invalid, or meet the
luxurious demands of the wealthy. The Hammo-
quette Chair, constructed mainly of American ash,
coloured to resemble mahogany, is shown by R. B.
Jones, 6 Bridge-street, Sydney, and can, at will,
be made to assume a great variety of shapes. It is
difficult to conceive a more valuable addition to a
sick room, library, study, or verandah, than the
Hammoquette Chair must prove.”
* T
Parliament House, Melbourne,
Mr. R. B. Jones.
Dear Sir, I have much pleasure in stating
that the nine chairs I purchased from you have
given me every satisfaction. —Yours truly,
M. H. DAVIES, M.L.A.,
Speaker Legislative Assembly.
M4
mm
m
m
fife
nn.bmn P^ iW " al .“’ un , t .of'^Mtortjm"the occupaut by the perfect flexible support that it affords the whole body. The ease with which a change of
K , effected .>. the readiness with which 10 adapts itself to the form and follows the movements of the occupant in the many conges of position, affording comfort-
hold the chair" P' 'Sl U°'l’ 1 ’ “ Up " g ‘‘ 3 * reolmm * ba a “ ain <> d at will . “° special mechanical device is required to
So Nicjly balanced Jare theJOperating Parts of this Chair ' ' '
h making m cffm-tin. changing: his position; the 0..a,r and occapant move in ccS'aion. piece of mechanism.. This nicety of
Icin’o. 1“ w kf“ SJ ,pj : 1 J fr,at ?l th l Mat ’ aai , bd instantly adjusted to suit the centre of gravity of the sitter, t sereby establishing
Mowing the movements of the occupant in the many changes o/poAion. an!
There is no Upholstering whatever about this Chair,
it especially luxuriant and desirable for summer use. A tidy or loose cover of any material can be attached to the chair and removed at will; but nothing of the
( Y om ° r i a v v Wh ? US6< l the ctlair testlf y- Tha le g' rest is Ponded with a folding foot-board that can be used in a position to support the feet,
or folded down, allowing the limbs to be extended as shown in cut.
The Chair Folds Compactly without Disconnecting any of its Parts,
"S’ and car , l be handl . ed and operated by a child ten years old. The Hammoquette Chair meets a long recognised and unsupplied want, by possessing the following
Si ; ®4«ally comfortable f er or winter ; it is convenient to handle and can be easily moved from house to lawn ; it is suitable for parlour, sitting-room,
omce, verandah or lawn ; it affords comfort and rest for the weary, the invalid and the lounger.
' ' m
A..
m
s m
f*
m
m
j hi i
r |||.
> . fmm>
I
Wlfft
>•#l/
PE
. ‘ "1!
i
• ■
K>
m
m
w
Dear Sir, — I have the pleasure to state
that the two “ Hammoquette Reclining
Chairs " you supplied me with some months
since prove very satisfactory. I consider
them the best thing 1 of the sort that has come
under my notice.—Yours truly, THOMAS
SAYWELL, Sydney.
Sir, —I have had one of your
“Patent Hammoquette Chairs ” in
use for the last eighteen months.
It was presented to me on the eve
of my departure for New Zealand.
I found it most comfortable and
easy during a rough voyage, and
whenever I left it it was sure to be
“jumped” by some lady. The
chair has been in constant use in
my house ever since, and is in
complete repair. All who have
used it proclaim it to be the most
comfortable and cool reclining
chair they ever sat in.—Yours
truly, R. LYONS, “Ellerslie,”
Rockhampton, Queensland.
mm
)
mm
*« O -J
This Chair stands unrivalled as a
for Winter use.
Summer Chair, and with a Rug Tf U UVCI JLU 10 uug
Illustrated Circular forwarded on application to either
L x
thrown over it is the most luxurious .Lounge
R. B. JONES,
0 Bridge Street, SYDNEY ;
PETKE, FARRELL & CO.,
54 Collins Street East, MBLBOUB.NB ;
J. F.
Stanley Street South, BRISBANE
The Bulletin


TO BACCO
IIXSOPSONS
O u £
*
C 3
☆
X
<</
o
<?00T
ISIR ROGER
o
C 3
m
o
DIXSONS
;01LBIOR HOTBB, ohaetibb
TOWERS.
Brick Hotel Building crectedlln cboTC
■United corner o GUI end Church Street!.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles and used in treat
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL-SALT
DIU^TIC,bntasw?APEVIEHT S itßhoufd betoken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To merease the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the world.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
V
ram
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. — An excellent Table Water.
OP ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
Ean de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J, & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark—“'White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
|L L A
A. BAR B'H'A L L A 0 O.f
Enqinbebs, Ooppkbsmithb, Bbass and Bhi.l Fodndibh,
PIUMBHBB, GABTITTHBB, SHIP & GUNBBAI SMITHS, AB® & MKDIAIVAL MBTAL WOMKBMB
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
▼Sritr’> O* Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prlces-11.000 Fires already In use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear. Yacht and Boat. Work of every description in
or Brass, Ships' Single and Double Action Valve Closets. Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
MM ACCOIB irenu, $ Maewaarle Place, Sydney, and Stanmere Bead, Petersham.
IM‘IiEAN '.BROS., BIGG, & CO.,
i IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
#
REG
SPECIALITIES s
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, Ao., *O.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH 1
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
bt Staking
mis E’s rum mimesis.
(* Oools'the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretion)
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THK BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS
(Vi&t-Medical Testimonials, Analysis, etc,, accompanying each boUU).
TAKE S ONLY KRUSE’S.
gold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Wholeslae Massrs. ELLIOTT BROS.I Ltd
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
84 COLLINS STREET EAST.
■a
■pSSSKSU cp.-r
itoodTSd -
iMftds
Tw **>dlcf
Dot., 1888
£1*0,4«
01,630
08.681
133,8*8
300.106
Tw *nd)B(
Got. 1886
4860,000
120,000
301,600
347,840
*61,086
Te*r ending
Oot., 1887
. £481,126
200,086
. 391,360
807,828
787,990
Tewr ending
Got., 1888.
. £680.000
261,015
. 1,123,949
•25,826
. 2,048,951
following Kates s—« month*, 7P« •««*•1 8 month*, 8 p*»
Social Tern, for longer period*^
SAVINGS* BANS BRANCH.
f» Pmoni who
ATTHEIR DBl'Uaira n-nina-a-in
a* th* very best onportnnlty Debtor, in this branch
n*r anism vp™ their Patty Baton*.
■ ••«£*• Firm pw e® l *** * -
oIRiJ PBMS~lor"BorrowerN. TS&MS LIBERAL.
I i i I! _ _
isri;; lu : •
I
I il rSl*~*» ? S- P ■_ C’. r;» ••S‘
v- . mn*t ftjrjfl
*Kft*lSWa
' *:■*• ‘‘ fi
L_J|
I ■lllfwiSall I* 1 -• •!
J J ! II '■ Ji
TTr : r^^~ff jjT.l L ~ >._•
| i'Hltk- > ' ?
; *aal
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
125 Contributing Shares
AN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME spon Payment of la. P»
ghlre Entrance Fee, and the Payment* upon theae Share* aw I*
per Fortnight until *uch Payment*, together with Compound InUtm
•mount to £26, when that mm 1* paid over to their holder* la Oa*
The holder, of tie Flrat I*aue of the*. Shaw, received In Oolebw.
1886, £26 I*. 9d„ toward* which *um they had Contributed
gi a) at the rata of I*. per Fortnight for 11 year*.
■•m. wn im (•. Mh w-
WDXUI DOHKKTT -
OlMtnwm*
UUIg.IMMiMV*
J
"—" THE __ __
Federal coffee palace
ooßiram o»
-ri ey £& ColllXXS Streets, - a.X3a.®»
' Obtaining 660 BOOMS, b now wpl.be with ot«t -""done to. the 00-nfort of Yhttow.
PRIVATE SUITES of Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine *n
Appointments Unequalled in the City. Art
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL " GROUND FLOOR,
Ln iU With excellent Urn*. ere. *J » eq«t«»°eS OUt. el** br . M oMWS •*
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROO
_ HOT, GOLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT poster always in attendance.
Georyc Cohen
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO-
Manas**'


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—Ho 475.
SATURDAY, MARCH 83, 1889.
Price, 6d.
. If
“Justice" Windeyer.


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 PlTT-STRBET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ••• ••• £10 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
•we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which yoxi may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every iveek
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MARCH 23, 1889.
The Horrors of Philanthropy.
Some day, when the world Is In an Ironical
mood, It will probably arise in its might and
hang a professional philanthropist. Many
years have elapsed since one was hanged,
and the course of events suggests that the
time is near when a sacrifice will become
absolutely necessary unless philanthropy
itself is to die out. In the early days of the
Christian Church sincerity and devotion
were ensured by the occasional boiling of a
bishop, and corruption only began in real
earnest when bishops ceased to be boiled.
There was no particular principle Involved
in the fate of the cooked prelate ; he was
offered up according to no fixed rules or
regulations; the pagan O-Zesak, cf the day
was probably lingering with his courtiers on
the marble terraces of his sumptuous palace,
and as he watched the sun descending in its
red and golden splendour into the waters of
the tideless sea he would remark, with the
blase air of a man who has exhausted every
pleasure and is treading the listless round of
dissipation for the hundredth time : “ It is
dull and weary this placid summer eve—let
us fry a Christian.” A Christian was fried
in these old, buried ages, simply because he
was a Christian, and the intensely earnest
life of the primitive church suggests that the
successors of Augustus adopted the surest
method to promote religious zeal among the
sectaries of Galilee. But at last a time came
when the prelates of the Christian faith
began to die natural deaths, and then cor-
ruption advanced with gimt stride?, until,
In the course of six centuries, the Church
became a warring horde of over-fed deacons
and lying priests and dirty saints and
homicidal monks, and her second regenera-
tion did not commence until the serried
hosts of the Moslems rushed down from the
southern deserts, and began to boll bishops
once more. There Is a lesson to be learned
from the frerzied struggles of Christianity
and Paganism, as the votaries of the old
creed and the new fought their last battle
amid the dying idiocy of the ruined empire,
and that lesson bids ns make haste to hang
a philanthropist before philanthropy Itself Is
dead. And if one philanthropist Is not
sufficient, let us hang several.
• * •
Modern philanthropy, summed up in a
sentence, Is a scheme by which the Inflated
land-stealers and usurping monopolists of the
day give back as little as possible of their
stealings to those whom they have plun-
dered. It Is a cheap mode of Insurance
against riot and revolution, against Social-
ism, Communism, and universal anarchy,
and It holds out prospective advantages,
both in the present and in the future state,
which are of a certain—though rather in-
definite—value. A few months ago a
scheme of universal benevolence cim-
blned with a larger rate of Interest than
could be obtained by hard-heartedness and
cruelty, was propounded In Sydney for the
housing cf the labouring population, and
among the class of Christians who are de-
voted to that large-souled chaiity which
brings in 10 per cent, much pious fervour
was aroused. The steady advance of the
wealthy capitalist is fast driving the toiler
on whom the capitalist lives, into the re-
motest suburbs of Australia’s cities, and the
time appears to be within measurable di-
stance when the proletarian will be crowded
into the sea from absolute want of standing-
room. The rich man, it is true, is physically
very little more imposing than the penniless
workman ; an Inconsiderate Providence has
neglected to make him as large as he feels,
and his feet occupy no more actual measure-
ment than do the coarse extremities of his
unculturtd relative ; bub nevertheless he de-
mands an excess of space, and 1 the gradual
multiplication of wealthy citizens is already
leaving little breathing room for the landless
multitude. People of wide sympathies and
a love for 1.0 per cent, began to feel worried
at the Idea of the labourer being crushed
fiat against the walls of society, and at last
a band of affluent gentlemen drew up a
scheme for crowding the ignorant thousands
on top of each other In huga pyramids of
living humanity, in order that Christianity
might be combined with massive dividends,
and that benevolence might be the
most profitable virtue quoted In the
Stock Exchange lists. Down in the
darksome slums, amid dust and discomfort
and disease, surrounded by the hundred
distinct and separate stenches which distin-
guish civilisation from barbarism and make
the Christian long for Paradise because there
are too many loathsome odours on earth,
environed by oaths and eternal racket, shut
out from the sunshine and the blue sky and
the free air of heaven, gladdened by a cease-
less, concentrated panorama of goats and
dogs and cobble-stones, mud-carts, dirty
Infants, slatternly mothers, lounging fathers,
larrikins, omnibuses, public houses, police-
men, Chinamen’s barrows, decaying cabbage-
stumps, broken bottles, rusty jam- tins, ex-
ploded hats, scents of beer, scents of gin,
scents of whisky, otto of cat, chloride of
horse, and the thousand other adjuncts of a
free white man’s existence, and cheered by
the inspiriting view of over the way, it was
proposed to lay the foundations of a great
nation, and to rear the young Australian
people in the aroma of an everlasting wash-
ing-day In which nothing was ever washed.
The mental picture brings us back to our
starting-point, and the necessity for hanging
a philanthropist again stares us In the face.
Too much human progress has made the
land on which Australia’s cities are built so
precious that It will soon be fit only for the
occupation of the rich. Intrinsically, it is true,
these little patches of soil are worth no more
than any similar area of ordinary dirt, and
compared to many of the alluvial plains of
the Interior they are barren dirt at the best.
The earth of which they are composed has
changed, certainly, from its natural state,
but the change has only left It a thousand
times more sterile than ever it was before.
Man has piled up bricks and mortar on ifr,
and he terms them progress ; he dispenses
rum on it and designates that Christianity ;
he has covered it with loafers and parasites
and swindlers and has adorned it with
machinery for dealing with these social ex-
crescences when they are so dull as to be
found out, and this combination answers to
the name of civilisation. The earth on
which Sydney or Melbourne is built Is worth
no more lu itself than the soil which lies
along the deserted banks of the Euphrates or
the dull brown plains which stretch away
from the treeless shores of Tiberias ; the sea
which washes the edges of these cities is the
same as in the day s when the unlettered
aboriginal was prepared to barter away a
whole province for a blanket and a toma-
hawk—excepting only that civilisation has
poured its accumulated foulness into it till the
sluggish waters of the Inner bays are covered
with a vile green scum, and their shores are
polluted with the dirt and nncleanness
which are the landmarks of the advancing
Christian In every clime, yet this disfigured
and blackened land has become too expen-
slve for man himself to live upon it, and the
humble proletarian Is elbowed off the sur-
face of an unwholesome patch of soil because
Its unwholesomeness Is a holy thing, and is
reserved exclusively for the use of the salt
of the earth. The pioneers of a hundred
years ago trod on the shore and it began to
be valuable ; their numbers swelled and
multiplied, and as the gathering thousands
planted their feet on the beach every
uch of ground turned into gold ; and now
at tha close of Australia's first century
the earth has become so precious that; dis-
inherited man can no longer afford to tread
on the embodiment of so much wealih. Yet
values keep on increasing, and it becomes a
question of pressing Importance where the
human race is to go.
* • •
A mania for building and fostering useless
cities Is one of the curs as of modern life, and
it is In these teeming centres of humanity
that the blight of philanthropy Is most con-
spicuous. Benevolent asylums, religious
“homes,” model tenements, model lodging-
houses, charity organisation bodies, and all
the other pauperising and degrading influ-
ences of society are gathered together In
their streets to gauge the rising tide of
human misery and human wrong. The
wealth and the abject want of Australia are
alike centred among the unwholesome dwell-
ing-places of her great capitals. The railway
system of New South Wales converges upon
Sydney, and in every direction commerce is
diverted from its natural channels that the
overgrown city may levy a percentage upon
the entire Imports and exports of the
colony ; tha machinery of Government is
concentrated In it and a population equal to
that of many an important Inland town lives
by exhibiting its ignorance of the require-
ments of the nation at large ; following
these a multitude of financial Institutions
and gigantic pawn-broking establishments
have gathered themselves together In this
favoured spot, and the pound of flesh which
they exact from each Insolvent squatter or
agriculturist Is brought thither to be cooked
and eaten amid much rejoicing ; and along
with these the drones of the community—
the wealthy landowners who neither toil m r
spin, and the vast mass of non-producers who
live on the fruits of other men’s labours—
are assemb’ed by the waters of Port Jackson,
and their mansions stretch in long array
along the shores of the glassy harbour—fit
monuments of a social system which finds Its
chief support In huge aggregations of all the
useless elements of humanity; and simply
because men have gathered themselves
together in this favoured spot the soil has
become too expensive for man to live upon
it, and the air has grown too costly to be
inhaled by the lungs of the common herd.
* * •
Yet the poor, for whom insulting philan-
thropists build workhouses and establish
refuges and endow “home?,” on the erection
and maintenance of which they expend an
almost Invisible fraction of their stolen
wealth, are the sole creators of all these
hoarded riches, and it is their presence alone
which prevents their vulgar, gilded patrons
from degenerating Into hopeless insolvency.
The impoverished masses form at least nine-
tenths of the population of Australia’s great
cities ; it is their existence which gives the
land on which these cities are built its pre-
sent fictitious value ; If they are driven
away to make room for shops and ware-
houses and elegant suburban mansions until
they form new centres and rob Sydney and
Melbourne of their supremacy, then the
lands beside Port Jackson and Port Philip
will lose the artificial worth which population
has given them, and the fortunes cf the
wealthy landholders will vanish Into im-
palpable air. The tolling masses who are
huddled together in the slums of Botany or
Waterloo or Newtown the despised
labourers who live out their unwholesome
existence In the dingy thoroughfares of Col-
ling wood, are crowded together so that their
unsavoury presence may not make Itself felt
amid the tcanted breezes that blow over
Toorak or Darling Point; yet, if It were
possible that these multitudes could leave
their homes In one grand exodus the mere
fact that they had 'removed their poverty
and Ignorance and unsightliness, and
had left the air pure and uncon-
tamlnated for the aristocrats of the land,
would reduce half the jewelled beauties of
these gilded regions to eke out a precarious
subsistence by washing or needlework or
other menial toil. This fact Is the entire
basis of the Land Nationalisation movement.
As far back as history extends the mission
of the poor has been to make the land, by
their presence, valuable for the profit of the
rich, Instead of for the benefit of the com-
munity of which they themselves form by f ar
the largest proportion, and for thousands of
years their dull brains have refused to com ■
prehend that the state consists virtually of
the landless multitude, and that the so-called
lords of the soil are the merest excrescences
upon Its surface. If our cities were aban-
doned to morrow by the despised horde of
labouring slaves to whom a supercilious race
of sham philanthropists throw an occasional
dole In contemptuous charity, the fortunes
of this same horde of pompous benefactors
would vanish Into thin air, and the estits?
by virtue of which they insult the Intelll!
genca of Australia, would be as utterly value-
less as the rains of Baalbsc or Palmyra.
* * •
The day, however, is not yet come when
the people of Australia will rise In their
might and hang a philanthropist, and mean-
while the space In Australian ciiies which
the poor are privileged to occupy grows
steadily narrow* r. The ceaseless increase of
shops and warehouses, churches, hotels, and
similar structures fs fast driving them out of
the centres of commerce, and every outlying
spot with any pretentions to natural beauty
is monopolised by stately mansions with
smooth stretches of lawn attached, and
flowery gardens, and patches of park and
woodland. And as these multiply on
every hand the few square feet of
dingy back-yard attached to the work-
man’s cottage grows smaller and smaller,'
for the earth becomes too expensive even to
be trodden on by his plebeian feet, and at last
the cot age vanishes altogether and its place
Is supplied, fti an ac'i cf philanthropy, by the
hideous tenement house with Its accumulated
horrors of latter-day barbarism. And beyond
this yawns a still lower depth, when the
surface of our great cities becomes too pre-
cious to be cumbered by the disinherited
sons of Adam, and they make their homes
in foetid cellars scooped out beneath the
soil—such cellars and d ns as mark the
lowest stage of misery in subterranean Lon-
don, where man has gone back to the habits
of his cave-dwelling ancestors, though, un--
like them, he must labour night and day to
pay for the foulness and the darkness and
the slime of his appalling abode. It Is to
this end that the philanthropy of Australia
Is tending, afcd the natural end of sneh
philanthropy is revolution and chaos.
The earth is the landlords’ and idie full-
ness thereof. So are the stars and the sky
and the summer breezes snd the blue waves
of the sea and all the beauties which God
has created for the enjoyment of mankind,
and the poor, who get momentary glances at
these glories of nature, wonder, in their own
dull, Ignorant way, why everything that fs
fair should be created for the few, and
everything that Js ugly and vile should be
the heritage of the many. Wherever popu-
lation Is densely masted together the points
of vantage are occupied by the mansions
cf land'Stealers and monopolist?, and
the landscape Is shut out by blank,
grey walls and huge palisades lest the
eyes of the vulgar should chance to
rest even for a moment on s methlng fairer
than the dismal back streets in which their
dreary lives are spent. And meanwhile In
these same oDmal streets the storm la
gathering which will one day level the
palaces in the dust, atd the dynamite la
being secretly compounded which will
shatter the vast fabric of tyranny and cor-
ruption and greed into impalpable wreckage,
and the hemp is being spun with which the
despised multitude will hang philanthropists
when the world Is weary of philanthropy
and demands justice in Its stead.
Where the Ghost Walks.
‘‘ ’Ullo, ’ere’s ’Ennikbe hat ib agin 1” says the
funny man of the company when he reads in
the Sydney Morning Berald that the member
for Canterbury in the House of Commons
had compounded an action for £SOO brought
by one Robert Dennis, who claims to have
written the articles in the National
Review, the letters in The Times, and the
speeches in the House of Commons with which
Henniker Heaton bombarded Mr. Raikes and
the public concerning his pet hobby of Ocean
Penny Postage. Half the smart men in Sydney
have employed themselves in letting off satirical
squibs against Henniker since the cablegram ap-
peared, and the item of <nfe'wa seems to have
refreshed the would-bs wits 'of the city immensely*
Probably nqbody was much surprised at anything
but Mr. Heaton’s stupidity in letting the matter
become public. Very few people supposed for a
single moment that he had personally got up the
imposing tables' of figures which enabled him to
inform the world how many half-ounce letters
weighed a ton, and how much a ton a shilling an
ounce came to, and how many letters and post-
office orders Australians sent to Great Britain,
Germany, Italy, Prance, Denmark, and other
places ? Everybody knew that there was what is
now known as a “ ghost ” in the background. In
other words, that somebody had been “ devilling”
for Heaton as Sydney Carton in the “ Tale of


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
B. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations In addition to all usual banking
business.
T. S. RICHARDSON ... Managing Director.
Directors:
Interest on Deposits :
12 Months
Two Cities’’used to “devil” for Mr. Sergeant
Steivee, of the Common Law Bar, and as many
successors of that unfortunate genius have since
‘‘ devilled ” or “ ghosted ” for other prosperous
barristers. # ,
But, while we all have cur little snigger at
TJennikee, who really does seem rather out of
nkca as “astatesman,” “a statistician,” “apostal
reformer,” and all the reit of it, we may just as
well remember that he is not the only would-be
ereat man who is indebted to a friendly and
well-fed “ ghost,” for the means whereby he
makes his little sensation. The “ ghost ”
is an old institution in England, and has
long been acclimatise! on Australian soil to
which, indeed, he takes very kindly. Do you
suppose, for instance, that when the Right Honour-
able Baron Yawnington condescends to open his
capacious jaws from the chair o! the annual
festival of the Distressed Bootblacks Yankee
Grab Institute, he has himself found out the facts
on which bis languid sentences aie based—when
he tells you that “This society was originally
started under the auspices of my noble and gifted
predecessor, Lord Leanpurse, nearly 14 years ago,
when 127 members enrolled themselves and raised
i n the first year funds to the extent of £219 6s 2^d.,
and that in the 14 years of its existence it has
distributed no less than 4215 packs of cards to
distressed persons who otherwise could not rave
known the delights of poker he has searched
the secretary’s books for those fact on his
own behalf and himself licked the statements into
shape ? By no means. There is a ghost behind
bim —a lean and grisly phantom with a long
nose, and without the “ ghost ” the figures would
have remained in limbo and the chairman must
have been, dumb. When a “jaynil dimmicrat ’
turns cut to have been cultivating Cicbeo at a
time when the world supposed he was cutting
carcases into chops, and devouring Demosthenes
when he was believed to be making out butchers
bills, there is a very strong presumption of a
“ ghost ”in the background. How could a highly-
respested Exhibition Commissioner possibly be
flash of comparative statistios if some one did not
play ghost whi'e he played ladies’-man and burn
the midnight oil on his behalf while he capered
nimbly in my lady’s chamber ?
* * •
Even editors have “ ghosts,” be sure of that.
When Goodman Puff spouts at his club over the
virtues of Sir Henry Pabkes until four in the
morning, and yet cmtinues to stick three or four
articles in that very morning’s paper proving in-
contestably that the country owes that genius a
saving of four millions on its annual budget, you
may reckon with certainty that a “ghost ” got up
the ponderous calculations and long-winded argu-
ments which drive the interesting conclusions
into the popular mind. When H.R.H. informs
the public “ that his lamented father founded the
association on whose behalf he now appeals to you,
and that it has been the means of carrying sweet-
ness and light into 14,000 homes by supplying
each of them with a family Bible and a copy of
the early years of the Prince Consort” the voice
of the “ghoit ”is heard, though it is H.R.H in
person that speaketh. In short, wherever a man
gabbles continually in public and yet fpouts
statistics which can only be discovered by earnest
research be sure the ghost has been basy. Glibley
produces his budget, and Muddiboy pleads for
the squatters, and Delvee informs you how much
has been got out of the mines or the Customs.
You may hear the clank of the ghost s chains if
you care to listen, since talkers were never yet
workers, and workers have a pretty honest disdain
for talk. Indeed, of the two, the “ghost ”is by
far the more respectable person, since he does
hard labour for small gain, while the orator he
prompts and feeds with facts receives not only the
praise but also the solid pudding with which their
joint exertions are rewarded. As the world wags
the ghost is a very necessary person, and Henni-
ker Heaton has very many eminent predecessors
and companions in his employment of so useful an
aliy.
Yet Hknniker is not guiltless of a big crime.
He has managed to be found out, and that is the
one unpardonable sin. He has called attention to
a common, practice whereby many prominent men
secure great popularity, and he must, conse-
quently, be prepared for a good deal of cold
shouldering. If Dens is claimed £SOO there would
have been a clear saving in giving him that sum
at once, instead of £4OO down and £2OO in cos*’?,
to say nothing of the humiliation which will
befall Heaton when he next addresses the House
of Commons and is saluted by the wicked Pae-
nellites with cries of “ Bravo, Dennis !” The
truth is that the “ ghost ” must be pacified or he
always shows himseT, In legendary lore the
ghost disappears for ever when_ the buried treasure
is restored to the rightful heir. In the modern
political world the “ghost” only disappears when
prompt payment is tut into his own pccket.
Richelieu frightens Baeadas in the play when
he shouts: “Walk on, behind you stalks the
headsman !” Our statesmen might tremble if an
opponent said : “Go on, behind you stands the
‘ghost.’” For the most part, however, they
satisfy the ghost with a billet in the Civil Service
or a post in the magistracy, and only now and
then a blunderer like Hennikee allows the ghost
to walk visibly into the Law Courts,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
One Man One Vote!
The cry of “ One Man One Vote,” which
was first raised by The Bulletin soma
years ago, and which was nude the sub-
ject of three separate articles in this journal
during the late electoral campaign, has been
adopted, without acknowledgment, by Sir Henry
Parkes; and is already passed off on the public as a
great principle which owed its origin to the fertile
brain of the Foreign-trade Premier of New South
Wales. In his latest public oration he accepted-
the principle of genuine manhood suffrage as a
prominent plank in his political platform, and now
it is the duty of Protectionists and Freetraders
alike to see that this promise does not drift into
the same oblivion which has swallowed up the
Local Government Bill, the Amending Land Act,
and a dozen other reforms which are perpetually
promised and which never came to pass. _ For
many years Parkes has traded on a long list of
important measures which he has blocked, every
time they came within reach, by means of imbecile
proposals for altering the name of the colony, by
insane schemes for building tombs to thank
troops in, and by a thousand and one fads
and lunacies which, with a magnificent disregard
for accuracy, he has invariably described as
the factious obstruction of an unpatriotic Opposi-
tion ; and as the natural result of this system he
has been in a position to trade at half-a-dozen
successive elections on a policy which is practically
indestructible because it is never used. Local
Government, irrigation, mining reforms, land re-
forms, financial reform?, and the abolition of
plural voting are the leading items in his present
programme, and except for the last and latest-
cadged item it is the same old programme which
Parkbs has preached, but never practised, for the
past 10 years or more. The Local Government Act
nas been judiciously blocked, for the creation of
such a measure means the abolition of Ihs right to
make roads through the property of prominent
supporters, and the final destruction of the old-
established system of gaining votes by the premise
of roads and bridges and all those other mis-
cellaneous works which were offered by Paeees
with such a lavish hand during the late campaign.
Financial reform has proved to mean only new
deficits ; the promised improvement in the mining
laws has hitherto consisted merely in the appoint-
ment ‘of an illiterate boitmaker to supervise the
mining department; and as the establishment of
manhood suffrage involves the destruction of these
multiplied votes which enable the BurdeKins and
the M'Millions to man down the great Protec-
tionist majority among the landless toilers of New
South Wales that measure will doubtless go the
way of all the rest. For these and many other
reasons we believe that Sir He nry Par res’ purpose,
in annexing as his own the pol’cy which The Bulle-
tin inaugurated and in attempting to jump the
resolution for the abolition of plural vo iog,
set down upon the notice-paper by Mr. Traill,
is merely to trade upon a reform which, like all
the other reforms which he has traded upon for
many years, he dare not carry into effect. If,
however, the old politician is indulging in the un-
wonted emotion of sincerity, and really intends to
do one great and statesmanlike act to mark the
closing years of a career which has been a woeful
incubus upon New South Wales, we call upon him
t<-> introduce, among the earliest acts of the
Administration, a Bill consisting of two or three
clauses at most, setting forth that in future each
citizen shall exercise one vote in one constituency
only, and stand or fall by the result. Let all
other complicated questions of electoral reform
stand over, so that the one essential issue may not
be hampered by a multitude of pstty details
which will lead to wrangling and opposition and
eternal postponements; let the Dead-House
Scheme and the question of calling New South
Wales Australia, and all other paltry lunacies of
the kind, stand over and leave a clear path for the
new measure, and for once The Bulletin will
enjoy the unwonted pleasure of supporting Sir
Henry Parkes with the utmost of its energies.
The question of “One Man, One Vote” is of
supreme importance because, without it, the real
wishes of the country can never be ascertained ;
and if the Freetrade Premier is willing to intro-
duce this great measure without delay and to
promote it whh all his power and influence, we
are convinced that the great bulk of Protectionist
votes will go with him, and even should he be
doserted by four-fifths of his own follower?, he
will still secure a triumph.
+
“A Civilised land ! ”
The sort of sickening cant that goes down at any
“ official ” meeting of any kind in Eng 1 and would
be simply amazing, if its solid root in £, s. d. were
not so obvious. The upper racks of the Eoglish
classes monopolise all the good appointments in
the Army and Navy, in the ForeDn and Colonial
Offices, in the Church, and even the Bar These
are simply run in the interests of all the younger
sons of the “ good families ” and of the bankrupt
heads of the same There is nothing surprising in
this. The British nob has the power and he in-
tends to use it. The country, the great mass of
the toiling and suffering taxpayers of England,
provide the money, and, as they are fools enough
not to demand that their own c’ais shall have a
share in spending it, that is their own look out.
Meantime the solemn farce of talking the most
appalling nonsense on the subject is ceaselessly kept
up. For the sake of the stupid English tax-payers
aforesaid, a bankrupt peer or some person
whose presence in England is embarrassingly awk-
ward to the party in power is regularly launched
out upon the colonials with salvoes of official high
falutin as to his patriotism, noble-mindedness,
and all that fort of thing. Lord Onslow, New
Zealand’s future official fiddler-in-chief, just
before he left England was entertained at a big
gorge by the London Freemasons, and all the
usual bunkum of the above description flowed as
freely as the gooseberry champagne. But
it was reserved for Onslow himself to do
the consummate act cf back-scratching on
the auspicious occasion. When the feast of
grovel and the flow cf gush was at that tide in
the affairs of post-prandial speeches which leads to
abject imbecility, “the noble Earl” rose to bis
feet, and spoke “in enthusiastic terms of the
young, strong, prosperous country that he was
going to govern.” (Applause) Loud cheers
hailed his announcement that “ it was a country
which was loyal to the backbone,” because, of
course, the poor old fool obviously knew all about
it, having never been there before and imagining
that it was a sort of howling back-woods, swarm-
ing with millionaire miners, convicts, or Soudan
sand-trappers. But his final effort was yet to
cone As nobody else had done the “patriotic ”
spout about him yet, and did not seem likely to, it
struck him that he had better hurry up with it him-
self. So he began to lay it thick on to Kintore, who
was going out about the same time. After giving
him a good big boost up as a man and a brother
Mason, he led off in this style : “ It was an
augury for the future of the Empire that there
were men who were willing to go away and leave
the pleasures and comforts of a civilised land
for a very few years for the pleasure of promoting
the welfare and happiness of the Empire.” There
you have it ! Onslow and Ktniore are a couple
of heroes because they “ are men who are willing
to leave the pleasure and comforts of a civilised
land’’—and “for a very few years, too”—and take
up their abode in the miseries and discomforts
of “ exile ” in the blawsted kawlinies for the
pleasure of pocketing a big screw, doing
absolutely nothing, and “ promoting the wel-
fare and happiness ” of the Empire in
general and the blawsted kawlinies in par-
ticular. No, no, Keynd Friends, it’s too
thin! It’s too awfully, unutterably thin I
This sort of thing may go down in grand old
England, but it’s not worth a cent out here.
We’re getting full up of it. It’s played out. You
may be able to teach your British grandmother to
suck eggs, but your Australian grandson has been
there already. Tne Governor Mutual Advertis-
ing Company is frightfully shaky. All it dres is
to remind us of what the early Christians say the
other people used to say about them. “ See how
these Governors love one another! They’ll always
scratch each other's backs ! ”
♦
The “ Preachy Man ” of the Isles.
Down among the sun-lit coral isles of the great
South Sea the cause o! Christianity keeps march-
ing on. The cheap tomahawk trade is active,
and copra is looking up, and there is a boom in
cocoanuts, and firearms and rum are in demand ;
and so long an all these great essentials of
salvation are moving the cause of holiness will
never die. “ Gib it bacca 1” is the cry of the saved
Islander—the whining, thieving, drinking, abject
savage who soaks himself in pray er and rum and
Sunday-school and is the pride and ornament of
the native mission, and this abased and wallowing
disciple stands before the we rid as the choicest
fl iwer and’product of the great system of which
the “white fellow preachy man ” is the founder.
The South Saa Islands are the favourite home of
the soi-disant Christian missionary. Far away in
the remote and frozen north the Greenlander feasts
on his whale fat and oil, and lives in his snow hut,
and shivers on the surface of his ice-bound seas,
and the p'ous t c aeher leaves him to go
to Sheol in his own way ; and in a
hundred other waste and barn n places the
idolater is being damned with painful regularity,
but as these places afford no scope for land-
j ebbing, and there are no cocoanu* s to grab from
she faithful, and no sandal-wood or hides or fruits
or coral or curios to export, the Church doesn’t
care a hang. But in the great archipelagoes of the
Southern Pacific things are different, On every
pleasant dreamy sun-lit isle the missionary has
planted the blessing of his large fl »t hoof, and his
congregation have built him a stately mansion
with infinite toil and pains, became if they didn’t
build it their souls would go to eternal perdition ;
and almost all the land belongs to him because if
the natives refused to give up their land they
would be lost for evermore; and a hundred de-
luded, grovelling heathen cultivate for their
teacher’s sole benefit the soil which their teacher
has stolen from them, and receive no pay for their
labour, because if they refused to labour for the
autocratic snuffl ibuster who lies like an incubus
upon the islands, they would depart after death
to a shadowy region of eternal fire and unspeak-
able horrors. And in addition to all this they
pay a weekly tribute of cocoa-nuts to the white
man’s God and skirmish round to find food for
the capacious stomach of the pale apostle, because
the nigger who doesn’t turn up with his regular
cocoa-nut, or whose cocoa-nut isn’t big enough, is
expelled from the congregation of the Lokd and
drifts into the region of lost souls where there is
no redemption Attached to the missionary
household a dozen dusky maidens—the gentlest aud
prettiest that the island can produce -often minister
in mute adoration to the wants of the wonderful
white teacher, and gradually these daughters of
the Pacific become the mothers of a race of young
islanders, who have an unwonted tinge of red in
their locks in those places where the Word is dis-
pensed by a carroty apostle, and who exhibit a
tendency to be pale and flrbby and flat-footed in
regions where a big, oily, whale-like pastor, with
damp hands and splodgy extremities, is entrusted
with the blessed privilege of dispensing the
bread of salvation. As the mission prospers
a band of native catechists are appointed, who lift
the heavy end of the log of spiritual toil at a
small sum per annum, and the bilious head of the
Icoal church spends an hour or so daily in harry-
ing miserable, half-dressed deacons and em-
ploys the rest of his joyous life trading in cocoa-
nuts and copra, looking after his landed property,
and bouncing the native harem. If any minerals
exist on the island the congregation perspire with
pickaxes in the prospering industry, while the
pastor collars the specimens and sells the property
m a foreign syndicate ; and by strict attention to
business, and by vigorously kicking the native
members of the church whenever they show a
tendency to leave off their labours, combined
with the blessing of the Loakd, it frequently
happens that the clergyman of the South Sea
groups returns home with a vast pile of wealth at an
early age and spends his declining years in honour-
able retirement. Compared to the potential joys and
profits of being a penniless martyr in the coral isles
the rum industry is nowhere, and half the con-
spicuous mercenary sins of the earth ate insol-
vent For half a mile around the mami in
of more than one old-established preacher the soil
is paved with champagne bottles and littered
with empty cigar-box as ; for miles around the
earth is strewn with the graves of the natives who
have died from diseases, too loathsome to specify,
introduced by the mercenary, ignorant, hard-
drinking bearers of good tidings; everywhere
devastating wars are being conducted with the
axes which the pastor has swapped for acres of
land, and brains are btisg blown cut with the old
six-shilling Birmingham guns which the preacher
trades off for copra when he can’t get the copra
for nothing, and the elaborate fiendiehness of our
high-priced Christianity is turning the loveliest
spot on earth into a desert. Behind the preaching
trader comes the roving Chinaman—fit adjunct of
the species of civilisation of which the white mis-
sionary is the forerunner ; and hand-in-hand the
leprosy and the Scripture spread together, the
white man’s devil and the yellow man’s Joss are
brothers, and dissension, slaughter, gunpowder,
wholesale murder, drivelling hypocrisy, disease,
and demoralisation mark every footprint of the
European Christian in the Pacific.
+
The Track of the EarJhworm.
Abohibald Michie, Q.O , the other day emerged
from his respectable obscurity to attack Caief
Justice Higinboiham in a long drawn-out letter
to the Aegus. After supplementing several feet
of extracts from Mr. Higinbotham s recently-
published protests with several yards of references
to “ Royal Mistress,” “ Lord Chamberlain,” and
other venerable institutions, the angry Micaia
observes ; “ But as I have undertaken to convict
the Chief Justice of the offence of exceeding his
own duty, I hasten to redeem my promise as
briefly as possible.” He, therefore, proceeds
to go for a conviction in the o'.d bar-
risterial brief fashion, which consists in remark-
ing that the other side is a fool and leaving it to
the Court to say whether his a-gumeuts are not
unanswerable. In this case the akgcs editor
constitutes the Court, so the Q.C flattens down
his wig, in a manner of speaking, and alleges
that “ to gratuitously express disapproval of the
manner in which Her Majesty is pleased or ad-
vised to exercise her prerogative as the fountain
of honour, is a piece of ludicrous impertinence ”
A Mickie s sense of the ludicrous is not expected
to be very keen or wide in its scope, but it is
splendidly characteristic of the mind from whence
it springs. One might waste a lifetime in en-
deavouring to drive the point of a funny story
into the skull of Judge Higinbotham’s “con-
victor,” yet he can see at a glance the disgustxog
humour of any criticism passed upon the blessed
Royal Prerogat.ve. And we may venture to
assume that the Court (represented by the Abgus
editor) also relaxed into a terrible smile at the
thought of a subject having “views” about the
way in which the fountain of honour occasionally
plays up. AU the pith of Mickie s indictment
is contained in that italic sed quotation from his
address He spreads himself over a further half-
column without) appearing to get any forrarder.
He seems, as far as can be made out, to feebly
gibe at a “spirit of equality,” and to have a
sender regard for “ titles.” And in connection
with equality, or titles, or someihing, he trium-
phantly repeats that “ the Chief Justice has ex-
ceeded his duty in thus obtruding upon the unique
and exclusive functions of his Royal Mistress.”
A rohibald Michie, Q.O., has missed his mark
on earth. Providence intended him for an
old retainer of a very noble family, but
he has drifted into the Law, and his wig
is not powdered, as it would have been in the
state of life which he is fitted to adorn. When he
leaves this earth—and even our Gracious Queen
can’t keep us here for ever —he will, we hope and
trust, became butler to Archangel Michael, or
upper footman to Saint Petek Then will plain
Archibald Michie have a master whose preroga-
tive shall be above questioning, and upon whose
unique and exclusive furc ions none will dream of
obtruding. But the exclusive functions of a
mortal crown are always subject to the intrusions
of liberty, and have to be constanlly adapted to
the growth of common-sense. Michie’s ideas
about prerogative are simply inane, from a worldly
point of view, and he evidently forgets that
Charles I. had a whole barrowload of kingly
functions until 0. Cromwell committed a piece
of ludicrous impertinence in separating the Lord’s
Anointed at the neck Bot enough ! Darwin
built up his theory of the Descent of Man after
firtt studying the habits and customs of earth-
worms. And to properly understand the structure
of Imperialism, it is necessary to watch the
Mi chibs how they crawl.
+
Tlie Blessings of fcarcll/.
The wheat crop of New South Wales for the
present year is estimated to yield million
bushels, and as the necessities of the country are
somewhat over 8 million bushels it follows that
the colony must, somehow or other, raise the
money to buy G| million bushels of grain—or else
it must starve. Of the money thus begged or
borrowed or stolen to provide the necessaries of
life two-thirds will go to Victoria which, despite
an atrociously bad harvest, has still nearly
4,000,000 bushels to dispose of; and the rest of
the coin will be exported to New Zealand and
America and other countries, where the curse of
Protection enables the people to supply their own
wants and have a large surplus for exportation.
The Foreign-trade press of Sydney professes to
see in the famine-stricken condition of the mother
colony a sign of the beneficent results arising from
its favourite policy, but the old incoherent plati-
tudes about the blessedness of a nation which can’t
feed its own population are on this occision a
trifle more incoherent than usual. The News,
which, for onca, gets a little ahead of its usual
fiscal lunacy, speaks thus :—
la Niw South Wales they may buv in a free and open
market whatever they require. As they also obtain the
higher price for such wheat as they have it may be said
that their five bushels per acre is quite equal, if not
greater in value, to the seven bushels which is about the
average of Victoria. A singular and striking instance of
the value of Freetrade, and open ports, not only to the
agriculturists themselves, but to the community, is thus
afforded. To tha community, who have to buy over
0,000,000 bushels, the tax, wiih enhanced prices, would
have represented an addition of quite half a million to
the bread bill of the people. The loss to the agricultur-
ists of New South Wales on their present small yield
represents a money value of half a million sterling. But
if the area of land sown with wheat bad been sufficiently
large to yield the 8,000,000 bushels required, the loss to
the farmers would have been something like £4,000,000.
The disaster, therefore, great as it is, and much as it is to
be regretted, is not so terrible as it might have been, and
our farmers are, after a'l, better eff than those who, in
addition to the heavy losses by the adverse season, are
a'so afflicted by all round taxation. Events also show
that the people are likely to enjoy the advantage of
cheaper bread than those of Victoria. The short supplies
have sent the prices cf wheat up in that colony until
they are now higher than in Sydney. Our free ports are
open to the world to supply us. Those of Victoria are
not; and, in this time cf scarcity, oijr neighbours are
likely to feel ill to their cost.
If this Freetrade argument means anything at all
it means that the people of New South Wales
save money bscause they have almost no crops at
all to lose money on in bad seasons, and pain
money because, having hardly suy graln k at all, they
sell it to themselves at a high price. Also, they
are “likely to enjoy the advantage of cheaper
bread than those of Victoria,” and at the same time
they will “ obtain the higher price for such wheat
as they have,” though where, in the name of all
that is incoherent, the “higher price’’can come
from when bread is to be cheaper than it is in the
country where only the lower price is obtainable
neither men nor angels nor the other fellows will
ever understand. New South Wales is to get a
great portion of her food snp;ly from Victoria at
a less rate than that at which the Victorians supply
themselves, and at tbe same time she is to sell her
own grain to herself at a higher rate than the
Victorian farmer sells his grain at, and out of
this expensive New South Wales grain bread is
to be made and sold at a lower figure than that
made from cheap Vhtcrian grain ; and while thus
blessed with “higher prices ” for lii produce the
N.S.W. farmer ii to be glad that he hasn’t more
of it else he would have lost more than he is
losing. And on top of tbit we are informed that
grain it dearer in Victoria than in N.S.W, ; ia
one sentence the N S.W. farmer is congratulated
because grain is so much more expensive in
Sydney that five bmhels there will fetch as much
as seven in Melbourne, and iu another the
Victorian farmer is held up to public piiy and
scorn because the prices of wheat in that colony
“are now higher than ia Sydney.” Are they
higher in both, p’aoes, Alfred, or what in
thunder are you driving at? Is your piper a
lunatic or a smudge or a cow, or what is the
incoherent thing, anjhow ?
-*>
Is Divorre a Failure?
The divorce-suit of Kirk v. Kirk, beard in the
Melbourne Supreme Court, before Mr. Justice
Williams, testifies further to the acumen dis-
played by Bumble, the parish beadle, upon that
historic occasion when he solemnly denounced the
Law as “ a hass.” Dickens’ familiar creation was
criticising the Law merely from a parochial point
of view, but the all-round justice of his verdict
has never been disputed. While in everyone of


B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, M. MACIAKDT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterprees Printer, Dieainker, Emboaeer, Bookbinder,
Aooonnt Book Manufacturer, Ac., Ac.
Maolardy’s M Boa of Stationery a tpeoialty, Send lot
List ot Contents.
Mate Addreea— ..
819 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmae Card*
and Fancy Goode. Inspection Invited.
Its ramifications the Law’s asininity is tolerably
well defined, this unfortunate trait of character
developes to an abnormal degree in Divorce Court
proceedings. Whether the fact is traceable to
that bogus odour of sanctity which hangs around
the civil contract of marriage, or whether it
belongs generally to all State regulations of an
intersexual character, is a question outside the
discussion. We can comment upon the effect of
the existing laws of divorce without enquiring
into their cause and origin. Mr. Petitioner Kikk
came into the Melbourne Court to ask for a dis-
solution of his marriage with a woman who had
left him of her own free will, and was now the
mother of a third person’s child. Mrs. Kirk
entered no defence to Kirk’s suit, from which we
may fairly assume that she and her hus-
band, although formerly joined together by
Heaven, are mutually desirous of being put
asunder. Neither has the slightest intention
of enforcing the other’s obedience to the
terms of their ancient contract, and they
wished to have it annulled in deed, as it is in
spirit. Common sense naturally asks why a
husband and wife dwelling apart by agreement—
the woman being content to do without the man’s
support, and urging no claim against him —should
be denied the release for which they are both so
anxious. The law says that their very unanimity
of feeling is an all-sufficient reason for refusing the
coveted decree. The law objects to being used as
a convenience by both sides for the attainment
of one common end. If the respondent doesn’t
wish to be divorced then the law is ready to do its
best to cut the marriage tie in the interests of
the petitioner, but however willing it may
be to grant a divorce when only one party wants
it it won’t grant anything at all when both parties
want it. “ Collusion ” between the parties to a
divorce suit is, in the sacred eye of the law, almost
as heinous an offence as the compounding of a
felony, another amicable arrangement which is
vaguely understood to be highly injurious to the
common weal. In the case of Kirk v. Kirk,
the learned Judge undertook the task of
proving collusion, he having been primed
with certain facts by the deserted husband of
petitioner’s lady-help. This man, by the way,
had no object to serve, except spite. Mr. Justice
Williams, as we were saying, played the English
roll of Queen’s Proctor, and “intervened” to pre-
vent Mrs. Kirk, who is living in concubinage,
from being other than the lawful wife of Mr.
Kirk, who doesn’t want her back at home.
Justice Williams, in his extra capacity, extracted
evidence from unwilling witnesses sufficient to
satisfy him that the Kirks had conspired to leave
off being wedded in the sight of Heaven, if the law
would allow them Accordingly the law did not
allow them, so Mr. Kirk is still one flesh with his
absconded wife, also the nominal father of the
other fellow’s baby. In thus refusing a divorce
the law had no idea of reuniting Mr. and Mrs.
Kirk, or of doing anything to advance the cause
of public morality. It did nothing except prove
itself a narrow-minded, bigoted “hass.”
♦
A Word to “ the ” Wise.
Dear Sir, — Do you now really think, in
cold-blooded and sober earnest, that there is
what you call, in your minute to the New South
Wales Colonial Secretary, “a strong prima facie
case of murder” against Thomas Walker, M.P. ?
Do you suppose that if there had been “a strong
prima facie case” against him the Canadian
authorities would not have taken steps to fetch
him back from England thirteen years ago ? Do
you now sincerely believe that you are justified in
terming the Opposition member “ the absconder,
Walker,” when you know, or should know, from
the printed papers whence you derived your
entire information concerning the case—printed
papers, by the way, which you were bound to read
very carefully, since they were formally submitted
to your departmental examination by your official
chief—that the person you accuse of absconding
returned to Canada and offered himself to the
police many years before the circumstances were
referred to in Australia ? If you did really believe
all these things, why did you not yourself bring
the whole matter before Parliament ? Surely no
amount of official loyalty could induce you
to sit in the same House and share in
the same debate with a man whom you were
conscientiously convinced was a murderer, a
fugitive from justice, and a scape-gallows ?
Is not your official minute a mere written varia-
tion of your playful description of certain among
those who were your fellow-legislators as “ scoun-
drels,” “ low-lived hounds,” “dirty animals who
ought to be corrected with the dog-whip,” “crea-
tures whom you wou’d like to thrash only that you
would not sully your hands with them ?” Most
people will think so, and most people will say that
it must be a source of great self-congratulation to
you that you are no longer contaminated by the
contiguity of such persons. The country at large
will be apt to decide that a gentleman of your
keen sensibilities ought to be protected from the
chance of facing such people as your parliamentary
opponents, and will|therefore take care to keep
you out of the Legislative Assembly. Indeed,
now that you have recovered from the savage
humour into which your defeat at West Macquarie
threw you, it is probable that you feel yourself
best as you are. But the consequences of one’s
actions, dear Ring nose, are seldom confined to
one’s self, and I confess I tremble for the fate of
your chief when the irate Walker begins to throw
slops in return for the suds he has received. Do
you remember the laundry scene in “ Drink,” dear
Ringnose ? Do you recollect the wetting the
combatants get, and that the original offender has
the worst of the struggle. Your late chief has
begun by giving ycu the opportunity of calling
Walker an absconder and prima facie a mur-
derer. Suppose Walker were to reply that a
defaulter may be quite as bad as an absconder, and
that a glaring breach of one commandment ii not
condoned by hinting that an opponent has broken
another commandment? You have waked the
spirits of the past and stirred up Canada. What
will happen to Parker and his Ministry if
Walker, under cover of Parliamentary Privilege,
calls up the alleged [people of the present and
draws the curtain ?
♦
Cheapness Wanted.
Now that the farming industry appears to be at
Its lowest ebb in New South Wales, and the wool
trade is hardly so good as it ought to be, a favour-
able opportunity presents itself for carrying out
the Freetrade principle to its logical conclusion
and abolishing both wheat and wool in one act.
The great axiom of Freetrade, according to the
leading teachers of that creed, is that all men
should buy in the cheapest market and prices be
fixed by free and universal competition ; and, as a
lengthened experience has proved that New South
Wales wheat - at least when grown by white
labour—is not by any means the cheapest on
earth, it is time it should be abolished. Similarly,
Australian wool is produced at an unnatural cost,
through [the unjustifiable employment of expen-
sive white men in pastoral pursuits, and thus the
public are precluded from buying in the cheapest
market according to the canons of the Foreign-
trade faith. New South Wales is flooded with
goods of German and English manufacture be-
cause they are cheaper than similar goods manu-
factured in Australia ; but the price of manufac-
tured goods is, after all, dependent on the price of
raw material. If raw material is made cheaper
then manufactured goods will become cheaper
still, and if New South Wales can make raw
material cheaper by substituting Chinese and
Kanakas in place of white labourers, it is
clearly its duty, as a Freetrade colony, to do
so. Cheap goods, we are perpetually informed, are
the unfailing sign of national prosperity, and
in order to secure the essential merit of cheapness
and thus to make a prosperous country still more
prosperous, Freetrade logic requires that we should
import cheap foreigners—the cheapest foreigners
we can find—to work our coal and copper and tin
mines, to shear our sheep and build our houses,
and otherwise boost the great cause of cheap pro-
duction. If all the white population of Australia
finds itself unemployed as the result of this great
principle, and has not even the means with which
so buy bread, though bread may be selling at two
loaves for a penny, they are merely the victims of
an infallible law which cannot stop to recognise
individual interests. And even in the lowest ebb
of his fortunes the white Australian will not be
left altogether desolate. When he has sunk into
vagrancy and has no visible means cf support, he
can at least be arrested by a cheap foreign
policeman — for even our policemen should
be bought in the cheapest market — and
brought up before a cheap imported judge, and
sent to a cheap gaol built by cheap nigger work-
men, with a cheap Kanaka warder in charge, and
there he will find a shelter under which he can
work out problems of political economy at his
leisure. Cheapness is the one great desideratum
of the Foreign-trade system, therefore let us have
cheap black labour so as to produce che»p raw
material which can be sent to the European fac-
tories in a cheap Chinese junk in order to save
freights; and then an era of genuine cheapness
will commence, and pants will be 2s. lid. a pair,
and Sunday hats 6d. each, and shirts three for
half-a-crown; and if the Australian finds himself
unemployed, because he can t work ard live at
rates which will enable him to produce and sell
his goods at these prices, and through being un-
employed finds the two-and-elevenpenny pants as
far out of his reach as if they had been £50 a pair,
let him rise in insurrection with a cheap Chinese
general at the head of the movement, and try to
find out the reason why at the lowest possible
rate.
♦
Notwithstanding the fact that S’r Henry
Parker has annexed The Bulletin’s democratic
war-cry of “ One Man One Vote,” and has passed
the same off as being his own and constructed en-
tirely out of his own head, this paper rises to state
that it doesn’t bear the old man any new animosity
on top of the animosity it felt towards him before;
and in proof of this fact it makes the following
offer. It Sir Henry Parkes will introduce,
within ten days after the meeting of Parliament,
a effort Bill dealing with this matter alone, and
providing that in future every citizen of New
South Wales shall vAe in one constituency only,
and that no man who owns property shall, on
account of the same, in any shape or form what-
soever, possess more voting power than any other
man who doesn’t own property, The Bulletin
will lend all the assistance in its power to promote
the measure and will only admonish Parkes when
he seems to be drifting away from the question at
issue. Further, if, within nine weeks from the
introduction of the said measure it shall have
become law, subject to no mutilations tending to
destroy its democratic purpose, The Bulletin
pledges its honour and its accumulated respecta-
bility that, for one calendar month dating from the
day on which the Governor gives his assent, it will
restrain “ Hop ” and its other artists from cartoon-
ing Parkes in ridiculous situations, or with clothes
of a cut which tend to excite derision, or depict-
ing him in any manner which is calculated to
arouse public contempt or mockery ; and it will
further refrain from unfeeling allusions to the
Kiama Ghost, or to Walker’s extradition, or to
the Yellow Pup so far as Parkes is a shareholder
in that animal, for the same period, And, in
addition to all this, it binds itself to publish at
some time during the aforesaid space of one month
an article of from one and a half to two columns
of leaded matter, setting forth that for once Sir
Henry has done good service to his country and
deserves honour for it. And if, during the said
month, Parkes should swear, carouse, whoop, or
curse in the House, or file his schedule, or describe
any intelligent arsemblage of citizens i s thieves, or
unhanged murderers, or dogs eating offal in the
back-yard, or other coarse and obscene expressions
simply because they don’t agree with all he says,
or thinks, or snuffles, The Bulletin will content
itself with recording the fact and will refrain
from active comment for the period herein speci-
fied as already mentioned.
The New South Wales Freetrader is a whale at
figures and a tiger at statistics, and Mr. B. R.
Wise, in particular, loves to wallow in pages of
weary arithmetic that only lead to his own un-
speakable collapse. Ten years ago the hunky
apostle of a lost cause thus distinguished himself
in an essay which was read before the Oobden
Club, and he has been similarly distinguishing
himself ever since : —
Since 1873 the American iron industry has been going
from bad to worse. Capitalists are ruined. Wages hardly
support life. In short, the collapse of the Protective
system has occurred. This supplies the ounce of fact
which the Protectionists are always asking for.
This was in 1878, when the American iron trade
was increasing four times as fast as that of Eng-
land and the American steel manufacture was
doubling every year. To day, after 10 years of
the collapse which Mr. Wise wailed about, the
American iron and steel industry has got ahead of
that) of England by some 74,000 tons annually,
and is leaving the Foreign-trade-hampered mother-
land further behind at the rate of thousands cf
tons more every year. Yet Mr. Wise has never
retracted these old broken-down assertions of his,
and still bleats as he did in 1878 about the ruin of
every protected industry. The Foreign-trader
never learns anything, but the amount that he
can forget in a given time is almost incalculable.
; +
Except from the standpoint of a broken-hearted
Calico-Jimmy with a bleeding pocket and a de-
pleted bank balance, the appointment by the
N Z. Government of the soft-goods man, Shannon,
as adviser to the Customs, was not a bad stroke of
business for the country. There is an old proverb
about setting a policeman to catch a policeman,
and Shannon in his first month’s operations has
probably saved the N.Z revenue not only his
salary for the year (£1000) but for several subse-
quent years. Here is a little example of the
proceedings of the reformed importer : Shirtings,
let us say, come in to Maoriland at 10 per cent,
duty ad valorem. There has lately issued from the
shoddy-mills of England a cheap and nasty com-
bination of compressed flannel-dust and other
things styled “ flannelette,” eminently suited for
finder sifting. Shirts are sometimes made from
this composition; ergo, said the Jimmies, flan-
nelettes must be invoiced at 10 per cent, as shirt-
ings. But the material is far more frequently
used for ladies’dresses, dressing-gowns, and things
that have to pay 20 per cent, adval, “ You want
flannelette as shirting, do you?” said Shannon.
“Good ! seven feet are allowed to a shirt; we will
cut the stuff into 7ft. lengths for you, in bond.'’
“No, don’t cut, ma tear !” moaned the sad-eyed
shoddyites, “ ve vill pay the 20 per shent !”
Notice it ? No wonder the Christchurch Chamber
of Commerce declares “The importers have no
confidence in the appointment of Mr. Shannon.”
♦ — :
It is here respectfully suggested that the New
South Wales Tramway Company and the Sydney
City Council have brought their negotiations for
the introduction of cable tramways into the City
of Sydney to a point so near agreement that the
infallible New South Wales Premier and his im-
maculate Cabinet might profitably take a hint
from their proceedings. So far as the Council
have as yet gone in their discussions of the Tram-
way Company’s proposed bill the following prin-
ciples have been accepted on both sides :—That
the Council are to have a stare of the profits or a
fixed sum yearly, as they may prefer. That the
tramways are to be handed over to the Corpora-
tion on a valuation at the expiration of twenty-ore
years, or, if the company be permitted to hold
them for twelve years longer, making thirty-three
years in all, the company are then to relinquish
the entire property free of all cost to the City
Council. 'The company are not to oppose the
extension of railways into the city of Sydney, but
on the contrary, will welcome and forward the
execution of that work by the Government. It is
difficult to understand why the Parker’ Ministry
should have allowed themselves to- be cajoled
into offering far more generous terms than the
Corporation allow. The City Council is to have
full control and to get the Tramways, with plant
complete, for nothing in 33 years. The New
South Wales Government were to abandon all
control and were to pay for the tramways
after 45 years. A Royal Commission has
solemnly decided that nobody on the Govern-
ment side was bribed to make such a bad
bargain, and, of course, we gladly accept the
dictum of the Commission. We are, therefore,
compelled to believe that the Government volun-
tarily and in mere imbecility undertook to give
away the public property. Their conduct was not
that of the savages, who are bribed with beads
and rum to sign away land which dors not belong
to them, but merely that of the monkeys who sit
in cocoanut trees and pelt the stone-throwing
sailors with nuts out of sheer playfulness and
stupidity.
Although Duncan Gillies has probably got a
“soft thing ” on at Kew (Melb,), he will scarcely
climb to the top of the poll without an egg-stain
on his character. His great “declaration of
policy ” meeting began in groans and terminated
in howls, showing that Duncan is not the idol of
the people “ by a whole jugfull.” In point of
fact this inflated Imperial lackey is the idol of
nobedy but his own fortunate self. There are a
few benighted heathens in New South Wales who
sre ettiicted with the wild hallucination that
Parkes is a Grand Old Man, but no Victorian
ever went so far as to drivel about the perse nality
of Duncan Gillies, He lacks even the hair of
Parkes. He is merely a smooth-faced image of
smug complacency, and the mark of the waiter’s
penny is on his Tory brow. He is the sort
of individual that looks composed in death,
and one can’t help picturing Duncan brushing
past Et Peter wish the nod which passes him
everywhere “ on the never,” and saying “ I’m Mr.
Gillies, my man—Mr. Gillies, the Premier.”
As h« stood on the platform at Kew, last week, it
was instructive to observe how impersonal was
the applause of bis supporters, and how very per-
sonal was the attack of the enemy. The one side
appeared to be cheering for the Throne, the Em-
pire, the Flag, or any other glorious institution
that Duncan is wrapped up in; the opposing
faction jeered at Gillies pure and simple. They
were expressing their dislike for the man, over
and above tlmr contempt for the politician. But
the fury of those disturbing elements had very
little effect upon him. Providence has blessed
Duncan with a hide so thick that he can never be
properly roasted. He ought to be boiled.
The baby-for sale industry and money paid-to-
take-the infant-away-and-no questions asked en-
terpiise has received a bad shock in Sydney.
At the present moment several ladies are in trouble
—and one is permanently in gaol—on a charge
of abandoning a dozen or so of stray babes
whom they are alleged to have obtained by advertise-
ment, on the understanding that they would nurse
the m and yearn over them for a small sum down,
and not bother the previous owner any more ; and
the evidence shows that the adopted infant generally
had a bad time of it. As a rule the unfortunate
little mortal is taken away by someone who
accepts £5 along with the responsibility, and pro-
mises that the tiny charge will be brought up to be
an ornament to society and a blessing to the
world at large; and then on the next wet night
some unhappy householder is roused by a wail on
his verandah, and going out he falls over a soaked
and mud-stained little Christian who has found
the world too rough a place for him or her, as the
case may be, and is fast retiring from the contest.
Someday or other, no doubt, someone of importance
will be convicted of assisting in these atrocities and
will receive the same crushing sentence which rushes
down on the person who steals an umbrella, but
still the system will go on. So long as a certain
notorious daily newspaper is allowed to publish
those shilling advertisements in which persons
with uncomfortable infants call upon the world at
large to come and take them away and
do as they like with them for ever after, the
baby-for-sale industry will never die. Police
obstruction may run up prices a little, but that
will be all.
V
Governor Caking ton having put his foot down
on Sydney hospital, it is hoped that better days are
about to ensue in that famous death-trap. As he
justly points out, the old ramshackle shanty has
only to get ten minutes start of the fire brigades
to roast alive a few hundreds cf patients, and un-
less some effort is made within the next 12 months
to replace it with a comparatively fireproof
structure H. E. intends to withdraw his patronage
and beam at the annual meetings no more. This
intimation, we expect, will set somebody in motion.
The mere fact that the patients were liable to be
shrivelled up has never agitated the Board to any
great extent, but the threat of the withdrawal of
Governor Oarington’s patronage will shake that
body to its foundations, or else we don’t know so
much of human nature as we used to do before we
came within range of the turgid intellects of Hos-
pital Boards and similar institutions.
Vanity Items.
The piiza joke of the season is subjoined. It appears
in The Parthenon, a monthly magazine for women re-
cently established in Sydney :~
PRIZE COLUMN FOR APRIL.
Lady Martin kindly offers a handsome book for the
best hand-made nightgown or nightshirt, full size
The sewing only will be taken into consideration so
that no trimming whatever need be used. All articles
must be sent in to the Editors not later than the 20ih
inst.
It will be observed that the editors speak of them as “all
articles’’—they don’t like to say all nightgowns. The
good, motherly old lady who offered the prize aforesaid
for the encouragement of the semptresses of the rising
generation doesn’t seem, so far, to have got very many
thanks for her trouble, for, lower down on the same page,
my nunquam dormio eye meets with the following
RESULTS OF THE COMPETITIONS
IN FEBRUARY.
Lady Martin’s Prize was not competed for at all.
We are sorry that sewing seems to be such an un-'
popular subject, but will extend the time for this
piiza until 20ih March.
The woman of the present would rather make slippers
for the curate than snowy robes of night for the prospec-
tive “old man,” and the result is that she makes slippers
for a long series of curates who, unless she is well gilded
never look at her with eye matrimonial. Or, if they do
what’s the use of curates. I notice that Sir Henry
Parkes has been giving a prize for something or other
through the medium of the Parthenon, and so has Mr.
David Jones. Sir Henry Parkes would seem to be just
now in a very domesticated frame of mind. The
Parthenon has made a splendid and mcst original start
and the advertisement I now give it ought to make its
fortune.
A Hobart correspondent writes I went to see Mr.
F. A. Packer’s opera, “ Sweet Simplicity,” produced for
the first time in public at Hobart Theatre Royal on Feb.
22nd. The performers, who were all amateurs, acquitted
themselves well, although the heroine smiled all the time
while the tenor evinced an intense affection for one side
of the stage. The mus ! o is light and pretty but not
striking enough for boys to “catch on” to, and whistle
about the streets, nor is it likely to haunt one’s mind with
a wild desire to hear it again, but I thought the libretto
very good, some of the repartees being exceedingly smart.
At the conclusion I expected thunders of applause and
pictured Mr. Packer called before the curtain, bowing his
acknowledgements, but was disappointed, for the audience
coolly departed without even an extra clap for the com-
poser, just as if operas were composed in Hobart every
week.
The same lady [writes that a ball held in Hobart last
month, in aid of the funds of the Presentation Convent,
gave another opportunity for Lady Hamilton to show that
kindliness and considerat’on that endears her family to
the Tasmanians. She had promised to patronise the ball,
and, at the request of the committee of ladies, had fixed
the date most convenient to herself, so tickets were
printed and all neceseary orders given for that evening.
Subsequently, however, her ladjship wrote requesting the
ladies interested to postpone the ball for a week, as she
wished to be “ At Home ” at Government House on the
date first appointed. Accordingly fresh tickets were pre-
pared and different arrangements made to meet her
wishes, but the day before the festivities came (ff her
ladyship departed to Launceston and remained in the
North several days. So the ball was not graced with her
presence, and the committee never received one word of
apology or explanation, evidently being ber eatb the lady’s
notice, although all the shining lights of Hobart society
were connected with it. However, as those present en-
joyed themselves, tte vice-regal party was not greatly
missed.
The death-knell of the bustle has been sounded, and it
may lead to further simplification in female apparel. But
above the horizon rises a cloud no bigger than a man’s
hand wh’ch threatens the corset. Mrs. Brown Potter,
the society actress, does not wear corsets, and now this
appears in an English society paper“ It may interest
your readers to know that along the Riviera it is still
quite exceptional to see either American or English girls
without corsets. The gre at differen ca between Arne rioan and
French girls is that the latter only confine their waists to
a very slender size during the afternoon, cr when paying
visits, while we and the English are laced into our ‘whale-
bone prisons ’ the first thing in the morning, and are not
loosened till late at night.
London has been indulging in a laugh at the expense
of a well-known nobleman, not much giftel with exterior
advantages. A great admirer of Miss Terry’s acting, he
obtained at much expense and trouble a particularly ugly
chimpanzee and sent it to her as a present. Miss Terry
wrote: “Dear Lord , Got your delightful present.
Thanks, thanks, thanks. It is so like you."
It is said that Mrs, Malaprcp, when asked lately if,
when at Florence, she saw the Venus de Milo, replied
“No ;I am sorry we didn’t. We called at the hotel where
she was staying, tut she was hout 1
According to Sr. Stephen s Review, the new rule under
which Queen Victoria allows beauty to wear more clothes
at Court than hitherto has been formulated for the pur-
pose of permitting Mrs. Joe Chamberlain to hide certain
defects cf her neck and shoulders.
For very many years there has been intense business
rivalry between the Coats family of Paisley, the great
cotton-manufacturing firm, and the Clarks, who are
equally well known in the same line iu America. A com-
promise, however, has been arranged, and a young Mr.
Coats is to marry a Miss Clark. A big riss in the price cf
thread may confidently be expected.
Parkes’ latest Is : “A large proportion of
those rallying round the Protectionist flag are
men who have a personal interest to serve and
are no more Protectionists than I am.” Very
well; but how does this read ?—“ A large propor-
tion of those rallying round the Foreign-trade
flag are men who have a personal interest to serve
and who no more believe in Freetrade than we
do.” The fact of the matter is simply this. The
Protectionists believe that Freetrade means em-
ployment for foreigners in foreign countries, and
no work for the white Australian, whereas Pro-
tection means development of our own resources
and cutting the painter with foreign countries
and foreign influences. That’s the real point.
We don’t worry over details.


Stork Cattle for Salk.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Everybody B»ys-ftnd whet everybody “F*
Pemell's Snow-warn Patent Rollib Flou» I® thf
h«e» Id lb* m»vkol
Sundry Shows.
TilKAT’iiE Royal.— " Streets of London ”.,.p. 14.
Huh Majesty's.—" The Vendetta ” „
Obitbbion.— ■" Betsy
Phillip PaM.— Pain’s Fireworks.......
Badger, a gentleman whose voice la husky
with old colds caught through drinking out of a
damp glass in early life, is Mr. Charles Warner’s
latest impersonation at Sydney Royal, the
“ Streets of London ” being the visible excuse for
Badger’s conduct in shambling before the public
eye. The plot and mystery of these “ Streets ”
begins by a tarry captain depositing a gigantic
sum of money in a busted bank, kept by a man
whose countenance looks as if it had been thrown
over a fence and rolled upon by public traffic before
he bad it; and then the captain dies of apoplexy,
and his dust is ejected into the street, and the
banker keeps the money, and Badger keeps the re-
ceipt The son and daughter of the dead and
ruined captain consequently sink into great
poverty and live upon one meal a fortnight, which
meal they owe to the charity of a baked-potato-
man; while the marauder who cleaned out the
savings of their sire moves in the highest finan-
cial circles, and becomes a millionaire. The one
dreadful improbability about this banking camel,
however, is his line of action towards a stout
young man with a flushed face who comes to him
to borrow money to get a breakfast and a clean
shirt with, and whom he seizes with his hands
and his two feet and embraces with a great gush
of miserable poetry, stating as he does so that the
young man with tne flushed face shall come and
live with him, and inherit all his money, and
marry his daughter whom the intended bride-
groom never saw before, and drink his wine, and
never do any work. The gentleman who is thus
adopted all of a heap had come expecting to be
called a great variety of inferior animals, and
this good fortune takes him by surprise ; but
he accepts all he can get, and then goes
back on the tender-hearted shark who had
bsen a father to him, and reproaches that bene-
ficent old man, and wants to give him
into custody for the embezzlement of 16 years
before. Tae stout and flashed young man is
evidently intended for a hero, but his conduct is
calculated to make angels weep and Charity go
outside and throw apples at herself. Mr. Herbert
Flemming has charge of this branch of public
infamy, and does his best to soften the horrors of
the situation, but nothing short of an axe could do
this properly. Mr. Warner, on ,the other hand,
presents Badger in all his naked aw fulness as a
ehoeless but charitable drunkard, who does kind
actions with a grin like a midnight sin ; and
gradually the public begin to feel a certain sym-
pathy for this ramshackle human tenement.
Baring the first two acts he condescends to dis-
guise himself with a dirt-coloured tuft_ on his
thin and thus creates a superficial impression that
he isn’t Warner hut Badger, but later on he
shaves off this unaccustomed horse-tail, and then
he isn’t Badger any longer but only plain Warner
—of which plain individual Australia is getting
tired. It has seen his undressed countenance so
often with exactly the same expression on it every
time that it would be considerably relieved if the
owner would smother his identity a little at times
so that the people wouldn’t know it was him. Mr.
Richard Stewart, even in the hour of his pros-
perity, wears a look cf abject misery and moan-
ing crushednees, and seems so anxious to die and
(be buried where the grass grows green, and adver-
tises himself so conspicuously as an orphaned ruin
■that he can hardly expect much public sympathy.
'The bast acting, in a company which isn’t acting
ivery much at present, is contributed by Messrs,
H, H. Vincent, Oily Deering, Alfred Phillips,
and Miss Grade Warner, and there is just enough
.success to go round and leave a small share over
, for Mr. Warner himself as already hereinbefore
mentioned. A certain feeling of relief is con-
veyed at the foot of the programme by the inti-
mation that “A Noble Vagabond” is in course of
preparation.
*# * *
Tenders are hereby Invited for the des-
truction of a dreadfully inharmonious minstrel
rOompany of about ten persons. To prompt and
homicides, assassins of good address,
.experienced hangmen, enterprising wholesale
butchers and slaughtermen, parricides, fratricides,
.and other eheddei s of blood, also to honest and
.upright murderers, with good testimonials from
..their last situation, a favourable opportunity here
,(presents itself. Tenderers may quote prices for
rthe massacre of the company in detail or for
.wholesale extermination, subject to the usual dis-
i count on taking a quantity. Ticket takers, scene-
shifters, and othet incidental lay members of the
company may be either treated as a separate act
of gore or may be included at reduced rates,
, three ticket-takers being considered equal to
two ordinary nigger minstrels with 10 p r cent, off
for cash. Tenders to include the removal of the
remains and the mopping up of the gore on the
, fl oor. Gentlemen wishing to compete must,deposit
the sum of £25 at this pffice as a guarantee of
( ,good faith, after which they will be taken down to
view the company. The lowest offer will not
, necessarily be accepted, the object being thorough
and wholesale extermination rather than mere
..cheapness, and the assassin must in every case
■find his own tools and implements of destruction.
'The company in question has only recently
started in Sydney, and as it is considered desir-
able to wipe them out before their corpse-like
jokes have time to take root, promptitude is
absolutely essential.
*# * *
Despite, the soothing associations of the
•cold damp fish the angry passions of unregenerate
iman sometimes rise even in an aquarium. The
trouble generally begins with a disagreement no
larger than a human hand, and then it swells and
rises and rages until the air is darkened with the
'flight of bad swear-expressions, and the blasts of
■carnal wrath shoot athwart the stars. Some such
■difficulty recently raised i p s baleful head at a
pleasure resort a little distance from Sydney. The
manager disagreed with six of the directors, and
’rising up as one man he grabbed a who’e host of
ttarts off the refreshment counter and shot them
straight into the Board’s speaking countenance.
It was a battle of one solitary hero against half a-
dozen, and the lonely warrior won. Every mem-
ber of the Board went down speechless, with
tart in his eyes and hair and shirtfront,
and with his ears full of tart, and his
mouth choked with broken pastry ; and after a
vain struggle to bear up the whole six had to run
under a close reefed sail before the gale of pro-
vender. They preserved enough of their senses
to sack the manager, but that stormy shooter of
human food is suing them for damages, and in-
tends to have r-r-revenge. The Board, in their
turn, are suing him for tart and battery, bat their
chances aren’t worth much in a legal point of view.
We haye gone carefully through the civil and
criminal code of N.S.W., and we can find no men-
tion of pastry in it anywhere. The nearest thing
to it which we can discover is an old English
decision which provides that a three-legged man
can inherit landed property, but the connection
between the two circumstances is not sufficiently
clear to make this precedent worth sweailng by.
#* * *
An insult bo gigantic and far-reaching as
to threaten the solidity of the empire was inflicted
on Governor Oarington on the occasion of the
Italian artistes’ benefit at Her Majesty’s. When
the deputy Pre-eminent-ln-6rief entered, the
conductor was not in his place, and consequently
there was no “God Save the Queen.’ The
baronial Smith took his seat in silence, and
breathless messengers shot out east, west, and
south and north to find the missing musician, and
bring him in with a barrow and violence, or any
other means that seemed workable, to play the old
post pliocene doggrel. He was found at last, but
a quarter of an hour late, and when the tune
did rise the effect was much the same as
a burst of applause two days after the
falling of the curtain. Eater on there was more
trouble. Part of the orchestra struck for cash
down, and while they were galloping on top of
each other the conductor was mislaid some more.
This time he was 20 minutes Ifite when discovered,
and when the audience broke out in a great
unanimous hiss he merely bowed and kissed |hj s
hand effusively. Mr. Sinclair, stage-manager, is
understood to have apologised to the Governor for
these troubles, and the few hundred people who
are not Governors got on somehow without an
apology. Further friction of various kinds has
wrecked Mr. Rignold’s generous arrangements
for a series of matinee performances, and the ex-
ploded remnants of an Italian Opera company
are now on the loose.
** * *
The “Glass of Fashion” will shine at
Sydney Criterion next Saturday, and among other
attractive features a grand conservatory scene will
be presented, which —to judge from a rehearsal on
Monday night, when the glass and the vegetables
performed their parts in a way that was beyond
criticism —will lay over everything in the realms
of botany hitherto shown on the Australian stage.
“ Madame Midas,” as dramatised by Phil Beck,
and with Phil himself in a prominent part,
will be produced on the same evening at Her
Majesty’s. Other shows consist chiefly of a new
minstrel company which, as hinted in another
paragraph, is a good mark for slaughter; Pain s
fireworks; a cyclorama of the battle of Gettysburg,
which blood-stained episode lives over again
opposite Red fern railway station ; the John
Hennings Fund —a most laudable charitable move-
ment of which Mr. H. H. Vincent, of the Royal, is
hon. secretary, subscriptions solicited ; and a few
unccnsidered trifles of various sizes.
*♦ * *
The cyclorama of the battle of Gettysburg
is a valuable addition to the art work of
Sydney. The entire canvas vit rates with light,
and quivers with the sensitive heat-rays of the
sun, while the skill of the artists employed is fully
exemplified in the strongly contrasted effects.
The very air is in and about it, and the objects
stand out clear and true, each in its own atmos-
phere, as in nature. All round the landscape
stretches out to the horizon; and the blue hills,
the wooded ridges, peaceful valleys watered by
small streams, and fields of golden grain, afford
all the pleasure of natural objects. In the fore-
grounds the grouping is very fin a , and the life im
parted to the figures is marvellous. Tbe hurry,
the heat of battle, the sound of blows, the report
of cannon, is all made apparent to you as you
stand on tbe cyclorama and look around. Words
** * *
The Maj eronis are about to remove their
majestic figures from the planks of the Adelaide
Royal, where business has not been so gratifying
as it should have been. “ The Corsican Brothers ”
certainly brought two fair houses, but the merits
of “Jealousy,” in which the Signor and Signora
shine so brilliantly, deserved more appreciation.
“ Marie Stuart ” and “ The Kiss ” are the attrac-
tions for the benefit of the Signora, and much
good may they do her. In a spirit of huge muni-
ficence the saintly citizens are determined to
bring round “Hans the Bcatman,” Charles
Arnold, “The Baby Coquette,” and the dog
“Nord,” and as this charitable novelty only
extends a week, it is possible that the menagerie
may get away before .financial ruin overtakes it.
** * *
Lord Carlngfcon will open f the Anglo-Au -
tralian Artists’ Exhibition at the Sj dney Domain
Gallery early in April.
*# # *
It has been cabled that Mrs. Langtry is
very ill and that her recovery is doubtful. Since
this message came to hand a cablegram has been
received that Mary Anderson is also dangarouJy
ill. Dangerous illness means plenty of paragraphs,
and Mary can’t allow the Langtry to get ahead of
hex in point of printer’s ink. _ The Bulletin
tincerely hopes that both ladies will speedily
recover, as the world doesn’t connain too many
good-looking w omen ; but should they both die it
will try to bear up with the reflection that i f they
were pret'y women they left behind them many
better actresses.
** * *
Boncicanlt has joined in the American
crusade against foreign actors and authors
Bouoicault, by the way, is an English Irishman of
French descent.
** * *
A sorrowful specimen of humanity signing
himself “ A.M.H.” writes to Sydney D.T con-
cerning the failure of “ Captain Swift” in Sydney:
‘Your correspondents ‘Truth’and ‘Swagman,
in calling the pieco ‘ dreary ’ and ‘ only a partial
success from a liner ary point of view, disagree
entirely with the London and Sydney press and
set themselves as critics above the Prince of Wales,
who said, ‘I never saw a piece I enjoyed so much.
Surely HR H. has seen as many first class
dramas as your correspondents.” We don t want
to sit on “ A M H.” unnecessarily, but still we
think these three impalpable initials are
making an ass of themselves. The Prince
of Wales is known in literature only as the
son of the lady who wrote Leaves f from
my Journal in the Highlands, and More
Leaves ” from the same funereal pamphlet, and in
art he is chiefly distinguished as an able critic of
the British leg-show. As to the number of plays
he has witnessed, that doesn’t count for anything.
Any hoary gentleman who has been eighteenth
trombone or forty-second bassoon in an orchestra
for 30 years has seen more of the stage than
Wales, and yet, if he were quoted as a superior
authority, the hair of “ A.M.H ” would probably
stand up. For which, and several other reasons,
we ask “A.M.H.” to form his own opinions, and
not borrow them from an heir-apparent who has
very few to spare.
** * *
A large and strictly aober-looklng audience
rolled up to Melbourne Opera House on Saturday,
for the purpose of weighing Mr. G. C. Miln in
the scale of legitimate drama. This passionate
pilgrim from America was appearing under more
promising conditions than of yore, the chief en-
cumbrances of his Sydney season having given
place to visible means i support, and the setting-
up of the show being f equently clever, not to say
tricky. An erudite i s course on the rival meri bs of
“Richard the Third proper, and Colley Cibber’s
more familiar acting version, is mercifully with-
held from this notice, and an incidental essay on
the “Peculiarities of the Plantagenets,” written
in the Tudor style, is now providing a frugal
luncheon for the office cat. Mr. Miln sticks to
the Shakespeare Cibber play, but it is tolerably
certain that he shines brightest under the in-
fluence of the Bard; and weakens when he arrives
at those noisy places where Cibber’s lines are
cast. The roaring of Richard’s latter days is,
nevertheless, consistent with the theory that his
regal mind ran wild after he had settled the
“Babes in the Wood,” removed his wife, and lost
his Buckingham. Until all these mishaps befall
him and tne other people Mr. Miln is “up to
Dick ”in the highest sense of the term. All that
was best in Irving’s playing of the character is
recalled to mind by Miln’s method in the scene
with Lady Anne and those following immediately
after. He drops into fascinating stage pictures.
There is a power about his personality which
makes the rapid conquest of his victim’s widow
fairly conceivable. Besides, widows have ever
been easy marks for a mash. Finally, whatever
fault may be found with Mr. Miln at sundry
points, can’t alter the fact that he holds his
audience from first to last. He had them
fixed in their seats till half-past eleven on Satur-
day. As regards the star’s support, there is
only time to mention that the Henry the Sixth
of Mr. J. F. Oathcart seems even better than it
was years ago, and must be quite a revelation to
many who never thought “ the old man had so
much blood in him.”—Shakespeare. Miss Isabel
Morris, also several others cutting respectable and
well-costumed figures, may get a blessing next
week if they keep good. The Acting-Governor
saw this first performance through to the bitter
end, with every appearance of enjoying himself.
When Richard was chopping off their heads, the
vice-deputy Lord’s Anointed pro tern, looked
especially glad, and probably exclaimed, “Thus
perish all traitors 1”
** * *
“ Union Jack ” was run up ab Melbourne
Royal on the same evening. Bland Holt, an actor
whose periodical re-appearances are always re-
ceived with fervour, flaunted the aforesaid ensign
in his usual expensive manner, but on a first
acquaintance it seemed to miss the breeze of
popular favour and hang pretty limp. Except
that the hero is named Jack and is anxious for a
union with somebody, no good reason for the title
of Pettitt and Grundy’s play is discoverable. The
story, however, has a strong naval and military
colour, and under these painful circumstances it
goes without saying that a betrayed girl wanders
about cussing the day when she was born and en-
deavouring to hide her misery. At a moment
when she is concealing this wearisome anguish in
an officer's private room, two livelier specimens of
the sex fetch the other one from behind a curtain,
which might be a strong situation if Miss Blanche
Lewis understood how a poor thing should behave
under such circumstances. There are two villains
told off to annoy a couple of good young men who
love the pair of lively girls, atd they all talk more
than is good for them, and when one villain kills
the other it is a matter for regret that they don’t
die together. The girls, played by Miss Kate
Bishop and Mrs. Bland Holt, rival the scenery
in elegance and beauty, but several of the men
would be batter out of it. Mr. Wilmot Eyre, a
new arrival from home, walks calmly through a
leading part without attracting much attention.
Bland Holt combines with Miss Emma Chambers
to make things pleasant when they get a chance,
although their chances are not much when ob-
tained. “ Union Jack ”is mainly remarkable for
a mow scene, and may live in dull magnificence
for a month. > > •
#* * *
Concurrent performances will be given at
the Royal and Princess’s next Saturday (23rd)
afternoon in aid of the Hennings Testimonial
Fund. Everybody worth mentioning will appear
at one or other of the Triumvirate's theatres, and
it only remains for the public to pay their money
and take their choice. •
** * *
Whoa Mr. Miln facdd a Melbourne
audience for the first time and proceeded to men-
tion that a glorious summer had burst up the
winter of their discontent, the orchestra leader
flourished a bouquet across the footlights, appar-
ently thinking that Duke Richard was a prima
donna.
** * *
Mr. Frank Lincoln ter mi nates his season
at the Athene am on Saturday, to the regret of
all who can see a joke without a microscope. Mr.
Lincoln is understood to be retiring for the pre-
sent, under medical advice, the doctors of Mel-
bourne having decided that he is suffering from
strange humours add requires a course of ,physio.
The same evening Pain lets off a parting fireworks
display, and Sebastopol is taken for the last time.
** * *
||A first notice of “Mama” locited that
giddv creature at Melbourne Opera House, in-
stead of at the Bijou where she has been carrying
on dreadfully all the time. “Mama” is too risky a
subject for further discussion in an orthodox
journal, otherwise The Bulletin might mention
that Miss Annie Taylor, dressed as a pearl of the
ballet, is a stocking spectacle entirely. “Every
Man for Himself ” continues to fill the Alexandra.
Hicks’ real black minstrels hold out at St George’s
Hall, and several other events are occuring with
their wonted regularity.
**# ♦ ■
“Erminle,” a comic opera consisting of
two petty larcenists and several others persons
who don’t signify, was revived at the Princess’s
on Saturday. “ Ermioie ” loses nothing by Nellie
Stewart’s absence—firstly, because she didn’t
appear in it before; and, secondly, because her
voice would be wasted on Jacobowski’s music if
she were to appear, Miss Fanny Liddiard, Ida
Osborne, and all the other artists that don’t
matter, struggle hard to justify their presence on
the occasion, and fail with credit to themselves.
Elton and Howard Vernon run the entire show as
formerly, the divine William being largely in-
debted to a spike-tipped umbrella for his over-
whelming triumph. Mr. Harrison has vanished
from the musical conductor’s chair, and the
orchestra seemed a trifle below its best standard
on Saturday night.
** * *
John Meller, a small boy of Dunedin
(N.Z.), fired by the example of the ampler ass,
“ Professor ” Baldwin, essayed a flutter earth 1
wards from the roof of his ancestral halls by aid
of an umbrella. The ground struck him abruptly.
His only remark was, “ I forgot to put a hole in
my parachute.” The funeral, furnished by the
Mayor of Dunedin, who is an undertaker, was
neat but unostentatious. Softly—the lyre 1—
Sir Henry Parkea saya that the Gettys-
burg Cyclorama is “ one of the greatest illusions
he has ever witnessed.” “ One of the greatest ”
is excellent. The old man was thinking of the
Kiama Ghost.
** * *
Henry Kelley, who wrote musical criti-
cisms for The Argus during the last twenty years
of his life, has gone to that laud where they play
allegro movements without ceasing, and the
orchestra consists mainly of first cornets cast in
gold. The “ leading journal ” gave poor Keiley a
splendid notice, mentioning that “ he was always
uptight in giving judgment and was always careful
that he criticised with dignity.” The Aeg'uS’
notion of dignity is characteristic of that solemn
print, Keiley’s notices usually consisted of long,
dreary extracts from the inevitable book of refer-
ence strung together by a number of antique
adjectives of blame or praise, according to whether
he was “ well in ” or otherwise with the
parties pulling the strings. Truth to tell,
he was an apostle of tommyrot. The
Argus states that “Mr. Cowen, before his
departure, publicly expressed surprise at the
high standard of musical criticism in Mel-
bourne. It was Mr. Keiley who was entitled to
the credit of having established that standard."
Beautiful I The Bulletin begs to assert that
Mr. Cowen was so disgusted at a certain notice of
a certain baritone-singer that he besought the
artist in question to bring an action against the
Abgus, promising that he (Cowen) would go into
the witness-box and swear that the said notice was
a scandalous perversion of the truth. We don’t
know if Keiley wrote it, and it is too late to ask
him. Probably the best success of Keiley’s life
was an effort he made as a composer in 1879, when
he supplied the music for Marcus Clarke’s bur-
lesque, “ Alfred the Great.” This monarch was
produced at the Melbourne Bijou, and Clarke’s
share of him, at all events, was a great boom.
Anyone who wanted Keiley when he was alive
could always find him at 4.30 pm. at a certain
tobacco and snuff shop on the Melbourne block,
and that shop looks woefully blank now that the
old musical critic, who, out of the paper, was a
genial soul, has fled to a higher sphere of operatic
art.
JOHNNIE'S EPITAPH.
He tried to fly with an umbrella—
This imitative little feller—
In place of a real parachute.
The ground flew up, he did not beller,
But the last words of Johnnie Meller
Were : “I must be a dern’d galcOt—■
No hole was in my parachute !”
He flieth now in an angel’s suit.
A PROTECTED I[?]DUSTRY.
THE WOODSTOCK FRUIT CANNING COMPANY.
There has been a terrible amount of hard argument
drummed into long-suffering constituencies during the
late elections as to the benefit or the curee of Protection.
Teat was all very well as far as theory went, but we want
to show the public an instance in which its beneficial
results are not only reduced to practice, bat have been
the means of firmly establishing an industry that pro-
mises to become one of considerable extent and import-
ance. Mr. Walter Lamb first started it on the system at
present adopted, and no one who ever visited his fruit-
cannery at Woodstock, Rooty Hill, can have the least
doubt that the enterprise has all the makings of a really
good paying concern.
First of all, the position of the factory is admirably
spited to the purpose, for it is surrounded on all sides by
a vast farming and fruit growing district, its many
proprietors only requiring such an incentive to go in ex-
tensively for orchards. Up to the present the Americans
have had the Australian market all to themselves, and
the consequence is that as there was a Protective tariff of
two shillings per dozen cans, the price has been beyond
the reach of the bulk of the public who were thus shut
out from using it, except as a luxury, to any large extent.
So, some years ago, Mr. Lamb thought the best thing he
could do was to visit California and just see for himself
how things were worked. He went. The owners of some
of the largest canneries showed him everything, and the
result was that he engaged an American manager, Mr.
Lister, and returned to start the present works going.
Anyone who has had anything to do with commencing
an industry of the sort knows very well the innumerable
difficulties that invariably crop up, for it is the unex-
pected that always happens. The plant was set going at
the end of ’B7, and everyone had to work like tigers. Mrs.
Lister, who was well up in the business, “bossed” the
cutting and preparing room, whilst Mr. Lister made things
hum in the cooking and canning departments, and the
consequence was that although it was their first season,
enough was got out to give the public a taste, and when
it was aU supplied, like Olivet Twist, they asked lor
more.
It is a perfect treat, to anyone who likes to see things
moving, to inspect the works at Woodstock. The fruit
is carted to the receiving room where from eight to eleven
tons daily are “dumped” into the sorting table. From
there it goes into the cutting and preparing room, where
about 120 men, women and chilaren are peeling, ston-
ing, and trimming fruit for all they are worth. The
way in which the machines run the skin off a
peach is astonishing. Tne concern employed looks like
an egg-beater, only rather more so, and the fruit is stuck
on a three-pronged arrangement at one side. A boy gives
two or three turns at the handle, and the operation is
complete. Right through each branch of the works until
you get to the warehouse everyone seems to be doing
something as hard as he, or she, is able. Stoning, trim-
ming, packing, cooking, canning, testing, labelling,
painting, and storing- everything goes on with systematic
regularity.
Outside the works, the surrounding land is either under
orchard or else in the course of preparation. One hun-
dred acres are beating splendid young trees, and Mr.
Lamb intends to extend operations until 400 acres are
producing the fruits most fitted for canning. A nursery
containing 10,000 young plants is being tended at a short
distance from the cannery.
It stands to reason that the neighbourhood cannot pro-
duce sufficient to supply such large works,' and it has to
be shipped from Tasmania—in fact, from every fruit-
growing district within reach. Mr. Lamb is, however,
doing his utmost to encourage the growth in the imme-
diate vicinity of the works, and there are several in-
stances where men are employed at the cannery and
grow fruit on their small holdings at one and the same
time.
As to the prospects of the industry, the proprietor is
satisfied that he has a bright future before him. Since the
works were opened about one year ago the first season’s
pack would not meet the demand, and this season he
reckons to turn out half-a-million of tinned fruits and a
million of jams, or an increase of 40 per cent, on last year’s
output, which points conclusively to the fact that the
industry is flourishing
Already the home supply of canned fruits has had an
effect uponthe market, for American goods are cheapening.
This is one instance of the effects of Protection, and one
that the public should gratefully recognise, in that it
brings an undoubted delicacy within the reach of every
householder, and, at the same time, provides food and
employment for hundreds in their midst.


Wolfe a S
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY.
And is a
Pare Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain Wolfk’s
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Do you go fishing? Eastwat Bbothebs, 411
Geobgk street, Sydney, have a splendid collec-
tion of all kinds of Tackle for hand, rod, or net
fishing. We have tackle suitable for all (each and
eveiy one) fishing grounds in Australia.— Eastway
Bbothebs, 411 George stbebt, Sydney.
The Bulletin’s “History of B.tmy
Baj”' gives a series of vivid pictures of life in
this c untry when the Bread Arrow was con-
sidered the symbol of Australia’s greatness.
The Wellington (N.Z ) papers lately
“went for” —smooth-scalped and hands down—
thecity authorities for the filthy wate t supplied,
which water should be as go;d as any in the
world. 'J his naturally stirred the bile of the City
Jngire r, a genthman who at an early period of
life managed to swallow the iron poker of small
officialdom Meeting a local scribe, he pompovsly
demanded; “Well, you newspaper feller, any-
thing feesh about the water to-jay ? ’ “ Nothing
fresh!" replied theinkhurler, “smellthis sample,”
handing him a small vial of liquid putresence.
“Mt Tailor," 154 King-street, Newtown Don’t forget
him Knits to measure for £8 8e
Store Cattle for Sale —lOOO male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
Sven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing,
ress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Rc aaell-strnet Melbonr
BWEST BOROHIA. the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronin
Megistiguia." Sold everywhere. Price, 3j. Gd.,
55., and 10.*, Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LOXGMORE, 133 Bou-ke-st., Eist,
whboukwf.
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY "TITUS SALT.”]
St. M«y’a R 0. Cathedral (dydnej) has
advanced one stage nearer completion, the com-
mittee having let another Contract and “trusted
to .Providence ” for the money, and Providence,
we are glad to notice, is equal to the occasion.
Cardinal Moran expre ses the position thus
He confessed that he relied solely and entirely upOa
Prjvidence with regard to tbij additional contract, and
Providence came to their aid almost immediately the
engagement had been entered into, for a venerable priest
of the diooese of Sydney, the late Dsan Leonard, had be-
queathed a suni to the cathedral which completely
covered the amount of ffts contract.
We consider that remark explains the situation
as clearly as if the problem were buried in a cave
and trodden down and covered over with stones.
Cardinal Moran was in want of money to buy
mortar and lime and insensib’e brick, and
Providence, in its unspeakable gdodness, went out
and killed a valuable, up-standing, liVe, meat
Driest, so that His Eminence might get the funds.
It is rough on the priest, of course, but still that
couldn’t bs helped ; the holy church wanted the
cash, and it can easily grow another dean to fid
tha vacancy. But what we particularly wish to
p tint out is that Cardinal Moran musn’t fa’l into
she hal it of getting Providence to kill c tt' a pii ?st
every time he i i short of subscrip i ms. c Ise
there will by-and-bye be a serious scarcity of
R.C. clerrjmen. He cm take a priest
occasionally, of coarse, when the treasury
absolutely demands the sacrifice, hut he
rmiatn’o make a hog of himself by offering
up all the clergy in one ghastly stack of
hairless humanity. If he goes round mauling and
swallowing up the church, all of a heap like, ho
will only arouse enmity and grief, and therefore
we urge him, with tears, to restrain his half-
formed tendency to spiritual whale-on-toast.. The
Church is not sufficiently strong in Australia to
stand the spectacle of a Cardinal galloping round
after the style of the primeval dodo, when that
voracious bird spread itself in pursuit of the primi-
tive Atyan man for breakfast, and inciting
Providence to come down on the secular clergy
and rake them init would create ill-feeling
and make the average priest afraid that he
might die young and be laid in his muggy grave
under the wattle and the pumpkin-vine, and as
the scare grew the Catholic priesthood would gird
up its loins and skip for those wild waste places
where the saurian wallows in the slime, and the
bloated toad shuffles off this mortal coil, and. the
unmanageable green bug is gathered together.
Therefore we ask Brudder Moran to ease up a
little and go slow ; lek him consider the ant, to
quote the eloquent words of Solomon of Jerusalem,
and when he sees that insane, six-legged giub
bursting its boiler in the effort to carry away the
remains of an old nail under the impression that
it is an article of food let him reflect awhile on
the vanity of human effort and then stamp on the
insect and go home.
There was a slow, ponderous, bald-headed
son of the Golden South in the witness-box, and
as he silently felt his ears and shook up his collar
and looked round it was evident that he was
quite composed and equal to the occasion. The
heat was awful, and the magistrate was clammy
and tired and in a villainously bad temper. The
red dust was drifting through the court in a
stifling cloud ; the mosquitoes and other flying
curses made a ceaseless, persistent “ z-z-z-z-z-z ”
all around, and the noise of their frightful hymn
founded like the distant gallop of lost souls haul-
ing endless loads of railway iron down the sulphur
slope ; the deaf policeman in charge was limp and
damp and helpless and gone in the joints ; the
press had sunk down in a shapeless heap ; evan
the local lawyer was fast evaporating, but the
witness was cool and quite contented, but pon-
derously slow and contemplative. The remains
of the harassed policeman handed him the Bible
to kiss, and he looked at the dirt-begrimed
volume, thick and flabby with long handling by
Chinese, Kanakas, Malays, vagrants, and moral
lepers of all sorts and organisations, turned it
over, smelt it, and then entered into a private and
confidential conversation with the officer. “I
say,” he ruminated slowly ; “I’ve kissed a go:d
many prettier things than that, don’t ye know.”
“ Kiss the book! ” screeched the magistrate
sitting up suddenly. “This ain't a place
for no jaw ; ” and his subordinate came
in as a kind of echo —“No jaw! You kiss
that book.” “Yes, that’s all right, don’t ye
know, bat I want to explain, in a manner of
speaking. Now, I’ve got my doubts about several
things in that there wcllum, an’ I wanter know,
supposin’ I kiss the whole lot of it, do I commit
myself to believin’ it all of a heap like ? For, if I
do ” but here the sonorous bray of the Court
upset the testifier’s reflections. “ This here ain’t
no place for theological discussions,” yelped the
great authoiity—“logical concussions,” repeated
his satellite in his capacity of echo—“and you’re
going to kiss the book an’yer going to hiss
the cook” translated the intelligent policeman,
but the witness hardly appeared to hear them.
“It’s a dashed ugly lookin’ book, too,” he said,
with a placid baby-stare; “I don’t altogether
mind kissing the darned tbing ” “This ain’t
a spot for blasphemy!’ whooped the Bench;
‘you’ll be gave in custody”—“you’ll be a slave
In Russia” came b»ck from the nfljctive cop—
“if yer don’t salute the sacred Word” “D’ye
hear that, now; his Honor tills ye what’ll happen
if ye don’t hoot the f cured bird’ —this from the
policeman threateningly. The two finished up
with a snort of derision —a large snort from the
Bench and » small baby snort from the force —
but the witness only seemed to go slower for
these intenoptions. “ I’ve bin a-studyin’ up
the germ theory of disease, an’ the stale of
the boards of that there blessed literary effort ”
“ Ths gun theory of decease ain’t afore the
Coort”—thundered the temporary PiUte on the
bench—“D’je hear? His Honor don’t want yer
dumb history o’ Greece ” —bellowed the temporary
Pda'.e’s understrapper—“an’ the state o’ the
boards of that blessed literary effoit air conducive
to the spread of infeckshus complaints,” finished
the witness. “Wot d’yer say?” shrieked the
Court; and the interpreter offered a translation :
“ He says In’s goin’ to complain that yer Honor’s
infected through sleepin’c n a board.” Then the
law’s excitement swelled iutofrerA/. “Does yer
wanber be gave in custody f'r bontimpt ? Pil make
an infectious complaint about you in a ml flute !
Are ye goin’ to be run in, or will ye take the
oath ?” “ His Washuf) says ye took a horee. Did
ye now ? Remimber, yer statement’ll be used agin
ye,” said the deaf policeman, shaking the witness
violently, and that persecuted innividual began to
assume an aggrieved attitude. “Ye needn’t get
in such a wax,” he grumbled ; “I ain’t damagin’
yer two-an’sixpenny Scriptur’. My opinions
about a lot o’the things mentioned in that there
monument o’ antikkity—— ’ “He eays his
Wasfiup’s been lent a dicky,” wailed the paralysed
trap, but his voice was lost in the blast that came
ftom the Bench. “ A dashed ass, like you, ain’t
allowed to have opinions,” was the ruling of the
Court, delivered in a tone that nearly lifted the roof;
“ye ain’t here to argi y. Ye’re here to swear to
the truth, the whole tiu .h, an’ no hing but the
truth If ye give any more of yer blessed views
about the inside or the outside of that ’ere book
yell be locked up—j ist see if ye won’t An’ if ye
take up the time of’ the Ocurb “ His
Washup says ye’ve to go home to snort,” mur-
mured the shadow in uniform with any more
observations about the gum theory of decay ye’ll
f MA o)s
U xoo J
W J I,
> *
, V \i v\ \V
„ gm ), v LVv m
■ l:|t u \j\\ /pi
~, lk\ \T)-' U
~ '-s. \py y'
/ fira.mint(laityty
jv& flatter {JjcA ffie
?. Lre ofuiayj Scrupu-foufiy yea t
lt> Sfjiniofi pefle ft
; , . vJ
UPON my soul, the thicker lay
The dust where e’er she wandered,
The more immaculate were they—
On which I deeply pondered.
At last sweet Araminta went
A rural spot to ravish,
And there some summer days I spsnt—
The charms of both were lavish—
And down a dusty country lane
I led her fast and often,
In hopss this riddle to explain
Ere it my brain should soften.
But time and pains were thrown away—
In vain was all my scheming ;
’Twas where the dust most th'ckly lay
Her boob-tips most were gleaming. '
In desperation, all at sea,
I passionately asked her
To make an early call with me
Upon the country pastor.
Sweet Atamipta !. On my life
She must have liked me, surely ;
That very day, a Lying wife,
She walked with me demurely.
A down that very dusty lane
I,led her fast and faster,
And as those tips each step again
Revealed the same, Tasked her :
“ Oh, Araminta, I.implore
You, tell me, I am pining
Those tiny boots I so afore,
How keep you them so shining ?”
Were now my direst fears to be
Corroborated nearly ?.,
Was I, indeed destined to see
My worst suspicions clearly.
Exposed as facts ?., I bent my head—
Her tones were void of mocking—
“ Whv, dear,” with blushing face, she s»id,
“ We wipe them on each stocking.”
—Chicago , Nkws,
get 14 days with hard labour. Ain’t that took
pood enough for ye? I’ve kissed dirtier things
than it, atd I’ll do it again, to). Now are je
ageia’ to swear or are ye net?” “Is that ycur
hair or is it not?” interposed the policeman for
the last time, and the witness cavel in and swore,
and the prcc edings were resumed.
Diar Bullyteen,—Sam yeera ago I was
on the ban ki of the Brizbane River, which is a
kwantitee of dark brown mud in a grate burry up
North and is chiepbly used for sbyps to col ide in'
and the smash amorz-s the people on the ehoar a
lob, and then ther is an inkwiry and the captaves
both swer they weren’t ther and had mv/er herd
of the p’ace in all ther lives, and then the jury
brings iu a verdict of assault upon a Chinjman m
a public house complikated by just flab 1 dog-
embezzelment without any recommendtlu i to
mercy, and sumbo.dy hoo isn't ther at all is dis-
charged without a stane on his karrakt r when he
hasn’t got one. I was thinking ovver these things
wen I saw footprints in the mud hwich I follo-td
for 3 miles wen I came upp on a long German
hco asked mee iph i woold bet 5 pounds that ha
cooldn’t put a kard in a place that it was impos-
sible for itt to go to and let me phind it some-
hwere that it wasn’t, and both of us bee much
surprized at itt beiflg there bekaws it cooldn't gebt
to the spott and then hee woold pay, mee f) pounds
I had one and be rooined, and I sed 1 woold.
Then I gobb a tinn i fli fil’ed ii with sand and
soldend itt uip. and bide a rope to itiaud
surg’r itt in the rivver, and I aiked him with a
sinister smile hwich I putt on at times to tkare
kows with iph he woold putt a kard into that tinn,
and wen he sed he woold I told him he was a liar
hwich ted to him surrounding me, and saying that
I badd the ugliest pheet he ever saw on a man.
Havin’ made this unkawled-for observation, he
putt a kard on the grownd an’ satt on it. an’ then
he gOtt up suddingly an’ looked with a fixt eye at
a goto an’ burned three somefsalts an’ faeggan to
rush back an’ forwardd, an’ he also kleered his
throte ah’ sang the song that the old kow died
from, after hwich I expeck her owner soled her
to a butcher, sayin she was mu ton an’ the butcher
pissed her on to the publick, statin’ that she vVas
dorgg. When he had finished throwiu’ himselph
upp in the air he sed the 10 Komandmenti ah’ set
phi-e to his hair with a match, an 1 then, aphter
swallowin’ his boobs, I bawled upp the tinn an’
the kard was inside. I lost konshusness in the
middle of the fite that ensooed, an’ am still
suphering from the consekweness of a phoot that
arrived at my ear I wante yo o’ to pubblish these
facks as a warnin’, so that any time annybody
else asks yoo if you’ll fcett five pownds that he
won’t put something in a plase where it’ll get wett
an’ then let you bawl it out by a roap an’ hit joo
in tie ear and taik all yoor money yoo can te,’. him
that yoo ar insane an’ nob abef to enter into a
contrack of a binding haraker.—Yours, Titus
Salt
Te Kooti.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
“ Te Kooti is a kind of Maon Robin Hood—-an outlaw,
who, hr years, fought the Invaders of h:s country, and
eluded tli ir cleverest g'neraP by his knowledge of the
buffi. The trail lator has done its best to torn the
savage t rce and poetic fervour of a wild Maori chant into
the rythmic swing of ordinary English veise. In doing
so he has f tithhlly pnserved the correct meaning of the
original, b it has been compelled to take some liberties
with construction and metaphor.
Exult for Te Kooti! Te Kooti the bold ;
So fierce ia the onset, so dauntless of old,
Whose might was resistless when battle-waves
rolled,
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
The Pakehas cams with their rum and their gold,
And soon the broad lands of our fathers were sold,
But the voice of Te Kooti said, ‘‘ He ld tub
laiJd ! Hold !! ”
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
They falsely accused him—rto trial had he,
They carried him off to an isle in the sea,
But his prison was broken, once more he was
free—
Exult for Te Kooti, yo hoo !
They tried to enslave us, to trample us down
Like the millions that serve them in field and ifl
town,
But a sapling that bended is sure to rebound—
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
He plundered their rum-stores, he ate up their
priests,
He robbed the rich squatters to furnish his feasts,
What fare half so fine as their clover-fed beasts ?
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
In the wild midnight foray whose footsteps tifod
lighter ?
In the flash of the rifle whose eyeballs gleamed
brighter ?
What man to our hero could match as a fighter !*
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
They say it was murder, but what then is war—•
When they slaughtered our loved ones in the
flames of the pah ?
O darker their deeds and more merc'less far !
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
They boast that they’ll slay him —they’ll shoot
him at sight,
But the power that nerves him’s a power of might,
At a glance from his eye they shall tremble with
fright,
Exult for Te Kooti, yo hoo !
When the darkness was densest he wandered 1
away,
To rejoice in the charge of the wild battle-fray ;
Now, his limbs they are feeble ; his beard it is'
grey—
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo 1
The Eternal’s our father, the land is oar mother,
The forest and mountains our sister and brother,
Who’d part with his birthright for gold to
another ?
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
We won't sell the land, Id’s the gift of the Lord,
Except it is bought with tha blood drinking
sword,
But all men are welcome to share in its hoard—
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
Yet, amid all thy gladness forget not the brave
Who in glades of the forest have found a lone'
grave—
Whose choice it was Death than the life of a
slave—
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo 1
Exult for Te Kooti, Te Kooti the bold,
So sage in the couacil, so famous of old.
Whose war-cry’s our motto—’tis “Hold the
land ! Hold 1”
Exult for Te Kooti, yo-hoo !
Hawke’s Bay. N.Z'.
ARTHUR DESMOND.
The Sydney D.T. heads a leading article
with “Where shall we get oar Bread?” Well,
we don’t know, bat we suppose from Parkes and
the Calico Jimmies aa usual. They’ve gob the
dispensing of free postage and the Government
advts, just now.
Editor Hoolan, of the Etheridge (Q.)
MiW®, seems, to be an outspoken man and gifted
with a flow of unobtrusive frankness. In the first
issue of his sledgehammer print he mentioned
that he believed the district was too infernally
mean to support the new venture, but anyhow he
cadge enough money from Croydon to keep
the Mixer a’.ive. A malignant Brisbane journal
came out with a fancy picture after this in which
a shock-headed northern editor was represented
e liting his paper in a tent with only a pair of
pants and a shirt on, bub even then Mr. Hoolan
did not take offence. He merely telegraphed
back : “Too much clothes. Editor goes naked
always
Mr. Mil T s, who was a schoolmaster at
Parramatta fifty years ago, ii still alive and hale
and hetrby. He did much bo aid the cause of the
Emancipists by refusing to make any distinction
being the children of ex-convicts and those of free
settlers. Before his time the children of the
Emancipists wire eseluded from the schools at-
lroßeiiy of the “Pure Merinos.”
Mr. Mills cor ducted his school in a notable old
building in Parramatta, which was demolished
about 12 years tgo This building had been
erected by the Hassell family early in the century,
and pmr to Mr. Mills’ time the first printing
press in Austra’’a v as set up in ore of its rooms,
and the first Australian Sunday School was held
in the same building.


Stobk Cattle fob Salk.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
That famous old Sydney hostelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
•lann hote*.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS.
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers A Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Ifi-pags Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
Ifi-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, feo.
Frlstsd list if Bail meases far Bala Isaac* Bsllii
All Liats posted Free oa appllsatlocs.
Personal Items.
Jiy Gould won’t employ blonde clerks.
The Prince of Wales’s beard Is furring
very grey.
Harrison Is the shortest President America
has yet had.
Treasurer McMillan la the son of a Wes-
leyan minister.
Rose Julian, said to be the finest female
acrobat in America, is iai Australian.
Of the new N.S.W. Ministry six are
natives, two are Irish, and one is English.
Old Jeff Davis, President of the American
Confederacy, is 82 years of age, and attended a
ball at New Orleans recently.
Good old Santa Claus put £20,000 worth
of railway bonds into the stockings of each cf Jay
Gould’s children last Christmas.
An American critic says that Mrs. Lang-
try’s beauty has deserted her, and that even her
former taste for dress has left her.
Salomons, Q. 0., can do three things at
one time—read a law-book, listen to a witness,
and receive instructions from his attorney.
Four years ago the late Dr. Bromby
married a girl of 1G whom he was preparing for
eonfirmation. He was then 76 years of age.
The journalistic profession In N.Z. Is
deteriorating in tone. A baronet named Wasteney s
has become editor of a Waikato newspaper.
Griffith’s health has considerably Im-
proved. His partiality for lying in a wicker
chair with a pipe and a volume of Swinburne
has proved his salvation.
Dr. M‘Gregor, the Governor of New
Guinea, personally assisted to construct the
gallows from which were hanged the natives who
killed Captain Ancell.
Klein, who, it ia said, commanded the
Samoans in the recent battle with the Germans, is
of German parentage, born in England, and is a
naturalised American citizen.
Oaida began her literary career by wilting
short stories for the English magazines, for which
she was glad to receive £1 a page. She now gets
£l5OO for every book she writes.
Judge Hickman Moleaworth, of Mel-
bourne, tried to get larrikins adopted as the
feminine of larrikin, but was unsuccessful, and
soon dropped the use of the word.
Among the attorneys on the N.S.W. Roll
there is one who holds a publican’s license and
serves behind a bar. However, for that matter
all attorneys serve behind the bar.
Sir Julius Vogel writes so shockingly bad a
fist that when he was editor of the Otago Daily
Times (N.Z.) the printers were paid one-third
extra for “ setting ” his manuscript.
Princess Louise is an inveterate cigarette-
smoker so that when she comes to bosi Sydney
Government House we presume that Potts Point
will present her with a golden spittoon.
An impression gains ground In literary
circles that “The Baby Song,” attributed to Sir
Henry Parkes, is really the work of one of the
younger members of the Parkes family.
The Qaeen has knighted Mr. Myles
Fenton, general manager of the South Eastern
Railway. He is the man who rides on the royal
engine when Her Gracious travels by the line.
Young Lord Seafield, eon of the N.Z,
ex-bum-bailiff, is to be educated in England. It
is understood that his grand-aunt intends to
return to him the family estates, now worth
£BO,OOO a year.
John Boyle O Rsilly, one of the Irish
political prisoners who escaped from West Aus-
tralia 20 years ago, is now editor of the Boston
(U.S,) Pilot, and is one of the most graceful of
American pcets.
Reliable news by letter states that
MTlwraith has genuinely benefited by his trip to
Japan, but he h»s not regained his robustness,
and is not likely to. Any overstrain in the future
is strongly deprecated by his doctors.
Artist Du Maurier, of London Punch,
keeps in his study a vase known as the “joke-
pot.” Into this pot go all the letters he receives
containing jokes, and when the artist is hard up
for a subject he seeks inspiration in the vase.
It is said that Dr. Florance, the N.S.W.
metallurgist, who recently discovered a cheap and
perfect method of coating iron and steel with cop-
per, has entrusted the commercial utilisation of
his seemingly brilliant discovery to the “Princess
Midas.”
Tom Garrett declares that Parkes is really
weary of public life, and wants leisure to devote
himself, during the remainder of his days, to a
big literary task —understood to be a history of
himself —upon which he has been engaged for
some years.
Barney Barnato, the “ Diamond King ”
of South Africa, was 1G years ago a penniless boy
cf 19. Three years later he had £3OOO Then he
bought four claims at Kimberley which paid him
net £2OOO a week for four years, and then he sold
them for £150,000.
Mr. Justice Boucaut, of S. A., who will act
as Lieutenant-Governor during the absence of the
Chief Justice ia Victoria, is not a “dignified
man. He will “not be happy till judges may,
without losing dignity, appear in eourt ia pyjamas
and with their boots off.”
Viscount Mandevllle who, lb Is cabled,
has just gone insolvent, is the eldest son and heir
of cur dear friend the Duke of Manchester.
Liabilities, £100,000; assets, nil. Mandevilla
married a Yankee girl, Mies Yznaga, who pro-
bably thought he was rich,
Hennlker Heaton, lb la said, was willing
to pay the gentleman who wrote his speeches, but
no particular pries was specified. When the bill
was sent in, Hennlker contrasted the charges
with those paid by his late respected father-in-
law, and he at once became alarmed at the
amount.
N.S.W. has a country editor who prints
the advertisements and rings the town bell for the
local auctioneer. Under the existing Calico
Jimmy centralising policy of Foreign-trade and
free newspaper postage, the N.S.W. country
press is, and must be, the poorest and meanest in
Australasia.
An English financial paper states that the
Prince of Wales netted £40.000 as the price of
meeting Colonel North, “ the Nitrate King.” at
dinner, and North himself pocketed £15,000 by
the deal. And the same paper accuses the Colonel
of bad form in mixing up, at his £lO,OOO ball,
aristocracy with publicans and second-rate actois.
At a mining company’s meeting at Clunes
a couple cf >ears ago the lats Francis Henty, who
died in England recently, pocketed a fee cf a
guinea as a director’s honorarium, and stated that,
though he had been connected with scores of
public companies during a commercial career of
50 years, il was the first occasion on which he had
taken such a fee.
The “ Princess Midas ” told a newspaper
man the other day that although Rowland Rees
might be allowed to follow her to England on
business, he must chew the bun of patiencs and
resignation on the remotest of back seats. “For,”
said she, with a sweet smile, “ the only chance of
his harbonr-f cbeme succeeding is to leave the whole
business to vie
Fashionable London is beginning to get
sick of the name of Colonel North, “ the Nitrate
King,” and at one West End Club any mention
of the Colonel’s name results in a fine of cham-
pagne for all present. And, by the way, presently
London society will begin to remember that, after
all, nitrate is only a fertiliser, and when the smart
peop'e take to calling North “ the manure
monarch ” he will pass right out of knowledge.
J, H. L. Zillmann, the N.S.W. parson
who had it made too hot for him for bis manly
conduct in denouncing Windeyer’s action in the
disgraceful Mount Rennie case, and who subse-
quently ran the Darling Downs Gazette against
Groom through the elections, is now preaching
and lecturing in England. A kind and reverend
Christian brother wrote out to the Bishop of
Exeter warning him that Zillman favoured Par-
nell and his fellow criminals, and was an enthusias-
tic Gladstonian. The letter scarcely produced its
proper effect. The Bishop of Exeter is a personal
friend of Gladstone’s and an avowed Home Ruler.
General Boulanger is not tho dashing
your g brigand he is generally taken for. He is
somewhere between 50 and GO—a gaunt, hoarse,
gouty, rheumatic old man who has b j gnn to frisk
cumbrously over the map of Europe in his old
age, and has grown bounceable just as his second
childhood hove in sight. He has a scraggy,
venomous old wife who is reported to be a better
shot with dishes than any other woman in France
and who nags in ill-fitting clothes and bulgy boots
until Boulanger sometimes wishes he had been
executed very young.
Jamis Tyson, the Australian squatting
Croesus, who is now, they say. worth six millions,
not long ago handed over £500,000 to one bank as
a fixed deposit. And yet, in his accounts he is
particular to a penny. ILthe balance against you
is £lOOO Is. Id., he will expect the odd money
when you settle, and similarly if he owes you
£lOOO os. Id , he will include the Id. in his cheque.
He is about sixty years old, or so, has never been
and never will get married, is a woman-hater and
a teetotaller, and his personal expenses are pro-
bably not over £4OO or £5OO a year. His nearest
relatives are nephews and nieces, of whom he has
swarms. No one knows what he is going to do
with his money. He tells admirable stories, and
they are most of them not nine or ten degrees from
the eternal truth.
POLITICAL POINTS
Parkes' policy Is capital—the capital of
N S W.
The Young Kangaroo will soon be leaping
over the whole continent.
Socialism divides mankind into three great
classes, viz., working men, begging men, and
thieves.
Sir Henry Parkes has been pleased to say
that George’s Land Nationalisation idea is “purely
chimerical.”
Qaong Tart has informed a Chinese inter-
viewer that he thinks of entering the N S. Wales
Parlirment.
Lawyers and printers are the most
numerous ly represented professions in the Ameri-
can Congress.
It la pretty generally understood that Groom
is preparing to rat to the National party—if they
will have him.
The remark of the Times that it awaits
with perfect confidence the result of the Commis-
.%Sts-s '
yvi i^pAR-Kt
frji
Q,ZLCC£ P'-rTO
2)A A/ O-COA/tfOfir
Ul C T Qo
“AND THEM TOWN COVES IS THE FELLERS THAT’S COIN’ TO DEAL
WITH THE LAND QUESTION! WHY. NOT ONE OF THEM HAS
EVER BEEN OVER THE LAND IN HIS LIFE!”
eion is on a par with the cock-Bure Christianity of
the condemned criminal just) before he mounts the
tcaffold.
Chief Secretary Deakin, of Victoria, de-
scribes the Freetrade newspapers of Sydney as
“ the Pharisaical Press of N.S.W.”
There are 10 empty shops in George-
street, Sydney, between King-street and Hunter-
street—the beet block in the city.
A resident o! Hamilton (Vic.) Is said to
have left his son a fortune in land and lucre on
condition that he never puts up for Parliament.
Noble patriot !
The Queensland Sugar Commission has
practically made un its mind to recommend the
extension of Coolie labour in the North for at
least five years.
Parkes now says that “ what yon want In
any Minister is that he ba an educated gentleman
with much ability,” &c He was thinking of
Banker Abigail.
Great efforts are being made by the ex-
tremists in the North to force the new members
who have taken offica under M‘llwraith to advo-
cate pure Separation or resign.
“Billy” Willis, M.L.A. for Bonrke
(N.S.W.), “humped” his swag some years ago.
He has since prospered by his own shrewdness and
industry. Willis is 30 years old.
Lord Knntsford, the Secretary of State
for these beastly Kawllnies, who holds the Suze-
rainty of the Continent of Australia, said recently
all a dinner la London that he had not visited any
of the colonies “ except Heligoland and Malta.”
There are 217,000 Savings Bank depositors
in Protectionist Victoria and 118 000 in Freetrade
N.B W., while ih i Victorian depositors have half
a-million more to ohoir credit. Victoria’s depositors
increase three times fa iter, and tin amount de-
posited five tim's faster than do those of N.S.W.
This is a little fact that every Foreign trader in
N.S.W, should think over quietly.
Dickson and Bulcock are both of opinion
that the re-action consequent on the present
Queensland tariff will provoke a Calico Jimmy
furore in the Brisbane constituencies, and they
hope to come back into Parliament on the top of it.
lo is cabled that at a London banquet last
week the Prince of Wales said that the patriotic
devotion of N.S W. in sending a contingent to the
Soudan would never be forgotten. N.S.W.
almost forgets it. She did the deed when she was
drunk.
Freetrade was forbidden from the top of
Mount Sinai when the injunction “ Thou shalt
not steal ” was given. Anyhow, this text is just
as good as a lot of the Bible extracts whereby the
clergymen who occupy editorial chairs seek to
prove that Foreign-trade is the fiscal creed of
Heaven and its host?.
A Bushman’s Parliamentary Representa-
tive Fund has been founded in Queensland, and is
a great success. It advocates the returning of
purely labour candidates with a platform of Pro-
tection, One Man One Vote, and the abrogation
of the Six Months Residence Clause Over £5OO
have already been subscribed to the fund, and
they count on returning at least three members by
next general election. And they don’t believe any
more in G riffith and his promises.
Purves, Q.C., requires all his legal subtlety
to remove the benefit department of the A. N.A.
from its political concerns. This is how he puts
his case.
The society first transacts and closes its business, and
then proceeds to deal with these larger matters in public
meeting with the doors thrown open to all and sundry-
Any resolu'iors then arrived at are not resolutions of
the Australian Natives’ Association as such, but cf i's
members assembled in publir meeting.
It takes a lawyer to wriggle.
The S.F. Argonaut favours Germany in
the Samoan question. It says “our consular
system comes from the kerbstone and the village
court house, and it is not impossible that the
United States has been represented at Apia by
adventurers who, in their intercourse with German
and English officials, have not been as prudent, as
wise, and as judicious as they ought.” Gilderoy
Wells Griffin will be in ’Frisco scon enough to pull
Editor Pixley’s nose.
Foreign-trade Secretary Pulaford, in hla
circular of instructions for the use of Freetrade
Leagues, says that “ Any public advertisements
are to begin as follows : ‘ A meeting of the sup-
porters of Freetrade will,' &c., &o. This will
make it clear that Protectionists can only be pre-
sent by courtesy, and gives the right to insist on
their withdrawal in case of disturbance by them.
The same words should be used on other occasions
when thought desirable.” In other words, the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade party don’t like bona-fide
public meetings.
M‘ll wraith’s resignation of the Queens-
land Premiership has not been generally under-
stood. His doctors having imperatively ordered
him a complete and protracted change, and there
being at the time several pressing and important
political events on the tapis, with signs of more
to follow, it was clear that the best thing to do
would be to give a clear hand to Morehead and
save Sir Thomas from the worry of consultations
by cable and telegraph But it was not for a
moment supposed in the Cabinet that his retire-
ment from the leadership was permanent. In all
probability MTI wraith will meat Parliament as
Premier.
A Mew South Wales paper, with no regard
for the truth and no fear for a hereafter, reports
that in the days when a sleepy old Minister
used to doze in the Works Office
and dream and snore in the Assembly, he was
wakened up once by a roar of thunder just as the
House was getting fairly to work for the night.
He wasn’t sufficiently awake to know what it
was, but he took it for granted from the awful
row that M'Elhone was asking a question, and
stumbling to his feet he spoke into space: “Uf
the hon. member’ll guv proper notice ” he
began, but before he could get any further he fell
asleep standing and sat down in an unconscious
condition.
Mr. Seymour, an unassuming little candi-
date for Dandenong at the forthcoming Victorian
elections, is a nephew of that Sk Beauchamp Sey-
mour who bombarded Alexandria on behalf of
“ Biitish interests,” or for some other reason which
was not clearly understood at the time and is
quite beyond explanation no v. The Dandenong
Seymour, however, is believed to be a well-behaved
radical with a tendency to bombard Duncan
Gillies, and if the electors will overlook the fact
that his uncle was made into a baron by our
Gracious Queen, the little man may squeeze
through. After all a nephew is not responsible
for the gory actions of his gallant uncle. We
despise our “ uncle ” something awful.
Dear Bulletin, —Th'a is a true resump-
tion story. A, learns by accident that the Go
vernment intend to resume a few acres of his land
for a certain object. In the centre of his property
is a tidy plot owned by one of the simplest
Germans living, and this land, too, is to be re-
sumed. A. interviews Mr. Sauerkraut and finds
that he will take £345 for the plot. No money
changes hands. The whole block is resumed.
Mr, Sauerkraut calls upon A , Esq. “ Ha, you
want that cheque writes out a cheque for £345
and presents io. “ Very godt; budt you wridtes
me oudt anudder cheque for £llO. You see you
haf nodt buyed dot land yet and you makes
Government pay £455 for ilt. I dakes anudder
cheque for £llO or eke I makes von pig noise
abaudt it ” He got his stuff. And yet there is a
deficit
OYSTER JOHNNIE.


The Reward of Loyalty: The A rk mows ou without ’em.
DAN O'CONNOR (sol.): “BEY THE SHADES OF DANIEL HINRY DINAHEE AND WILLIAM CHAELISS WINTWORTH, IT'S A AND SUGGESTIVE SOIGHT!'


ifotteiQi*
T(lt\ 0£ |
ť
CLjayS " f/ssecC S/rafk rf' e /-
C /e /i e7s*> a. s & 'ff ojT sf'S />a
Q. flyycr <dss e - ——_
CLpa.//? T /E>sc<x/?er f > orfy~sca./deo7£ 6y « yficc/p//pj> /py C/'etifS
' iilr. J Haynes, M.L.A., etotmed a strong ph>
tootionigt meeting of farmers at Mndgee 6n
Saturday, and £y working successfully to get
them seed wheat, won them almost to a mm to
side. —~— . tP '/ Pf/?
v rpey ycc<s/~ fere Se&p /'ey
you** /rds ?*,
deep
“^-a/^ t/y cC <yc<s.c/’yc<s.c/’- ojye&y
ft cot J'ofifjpy / /c>: />?**>^
cte~o.7s rp
NATIONAL
Portrait GALt-ENy
/y/? SMAU*T/ck OF 7Wf
- "/,00/c A ere 7 f Wayf
ct 9 cc JW
Tdf PROPOSED "national
PORTRAIT Q/iILEKy ' /)M0
\ its dJ£s ‘
/PursEßy
P/'cec/'/oU'S y ou^c^sTerJ
"/YoiA /?ep,
// you- cioyf 6e
J oL*t ao/ ?z
c a fon<* bo"? a to//?
>e PIL TfiKE
you /a/
y£RE!"
/A
<y otoh
\ a/
' °pce.
jr N
#0 "you see //s //ZclZi/s Sotj/jy,
you'll yot/t /)//t£ yt’O/'S so yOo 6e/ter Sk&SJ&'S*
/fry s/eewers a rtf Z// Sffid you a// sor As of ya^Zee ,
/itot/oos g / t//> toy, hr/ces/'
Oor
/^L
/%/ % I
'W_ A
-
e 'P r 7 > l-gfectiol)l^^
Political and Otherwise.


QRESOENT BREWING CO.’S
“AURORA”
PILBBNBR BHHR
p. B WHEELER & 00.,
265 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
East way Brothers, 411 George street, Syd-
ney.— Ladies Wire Dress-Stands, for Draping
D.esses on. These Stands save time, trouble, and
money. Wire Flower-Stands, for holding pots in
halls, verandahs, gardens, &c. They are light and
strong, painted any colour. Fish, Fish.—Why be
without fish when you can always have plenty by
having one of our traps. Just received : A splendid
lot of Canary Gages.
Mokt and Chandon's Ciiampagnb.—Messrs. Meet and
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their “Dry-
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2600 acres in the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Grown Is in each cornn> of label. and 1884 branded on
cork and label.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
■ESTABLISHED 1161.
■HI LEADING HOUBI
101
Pianos, Organs, Mosls,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS .
Special attention la called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS I
ÜBBBL and LEOHLBITER PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and 00. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Oar Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
Onr BELLING PIANO, which cannot be n
celled at £36.
ESTBY ORGANS. ESTET ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves I The Estay
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, In order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many Inferior (or so-called
“cheap”) Organs now being offered, and to main]
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work>
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANT FART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT BTBTIM.
«. N. PMJHt k U-, IX
161 GEORGE STREET, two d~ON from P-O,
Society
The Rev J. T. Robertson* a member of
the Melbourne Drasbytery, stood up at one of
their little meetings the other day, and said “ he
considered it was mere sanctimonious cant to say
that £2OO was not some inducement (for a brother
to ‘ clear ’ to another vineyard), and if he were
offered £2 0 more he should think it a call from
God and accept it.” Ha that hath eahs to beah,
let him “ heah, heah ! ’ —
Lady Onslow, the new N.Z. Governoress,
has a little dog, a sublimated, etherealised poodle
with a haughty escutcheon and not a drop of
plebeian blood in his veins nor a low-bred wag in
his tail. A dog—Sir Henry would call it a doggie
—reared in luxury, fed on cream, liver-wings,
strawberries at a guinea each ; a doggie that lies
on satin and eider down, is bathed by a beautiful
big creature with calves, and is on speaking terms
with Tummy and never barked at anything below
a baronet. A dog so exalted could not possitly be
detached from his mistress who is indeed the only
person who knows precisely how sweet Fido likes
his omelet souffle flavoured. There exists, how-
ever, ia N.Z, an atrocious revolutionary law that
condemns even the imported patrician poodle to
six months’ quarantine as a preventive against
rabies. Lord Onslow s first, and perhaps most
important, despatch to his Ministers con-
sisted of a request that if the law could
nob be entirely relaxed in Lady Onslow's
and dear Fido’s favour, a building might
be erected in Government House grounds for the
noble animal’s accommodation, and a detachment
of Permanent Artillery bold off to attend it during
the six months of its quarantine. Government
handed over the responsibility to the Cattle Board.
Two members only of the Board attended on the
occasion, big with the fate of Fido and of
Rome—Messrs. H. Bunny (chairman) and J.
Taylor. Bunny is a veteran lawyer and a poli-
tician-tinged with the horrid, low, radical and
levelling tendencies of the age. He said : “ I am
not prepared to break the law by making an ex-
ception in favour of Lord Onslow’s or anybody
else’s poodle. Mind you ! ” he said, turning on
the unhappy Taylor, who had come prepared to
do his ’umole duty as a Briton to Britain’s aristo-
cracy, “ if you move anything I shall vote against
lb.” Bunny then proposed, Taylor seconded, and
it was carried, “That, in the opinion of this board
it is nob desirable bo make an additional quaran-
tine station.” Perfectly dreadful, wasn’t in?
What is the world coming to when no respect is
shown to the sacred privileges of our masters and
betters! Still, if Fido develope I rabies and bib
the Permanent Artillery, those low born warriors
would derive no consolation from the fact that
they had been inoculated with hydrophobia by a
lard's dog.
When a steamer ran lata the s s. “B trcoo”
the other day in the Brisbane River about thirty
people jumped onto the “ Bare do,” thinking that
their own vessel was sinking. Amongst them was
a well-known publican, who had come out for an
airing with two of his children “By Jove, old
man!” said a friend who had jumped over with
him, “ that was a narrow squeak ; yet I think you
ought to have stuck to the kids, or brought them
wiih you.” “But you see,” said Bung, rather
shams facedly, “there was only a moment to do
it in, and I was saving myself for the missus and
the other four kids at home ” Bung would make
a big fortune as a lightning-calculator.
* * •
The Australian female is a precarious
little creature, and, if she begins at all, she begins
early in crier to get there in goad time A S mth
Melbourne damsel of twelve-and-a-quarter is the
latest to arrive. She developed an extensive ap-
petite for switchback locomotion, and bestrode
the Exhibition express during the latter days of
that shrieking show regardless of expense, and
when in transit she was wont to wax hysterical,
and say “Oh, my !” and throw herself on the
ample bosom of the fat man opposite in a state of
tears and violent agitation, and pray him j to fix
his talons in her and hold back hard, or she’d flop
over the hedge into eternal chaos—she knew she
would. If there was no fat man opposite she
hung on to a thin one in an emergency, or she
would enfold the young dude next on her right,
and wail and kick out till he thought he had a
very serious case of sudden death on hand, and
wished he was in Central New Guinea being
chased by cannibals ; or she would capsize into
the lap of the stout lady behind when the car
was on an up grade, and simulate a state
of physical collapse, lasting to the_ end of the
journey. By-and-by, as the evening wore on,
that fat man, and that dude, and that thin man,
and that stout lady would begin to miss personal
ornaments and discover that they no longer had
valuables they once possessed, and they would
race through their pockets with an aspect of sur-
prised agitation, and turn oui all their emptiness,
with words of bitterness and wrath ; after which
they inquired their way to the nearest policeman.
The little girl from South Melbourne doesn’t
switchback any more—she’s in gaol. She sub-
sided on to a policeman in disguise during her last
trip, and he detained her in order to recover his
watch—not because it was a very valuable watch,
but it was given him by his grandmother, and he
priz ed it highly. The heroine of these observations
panned out about a peck of empty purses and a
bushel of pawn-tickets. Her parents keep a board-
ing-house ; they feel much cut-up, and the hash is
tough and leathery with their tears.
• * *
When Te Kooti, the elderly Maori gentle-
man who killed a number of women and children
in 1803, recently threatened to visit Gisborne, the
entire adult population swore to shoot him at
sight At least everybody but cue man did so.
He declared at a public meeting that he looked
upon Te Kooti as a good man and a benefactor—
ani was promptly ejected. He was re admitted,
however, with apologies when he explained that
Te Kooti had tomahawked his mother-in-law.
* * *
Archdeacon S:ock, a Wellington (N.Z )
Episcopalian, recently went to England, after a
third of a century’s service, for his health’ ssake.
The N.Z. papers are now rejoicing breause the trip
has added 6 lbs. to the dear old gentleman’s weight.
As he was a little taller and considerably sparser
than a main-royal mast, the additional ounces
will not be misplac d Tne Yen. Archdeacon
once said to a verdant but obese young cleric just
out—who was regarding the Archdiaconal meagre-
ness with evident astonishment, and wondering
whether the “climate” would similarly affect his
own cherished chubbiness—“ Dil you meet my
brother at Oxford—he’s taller than I am—but
not so fat ? ”
• • •
A Sydney suburb can boast of a gay old
citizen who has seven times rejoiced at the
hymeneal altar On the 1 ast occasion he was driven
to church before the wheel-tracks of the hearse
that b ore away his bride’s predecessor had been
obliterated.
• • •
Ltboushere says in Truth that there are
a million girls in England unable to secure hus
bands.
a • «
Max •’Roll, lu his new book, tells of
Yankee poker-players:—
0a board the steamer wa had a party of Americans who
passed seven days of the voyage playing poker. Toe
smoking-room rang from mor.iing to night with the oaths
that they uttered every time that they threw a oard on
the table. They were so fluent with them that they
hardly used the same twice in an hour. Taeir stock
seemed inexhaustible. Oo Sunday, after breakfast, a
yoaoglad/ sat down to the p ane, and began playing
nymns. What happened then ? Oar poker-party
gathered rouid the young lady, and for two hours sang
peaims and holy taaes to the edifloation of the other oc
cupante of the saloon. I was dumbfounded. In Franoe
we have men who swear, and also men wh ) sing hymns.
B it I believe that the Anglo Saxon race alone can luraish
men who do both with equal facility and gust \
• •
A victim to consumption—living In Lon-
don -recently shot his wife dead, because she was
so healthy.
#
“Wanted, a female companion to the
above. App’y at this office.” This is how a
N.S.W. country storekeeper gently hints, in his
shop window, that he requires a widow to match
his photograph.
• •
As the Irish Home Rule representatives,
now about to tour Australia, include ia their
ranks a real young live baronet, Sir Thomas
Eunonde, unmarried, good-looking, and ready-
tongaed, it is quite unlikely that sussiety will be
inclined to turn its back upon them as it did
upon the Redmonds who sowed the harvest in
more troublous itnes.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —I have ofban found my-
self in error and cried “ peccavi ” (Dr. Haig used
to say “I suppose you 11 now cry Copeevy ”), so
1 charge you to let the public know that ay deter-
mination that marriage is not a failure is sub-
stantiated. More than ever I see that marriage
is as necessary (to some people) as exchange,
politics, trade, whisky, or any of those things one
reads about I do not say it is necessary to the
contracting parties, but what a blessing lo the
syndicate who arrange it! It has been my rule
for four years to study Hazoll’s Annual, as the
quickest way of epitomising the distant European
moves. In io I find (p. 382. cap. Marriage, Lawon,
’8S) ; ‘ Certain animals were sacrificed and the
heads sent to the parents of the bride, and the
bridegroom ploughed his mother-in law's gardm.
Taese acts constitute valid marriage among the
Baralongs.” Now, I’ve thrown sheep’s heads and
even cabbage heads at a certain lady’s door
and torn up every flower in her garden. I
wish she was a “Baralong ’ for her daughter is
now a “ leddy ” and I am not the lord. At any
rate, I’d like to see some son in-law plough their
mam in law’s garden otherwise than I have men-
tioned. I must now conclude, for my wife's
mother wishes me to chase some turkeys out of her
garden.—Yours, SOotiv the Wrinklsr,
• *
Tha magistrates of St. Kilda (JVIelb.) have
dismissed a charge of criminal libel against one of
their brother beaks. The prosecutor had come
(and brought a lady with him) all the way from
Eagland to prove his case, and this “ conspiracy
of justice ” crushed him at the outset. The
Attorney-General ought to step in here, if he had
any excuse for doing so in the Mrs. Rappiport
case.
• * *
The petitioner In a Melbourne divorce-
suit, heard last week, is in the habit of addressing
a lady friend as his “dear old Toucher.”
• • *
Certain ladies of North Melbourne have
risen in their purity to protest against the nomina-
tion of Dr. Rose for a seat in the next High
Court of Parliament. The particular little sin
which is now finding the amorous doctor out was
explained in a Bulletin epigram, two years ago--
The ladies —bless ’em !—are carrying the old story
of the baker’s wife from house to house, and ask-
ing wives and mothers whether such a monster
ought to b a allowed, my dear. Rather rough on
Rose 1 If those high-minded females knew what
we know they would protest against every blessed
politician in the colony.
Clean lines a nob always next to Godliness.
In Rockhampton a church stands “aside” a
Chinese shanty dedicated to Venus,
A maiden (address, Narandera)
Couldn’t bear any “ boy ” to come near her ;
When by one she was squsessd
She felt highly displeased,
And she screamed —so that no one could hear her.
Acting-Governor Robinson has announced
his burning desire to shake hands with any
Melbourne ladies and gentlemen who may look
him up on any afternoon, between 3 30 and 5 p.m.
We're" afraid Wobinson will find this very
wearying. He doesn’t know Melbourne sassiety,
and has formed no notion of the awful dragging
and hauling in store for his vice vice regal paw.
to *
An English paper speaks of Sir James
Duke as a rising amateur jockey. This young
sprig of nobility was “ doing ” Australia some six
years ago, when he preserved a quasi incognito by
entering himself and another fellow upon hotel
books as “Sir James Duke and friend.” The
waiters used to gaze upon the distinguished pair
and wonder which was the friend. Both were
beaut ifully attired.
Lmnley Hill, the Queensland squatter
colossus, has now almost entirely sold out. If he
sees no chance of getting into Parliament again he
will probably go south and settle in Melbourne,
Melbourne girls are reminded that Lumley is a
bachelor and gives delightful picnics.
• • •
In the old convict-days In N.S.W. the-
u ecord of the marriage of two prisoners was accom
panied by a big black “P.,” signifying “prisoner.”
A Parramatta resident was once asked at a meet-
ing in the long ago why this ominous letter fol-
lowed the names of his father and mother in the
register at a local church. “ Sure,” said the un-
abashed one, it stands for “Pathiiots,”
Since the E irl of Kintora was appointed
Governor of South Australia his pedigree has be-
come a subject of considerable public interest, but
the more that pedigree is studied the worse grows
the awful entanglement of Kintore’s sisters and
cousins and aunts and his mothers-in-law on the
father’s side twice removed. Kintore, it seems,
married the second daughter of the Duke of
Manchester by his second wife, the Duke of Man-
chester’s second wife’s second hueband having
duly given his consent. The Duchess in her early
life was named Dobbs, and she grew on the
parent stalk in Ireland until, at the age of 15, the
late Manchester took her home to his ancestral halls.
Manchester was then 51 years old, and he pegged
out in 1855 Hia widow soon afterwards married
a Government official named Sir Hans Blackwood,
and a little later the present Earl of Kintore, who
wasn’t Earl of Kictore then, married into a house-
hold which was beginning to get mixed. The
relations of the Duke of Manchester’s relatives by
his first marriage and Dobbs, the situation which
Dobbs occupies towards the children of Blackwood
by his first wife, the position of Kintore with
regard to Dobbs viewiog Dobbs as the step-fathefr-
in-law of Manchester’s first wife's family, thh
attituda of everybody else to the family
which Blackwood had before Manchester’s
sec md widow became ih-ir step mother and Dobbs
their step grandfather-in-law, and the position
whioh Kintora occupies in regard to any family
that Dobbi may have by another wife, supposing
Dobbs is alive and marries again, are points that
are too elaborate to be easily settled. Conse-
quaatly, the South Australian publican’s missus
who wants to shake Lady Kintore by the hand
and ask if all the family is keeping well and able
to take their vittles reg’lar wi 1 be liable to get
tied up in a hard knot at any moment, and there
are considerable difficulties ahead.
• * *
This Is how an American paper strikes a
blow at the effete nobility of Yew-rope “ When
the Duke of Sutherland and his concubine made
their way through the crowd which, during busi-
ness hours, always throngs ‘ Wanamaker’s,’ the
duke, short, stocky, red-faced, and intensely
vulgar, clad in a shabby, ill-fitting suit of tweed,
looked what he was—a fit companion for the
creature, a foot taller and as vulgar-looking as
himstlf, who, dressed in a cheap, faded pink
sateen gown and blue pork-pie hat, divided with
him the mocking homage of observers. When
promenading down Chestnut-street at a fashion-
able hour, the duke, dusty and perspiring, and the
female in a black velvet dress en train, with an
mmense garland of artificial Jack-roses encircling
her immense waist, and light tennis-shoes on her
elephantine feet, the sight was one so ridiculous
and absurd that had it not been for the presence
of officers to keep off the curious crowd, it would
have soon grown into a hooting mob.”
s r •
The all-abaorblng social question In Sydney
just now is—“ Wiut is a spinster ? ”
» ‘ *
There are rumours in Sydney of fresh
sensations in connection with defalcations by
attornies some of whom are still alive while
others are dead. A pitiable case is that of two
hard-working and much-respected ladies who have
been robbed by their trustees.
• • •
Out of 210 cases of diphtheria in Mel-
bourne since Ist Dec, there were 71 deaths.
Two thousand cases of typhoid in the same time
produced 187 deaths Marvellous Smellbourne 1
Apropos of the retirement of Mr. Small
(late of Trial Bay prison, and formerly Governor
of Bar rim a) from the service of the N.S.W. penal
department after nearly 30 years engaged in
guarding convicts, a Sydney newspaper says that
Mr. Small “has been very successful in his
methods of dealing with refractory prisoners. J
This, under all the circumstances, is rather cruel
satire.
c • •
Photographing the foot Instead of the face
Is the latest craze in the fashionable circles of
America and Yurrup. This doesn’t mean, of
course, photographing two neat boots reposing on
a chair with an inch of stocking above them ; it is
the undressed human extremity which is put
before the camera, and ladies whose feet look
better than their heads have taken up the inspira-
tion with great vigour. A good deal of unclothed
human being is also attached to the foot in some
of these pictures, and the amount of this is steadily
increasing. As usual, the American reporter has
got on the track of this fresh fad, and he report®
on it thus
It is only within the past year that American ladies
have waked up to the .fact that the foot, as a feature of
artistic beauty, has some claims upon their attention, and
a proof exists in the new fad of having the feet photc*
graphed. A well-known photographer on Broadway, in
reply to my inquiries, said, “Yes, I’ll show you some of
them, but you mustn’t ask me whose they are.” There it
was, sure enough. A dainty white foot, resting on a dark
velvet cushion, sans shoe, sans stocking. No covering
save the snowy skin, no adornment but the artistically
trimmed nails. It was something more than a fool, for
the lac ad and ribboned skirt came only to the bend of the
round, dimpled knee. “I have other styles,” said the
artist. “Now, this is of a debutante of this season. I
think she has the prettiest foot I ever saw.” This picture
was of a figure in rustic dress seated upon a bank, or, I
should say, reclining ; for the head was resting on the
arms in such a way that the face was hidden. The care-
lessly-crossed limbs were bare, and the short skirt dis-
played them in all their beauty. Another picture was of
a girl lying upon a sofa, with her hair falling over her
fac3. She also wore a peasant’s dress which showed her
bare feet. Thera was no end to the poses, and all with
the one object. “What do the ladies do with these pic-
tures ?’ I asked. “We never inquire about that,” he
replied. “Are they mostly young ladies’’ “Almost
Friend Robertson, pleaoe put it there,
We like the gentle rook
Who mixes common sense with prayer,
And knows his little book ;
The other modest saints indeed,
May deem your candour odd —
Bub here’s to him who takes his greed
As coming straight from God !
It is mere sanctimonious cant—
We quite agree with you—
For one to say he doesn’t want
An increase in his “ screw}”
When sovs. are scattered in your way
(The path St, Peter trod)
You pick ’em up, and calmly say :
“ Hooroo ! a call from God.”
’Twere better, friend, if parsons all
Were half as blunt and wise,
And boldly took a fatter call
Without recourse to lies —
Accepting with a ready “ yes,”
A cheerful wink or nod,
The larger income (when it's less,
’Tis not a call from God),
So, Robertson, the harp we’ve struck
In honour of your speech—
We hope that soon a bit of luck
Will fall within your reach ;
And when of men you take your leave
And go beneath the sod,
We hope at last you may receive
The best of calls from God.
BUNNY V. POODLE.
Of Lady Onslow’s poodle
Sing, muse, a mongrel strain ;
EachCMG and mo die
Bow-wow the sad refrain.
Hard is thy fate, thou small canine,
Condemned to lengthy quarantine.
Oh, Lady Onslow’s poodle 1
What will thy feelings be
When common curs and rade’ll
Oome round to sniff at thee?
When banished on a rocky isle
Far from thy lady’s lap and smile.
Oh. Indy Onslow's poodle !
Sasaieby is shocked,
And Loyalty (flap doodle !)
Has been severely knocked,
Wnen on bhee sab (how fumy !)
An old remorseless Bunny,
Who, Lady Onslow’s poodle,
Condemned to durance vile,
Then struck up “ Yankee Doodle”
And smiled a furtive smile
At being, for ihal-treatmenb past
Revenged on poodle dogs at last.
A doctor and a lady fair
(0 ! prithee do not coldly harden
Your hearts against the giddy pair)
Together dwelt in Nature’s garden.
She loved to watch and tend the Rose,
No other beauteous blossom heeding^
The Doctor, though, was one of those
Who concentrate their thoughts on Weeding.
There was a young fellow of Drouin,
Who married a wealthy old ruin ;
He guessed she would die,
Bub the tear in his eye
Denoted how well she was doin’


COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THU
PREMIUMS PAID beino RETURNED an an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the n/ *,ath ytUkim fkn Timtin* Period. in tht te—nt a/ AarWaoJ, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS tor R»*a«he> la all Cnanaia* m»h la kfc* U»i*an Kibodom
without exception," was the prompt reply. “ They are
Udiee of good standing, and from the very best families
in New York.” “ Da their parent® know of this—idiosyn-
p«t y ol it is ft no e aff.ir oTmiae" you k°ov.” ‘ “I toojht!”
said I. “ that these might be pictures of aotretses." “Nat
a bit of it.” said the artist with decision; “an actress
ne er would hide her face.”
. • *
A Sydney dally t ; Don’t get married
fifder d*rk at Hobart,” After a due consideration
of the matter in all its bearings we think that
there is no place whore facilities for getting mar-
ried after dark are more u gently required thin at
Hobart.
• • •
m . . i„
Twenty-two years ago a young chem 8
an Australian city was tried oa a charge of having
poisoned his wife. Toe doctors who made a post-
mortem said that she died of poisoning by anti-
mony. The jury acquitted the accused, who,
thereupon, fainted in the dock, and, on recover-
ing, declared bo the judge and jary that he was
innocent, and now the authorities believe that he
really was. Mr. —— u now the popu ar Mayor
of an nil port ant suburb of an Australian capital
(other than where he was tried), and once or twice
nas been nearly elected a me nfcer cf larhameut.
Of the two detectives who had charge of Lis case
22 years ago, one u still in the f n c 3 1 loking up
burglars atd murderers as cf yore, and the other
ha? become a bloated bookmaker. His Wd rship,
the chimist, f jr the sake cf old times, occasionally
puts a hit tP u stuff ’ on some of the “good
things ” that the bookmaker has on hand.
# # ,
Common report asserts that the next
statue of Victoria will represent Her Gracious
in her—ahem !—this is awful!—that is to say io
will represent the relict of the Ever-Lamented
Albert not fully dressed as it wnra 1Q a manner
of speaking, she won tt have all her-ahem!-
clothes on and will appear without her-aw-
boots, and will have her hair hanging down, and
no drees on—in short, if the awful truth must be
bold, it is proposed to erect a statue of Her
Gracious in her nightgown. Princess Louise is
reported to have backed out a figure faintly re-
sembling her august mother as that sovereign
lady appeared pn the June moimng w heu she
was summoned out of bed, without time to drese,
in order to barn that she had inherited the
British crown; and this atrocity is to be erected
somewhere inKensington. So far, it has not been ex-
posed to the public eye, bub if it may be judged by
other royal efforts in art it will principally re-
semble a mud pie which has been assaulted by a
naked artist with a boat hook. The figure is bo
be put up some time in the summer in order that
it may get acclimatised, but all the same it is likely
to assume a particularly shiveiy aspect on frosty
mornings and possibly it may be found advisable
to apply a hot-water bottle to its cold stone feet io
the winter time. The hair, it is understood, will
be partly hanging down and partly standing up
straight owirg to the suddenness with which Her
Majesty had got out of bed, and the image will
p ro b a bly be made to look just half awake.
According bo rumour this half-dressed outrage
will be r*ady for exhibition at an early date—
unless Victoria orders it to be sent back to have
some more boots pub on it, which is more than
probable.
* ~ ~.
When a diaa hia dog Is brought to
take a list look at his dead master, and this is
suppose 1 to drive away evil spirits. It is also
supposed to be some gratification to the dog, from
which we premme that the Parsee feeds his dog
more and kicks him less than the Australian.
Somehow the colonial pup does not manifest that
attachment to the human race for which he is so
f ftmous j n Sunday school tracts, and the canine
w bich sits perpetually on his master’s grave is not
common in these parts. S ime where in the vicinity
0 f Gaulburn (N.S W.) there was once a dog which
wag re aubed. to spend all its time in the cemetery
w hera its dead owner was interred, and never to
abandon ids watc'i upon the sacred dust, but when
a pathetic writer went to look at that dog; with a
v [ ew to putting the animal in a book, it was away
chasing a oat a mile and a-half down the road,
w |t,bi the object of chewing that feline, so the
80rrowtu l legend broke up.
* *
A breach of promise casa Is to be tried la
the Melbourne courts shortly, defendant in which
has, according to the Herald, “ gone to Paradise,
and is, therefore, beyond the jurisdiction of the
court.” We leatn that Paradise is in South Aus-
tralia, and now we are firmly convinced that
Adam It ft of his own accord,
• - *
The leading solicitors of Australia are
Wolk , d to dea<jh -at least most of them. It was
nob ~ on R a >, B <> that killed Henry Oox
Cal the g dney atbor ney, but overwork,
gQ wibneflS at the iEqueBt testified Nob
con t e nt with toiling six days of the week the
Beven th and Sabbath day is sacrificed on the altar
“ kard g ra ft.” Just here we feel inclined to
givfl Sunday fC^oo l lesson on the morality of
i a {, our but will break off wiih the declaration
that it is unchristian for a solicitor to carry home
every Saturdav a leather bag of deeds and “in-
-Btrucrions.” No man should pile up a bill of
cosbB oa Sunday. Yet the pressman has to work
Qn g atd without p ili ßg U p.
* #
* tj .
Toe aubfcorlti s of the N S.W. Art Society
loudly protest against the Government lending
one of tle rooms at the National Art Gallery to
the Anglo-Auibralian Aitists’ Association, for the
purpose rf enabling the latter body to h Id aa
art exhibi ion to which admission fees are to be
charged. Tee Government don’t lend rooms at
the National Art Gallery for tie purpose of en-
abling the local artists to run a shillicg show, and
why should foreigners be dealt wfih more gene-
rously by the State than are the Australian
painters? In pursuance of this contention the
magnates of the Art Society have declared war
against and declined to parley in any way with
Mr. Ajers Ingram, of whom the Anglo-A.A.A.
seems to more or less consist. The Leal artists,
or rather those who profess to ipeak on their
behalf, overlook the fact that their Society, though
it may net be given frea premises by G.vernment,
gets £5OO a year from Government in the shape of
an annual grant; and surely money is as good as
money’s worth.
The total sale of wool In Australia for the
year amounted to 458,000 bales, or nearly half the
total production.
Edward Curran, of Clashmore, County
Waterford, Ireland, who landed in Queensland
about 27 years ago. James Curran, his brother,
who landed in Melbourne in 1881, News of the
above will be gratefully received by Thomas
Vea’e, Smbtlnu Lika Office, Sydney.
TT ’ , . . ’ . ,
Here a a nut for the orthodox to crack
According to the Athanasian Version, Mrs. Job
told Job to “ Curse God and die.” The Revised
Version, however, makes him say: “Renounce
God and die.” The Septuagint gives her speech
as—“ Say what is your offence (i.e., confess) to
the Lord and die ” While the Vulgate has it—
“ Bless God and die.” The question now is—
What did she really say ?
He was a sucking N.J?. pressman, full to
the bung of a vivid martial ardour that drove him
to join the local Naval Brigade, and to “hitch his
flacks,” swear strange oaths, chaw terbackker,
darn his tarry-topi'ghts, and write and hand to
the comps, belligerent para, whenever the cub-
ed i tor had strolled round bo the corner “to look at
the time.” “Shiver my mizzen!” he said the
other day, “how, in, thunder, d’ye spell trevalli?
I don't mean the fish, but the bogle-call”
“T-r a-v-a-l-l-i,” replied the fellow who does the
missionary meetings. “Tne Trevalli sounded at
C a m.,” was how the par. appeared that afternoon
in print, and a Eub-editor of an evening paper is
walking about in a busted boot, and there is an
ex reporter who scorns to sit down, evt n at his
meals.
The story goes that four or five of (he
“ free and independent ” were holding up a public-
house bar on the “Rocks” with their backs, the
other day, when the merits of the “ Jaynil One ”
were introduced, and a hod hamper observed,
“Well, Oi hed t’ vote fur th’ blatherskite, but
Oi’m sorry he got in.” “Same here.” said a
street scavenger ; “ it’s daubed over wid mud an’
shtuck on th’ blagshtaff beyant fer th’ bhoys t’
polt shbonea at he ought t’ be instid av howldin’ a
sate in th’ House ” * D’ye moind th’ toime th’
Ridmunds wor here ? ’ chipped in a van-driver :
“ whare waz the calf sticker wid his paythrytism
an’ his leva fur owld Oireland thin? Yah-h-h!
Ef Oi had ’im here now Just then Jaynil
himself walked in, wesrirg a 20 x 12 elmoile, and
with both bands stuck out for a shake as he ex-
claimed, “ Well, bhoys, ye pub me in althur all,
Oi see.” “You bet we did,” shouted the crowd
in chorus. “We knows a gud noahn whin we sees
wan.” “That’s th’ shtoyle,” teturned tbe great
craythur; “will yez jine in a fnhishy now?”
“Av ccorse we will. Hhrrco fur our grand owld
mimber 1” And then they drank his grog and
swore they’d pub him in “yarrids and yatrids at
th’ top av th’ poll next toitne.” After which the
mimbir and bis min shook hands again and patted
—neither side being fooled in the least in the real
opinion it held of tne other. Such is life in West
Sydney.
The other day a near-sighted reporter at-
tached to a Sydney Nationalistic paper rushed up
to a short, stout member in the lobby of the
N.S.W. Assembly and tapped him on the shoulder
with “ Hello, old man 1” Mr. Alfred Lamb,
M.P. —for that was the name of the gentleman
addressed—turned round and seemed very indig-
nant at being thus familiarly greeted by an utter
stranger “ Beg pardon,” said the reporter, “ I
thought I was addressing Mr. O’Sullivan !” What
a crusher ! Talk about adding insult to injury—
why, such a horrible affair ought bo Pe quite enough
bo make Mr. Alfred Lamb’s brother Walter go
back to the Foreign-trade camp and humbly seek
forgiveness.
An individual, recently returned to an
Australian Parliament, has had a queer little
commercial experience. He had fallen upon bad
times in Victoria years ago, and had recourse to
“ kite flying.” He induced a neighbour to endorse
three promissory-notes for certain amounts.
These were melted, but did not ward off the evil
day, and a composition was spoken of. The
obliging neighbour was called into the conference,
and he ad vised an arrangement with the creditors,
but, prior to making any offer, he recommended
that some of the store goods should be planted for
a “ rainy day.” The proposal was agreed to, and
the neighbour very kindly found room on his own
premises for half-a-dozen loads of the most expen-
sive stock in the watehouse. The creditors were
then called together, an inspection of the stock
war made, and an offer o! a few shillings in the £
accepted. Now comes the joke. When matters
were apparently squared, the well-intentioned
neighbour was called upon for the stock in his
possession, but this he politely declined to give up
until his three promissory notes were returned to
him, which request was, after a lot of angry re-
crimination and some not over-polite language,
acceded to.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-streeb, Sydney.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
fcoTES
-To
6AIU
~ / I \
Cop SCC c. /oc.&£y /£
ti-fjcC 5 M/Soffi/ C/ a
OceCefp
" you'. ty Ct y
( pCcrCy
tedo fooupd^
looker/
Scu^
f
. fa.se
ctfacffr f* ye j r
of Ttcsyfy*-
u./i fit yv* C
s&*/£>
* c '/ r Z/Zpy
7# Sock OO.S Cl Y
/?/■ mu.cS «-
Az/%
fijlAMaS.ts
t/cccce /br *-
y&r jjtos“9 -£r“,3 *
p/> °* a ‘* - '*%7r' s z:&%%r r \
A GUBERNATORIAL YACHTING VENTURE.
(AFTER SKETCHES BY “RINGER")


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, ft 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer. Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Uleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony yon live,
we wiU supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
Intensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
Snd. The action is perfect check repeater.
Brd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
6th. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Btb. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg.
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
m
ialt patent new high arm sbwi *g machine
I
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic self spooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
>
s'
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
he water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backward i and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post
BEALE ANDOOMFANT,
lIS, 414, *>r 484. Gaoao* R«aa«a. Rrnaav
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAINS
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
THURSDAY,
THURSDAY, THURSDAY,
March 21st, 1889,
PHILLIP PARK.
PAIN'S
LA.ST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAINS
THURSDAY,
THURSDAY,
THURSDAY,
THURSDAY,
MARCH 21st
MARCH 21sb
MARCH 21 sb
MAROH 2Ub
Scenic Artists : Mr Walter Mills
and Assistants.
Stage Manager : Mr. J. Raymond
THURSDAY,
THURSDAY,
THURSDAY,
la accordance
whh the
Expressed Wish
MARCH 21st
MA«CH 21st
MARCH 21st
of a large body of the Sydney public
who thoroughly appreciate the
ENTERTAINMENT
which has been provided for them
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS AND
ADDITIONS
THURSDAY, will be made to the MARCH 21
THURSDAY, Mammoth Stage MARCH 21
Under the personal supervision of
CAPTAIN RAISON,
assisted by a body of 200 skilled mechanicians,
working by night, under KIRKLAND & CO ’S
ELECTRIC fLIGHT.
Tois work will have the effect of raising the
entire STAGE and SCENERY
TEN FEET ABOVE
its present level, thus enabling persons at the
extreme end of the Grand Stand to obtain a per-
fect and uninterrupted view of every detail in
connection with this MAGNIFICENT SPEC-
TACLE, and will furthermore obviate the neces-
sity of any spectator standing up,
THURSDAY & SATURDAY, March 21 & 23
PAUL WEITZMANNin his daring performance
on the Wire.
ROMAN GAMES,
GLADIATORIAL COMBATS,
BOXING, WRESTLING, NET & TRIDENT,
Deadly Combat with the Net and Trident.]
Tae Procession of Pr ests, Drill of the Roman
Guards, Mr. Raymond’s celebrated Flower Dance,
in which a trained ballet of lady artistes will
as ist; living Roman statuary, athletes, gymnasts,
rope-walkers, &c , &c , together with numerous
other attractions.
The whole invented and produced by
JAMES PAIN, of LONDON & NEW YORK.
Be early and secure good seats,
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yokk-stbekt.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Great Sensational Event to take place at an Early
Date.
iTHE GRAND OPENING SOON OF THE
SKATING SEASON.
Look out for the Date,
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, c 01, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and sec md to none,
THE GRikND OPENING SOON.
To be lighted by thousands of the many coloured
Incandescent Electric Lichta provided by the
well-known firm, G. K Kirkland and Co, 65
York street, Sydney.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassie.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World,
THE GRAND OPENING SOON.
A. E. SMITH, Manager.
Metropolitan skating rink,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE CODLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE,
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band every evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and
has been pronunoed Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G, K.
Kirkland and Co., York-street.
SESSIONS :
Miming, 10, for Ladies and Children only.
Admission free, Skates 61.
Afternoon, 2 30. Ladies and Children : Admis-
sion GJ., Skates 61. Gentlemen : Admission Is.,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 730 Admiision (to all) Is. Skates Is,
Patrons (with own skates), floorage 6d. Season
Tickets nnw ready.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’buses pais the doors
every few minutis. Tae management reserve the
right to refuse admission to oV jsctiorable persons.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE-
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon-
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
Immense Success of
BROUGH and BOUCIC AULT’S COMEDY
COMPANY.
Last Two Nights of
BETS? betsy BETSY
Saturday Night
THE GLASS OF FASHION.
ADMISSION—£2 2s. to Is.
Box Flan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Q. AP. GA 8. GAB.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to 6, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers .
Sillt's Min; Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&Cii ft o*i ftli
Steam Works and Brewery :
amis sTKEsr, ultimo, mm
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee; Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Immense success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER
as BADGER in
“THE STREETS OF LONDON.”
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessees ... Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.50,
Last Two Nights of
ME. GEORGE RIGNOLD
as “ COUNT DANELLA ” in
THE VENDETTA.
PRICES — 55., 35., Bs., and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
J. P, MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
HAWKESBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr>m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
March 19, 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For conditions tea ‘‘Government Gazette.”
Nature of Works and
Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Contract 47, Sydney Sewerage, 3
Section, Eastern Suburbs
Drainage
Bridge, Spencer’s Creek Road,
Kinchela to Spencer’s Creek
Bridge over Biackwater Creek,
road Bama to Moama
Sale to Government of small
Steam Launch
Additions to Post Office, Denili-
quin
Bridge, Budgen Creek at Maude
(fresh tenders)
Erection of Engineers’ Shop, &c ,
Naval Station, Garden Idand
Erection of An chor and Chain
Store, Naval Station, Garden
Island
Wednesday,
March 27,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Delivery of
Single Ladder Dredge for Syd-
ney Harbour
Erection of Goods Shed, Pens,
&o, Byron Bar Jetty (time
extended)
Repairs, &c , Court House, Coon-
amble
Erection of Saw Mill, Spar
Shed, and Naval Station,
Garden Island
Bridge over Bubaroi Creek, Road
Oordobolin to Hills ton
Repairs, &c., Pv stand Tel graph
Office, Cootancuodra
Wednesday,
April 10,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture in the colony of
Water Pipes—to be constructed
either of Wrought Iron, Steel,
or Cast Iron
Wednesday,
May 8,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure (or £3 3s.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
dockings, 418 George Street, near King Street.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Show-whits Fatinv
RoiiLßi Flour end year breed will be n white u snow
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufaotobt s
SPRING & O’OONNKLL STREETS.
« ■
EAST CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or B ad-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes lor
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Fnrnltnre Warehousemen,
Spbinq and O’CONNELK Stbeesi.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPBINQ StBBETH.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.-— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door; Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Tablb,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Odpboabd
and Two Cane-Skated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON™* LAMB,
O’OONNELfi AND SPBINGt STBBITfI.
ţ
1 we
A USTRIAN BENT*
J\. WOOD
FURNITURE,
A V BBT COUPLET
Asbobtmbnt.
Many quite new designs.
Nhwtoh & Lakb,
®c
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed Ugh*, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 6 feet long and np to 80 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.| BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. Bd.;
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Oonnell Streets.
■*ulL
PATENT
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
186 feel of hanging spaa®
Very Cheap.
NEWTON ft LAMB.
ť
QANVAB FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Bailable lor Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NHWTON ft EAUB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPBINO AND O’OONNBIik STBBB9B,
LAWN and PARK SEATS, Bft. long. Bustier
Oast-Iron Standards, I4s. 6d. oath. Nbwton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19b. Verandah Chain
Indian Lono-Abm Lotjnobs.
NEWTON ft LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
IBs. } and large variety of Chairs, from 12s
6d., etc. j special designs, extra quality. Nbwton n
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and '
O’Oonnell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices.■
Nbwton & Lamb, Importers, O’Oonnell 1
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Bates.
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wise, bes
■aakn. also Spiral Spring, from 14s. rash.
NiWTONud LAMB.


Horsford’s Acid Phosphate.
MAKES DELICIOUS LEMONADE.
A teaspoonful added to a glass of hot or cold wrter, and
sweetened bo the taste, will be found refreshing and in-
vigorating.
“ If you are a man of business, weakened by the strain
of your duties avoid stimulants and take Dr, Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.”
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Parnell's latest best Snow-whit*
Patbnt Roll** Food*. It Is the trreatesl snooess of tbs
MT»
Store Cattle for Salk. — 1000 male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Stoeb Cattle fob Sale.— 1000 male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
KL
J
o
.N
i
s
T
o
U,
T
SCENTS.
DELISSAI PHILLIPS
J Barrack Street.
# Adam Bede's #
Benevolent Consultations.
“ All the Yeab Round."
TWENTY TEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “ Adam Bede •’ will devote to
specific public charities three-tenths of his com-
mission on all sweeps upon four of the great events
of the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cup, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. In the three sweeps advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps except those above
specified he reserves to himself the light to give a
bonus to charities commensurate with the success
of the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run at Hawkesbury, April 13, 1889,
1.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 4)000
First Horse £l6OO
Second Horse £6OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Sydney Gold Cup,
Run at Randwick, April 22, 1889.
10.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N.Z., April 22, 1889.
2.000 Subscribers [at £1 Each. 2,000
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £300; Non-starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
Adam Belt's is tie nlr fair method ofdrawiar.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event ADELAIDE CUP (£2000)
May 9bh, 1889.
MUSIOAL.-PATENT scale indioa-
TOR, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Arcade, Country Agents wanted.
Stationer’s.
Aborlginalities.
Bishop Hadfield, who succeeds Bishop
Harper as Primate of N.Z., was originally a
missionary man among the Maoris. He would
have been “ haricoted ” or curried on several oc-
casions had there been enough meat on him to go
round for luncheon, and had not the natives been
bo busy in those days cooking really fine, fat
missionaries, or preserving them with peaches, or
corning them for winter consumption. More
than ones they were going to put Mr. Hadfield
into a coop to fatten him up on kumaras and
whale-oil, but something always happened to pre-
vent it. There is a very old Maori still alive who
often weeps because he was not civilised enough
in those far-off early days to understand the
blessed uses of a stock-pot. He says that now he
is older and wiser and has got true religion, he
can see that he, in neglecting to utilise the Bishop,
was, so to speak, spurning the bounties of Provi-
dence, and that had he put Mr. Hadfield into a
pot of water with pepper and salt to taste, and
maybe a handful of rice and a turnip or two, and
kept him gently simmering for a few days he
would have made an excellent and nourishing thin
soup. The truth is the poor old chieftain, having
now lost all his teeth, thinks it incumbent upon
him to affect a relish for slops.
* *
Mr. G. R. Sima writes to an Eag'ilah paper
to state that his drama, the “Silver Falls,” is
founded on a real live incident which took place in
Australia, or which someone stuffed him with as
a real Australian incident. Somewhere in that
foggy epoch vaguely described as long ago, a bush-
ranger planted his golden plunder underneath a
tree, and then went away and forgot it. Bush-
rangers always did that fort of thing. They never
came back lor the coin, or else they came back
and couldn’o find it, and after muttering murky
curses at midnight’s mournful hour, they would
stalk away to steal more money, and plant it in
the same miserable fashion, and forget where it
was with the same cow-headed infamy as before,
and then mutter more curses and stalk away some
more. Anyhow, this bushranger never came back,
but on his death-bed he handed his executor (this
is the first bushranger who ever had an executor,
by the way, though lots of them had executioners)
a sealed packet, in which he was told to go to a
certain wild spot where dark pines grew, and then
take the shadow of a giant tree as the full moon
fell upon it at 2 a m. on the second Tuesday after
the first Wednesday in a month with five
Sundays in it, and follow that shadow for
thirty paces in an E.N.B, direction, and then
stand on one leg till an eclipse of the sun took
place at the tame time as an earthquake conjointly
with a drought and an outbreak of foot-and mouth
disease. On the arrival of this epoch he was to
dig, dig, dig, and keep on digging till he found
the spoil. In some respects, of course, the sealed
packet is rather thin, but that doesn’t matter.
The ordinary bushranger doesn’t leave a sealed
packet—he merely says to his unhanged mate :
“Bill, you was always a blessed idiot, and a
dashed scoundrel into the bargain, and if I was
well enough I'd kick you from Sheol to breakfast,
but you can take my boots and my clay pips when
I’m gone, and go to blazes with them, ’ and these
remarks are his last will and testament. But,
anyhow, the executor in the present case went
and dug and dug till at last he began to turn up
thousands and thousands and thousands of old,
tarnished, muddy sovereigns, and then he went
away with a dray load of treasure and lived re-
spectably ever afterwards. And Mr. Sims seems
to believe this story, too, which shows that faith
is not yet dead, and that hope and charity have
not altogether departed from earth.
* * *
The following “ extract from a private
letter ” is wobbling round the N Z. papers :
“Melbourne is in a very bad state now. One
man I know, who gave a great dinner when I was
in Melbourne, as he had cleared £200,000 in land,
is now stone-broke and is in the lunatic asylum,
and some of my greatest friends there are stone-
broke.” The testimony cf a man whose “greatest
friends” are stone-broke in the lunatic asylum
must be accepted with caution. The writer pro-
bably hails from Wanganui (N Z.)
* •
*
You are hereby requested to pity the
sorrows of a poor brass band, and remember in
your nocturnal and matin supplications a banged
conductor who has not yet got ad the stale egg-
juice out of his hair, and give casual mention in
your prayers for rain to a bass drummer beset
whh the aroma of cats gone bad, and dead gos-
lings, and other mortal remains, combined with a
flavour of decayed onions and porter-house steak
that was not cooked in time. The aggregation of
amateur musicians to whom your attention is
directed are at present scenting the neighbour-
hood of Terang (Vic.) They organised in that
township a few weeks back, and, notwithstanding
a strong demonstration of popular disfavour, com-
menced performing on the trombone and the flute
and the French horn and the kettle drum, in a
public place ; and the weird awfulness of their
early a Druggies with wind instruments moved the
residents to come out of their houses and hoist
over-ripe vegetables into the orchestra, and
the bassoon was muffled by the corpse of
a cat, and the cornet was gagged with a
fat turnip, whilst the drummer was tem-
porarily disabled by a blow from a musty cucum-
ber. The momentary arrivals of other products
of the soil propelled by the horny hand of man
compelled the band to retire to a hall, but the tide
of public wickedness still pursued it, and night
after night it was beset with offensive elements
which ware heaved through the windows and
dropped down the chimney, and every now and
then a body of men would burst into the building,
under the pressure of a fictitious excitement, and
pour 27 buckets of drain-water over the band, and
then haul it out bodily with great enthusiasm, and
throw it into a dam, pretending that they were
inspired with a dread that the hall was in flames
and the orchestra uninsured. The Terang brass
band tired of these exhibitions of warm interest
at length—it found they militated seriously
against the effective rendering of operatic pieces
and symphonies and things, and finally the
orchestra decided by an overwhelming majority to
sojourn in the wilderness among wild beasts
when practising for the future. Two Saturdays
ago the pioneers of melody took up their imple-
ments of war and marched out into the
leafy solitudes to wake the welkin beyond
the ken of the scoffer. It was afternoon, and the
enthusiastic company pitched on the side of a hill,
in the murmuring wilds, and filled the forest with
the agonised cries of instruments that couldn't
blend, and the triumphant thump of the big drum
that always came in late. The performers each
played a lone hand, but they were full of zeal, and
zeal covers a multitude of sins in a brass band.
The cornet was leading with a favouring gale, and
the trombone labouring heavily in the wake, whilst
the other instruments filled in the intervals pro-
miscuously, when suddenly a heavy body came
violently down the steep place and hit the band
amidships. There was a chaotic upheaval of bat-
tered instruments, and amazed musicians, and
dust, a patter of falling fragments, the sound of
retreating feet, and the hurt and indignant
orchestra chafed its contusions, and, gazing
athwart the valley, saw a brindle bullock flying
frantic and far, encircled by the big-drum and
carrying a brass instrument on either horn and
the triangle dangling to its tail. Then the band
gathered up its wreckage, and returned to Terang,
where it now lies prostrated by shock to the ner-
vous system, and inquires faintly who started
that blessed bull ?
• • *
The Maorllander enjoys a beautiful climate
studded all over with weather and kauri gum,
sand-flies, gold, katipos, property-tax, national
debt, politicians, and other collateral securities.
Still he is not happy ! He yearns with a league-
long Atlantic roller yearn for—medals. When
his person is star-spangled with bijouterie ranging
in calibre from the threepenny-bit of commerce
and religion to the warming-pan of the frosty-toed
Anglo Saxon, he allows life may be worth living;
until then, he is merely a blighted sojourner by
the shores of a southern sea. In NZ. there are
cricket, humane, teetotal, anti-teatotal, Wesleyan,
fire brigade, Muggletonian, Volunteer, prize-
fight, peace society, prevention of cruelty to
animals, dog-fieht, cat fiarht, Episcopalian, kiss-in-
the-ring, Social Purity, Christian Evidence, Free-
thought, and several lacs of other medals. Indeed,
until quite recently, the only conglomeration of
N.Z. humans that trudged life’s weary pilgrimage
uncheered by a cheap pewter decoration of some
sort was the Wellington Philosophical Society.
But now the society is labelled also, and there are
no outward and visible signs by which it can be
distinguished from a society for the promotion of
cock-fights. Yet the P. S is a solemn and soul-
boosting miscellany of patriarchs of the lower
cretaceous period, with tic-douleureux, and
good young men with the moth in them, who
assemble and meet together to regenerate fallen
humanity by discovering the nebular hypotheses
of the miocene differential calculus, also by read-
ing papers on the delamitic conglomerates of the
pliocene labyrinthodontdoit, and arguing such
vital question as whether the carboniferous mon-
cotyledons, or words to that effect, were afflicted
with gumboils in the monoclinio systems, and
determining the common multiple of the hind leg
of the lodging-house flea with a polysyllablic
Latin name. At the society’s last meeting the
presiding mammal propoeed, and it was carried,
that £2O a year be devoted to the purpose of giving
bronze medals to members for papers on the fore-
going and cognate subjects. 7he president stated
in six-syllabled wo ds that he had struck a
rich patch of second-hand medals left over from
a hairdressing competition, and it is hoped these
trophies will pan out at the rate cf one per
member per annum until the second coming.
Science has thus received a mighty impetus,
and it is confidently anticipated that the
society will now kick the scientific discoveries cf
Copernicus, Newton, Martin Topper, and Don’t-
you-feel-well-young-man Smith higher than a
"busted boot.
• * •
lb was a christening incident—the hero cf
the occasion was a large, red baby with a head
like a station duff ; he was about fifteen moons of
age, but very far advanced in life and much
experienced in wickedness for a child who had hap-
pened so recently. He hailed from Alfredbon
(Vic.), and was brought down in a perambulator.
The sheep and cattle yards are stationed at
Alfredton, and there the stockman and the drover
congregate bi-weekly, and lift up their voices,
violently calling their dogs accursed with unneces-
sary verbosity, and characterising the cattle as
damned and debased, to wasteful and ridiculous
excess. The large, red item who was announced
to have a name upholstered on to him was reared
so far as he had gone in this atmosphere of
ferocious cursing and long-lingering malediction,
and ha had been in the habit of lolling out on the
grass, chewing his to?, atd remarking, with
wonderful precocity, the mellifluous flow of the
shepherds’ swearing, and ruminating thereon. The
presiding parson secured his victim in a manner
peculiar to parsons-a manner that guaranteed
his own immunity from disaster, but was very dis-
tressing to the child the parents stood round and
looked feverish and apprehensive, and the congre-
gation woke up and manifested some interest.
Then the solemn ceremony began to occur. The
rev. gentleman spoke his part and got down to
the watering point without interruption, the baby
betraying only marked nonchalance, but the water
shook him up and made him shiver and squirm,
and jump at the conclusion that he was being
imposed upon because he was young and inex-
perienced, and as soon as he had done sneezing he
entered his protest. He merely said : “ What the
are you doing? You !”
But that was enough for all practical purposes.
The parson’s knees turned in and he flopped like
a scarecrow in a gale, the congregation collapsed
into a state of amazed imbecility, the father faded
away into his bools, and the mother fled howl-
ing and had some hysterical fibs in the porch.
Here endeth the rendering of this circumstance,
which is a true fact. The writer is contrite now,
and sometimes does poetry for the Southern
Cross, but he was that baby.
• *
An intensely practical and woefully un-
sentimental Australian digger who has been in
the employ of the directors of the Palestine Ex-
ploration Fund writes to a friend in Sydney :
“ There is no wash-dirt in the Valley of Jehosa-
phat, and though Mount Sinai may have been
very good for religious purposes it is a duffer as a
reefing district.”
• * *
Bluebnsb, a well-known Northern squat-
ter, wanted to send in to the nearest township for
a load of timber to erect a shed. Accordingly,
one of the men was directed to proceed into town
with a team-waggon and fetch out a load. The
man, sorely puzzled, came up to the “ boss,” and
asked for the dimensions. “ What sizes am Ito
get and how many of each size?” asked the
teamster. “Am Ito get 3by2,or3by 1, or
Ixl, or what ?” “ Fetch it out,” answered the
squatter, waving a bottle of Hennessy in his
hand. “ A load of blank timber, all sorbs of
blank threes, all sorbs of blank fours, all sorts of
blank timber. And tell ’em it’s for me ”
The Referee.
On the mQtion being put to the disbanded
Australian Eleven that the team bear half the ex-
penses attached to “Sammy” Jones’ illness,
amounting to £7O, the division was : for, Edwards
and Blackham ; against, all the others. Rather
rough on the genial Sam, this, taking into con-
sideration the fact that an outsider of the team
had his pretty wife’s “ exes.” paid.
• * •
The Intercolonial Match v. Queensland,
the expenses of which are to be borne by the
N.S. Wales Cricket Association, will about re-
lieve that body of the few “ dimes ” they have in.
their money-bag.
* • •
The millennium of cricket must assuredly
have been arrived at in Sydney, Mr. Phil. Sheri-
dan having been appointed to manage affairs
during the Brisbane tour.
« W •
The Maori footballers would like to keep
up the traditions of their race, and lunch off the
bodies of the British umpires.
* » •
Notwithstanding the fact that the Warwick
Farm races were up to the mark as regards racing
and attendance, it can scarcely be said that the
meeting was “ not so dusty.” Rumour has it the
Nepean nearly ran dry on Saturday night from
the run on it for baths.
« • *
The Y.R.C. has pub some extra race
meetings on the calendar, and the first of these
experiments will come off at Flemington on
April 19,
• « •
Mick O’Brien Is seriously thinking about
getting married shortly. A very nice girl, toe,
doncherknow.
* * *
Nell Matterson has threatened that In
future races in which he or his “ stable ” are con-
testants the Press representatives following the
race shall pay their fares. The average Sydney
pressman is a regular Coloradc-bsetle at travelling
for nothing, so that Mister Matterson has, in
making the foregoing announcement, undertaken
a pretty tough contract, and hasn’t much chance
of getting the engineer’s certificate at the end of
the job. •
• • •
Pugilist Smith, of England, is willing to
box Jackson, the Australian, for from £5OO to
£lOOO a side.
• * •
Captain Tom Merry, the noted Oregon
breeder, who has just returned to America after
a visit to Australia, told the Californian Breeder
and Sportsman that he thought Australian Peer
the best horse in Australia and Whakawai the
handsomest. Australian horses, added the cap-
tain, are far and away ahead of the American,
and Australia is the greatest handicap-racing
country in the world.
• • *
Joe Scott), the crack N.Z. ped. says that
professional pedestrianism does not pay. While
he was in England lately his wife was compelled
to sell his medals and trophies, and now on his
returning to N,Z. he has been forced, after
popping bis champion-belt, to go bankrupt.
• • *
Spofforth’s colossal baby, judging from the
coloured photographs sent over for exhibition in
stop windows, has a slight tendency to water on
his little brain. The infant was “taken ” in the
act of clutching a cricket ball under the imprest ion
that the lump cf leather was an apple.
• * *
A double dead-beat between Bridegroom
and the very ancient Skipper came off at Elstern-
wick (Mel.) races last Saturday. With Martin
O’Brien in the saddle it was considered good
business to lay 7 to 4 on Skipper for the decider,
and the result ston’d be a useful advertisement
for Tutton, who rode Bridegroom in each struggle.
• * *
Jemmy Snowden, the English north
country jockey, died the other day of consump-
tion. Snowden was 46, a good old age for a man
that rides through hail storms in a silk jecket,
and can’t wear much flannel underneath for fear
of the weighing in. Yorkshiremen used to swear
by him as a better “finisher” than poor Fred
Archer.
• • •
The odds are abont 5 to 1 against a racing
protest being maintained by the powers that be.
As a rule the owner of the second horse—or the
jockey that rode it—is merely protesting against
the loss of his coin.
• »
A chunk out of “ Adam Bede’s ” sweep
advertisement and a church notice got badly
mixed up in the Yass (N S W.) Evening Tribune
office, the other day, and this is the enigma that
the bucolic population of Yass were asked to
solve :
GUNNING CHURCH NOTICES.
CHURCH OP ENGLAND—Sunday, March 3Gunning
at 11 a.m,; Collector at 3: Kirkdale at 7.30.
March o—Ash Wednesday, Gunning at 8 p m.
J. H. Williams,
Incumbent.
On both these events 3 per cent, of the gross amount of
the sweep will be devoted to charitable objects.
* • •
Major Walmesley, manager of the N.Z.
Stud Company, whose death while returning
from India has just been announced, was one of
the finest judges of a horse in the colonies. He
had a wonderful knowledge of the stud-book, and
if the ns me of a thoroughbred was mentioned in
his presence he would trace its pedigree back
half-a-d° z en generations without a falter. Nearly
all the equine wonders bred in Auckland—Mar-
tini-Henry, Nordenfeldt, Matchlock, and many
others, came from the Sylvia Park farm, and in
the case of each of these horses when little more
than yearlings he predicted successful careers on
the turf. The writer remembers standing beside
the Major and hearing him descant on the year-
ling Mitrailleuse, since one of the fastest and
soundest epi inters in the colonies. “ That’s my
best filly, young ’un,” said he. “ She won’t
scamper much over a mile, but she is all there
at three-quarters—and don’t you forget it,”
• * *
Tom Oaborne, the English jockey who
came out here three years ago and made many
creditors during his brief stay, was, at lasteat
dates, doing one month for stealing a postal-order
value £1, Fifteen years ago Osborne (who is only
38) was earning a big income, but he is evidently
to die in a ditch without a pair of boots to his
name. .For the “ knocked out ” jockey there is no
hope on earth.
* • * '
lo -hlel’s stable stood to win £80,000 on
the double—Australian Cup and Newmarket
Handicap. They c id very well “ straight out,”
though.


AUSTRALIAN
r,
m iDCIEIJ
ESTABLISH El D 1849.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Eeq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. E-q.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Biq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, E.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES C. COX, M.D.
The Society is now in its forty-first year, and is
the only Australian Life Office which gives
iMDAI BONUSES.
Policies in Force, over Bfi,ooo
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ... £33,000,000
Accumulated Funds nearly £8,000,000
Annual Income £1,500,000
Cash Bonuses Divided £3.250,000
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887 ... £357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
Join Hutheefoed,
(Late of Say well's Tobacco Co.),
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
c
OLUMBIA RTNKING
ROOKH A.MPTON.
COMPANY,
Applications will be received by the Under-
signed until TUESDAY, March 19j)h, 1889, for
the office of Manager, competent to instruct and
give exhibitions in Roller Skating. Applications
must be accompanied with references as to char-
acter and qualifications. Salary, £5 per week.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS, Chairman.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED,
General Servants, Cooks, Nurse?, House-
maids, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
WIT CONSULT TJ
VGORE & HOGG
AT I THE EMINENT X
| SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases ciTthe Genito Urinary Organs,
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints, [
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George [
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
COI.SULTATtONS FREE. PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER, j
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sentonreceipt of 2d. stamp. |
Stobk Oattlk fob Sale.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Towns villo,
Queensland
Jay Gould never answers a begging letter.
The phonograph, after all, is only a crank
that talk?.
That ponderous New Zealander, J. C.
Firth, had a preface to hi? book, “ Oar Kin Across
the Sea,” written by Mr Fronde, but this did not
pave it from a horrible critical scarification in the
Saturday Review.
Verdict of a Wairarapa (N.Z ) coroner’s
jury ;—“ That the deceased, John Griffin, came to
his death on the 18th February through being
accidentally jammed against a post by a cart and
not otherwise.” The foreman explained that the
jury considered the post had not jammed the
deceased against the cart, and therefore acquitted
the post of all blame. The coroner accepted this
as tantamount to a verdict of manslaughter
against the cart.
A Lovblt and Dblioatb Complbxion.— This la ob
tainedby using Rowlands’ Kaltdor, an emollient and
harm less milk for the face, hands, and arms; It remove
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth'
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands'
articles.
Old Fomi, Glare?, Hook, Sherry, Reunion, Madeira,
Muscat, Sokay, So. Unequalled High-olasi Wines are
only to be had from Hookinss of 410 George-itreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
E.C,
t
$
&
2$
<2>
<y
&
o
*
<b
r
0
<#
o
9
o
v
*
£
0?
£
r
*
o
o
o
<3
v
©
<b
.0
O
390 a GEORGE S T
s'E , ‘:o3S'ErE c .
The stuffed human being cf a past age*
whose mission ib is 1o smvive in a dried state as a
relic of a civilisation that has gone down into dusty
darkness, isn’o provided for in the Protective
tariffs of Europe. The other day a Frerch
scientist arrived at Marseilles, bringing along with
him the unconscious figure of an Egyptian gentle-
man who had yawned away his existence beside
the muddy Nile some forty centuries ago j and the
Customs authorities, after gallop ng up and down
the tariff to see what duty should be charged on
the preserved insurgent, finally put him through
as “ dried fish ” and levied on him under that
comprehensive beading. This settled the point
for the moment, but the precedent was speedily
capsizsd. Just a week la*er another mummy
came in at another French port, and the Customs
official who sab on this second hollow Pharaoh
decided that he should be charged for half-way up
as preserved soup and the rt si as snuff, and the
savant who owned him was nearly ruined by the
duty. We present this argument to Mr. Pulsford,
grdtis.
William 1 ! Australian Inseotleld la death M all luaats.
Simple in application—rare In eßect. Bill! it the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while It le perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be need without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquifca
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—ae the fumee of
the burnt powder, while throwing ofl a pleasant odour
ate at the eame time most destructive to them. Sold In
t. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. William!, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 857 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale (ram Messrs ■Ulstl Bras,
and B. Prosser 6 Co.*
£20
£20
BDCKBOAKD BUGGIES
Regular shipments of the Beat Buck board
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x Sin. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&o., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works In
A ustralasla. Call and see us. Terms : Cash s or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERQ ft CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Oi>abbnoi Street, Wyntabd Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, ITMBT.
'^(ndL&ve.'tSz,
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Jc33.es’ Sse-win-g* 3^a.cl3-i3a.es,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tho Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
F&&LEIEB, NETTBEIIi & Co., Tanners and Leather lierchants,
16 Y 0 R K SIRE E I, SYDN E Y.
- Bole Agents lor the above (or New South Wales and Queensland. ——
o
Also Importers ol Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing
Tmnorfced Leathers, &o. | and of the following Special Lines
NUBIAN BLACKING, Tmmbws Tools and Ifitesials.
Trade In all Details, including Machinery,
: PEERLESS GLOSS. SATIN POLISH,
(■dents nesatsd on Vsvonsohl* TV*oat
DR. RICHARDS.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and OhM
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, rc-
oeived his medical education in the leading college*
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
He has by profound research thoroughly invert!-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the anreat
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment In the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, Irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, baeblulnees,
dlsoontentedness, weakness or pains In the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful Is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood shot eyas, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, wha
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to In-
sanity and death, shonld consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Sd. in
stampa he will send secure from observation in e
plain wrapper, postage
TREE. A LARGE CLOTH BOUND
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private at
nervous system may be ouvsd thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
booh will prove a valuable companion, and even
though yon be perfectly well its general Informa-
tion and prescription may assist you In restoring
some poor friend to health even after his cars has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the care of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly In yonr chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
receipt of euoh a letter, write you, promptly
■iH courteously, a candid and straightforward
ogdnlon of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send fur his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propabillty,
assist yon materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards nses nothing bnt the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
pernsed and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patient* may rest Sheared that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves-
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 3&.00#
cares since coming to Australia, and has pe-nis-
don from at least 10,000, persons to show khsti
written evidence of hi* success. All coaunctslca-
dew shonld be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
f Spring Street, Sydney
l M Pitt Street North}.
Bt IWI Is MCHtiON this paper when writing,
90S8V I? AV IQW 9ft MM.
TTo'nsultTn,
D« RICHARDS
i
DISEASES.
YOUNG MEN
BOOK.
BEYOND ARGUMENT.
WALADRON : “And so you have decided to remain a bachelor because you think
Marriage a Failure?”
M'GILL (who has just dropped in): “Think! Why, hang it, Jack, In my case I
know it! The girl said she’d be a sister to me.” —N. Y. LIFE.


Bmlneat Announcement*.
EPPS’S
Grateful—Comfortlng
COC O A
Medfical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured I
■he Greatest Success \
of Modern Times. /
nnssoo
/ All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Hi, B, E, EBGELXANN, Comllia» Eclectic,
Skilled Spboialist for all Chronic Disbasbs,
M WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to oall oan write for a list of ques-
tions (frh) by which they oan be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
■omplete cure. Tou oan then have treatment or not, as
yon may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
Used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPT.]
Qlenhope, 19th July 18885
|0 H. K. Kdsblmank, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
ef Qlenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
lake any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medl-
elnes, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
surable. During the time 1 was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
Eeotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
mgs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
yUn from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand i
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very tost.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
Hme (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die,—i remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK S. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Qlenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1888, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
HT ill Consultations Eire*. *RK
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Oosi is Incurred In the event of Curb
hot BBnra Effbotbd.
T
0 SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PBRBONALLT OR BT LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS*
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
X :x
THEY Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
EOLEOTIO PRINCIPLE.
x :X
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all casts,
H.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to aU parts of the Colonies.
■ r -f
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
EOLEOTIO PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
IBS Elizabeth Street, Erie Park, Sydnej.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
'RAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
nd all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies In all parts
of the Globe, he is In a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all bnslness entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted In four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
ETHUR D. SPALDING
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONAED GWYN
has the pleasure to inform bis Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Mil and Central Eusiaess Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.
24*
a&n.
■BBS
IP*
£3
te
PETTY S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
<! : J*
£T LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. "S*
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
t
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price —Single Razor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
& AITKENp Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
CJlarend-on. 3HEotel, 2v£aza.l3r.
T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
iere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can os 'fcbly make one
lomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! i.jro vided. Table
U H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
rlaltora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
•: x:
Mrs. KILMINSTEB, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock m Importers,
late Lichtner d Co,, 33 O'Connell Street.
LICHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office —trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 A GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Assurance Companies.
T“
_ AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGI-
MINT ASSURANCB and BNVBSTMBMT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Inaispaeatad by Act of Parliament, II Tie.,
Mb. IB.)
Registered Capital ~ it,111,111
Paid-up and Subscribed M M SIB,III
81c BDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLAOKBT, Beg.. V.1.A., Deputy*
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the follow! Bf
cates of Interest
For 8 years _ T per cent.
For 8 months I per cent.
'(in nl | -imoeta | let
■minii - mimi
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons tor INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and perstnU
property, including Its uncalled capital, are
granted tor Deposits of three years and npwardSi
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONBT ADVANCED FOB BUILDING
PURPOSES.
■states Managed. Bents, ete., Collected.
■states Bub-dlvlded and Sold by Anetlon and
Private Oontraot.
H«jp Omen—ll, 411 HUNTBB BTBIMI
JNO. 0. KBIIiD, Manages.
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel.
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. OOMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the finest hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
Conveyance meets Every Train.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EMU PARK,
William Toon ... Proprietor.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House Is conducted
in First-class Style. Every .Convenience. Centrally
situated.
Bnstnwa AiMUNmin.
K'NG’S V ( ews
Or SYDNEY,
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&0,, &0.,
315 EEOBBE 81., Between Bnntar-iL, & S.F 0,
■ATTBBBALL’B
1111111 GOIBDLTATIOII
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event!
throughout the Year. For full particulars sea
" Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall's," ears
ot George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per*
sons making applications tor Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
tor reply and the other for result of drawing.
Si
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Pula)
Ladies' and Gentlsmen'i
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed ot any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOT! THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(» tew doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bankl.
MELBOURNE.
FOR BALE.— Two grand Wakes Frontages,
Parramatta and lans Gave Bivasa, Apple
Bsumw 0««s


WESTERN AUSTRALIA : The Coming Colony.
m now i
the time to invest your FEW POUNDS
KST TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
buyer*, SYNDICATES, &0., from £lO to £30,000.
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119 a Elizabeth Street, S^clrre^-
The conversion of Isaac Selby to Chris-
tianity was, in some measure, dre to Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.
Bishop Ullathorne, aged 84, Is, lb Is cabled,
dying at last. It was he who visited Norfo’k
Island over 50 years ago to shrive the men con
detuned to death for mutiny. “And they went
down upon their knees before me and prayed to
God that they should be hanged so that they
m’ght be delivered from that dreadful place.”
The Metropolitan Skating Riok, Harrls-
street, Sydney, was opened on last Saturday night,
and judging by the numbers who atterded and
the appearance of comfort ard enjoyment that
pervaded everything, the rink promises to be a
huge success from the jump. The floor, which is
of matai, a timber harder than kauri and un-
shrinkable, presents a polished skating surface of
60 x 40.
Dingman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched polit’eal reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “ elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de laines, and the finest fabrics. It re
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it w ill perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
William Hanfson, convicted of the secret
murder of John Duggan, "'a farm labourer, at
Elmore, Victoria, bar been hanged at Sandhurst.
He denied bis guilt to the last Toe police have
been making inquiries with regard to several other
murders in which it is suspected Harrison was
implicated. One of these was the murder of a
hawker named Mison, at Deniliquiu, four years
ego, for which a man named Cordini was executed.
Bev. J. Garock, who attended Ha*riscn at the
execution, mentioned this murder to the con-
demned man, staling that the report impl’cated
him in the murder, he being in Dnniliqoin at the
time. “I did not do it,” eaid Harrison, “but
Cordini was innocent ” It will be remembered
that when it was decided by the N.S. Wales
Executive to hang Cordini The Bulletin strongly
protested against his execution on the ground that
his trial was a farce. Here was a penniless
foreigner who could speak no English practically
undefended while beirg tried for his life. Mr.
Pennefather, the barrister who after Cord ini’s
conviction took so strong an interest in a petition
for a reprieve, told the editor of this paper that
though he could not altogether explain away the
circumstances which were marshalhd against
Cordini, he was as ceit«io as that he lived that
Cordini was an innocent man. But dead men tell
no tale?. Capital punishment is the one act for
the uujuf t infliction of which no atonement or
reparation is poeoib’e.
Bouclcmlt’a ntw dramatic echool profeaaea
to teach its pupils how to walk. If it cm teach
them how to walk from Bourke to Bathurst with-
out getting either tired or hungry, if ter the
ghost has declined to perambulate, and how to get
employment on the way, it will fill a very long-
felt want indeed.
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the pnblic
has ever met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
It stands to-day the best known curative
article in the world. It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues. It does all that is
claimed for it.”
“ Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-half
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re-
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for your medi-
cine.”
“ I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of in-
digestion, debility, weakness, and in all
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and loss
of appetite, with the most perfect success.”
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener, and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.”
“ For all cases of diseases of the liver,
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, I daily recom-
mend the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.”
“ In my practice I am constantly prescrib-
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found every
case relieved by their use.”
“ I can heartily recommend the use of Dr,
Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“ Gentlemen.—Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail.”
CAUTION".— See that each bottle
has genuine label, bunch of green
hops on white paper.
——*-
■
V
k »
fits
a*.
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENO. CO-. 8 BRIDOE-ST., SYDNEY.
The Oxford Hole’, King Street, Sydney.
■i • y-
J. IHORPE
Proprietor.
*
9 X®
ME* %mm TABLE SHOW ROOMS St FACTORY,
M3LJLIMHO OTTSHIONS, to, MADE ON THE PREMISES.
S>l.di, Tables re-fitted by ©tu own mesa.
«B,IAELS to itocMjftii© CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS ft I®W£§.
BUEROUGHES & WATTS,
. fJpvlandA’
Maea^arOil
line* been known for nearly 100 year* »• the osst and safest preserver, restorer and beautlfler o(]
?ln* human hair; It is warranted free from any lead or mineral Ingredient*, of which moat hair
: wtorei* are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medical papara), will keep freah and
in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roaea : it prevent* hair
ena weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandruT, and
San also be had in a
renders the
whiskers and moustaches:
beautiful head of hair, awfl
GOLDEN COLOUR,
Which, after great time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the use of golden-balrtil
children and fair or grey-haired adults. Sizes St. *d.; fa. j family bottles, equal to four small,
ids. 6d.; and double that size, Ms.
ROWLANDS 3 KALYDOR Is a healing and refreshing preparation for
3ha face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughnese
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, ttc., and products a beautiful and dUlcate
complexion.
ROWLANDS' ODONTO whitens the teeth, prevent# mod arrests decay,
strengthens the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
IBOWLANDS’ articles, of 90, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations under
CJsaUar names.
WholvMle Mi Retail Ageati—libion Bboi.. Md I, PBOHiI ft Do., Brdaer
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALIA.
The Bast Investment Going !
& GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth.
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
addre s on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas ... ... Manager.
THE CLYDE ORE CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING. AMD CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works : CLYDE, NS W.
Head Office: 46 CaSTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; Geo. R. Dibbs, M P.,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D. Merton, Cunnlrgir Works, Harden ; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ;P. Hann, Wagga
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
grid hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a now field to gold-mining,
.and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous indu-tries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors fetl assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known icientific methods,
and a full report and a°eay given by competent
exper's on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances fcr amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratorj) will be under the Imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D Merton, who has suc-
c'ssfully worked and deve’op’d an extern Ue and
similar establishment at Camingar, near Harden.
Eor further information, apply
W. B FLETCHER.
JUST PUBLISHED
“THE BULLETINS”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
“ The Bulletin's” well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. Hay.
Price ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, la. 3d. (except Qieecslard.)
SOLE AGENT FOR QUEENSLAND :
J H. THOMPSON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
cniAii mbwe Bonnnoi.
THE Public are sending testimonies every
week of its unqualified success. It cures
Consumption in all stages. Manufactured only
by W. FORD & COMPANY, None genuine
except purchased direct from FORD & COM-
PANY, Mcßae’s Buildings, Fitzroy-street, New-
town.
“ I am happy to be able to testify to the
wonderful curative qualities of Ford and Co.’s
Consumptive Cure. My son, aged !» years, suf-
fered from consumption, and had sc veral severe
attacks of bumorrhage of the lungs, and became so
prostrated under the most skilful medical treat-
ment that no hopes of his recovery were enter-
tained. I placed him under Ford’s Consumptive
Cure treatment, with the result that he soon
recovered, and is now a fine healthy lad.- Edward
B. Lumley, “Clifton,” Telopia street, Redfern.
Robert butcher * oo
hare REMOVED their Wholesale Wine an 6
Vplrit Business bo
ODSa GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WIRES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out |l
Bond at LOWEST RATES,
m DAT, IJBMMT, 30th MARCO, .
ONE OF THE MOST PROFITABLE IN-
DUS I HIES OB’ THE FUTI RE.
GROWING FRUIT FOR THE CANNERIES
In the Centre of the Orchard District.
500 aches or men basaltic land.
known as
APPLITRBB HILL,
portion of the
WOODSTOCK ESTATE, ROOIY HILL.
SUBDIVIDED IXTO 10-ACRE FARMS.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Walter Lamb, Esq , to sell bv public
auction, at their Sydnev Auction Mart, 130 Pitt-
street, on THURSDAY, 28th MARCH, at half
past 11 o’clock,
500 AORSS RICH LA-TSTID,
comprising
Rich B vsaltio Soi l , Ohoc date and Black, and
GOOD ORCHARD LAND.
APPLE TREE HILL,
known as
ONE OF THE BEST FARMS IN CUMBER-
LAND.
NOTE THE EASY TERMS.
ONE FIFTH C ASH,BALANCE in 5 YE ARS
at (> per cent, interest payab’e half-yearly ;or
cash lass 5 per cent, disc ount at option of pur-
chaser, within three months, on notice within
seven days of sale. Free Title.
A PAMPHLET WITH VIEWS OF THE
ESTATE NOW READY.
Tae Chief Motive in bringing this E itate into
the market is to induce people to grow fruit,
which will always be purchased at the canneries,
free of expense to the grower, at good cash pric°s.
me c invert n now at kiu hoik,
and capable of taking the produce of 2000 acres of
orchard.
A NPKSEBV 1i ON THE EgTATf,
where the best varieties of trees can be procured,
preventing losses by planting wrong sorts and two
and three years’ delay in profitable produce.
A vehicle will be at the Rroty Hill Station to
meet the trains leaving Sydney at 9 and 1 30 every
day. Leave by the early train.
The above is well worth avi it. Plans at the
Rooms.
SALE DAY, THURSDAY, 28oh MARCH.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Over man ties, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafh Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Oane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters. Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY,
J. LAWLER - & SONS,
Genebal Impobtebb and House Fubnishbbh,
SYDNEY.
Established 188 P,
THE FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200.000.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STREET,
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances grant* d Bills Disoc unted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. Tbe following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit 3 Years, 10 per
cent. ; 12 Months, 9 per cent ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. ; 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
KEEN’S LATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Gattlereagh Street.
Tbe Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried on at our new premiEe?,
245 Castlereagh ftmt, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited —
F. 0. HBDEMANN 1
L. C. HENDERSON /
Trustees.


DOWS
ţ
JJIBBLB & COMPANY,
vinni
AND
■-IBT ++ DECORATOR 8-
M CMtlnenih Streai,
on> Doob fbom King Stbmt.
"O R O U’S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
9nw promptly, without Additional means, all
MMBt or chronic discharges of the urinary organa.
Sold in Paris by
J . IB 1 HI lE* !R H 5 ,
|BMtessor toBrou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
ifmT avtt tt & > Sufferers from Nervous
jw Kil\ UJNLI II Complaints. Sure cure;
H days. Apply in confidence to “MEDIOUS,”
Scat 120, G.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
imj iilntmrnt JB’bel
ni
h o
» 5
WDCNS
OWDBN’S HOTEL,
Kuzabrh Strkci (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
Bn C. B9WBEN Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
tpm. First- class Accommodation, Private
bdkH, First-class Sample Rooms,
Oowayanoe meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
AUSTRALIAN
Fiona Kim a Bans Sioaas,
GRANVILLE.
fJDTTXTTAAT’Q Royal Patent Steel Roller
jQ£\il l/il IO and Imperial Stone
am hi obtained from principal TJI AI fT)
Stokers and Storekeepers in Byd - 1 JLiv/ U -LhiJ
ney and Country.
rKODCIE ALWAYS IN STOCK.
Wo aw CASH BUYERS of Prime MILLING
I WHEAT in any Quantity.
Sydney Office : 34 Pitt Street.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
IKOOftrORATID UNDBR OOMPANIBS ACT, 1873.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office;
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices —283, Oollina Street East,
(next door to National Bank ol Australia).
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Caaraatee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
“Magic
Stock and Poultry.
Q. B. Yso, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor !
" I tried tbe • Magic Meal * on a hone bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast."
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: "
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.’’
Rowr. A. Hill, Esq., Butter bone, Macquarie River: “I
tried the 'Magic Meal’ en a hone which would not fatten,
and no <v he is in grand condition. ... 1 consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7Vbs. 35., llflbs. 6s. 6d., 66lbs.
18s, 6d ~ and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561b5., Frelfkt Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlebeaqh Street,
SYDNEY.
liaht Vtrcbiti tad Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &o , in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
FOE FATTENING ALL KINDS 01
Extracts , onicds
ROONEY & Co.*
SAW-MILLERS,
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
ť
mm
Tta But In thn World.
WHOLES ABE A. GENTS :
Mus UiiMii S Co.,
83 OLABENOB STAEET
.highly NOTRravB
MCT'BTCTTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
TRAMS PASS
EVERT FEW MINUTES
LAC
£
m m
7~!
suss
aassTisax.
mzr/~’ '
M<5>=jpga.
s
mi
*
“3
3~T
\s
J.A.WILSON
pboprietob
j asamM
3HVI3MO'
Thb PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST. MELBOURNE,
tjr NOW OPEN.
TTTTS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banka, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Sprat.
Fixed
rack Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
TWO PABSEM6EK OTI* » IFTB
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Tens i US BEOSOOVi 2s. Si. per 81MI
/ Entitling the Occupier to the priTilegO of
I using the rubllc Rooms of the Hotel,
MEALS can be had at pleasure , either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Eull particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne,
§ HOTEL,
UUICBtTjOK T ASH AHIA.
sal
m
•-■7-
-
"
¥ §
mm
m
ms
: .y.
P^M^aGr
-V •
sggs> 7* ;s«s*?j
& ...jr 1 1 1 :
.r *•'
SiP
m .
■PH USSi!- s i
<;'•' ■:
mr
r -\
1.1
5i,M H*| |i;f|| Ail| «-*£
m
R<W
OK
»;WHK*
A. DBMUSK
Wins, Fresoh Liquert I Bavaa&a Sinn & SwoliUlf fi Bom. Wiiw Franeaisi,
LEA & PERRINS 5
t
jfn consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ES TRR SHIftS
SAUCE which art calculated to deceive th* Puhlk, Lea and
have to request that Purchasers set that the'Label ore every ootita
/hears their Signature thus —
withouf ithich M hct/Ie of iittforiginal WCtRCESTEMSSIRS
SA UCE is giHfiim,
Ask for'LEA ond PERtUtte Sauce, and see ' Wm*ea£Wmßg*% LohehJßM* and
Stopper, mokeale knd for Byport by the Proprietors, Qmte.and
' Mtadhoeit, London, hoe., &i.; and by Grocers md OUmm thnmgimti-Mt fvoged. __


For civllloy, comfort), and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, caanoj be sarpassed. It
is supplied with spieadid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hotte]
thoroughly oomfortabe.
Dry Impbrial Champagne —Messrs. Meet and Chandon
are «he largest vinevard proprietors and champagne p*o-
duoers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL ' 1884
vintage is the pure juice of stleoned grapes from their own
vineyards of 2600 acres in the ohoioest districts in Franoe.
The Imperial Grown is in eaoh corner of label, and 1884
branded on oork and label.
High Art Photography —For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness «Htih
brilliancy, the Photographs of UH A ULEMON T
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-emlnentlv high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Jarington
“By Appointment "
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and comfort. Mudl-
man. “My Tailor.” 154 King-street, Newtown.
Brief Mention.
A pair of tights—Two drnnks.
A Pro-pounder—The modern pugilist.
The white waistcoat covereth a multitude
of sins.
Smellbourne, that bourne from which no
traveller returns.
Gold from a “ seasoned ” mine should be
coined at a pepper mint.
One couldn’t “ buy ” the Times, but It
seems pretty easy to sell it.
The proper place to study the Australian
slanguage is a sporting tobacconist’s.
The German Ciancellor has “backed
down ”in Samoa. Miss-marck this time.
When Carlogbon goes “ Home ” he will,
doubtless, refer to Australia as “out yawn der.”
Broken Hill was well-named. One half
of its inhabitants are dead-broke ; the other half
are ill.
Do we live In a land of liars ? Six cases of
perjury came up for hearing at Sydney Quarter
Sessions.
The Saltan of Turkey makes a confidant
of his barber. It is just the other way about with
our barber.
General Booth’s last description of the
Salvation Army—“We are soul-repairers—re-
pairers in the wholesale line.”
The latest brand of whisky, according to
the advlis., is the “D.0.L.” Why not the D.D,
brand ? That ought to be good.
Au Afghan soldier shot at the Ameer
with an English rifle and missed. The Ameer is
now having all his guards armed with English
rifles.
The Sydney D.T. speaks of the London
D.T. as it* “namesake.” The Sydney D T is too
modest. Way doesn't it call Levy’s paper its god-
father ?
HCicalapius Is sail to have commenced
practising medicine when an infant. This is pro-
bably the origin of the touching ballad, “ M.D is
the Cradle, Baby’s Gone,”
An armless man has been arrested for
alleged complicity in a murder that occurred at
Sandhurst (Vic) about ten months ago. It is
supposed that he had a hand in it.
Poor Emily Soldene and her capacious
mouth have retired from the stage.
Sims Reeves Is now celebrating the jubilee
of his reign as a great English tenor.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s next opera will deal
with an American subject, and will be called
“ The Puritan Maid ”
Parkes more than promised a port-
folio in his new Ministry to Mr R B Wilkinson,
M.P. But this was before the division.
Blllygoe has gone the way of all flesh,
equine or human. But how could Mr Cox ex-
pect the horse to live under such a name ?
We read that the young fellows of Bath-
nail Green (Eng.) are being instructed in boxing
by the wife of the vickr of the parish.
A troupe of Maori war-dancsrs have been
suing their manager for wages in a Melbourne
court. Fifoy yean ago they would have eaten
him.
We read that it is now an established
fashion for ladies to carry bags about a foot long
to the theatre. Of course gentlemen are not
troubled with these things—they go out between
the acts.
The latest Dublin sensaion Is a play called
“The Fenian.” Sixteen landlords are shot nightly,
and a posse of policemen rotten-egged by the low
comedian, to the intense and patriotic delight of
crowded audiences.
The sale of intoxicating liquors on Elatern-
wick (Melb.) racecourse has been forbidden bv
Mr. Dow, the Government ground landlord A
race-meeting without whisky must be worse than
a church social without tea.
Perhaps the bitterest jibe ever levelled at
the Empire on which the sun never gets a chance
to set is that of an American who his written a
geography “for the use of schools.” He describes
London as “the chief town of a small island off
the coast of France.”
The Bulletin has inspected the roll of
members of the “ Australian Dicky-bird society ”
promoted by Mr Dicky-bird Brown We fail to
notice thereon the name of Mr. Cocky Burns.
Pretty Cocky ! Cocky want a biscuit ? Scratch
a Poll, then !
A few months ago somebody hoaxed a
Sydney daily with a story about the contractor
for the Hawkesbury bridge having bean eaoen by
a shark. A London illustrated paper copies the
yarn and gives a harrowing picture of the con-
tractor disappearing into the jaws of the blue
pointer. This is, perhaps, just how the Jonah-
and-the-whale perjury first started.
The new edition of the “ Guide,” Issued
by the Orient Steamship Company, is a bulky work
of over 400 pages aad contains a rare fund of
information regarding this excellently managed
company and the route travelled by its splendid
steamers. The “ Guide ” is profusely illustrated
with views and maps, and is published at) the low
price of 2s. 61. —certainly much less than it has
cost to produce.
Five-and-twenty years ago a “tiff” oc-
curred between the R C authorities of N.S W,
and the late Sir James Martin About six weeks
afterwards Sir James drove furiously past St.
Mary’s Cathedral while High Mass was being
celebrated, for which breach of the statute law an
Irish constable on duty at the corner caused a
summons to issue, and Sir James was dmy fined
in the snm of £5 of good and lawful money.
The Financial Reform party in Freeorade
Britain want to know why rich wines bear much
lighter taxation than common spirits, cigars than
twist tobacco, high prised tea and dried fruits
much lower percentages of duty than low-priced.;
They also want to know how England can claim
to be Freetrade at all while she taxes many neces-
saries, that she cannot produce, so highly.
When David Buchanan took his seat In
the N. S W. Legislative Council for the first time,
Dr. Garran—late editor of the S M Herald—
planted himself in front of him and demanded if
the new member bad declared outside that the
reason he had accepted a seat in the Council was
“to expose the platitudes of Dr Garran ” The
sarcastic Scotchman leant bac». luxuriously and
replied: -“There is no mcessi-y for me to come
into the Council to do that ’
At a temperance society meeting in Bris-
bane recently the programme for the evening was
“Woman’s Rights—the sisters to boss business
and introduce ne » m-asures. ” The sisters bossed
affairs so well that about midnight the much-
abused frantic brethren had to let loose a con-
tingent of rats on the stage in order to preserve
their lordly prestige and to dislodge their scathing
and long-winded usurpers. We tremble to con-
template the probability of woman’s ascension to
the political platform of the future,
A leading Canadian paper suggests that
“ Australia should be formed into a dominion
like Canada, and then the Governors of the
separate colonies would be appointed by Aus-
tralian statesmen responsible to the people of
Australia, and chosen from the people of the par-
ticular provinces.” This might do very well if
Australian aspirations rose no higher than gilded
dependence Our ideal is a Republican Demo-
cracy that can listen unconcerned to the crash of
falling empires and acquire wealth and importance
by minding its own business.
At the end of an election speech Lord
Palmerston, was asked by a Radical butcher :
‘ ‘ Lord Palmerston, will you give me a plain
answer to a plain question ?” After a slight pause
Lord Palmerston replied, “ I will.” The butcher
then asked : “Will you support this measure—a
Radical bill ? ” Lord Palmerston hesitated, and
then, with a twinkle in his eye, replied, ‘ l l will
NATURAL HISTORY, AT THE ZOO.
SHE: “WHAT UGLY FAT TAILS THOSE SHEEP HAVE! I WONDER
WHAT IS THE CAUSE OF IT?”
HE: "POOAH BRUGES, THEY CAN’T HELP IT. I SUPPOSE I T 'S
THE GREAT HEAT THAT MAKES THEIR FAT RUN DOWN
THEIR BACKS INTO THEIR TAILS.”
» Then he stopped. Immediately the Rffli-
cals cheered tremendously. “Not -’’continued
his lordship. Loud Conservative cheers Whon
these ceased, Lord Palmerston finished his sen-
tence ; “——tell you.” He then immediately re-
tired.
When Parson Griffim ( anher of S r
Samuel) resigned the charge of a Congregational
Cnurch in Brisbane the other ev niog, a festive
tea drunk marked the occasion In the coarse of
the exhilarating proceedings, and lest the mirth
should degenerate into levity, he treated the com-
pany to a speech in the course of which he told
the good young men present that “ it was no part
of a Christian’s duty to stand aloof from the in-
teresbs of the State.” To which it may be added
that this is especially so when the good young
men have good old papas to look afoer the Yellow
Pup for them But it must be noted t-hat “ the
interests of the State have a curious way of in-
duoing good young men to swallow aU kinds of
things from orange-lily syrup to Socialism and-
water.
Says M*x O’Rell in his new book :—The
Americans, not having any king to give them
titles of nobility, have created an aristocracy for
themselves This ar-stocracy boasts as yet no
dukes, marquises, earls, or barons, but the blue
blood is there, it appears—Dutch blood, as a rule
—that is sufficient. A New York lady, who
is quite an auohorioy on such matters, told me one
day that society in New York was composed of
only four hundred persons. Outside this company
of elect, all are Philistines. Money or celebrity
ma y allow you to enter into this charmed circle,
Uxb you will never belong to it. Tbree-quartsr-
ings of ‘ nobility ’ are the necessary key to this
little world. The first generation makes the
millions, the second generation is parvenue, the
third is arrivee In the eyes of th-se people, to
have from thirty or forty to fifty thousand dollars
a year is to be in decent poverty. To have two or
three hundred thousand dollars a year is to be in
easy circumstances.
In the way of making a dead-bird book a
“clerk in the Lands” is credited with having
struck an idea which is as novel as it is profitable
and inexpensive. Button-holing a friend who
held a little coin this speculative Solomon whis-
pered : “ Lock here, I’ve got the straight griffin
this time—come straight from the stable, but un-
fortunately I haven’t the stuff to back it. You
can have it though for nothing Put a fiver on
Lochielfor the Newmarket He’s on the job, and
his final try yesterday beat all th-* other records.
I don’t ask anything for this, but if you win you
might tip a little per-centage if you like.” Pre-
cisely the same yarn was pitched to a dozen other
friends, with the exception that Tradition, Oran-
brook, Lady Betty, Sedition, Plutarch, The
Charmer, &o , were substituted for Lochiel, and
as a matter of course the level-headed tipster
pulled it off without risking a single cent. There
is a splendid opening yawning for that young man
as a sporting prophet on one of our daily contem-
poraries,
The following gruesome story about Napo-
leon’s heart is related by a correspondent of an
English paper ;
About fiity years ago Lieutenant Colonel Stevens
told me the following strange story, as related
to him by Dr. A-nott. Aftsr the post-mortem
examination the heart i f the dead Emppror was
placed in a basin, »ith the intention of its being pre-
served and deposited ina vase. During the night the Doctor
heard a noise, and on going into the room he rigoovered
the rats had attacked the heart and to the best of my
recollection had actually dragged it out f f the basin. My
uncle added that Dr. Arnott was a remarkably truthful
man. I think that when the coffin of the Empeior was
opened previous to the body being removed to France the
heart was found in a vase.
Surely someone from among the crowd
of broken-kueed clergymen on the staff of the
S.M Hebald ought to be able to treat us to
something reliable in the way of Biblical quota-
tions Tuesday week’s leader, however, seems to
crush all hopes of even this trifling expectation
being realised, for. speaking of Premier Dibbs’
conversion to Protection, the blundering ex-gospel-
grinder on duty that day says :
There is one great distinction between himself (Mr
Dinhs) and the Apostle St. Paul, which he seems to have
overlooked St. Paul tells us that after the great shock
he recaiv d to Ms convictions he went for three years into
the desert. That prolonged opportunity for meditation
gave him time to recast his theological system.
Now, unless Briton’s bulwark tells fibs, St. Paul
did nothing of the kind. The moment that Paul
—then Sam—was struck blind his bodyguard led
him to Damascus not the desert, and, after he
had remained blind for three days in the house
of oni Judas, his sight was rei-t red by one
Ananias—no connection with the notorious cable
correspondent whose name the Bennetts soell
with two “n’s ” out of fheer egotism—and Paul
“ immediately went out and preached in the
synagogue.” After this he spent the rest of his
life preaching, practising faith-healing, and'
writing scathing leaders for the religious Press,
but he never entertained any more notion of tak-
iog to a bush or desert life than the ex-pulpit-
puncher who now maligns him does. It was
Nebuchadnezzar who turned vegetarian and
retired from public life, but he did a seven-years’
spell and his seclusion was compulsory. What’s
the matter with the horse-reporter that he
can’t grind out Granny’s religions leaders ?
The sacred laws of Nature are called into
force to deteriorate the breed of royal families. A
king is almost invariably the son of parents who
were married before they were physically qualified
to acquire vigorous offspring, and his heir appar-
ent, in turn, starts matrimony at one and-twenty,
with a girl not out of her teens. The average
monarch, in short, is descended from a long line
of fore-parents on both sides none of whom were
fitted to assist towards his ultimate production.
He is of such long sapling descent that it seems
ridiculous to speak of his family tree, which was
never anything approaching a tree, except in its
various younger—meaning older, and therefore
stronger—branches. And if a king doesn’t die
from natural decay before he reaches thirty
it is only because he and all the kings before him
have been so carefully fed, nursed, clothed, and
exercised in their respective royal infanch s, that
they can’t help keeping alive longer than could to
wished. Moreover a king can seldom collapse
under great mental strain, because there is no*
thing for the complaint to work upon, which
brings us to a remarkable royal fact of current
interest. Ordinary men and women seldom, or
never, long survive under a softening of the brain.
The awful change in their cranium is too much
for them. But a king’s brain seems to soften
rather softer than it was before, and it makes no
difference to him Gecrge the Third’s tons used
to tie him to the royal bed-post, and stick pins
into him, for many years b ifore he died of sheer
old age. Murad V., of Turkey, had his thinking
organ reduced to pulp 13 years ago, and we haven’t
heard of his death yet. The Czar’s brain
is understood to have got into a fluid
state some time ago The royal house of
Savaria cons ! sbs entirely of parties who
suffer from softening of the brain, as far as it will
go with them, and yet the only member of the
family who has died recently had to commit
suicide in order to bring off the happy event. The
present King, Otto, is ekeing out his placid exist-
ence by peeling potatoes, and will never die at
all, perhaps. The faculty must enqu.re into all
this.
The Hon. Fergus, Minister for Defence
and Warlike Ammunition in the New Zealand
Cabinet, has hitherto been celebrated as a massive
citizen whose proportions would have made a
rhinoceros sing soft and very low, and whose
beard was tin biggest ever seen outside a gcat-
farm, and the other thing he was celebrated for
was a deafening Presbyterian bass roar acquired
in ths days when he used to flog the Scriptures in
the pulpit and holler at she worst of sinners. He
was celebrated for these thugs, b*t they have
all faded away. There was aCe bine i meeting the
other day, and all the Ministers were present ex-
cept Fergus, when the door opened, and there
crept in a long-drawn-out, smooth faced, tal-
low visaged male with the smile of a sick sheep
and the depreciatory air of a freshly-kicked book-
agent, who made an ordinary remark about the
weather in t»o puffs and an almost inaudible
wheeze. The Governtm nt sat up suddenly at this
interruption and took its feet off the table, and
Sir Harry Atkinson glared and sniffed violently.
“ Who the undying Sheol are you, sir ? ’ hollered
the Premier, in that thunderous voice which he
acquired while “ shoo ing ” the bullock among the
rocky hills. “This is a Cabinet meeting ! Gen-
rout 1 Fisher, out that loose-jcimed canvasser into
the street!” Fisher rcse to obey, when the vision
wheezed faintly like apairol bellows in an undertone
—“ Don’t you know me, Sir Harry ? I’m Fergus ”
“Why the—what’s the—where —holy Moses!
What’s happened lo your beard and voice?”
“I’ve shaved, Sir Harry, and I caught a cold.”
“ Slaved ! Sh-a-ved-d-d !! By jingo, you have !
Look at him ! Jmt look at him !” And tl en the
old statesman da-hed his head down on the table
and grcaaed. “Shaved ! T’hunder and lightning!
1 toe k you into the Ministry solely f r your appear-
ance and voice, and they were solely dependent
on your beard. Kowtbats gone and your con-
founded v nee with io You’ve rained your poli-
tical career—you have Richardsonand meare such,
ugly beggars, so are they all —all as plain as the
hobs of sheol; but you, sir, by gad, yon were a beauty
—and now ! It’s crue', that’s what it is !” And
while the sainted old politician mingled tear®
with awful profanity, liotle Richardson, Minister
for Lands—whose innate c* n’cism has been en-
hanced by wrestling with 26 different Land Acts,
each of which contradicts all the others—got up
in a huff and said gruffly : “I may be ugly and I
haven’t got much hair to speak of, bu i looking at
Fergus satisfies me that old Fuller was about right
when he wrote ‘ Beard was never the true standard
of brains.’ ”
Henderson Africanna has published h!r
address to the electors of Fitzroy (Melb.), written
from “ B*-acomfield House. Gertrude street.”
This mansion of Africanus s i« a two-storev brick
edifice close to the Carlton Club Hotel. Hender-
son likes to be associated with great names. Some
years sgo, when he was burgled of a white haft
with a black band, a book on etiquette, and other
personal effects, he hung out in “Napoleon street,
Collingwood” Now in his more aristocratic
quarters he has stuck up the name of the Primrose
man on his balcony front. Daniel is quite proud
of his classical appendage and signs “Air c*nus”
in parenthesis after the name of D H.
Although his honoured ancestors came from
the Dark Continent, Henderson himself was
born in Jamaica, where, instead of acquiring
a love for rum. he got a taste for
politics. Africanus first came into notice in
Melbourne in 1860, when he and a handful of
other advanced Radicals used to meet in the
Belvidere Hotel, at the corner of Brunswick-street
and Victoria Parade. Some of the other shining
lights of the coterie were Robinson, at one time a
member of Parliament, and who is stiff (or was
lately) to be seen walking the streets of Melbourne
“ith his hands joimd behind his back; J B.
Hickson, the hon ce patthic doctor ; and William
Forsyth, the builder (who used to take the chair),
b ickson and Forsyth are now deal. The papers
took little or no notice of the Belvidere men
at the time, but they were the nucleus of the
great “Liberal Party,” of which Graham Berry
afterwards became the leader and little Mirams
one of the biggest men. It was because
they »er.s ignored by th« daily papers that
Forsyth bought the Herald from David
Syme and made Hickson editor and Robinson
accountant. Years afterwards Africanus sold the
Herald in the streets of Melbourne, but he was
overlooked by old Forsyth when the latter had
the giving away of billets on the evening Radical
organ. When Graham Berry and Professor
Pearson w»nt home as “ Ambasssd- rs ” to veo an
“ Enabling Act ” to reform the Victorian
House, the soft-goods party appointed Africanus
the “ third Ambassador.” Parliament had voted
£5OOO for three, bub only two were appointed by
the Government, so Berry and the Professor spent
all the money in London. Beiry and Pearson’s
friends gave them a half-guinea banquet at the
Town Hall, and the same night the Flinders Lane
men derisively gave Henderson Africanus a two-
guinea feed in Hockin’s rooms. « 'ne of the daily
organs of the Calico party devoted two columns
next morning to a report of the banquet to the
“ third ambassador,” while the spread to the first
and second was polished off with a paragraph.
Application was made for a passage to London
for “ Daniel Henderson, Esq ,” in the same boat
that was to take Berry and Pearson home, but the
P. and O. Co.’s a j entire fused to allow Africanus to
proceed. A few years ago Henderson married a
really accomplished and l»dv Hke white person,
the widow cf a British army-efficer


Med oal.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George usd Tevk Rtieete.) P.O. Bex HI. Dr]
Stoat 1* a regular Graduated Physician, educated al
lorvard College, U.B. ((or aendrmatlon tee New Sealand
taaetle, January Ilet, 1888 j alee New South Walec
Dfisatle, April 17th. 18881. The doctor hae devoted It
yean to the Study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS. AND
SPECIAL DISEASES, four el these were In the leading
Scpafieaia al the United Statee, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent reentte. All applying to
ilin will receive hie honest opinion of their complaints.
NO experimenting j no Heronry need. He will guarantee
a paeUlve ante In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
SSN. Hla reason (or doing so Is this—when there Is no
irgnnlo disease, and nothing but an Inorganic trouble, or,
la Other wards, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
• aartaln result, there Is no reason why It cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
■a withes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
M perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
ha yiaima only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed In his speciality—CHßONlC Ann
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
•Hiding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
Satall be treated at home. The course of treatment will
Mt In any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to ail. Charges moderate. H. J.
inn, M.D., 41 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, lydney. Post Office Box, No. 980. Office hours,
U a.m. to It a.m. | Bto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
1110 11 a.w. only
BRIDGES
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
JEwery Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR, RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ma vmr i « ■ « r i fr~
■BH
ff nBB
PBiaOBIPTIOW Bio to
be found In she "BIGHT AND
lUI," for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Dloeneea, fco. A copy of
tala book will be sent Free, sealed, tor Bis Fenny
Stamps, Address—
B, WARD ft 00 .
Sydney Pharmacy,
71 Hunter Street Sydney
-ttjrSBMHRIO. MAGNETIC, and ELECTRIC
Urn INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street ((Ming
Park), Sydney, under the sole management
•IDS. B®. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice In Europe and
Awwlm, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
tiwlitB Remedy Company. All Dibbabbs
Ovbbd, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
Preatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
Mlf, Us motto being : —“Nature cures Nature's
eiocay." Cancers, Tumors, &o., painlessly and
Uvely cured, without cutting, In from three to
1 days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides hlm-
bcII in being the only person known In the world
nrho will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
longue without Surgical Operations of any kind)
Intact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
{■•Mental to suffering humanity, even .when all
Other treatment and advice has proved a (allure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
ho cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where medicine Is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
tances his own. This Is a surety that you get
nothing hut the genuine article. A Fact.—This
la the only Institution of Its kind In the World
when all Kinds of Cures are Effected with little
M no medicine. &• M
Please Copy the Address—
DR. ST. VINCENT,
1VV llverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
Eucalypte OlLa
COLEHANE&SONS
THE TREE OF LIFE
Victory Ointments
:■ - ■- - -
AT n« till Fan Enealrpte to the Wnld.
A WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CUBE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Soldi, Coughs, and aU affections of the Chest ana
Ewurii also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
HI. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
■amours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
nfaotnrers of the Eucalypte Pills, Enoalypte
Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
Enoalypte Honey Is the best preparation
bilore the public for young children and aged
eple. Also, makers of the»Euoalypte Lozenges
the Voice. Manufactory— Oootamdndba.
Ifdney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabbth-stbbsit.
Posted to any part of the Colonies. A Bold Everf-
Mtwart of Imitations,
Business Announcements.
w^rftCTuftCfts
45«CE0RC£ 8T
SYDNEY %
i J*A*»eCCtrc
Branch t
678 GEORGE STREET,
BBIOKFIBLD HILL,
(Next to Oraig and Altkena.)
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, ADD
OTHERS.
ISO,OOO to Lonil.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & 00., Stock, Statists,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 9C Pitt-
street, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling and
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Elds, Dimness
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and cooling
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work Compels them
to strain their eyes. Highly recommended by the leading
Oculists.
f The public are requested to notice the
1 words, “ ROSA’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION,” with the Trade Mark (a Rose ) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
.... ROSE'S CELEBRATED E7E LOTION,
Not for Bose Eye Lotion,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
R. L ROSE, Oispemg iVuifutuiii Oboist,
581 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY?
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. 6d )
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
■JjJ" ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Hebe RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Caution
Preliminary Announcement.
CONSUMPTION, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
hoarseness, and all diseases of the throat
and lungs, cured without fail by a new remedy
made solely of Australian herbs. We prove its
powerful efficacy by allowing you from one to
three bottles as a trial. Further particulars
and full terms of allowing trial medicine sent on
application. Address: HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
COMPANY, Tamworth, N.S.W.
r
V «amvi«o
m
MJ
~jf a 1 ■ C ,i A I- •/* *V ;
|
aft';. A IMbsrn'fr
. . ■. • j f- .
,.'i . . v
■ -■ #.17 ! LX V Mr T
- v- r ;, •w'V- .
/
. K
1
3 WO
T)
* «
nvoßtanismiici
ţ
IfcUBXPACTUB Eo: pyJamkc Gromoii
fa ,£«»• •uiftfJtavM»r <v
v -lAlyAP
Medical.
&
PATENT
PILLS
ss
v
As® ijairafoaHy ad-
asitfesd 4© be worth
a Gfirnit a Box for
Billon# and Herron*
Disorder* such aa
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach. Sick Head-
ache, Giddinesi, Fa!-
new and Swelling
after Meals, Dizri-
neee and Drowsiness,
Odd Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Low of Ap-
SBtite, Shortness of
reath, Oootireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
gtosations, Ac. Thi first doss will fir# rolls f
Sea K?aaiy minute#.
Bv«ty sufferer i# earnestly Invited to try one
fem ®fi sifeso* Pill# and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Ste tamale# of all age# these Pill# are invaluable,.
CS a fiaw dosei of them carry off all humour#, and
ItoteS about all that is required. No female should
to vfekwat them. There is no Medicine to be found
S-gscS to Beecham’s Pills for removing aay'obstruC"
m 3 & irregularity of the system. If taken accoe«
obp to the directions given with each box, they
v® gssai restore females of all ages to Bound and
w&ast health. This has been proved, by thousand#
wit® have tried them, and found the benefits which
css stammed by their use.
3te a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Bteag’&sr# of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few dems will be found to work wonders on the moot
laaparteat organs in the human machine. They
the whole muscular system, restore the
kg9*g mat complexion, bring back the keen edge of
aopz&ts, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
fna*. These are Facts testified continually, by
gaaxubers of all classes of society, and one of the
bast guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
3330 HAM’B PILLS have the Largett Sal* »f any
S’nfoai Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Fills.
Ab a remedy for Coughs in general, Aathma,
Branchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
jSffscAh, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
WhMaiM, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
BE'j the beet ever offered to the public and will
G&izMXj remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ef breathing, which nightly demure the
tgafflant of rent. Let any person give BKkOHAM’S
PDU9H PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
wi?l ha a short fime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
3§a Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Heleas, Lam-
9GsMre, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2a, td. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent
Saalssiß everywhere.
SMfe— Full directions are given with sack i9B*
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Bbanohes :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Fald-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. ESI
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
S3*
gOISNOB CONQUERS DTSBABI i
S The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISBABIB
according to the Laws of Nature and thef-
Philosophy of Common Sense.
N» Mou MERCURY ob othkb Nozion
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. cT~ WHISHT,
M. 8., Oh. M„ Ac., w>..
EMINENT SPECIALIST
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia who
holds. Ibe Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“Victorian Progressive Medical Instltnto**'
H, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
ler the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Nu<
reus Debility, Ohronlo and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
cr Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genlto Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con*
dltlons of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If It Is curable, tas
will tell yon so t If not, he will tell yen also, for he will
net undertake a case unless he Is eonfident of effecting a
rare.-. It will cost yon nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
H. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not claim
la perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous powes.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
noe&mirs medical imimi,
lIUBOHBNB.
Dl, Fhndbbh Strut W,
AW Mo smneeMon with any othsr MoMeol ImtituU in
Australia Box S6B, tt.F.O.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Buubtin Office,
Business Announcements.
iGfainess’a Extra Stout.
riRBl QUALITY.
woe MA**S
Bass’s Pale Ale.
80LB PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON,
By Special Appointment.
WHOLBSALB A9BNIB,
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
tiraussercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney
ANUFACTORING HATTERS
CEORGt STRFfT
svo
EY
norths ofauthe
FEWEST SHAPES.
Ana at ALBERT ITBEET, BRISBANE,
UST PUBLISH! D,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
It contains Information most Valuable in 1
NERVOUS and OTHER
For Its Hygienic Rales are worth Its weight ii
Slid. Send yonr fall address, and we will send Post
ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Sarry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Stdnbt Bnuni,
Tasmanian Edition, Fabllshers * FITE*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence pac
quarter, or One Pound per annum.!, H
The Bulletin will be on sa e every Frlday'at
the office, George Street, or from the runners in
the street.
WINS CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VATS.
RUM, SHERRY, fc WHISKY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fco.
COOPERAGE,
111 KENT STREET, and 1H SUSSEX ST RBBt
Between King and Market StreetOi
SUBJECTS.
I. ITEPHEMSON
nan on balb
S.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makcc a
ffiß, Tent, Tarpaulin, C
296 PITT STREET.
MABQUBXS ON 8188.
BR
LIAS
WCOVEREO.
QTUOI *CO
O •«»
JhniMVnlna* fa
•anrel *nd yo« 3
Wanttk i w UcbA Md aj
a. suxliva.
Ml
faructe caade
tow. S«i>inaHtr
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAM
AND WELL."
DBIBNABD'S Piotum and Modidwb
• Bnu, 898 Qeorge-stveet (opposite Royal
Hotel), la acknowledged to be the Beat and
Oheapeat la the Ooloalea. Photos., Bngravlngs,
&e., carefully atoetched and mounted. Re-glldlng
equal to aew. IConnta cat with veal gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Pinch
work a cpeclaltty. Inspection Invited.
This work is a medical treatise describing age
•nrately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, In-
discretions and other enervating Influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that 1s of Incalculable use to aH
sufferers Isom Nervous, Debilitated and Ooo>
fidentlal Complaints.
I For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid d
quacks.
Price per mall Bs. Id. (any colonial stamps). In
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Fnbllshlafl
00., 4 A'Begkett Street West, Melbourne.
Dl. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
II Bohbdaib Basnai Babb, Miiboibbi


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON KADI
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from SOa. to Sla.
HI PITT NT.. SYDNEY (Near TatteraaU’a.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twins su Lon§ «i
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OYER LONDON.
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
E3T LONDON FASHIONS .^g*
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight!
IT
*n
Vis
MASON BROTHERS,
(LIMITS!),)
263 to-269 KENT STREET,
SYMIT,
Have always in Stock for Sal>
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
BARTHBNWAR
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GXNKBAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
F>. R. LARKIN,
IMPOKTKR 01 1
m W INKS, SPIRITS, BEERS &0., <5» 0, "M
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’B Dublin Whisky (6 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvllle’s, Roe’s, and Wlm’s
(old Oork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, MartsflTs and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
MOT- The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t&T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottlm) Ail and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince off Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
Ma SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' SEImS&F ROOM and LAVATORI,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AMD
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Blstclc Oils
o»
EMBROCATION,
VOS
G&TTLEI
Will make H»lc Grow otm Oiiiß
▲warded SILVER MEDAL, B SIDNEY,
UNEQUALLED m a Drawls# ter V
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GlfcTH 6
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HUS,
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH aad
and an an EMBROCATION (oe *
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS awl
MINTS.
rnyuid tali fey
J. Behan & Co., 135
Street, Bedferm.
Weoumau:
BHoM Bm., Australian Drag Oa, B.
and O®., J. Bnuh, Son and Co., W. H
and Boa, 883 George Street, aa
Wynyard Square, Sydney j Sparta c
Eagle Street, Baibbans; B. VMM
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
a. beelan, t.i., a* rut street.
PRICE ... St. 6d. Pmr
Bold by all Chemists, Saddlers and
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND
There is not a country In the dlrUssdi
the heeling virtues of these grand medicines have i
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In al the I
ailments of humanity their bsncfioient aetien Is j
recognised. Fullest direotione are supplied I
In svsry disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY T!
factored only at 78 New Oxroan-sf.,
ohasers should look to the Label on w
If the address it not 6U Oxford-street]
spsurtees.
INSPECT THE SWEET
Al EK>
SEWIND MACHINE DEPOTS
IK
VI C T
RI A.
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUOA ...
BEECH W ORTH .
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOB.
BALE
MARYBOROUGH.
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swans ton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street,
by Swans ton Street, opposite Town HalL
„ h. Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
_ _ Pall Mall, next Lysenm Stores.
m 66 Moorabool Street.
m Main Street, next Aaschlmann's.
M High Street.
M Camp Street.
M M Gray Street.
_ Fairy Street.
_ m Foster Street.
... M High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THI
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTOUALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
IfillTll
T. S. <5& 00.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Sliver * Lever WATCHM
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and yaidaMy
rated for the climate. Supercedes ail other English Leeers ever introduced into thee mmrkri,
TO BE HAD FROM ATX WATCHMAKERS ur TOWN ajtd COUNTRY.
Wheltolt Aseati t
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 83 YORK STREET, Oyster#.
Perdrlau dc Oo«»
IRDIA RUBBER BAHUFAGTUREIKSp
870 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Bobbet VAkvas. Wabhbbs, Oaburm *o„ to liototo* to *W Qtm. SaWto gm*e lw •H mmm a
Lists and Banplas an AppßteaftSoa.
6*21
55*5=
d»
r af* 1
* •
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
w
m Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they hem eempeteM,
■{,>■
The Aifumn an Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologleal art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are Ml
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch Is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in lent. This
prevents colling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence In watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring, Ne otter we tehee
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exetnelve pasperty
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the Interchangeable system, whereby repairs oan be eflbote* hi
any part of the world whore Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.SLA.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. tr
Waltham Chronographs, Infallible for accuracy of timing, register 1-oth of second, start, stop, fly hack.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size" just introduced In Australia Is the most exquisite gees SC herologieel
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and Bantt
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and ail the leading hues of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Mtnutu Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of oonatrueMve genian,
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantage#, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watchsb are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
t
