

Aak you*
Groce* for
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney,
“An ordinary cnp contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the best Ale or Porter. '^Lancet,
Stevenson Bros.,
SOLE AGENTS.
Stevenson Bros., SOLE AGENTS,
STEYENSON
-IA-ths-trada.
BROS., 352 GEORGE STREET,
Two doors below PALING’S MUSIC SHOP.
PRICE LIST.
(Trade Hark")
registered
Steel Spectacles or Folders, 10/6, 15/-, 21/-
Silver „ „ 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
Gold „ „ 40/-, 45/-, 50/-
„ Turnpin Fran>es . . . 10/- extra.
Cases included and free by Pos/. Cush with Order.
STEVENSON BROS.,
“Setpeliers & (Dpticians
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
AND AT
20, Bundle St., ADELAIDE.
STEYENSON BROS., 352 GEORGE STREET,
Busiest Sous© in trade. Two doors below PALING'S MUSIC SHOP.
STEVENSON BROS., 352 GEORGE STREET,
> Two doors he.lnw PAMNG.L— MUSIC SBLQ£
HOW TO
Preserve tl?e Sigfyi
BY
N. LAZARUS,
<Dculist«<Dpticicm,
By Appointment to
E. E. The EARL OF DUFFER IN,
Viceroy and Govenior-Omeral of India .
SIXTH EDITION
LONDON & CALCUTTA.
STEVENSON BROS., 352 GEORGE STREET,
Busiest House ia tbe trade. Two doors below PALING’S music shop.
Stevenson Bros., SOLE AGENTS,
Stevenson Bros., SOLE AGENTS,
The Indian climate is one of the most trying for the eyesight. It was in India that Mr. N. Lazarus acquired his great fame as an Oculist Optician. It is now proposed
to extend Mr. N. Lazarus’ fame to Australia, and it will be done on the merits of the system, the quality of the lenses, and by yours respectfully, STEVENSON BROS.
i
HAVE ON HAND
3ST. Sea."a.tlfTo.l Test Case,
Whereby the sight of each eye, is accurately determined and suited with the correct glasses.
Special Notice.
Frequently the hearing of one ear is better'than the other. So with sight, one eye may differ very much from the other ; this is often
the case, and yet not known to those so affected. Our system is specially designed to fit lenses to both eyes, thus making the vision perfect.
MANUFACTURERS Of.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, J'EWJE jLI£EBY jaKd SII|L)V b *E]RHP:M4\T‘E,
352 GEORGE STREET, IYOMEY (Two Doors below Paling’s Music Shop);
Also 404 GkOROB S CftEET, JSYDSBY; at 2-and 20 RON OLE STftSßr, ADELAIDE.
The Bulletin


TO BA
CO
Ml
m
DIXSOPSONS
O u £
*
a
■9
o
x
w:
o
Port*
SIR ROGER
50
C 3
i
DIXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Migesttai
ì
An
au.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
VICHY
ì
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
GELESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. — An excellent Table Watmu
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkihson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
k. Trade Mark —“ White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
un Csirgril
Photographic Stock Importer,
86—MARKET- STREET,
SYDNEY.
|M‘LEAN °BBQB.J BIGG, &ICO.
.;iL
MACHINES Y 0 rMEBCHAi* Tb,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
Co
s
IRONMONGERS
512
p
• v
o
3
■£s*
<b
REG?
SPECIALITIES s
Davis’ Sewing-Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
fBBADFOWTvs WASHING MACHINES, fto.. fto.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
BY TAKING
KRUSE’S FLUID lUSIESII.
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions and Fortifies the
System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT EOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle).
: y
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., and 3s. 6d, each.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BEOS, Limited
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposi s Received
Advances Made
Total Income ..
Year ending Tear ending
Got., 1885. Got., 1880.
£180,425 .. £350,000 _
61,630 .. 120,000 _
93,581 .. 261,500 _
123,248 .. 247,840 _
200,106 .. 461,086 „
i : y
Year ending Tear ending
Got., 1887. Got., 1888.
£431,125 ... £580,000
206,685 „ 251,015
891,356 „ 1,123,949
807,828 .. 625,826
797,990 .. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS 9 BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a EAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance,
iUPLE mil tor Borrowers. TEEMS IIBESIL
a
SBWSSSI
i
£25 Contributing Shares
£jAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. pe
Share Entrance Eee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received In October,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat a of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
non. JOHJT SIM 10, M.P., J.P., _ I Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHERTY « „ Actliig.Secrctary.
i
=~ • ■ ~ -~g
■:
I
i
ijS&rjfc--
■
! : I i Si'J.fi I Prj s |
MgWiH
■I
ipiFi-;1 v: a
THE
Federal coffee palace,
CORNER OF
I2liaa.gr Colliaa.® Streets, Ivllel'bo-a.raa.e,
Containing 560 BOOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menii, presided over by an experienced CM/, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT. PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND .LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO
George Cohen ..... Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 48'.
SATURDAY, MAY 25, 1889.
Price, Bd.
frj'i
Colonel Sargood.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.’'
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
Whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communicat ions will be regarded as' strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MAY 25, 1889,
A National Danger.
Australian Nationalists would do well just
now to keep their weather eyes open and to
focus those oibs upon the Imperial dealings
with Western Australia. Their other eyes
they may bring to bear upon the Premiers
and Ministers, the leaders of Oppositions,
and other public men In their own countries.
There 1s a big deal Impending with respect
to that huge slice of this continent which has
not been handed over to any population of
colonists endowed with Constitutional
Government. After a stertorous slumber of
a hundred years Downlng-street has lately
discovered Australia, and the mouth of
Downing street Is watering. It Is still a
fashion among certain eulogists of the Im-
perial connection to laud to the skies the
vast generosity which Impelled Britain, when
granting Constitutional Government to the
people of various settlements In Australia,
to hand over to them simultaneously as a
free gift the magnificent territories adjacent
to the circumscribed areas actually occupied
by them. Ereryone whose Intellect Is not
befogged by prejadice Is perfectly cognisant
cf the circumstance that when this gift—one
of magnificent proportions In truth —was
granted, the donors had not the feeblest
conception of the actual value of the con-
cession. The idea of the Imperial
authorities was that they were simply
vesting In a handful of exiles sundry
tracts of wilderness whose intrinsic value
was confined to the natural grasses
available In comparatively limited localities
for the depasturaga cf beasts. The Idea
prevalent at the time was that beyond a
margin cf coastal country and sundry excep-
tional areas bordering a few considerable
streams, the territory so dealt with was
chiefly desert or waterless wilderness, useless
for hnman settlement, although In spots Im-
pregnated with gold which might be won by
dint of extreme labour and unenviable hard-
ship.
» • §
At that epcch nothing antipodean was
thought worth much concern. Even much
nearer to Europe the continent of Africa was
viewed with Indifference. Since then, how-
ever, a prodigious change las taken place In
the appreciation by the inlers of the peoples
of Europe respecting the value of the world’s
waste places. Slowly, but surely, the eyes
of acquisitiveness have opened to the true
value of the territory of Australasia. The
old ffiaps have been removed from the walls
cf official bateaux, their lyiog pictures of
central deserts, and the false snggestlveness
of their depressing blanks having been de-
tected. The nations have Inaugurated a
fierce and greedy competition for possession
of every fragment of territory not too
strongly held to admit cf the idea of success-
ful grabbing. In the heart (f Africa repre-
sentatives o! different European monarchs
struggle to anticipate one another and
establish some colourable claim to pre-
cedence of presence, In anticipation of
a coming scramble for terzit:rial plun-
der. In Madagascar, the French, long
nibbling, have developed mere and more
definite pretensions of a right to be the
heirs of the native possessors when the
throat cf their liberties and rights shall be
cut. Great Brl'aln seizes the first colourable
pretence to grab Bnrmah. France snatches
even so stinging a nettle as Tcnquln, or so
peppery a blcsacm as Annam. Germany
plants Its foot on M( zamblque, snatches half
New Guinea from under the very nose of
the bull dczid British Lion, gobbles up New
Britain, New Ireland, the Solomon Islands
and any other group tha 1 ; comes handy In
the Pacific, and fumbles fiercely with Samoa,
where even the Uiiaed Stvbes, oblivious of
that Monroe doctrine which has kept her
quiescent for half a century, snarls at the
attempted appropriation. Rrstia slowly
absorbs Turkestan, fixes a mesmerizing glare
upon Persia, and throws a coll or two around
Cores. Italy throws out tentacles In the
direction of Abyssinia.
* • •
On every hand there are Indications of a
rising passon for land’grabbing. The centre
of territorial gravity has shifted. It has
come to be understood that the fecund
countries, where virgin soil alternately re-
ceives the caresses of the ardent sun and
the Impregnation of tropical rains, are de-.
sbined to play a greater role in the future of
mankind than the bleak and winter-vexed
tracts which constitute the major portion cf
Europe. Just at this crisis, when all nations
are glaring around to ascertain what la left
to appropriite, the handful of colonists
planted on the Western seaboard of Aus-
tralia request Great Britain to band over to
their disposal the immense and rich tract as
yet remaining unallotted to some Australian
self-governing community in this continent,
of which the true and almost Inestimable
value has at length dawned upon the appre-
hension of the rulers of the old world.
* • .
The application thus advanced at a moment
so untimely hrs served to smash Into ruin
the servile fiction respecting the magnani-
mity of the Imperial authorities In their
dealings with Australian settlers. There is
a vast difference between the nonchalant
throwing of unvalued and unconsidered
trifles in the shape cf a desert region or so,
to the first applicant, and bestowing upon
such sollcltant the splendid gifo of a terri-
tory whose Incalculable value la almost fully
comprehended. The Imperial authorities
boggle at the request. They have princes
to provide for and paupers to relieve them-
selves of. For either or for both, this
Western Australian country la mightily con-
venient and inviting. The conception evi-
dently has fermented In the minds of the
British governing class that by keeping
the Western Australian territory under
their own control they may be able to
serve the purposes cf the one class and at
the same time dispose very comfortably of
the other. There seems little reason to fear
lest the petition of the West Australian
settlers will be denied altogether. Some
territory—probably an ample slice—will be
conceded to them, we conjecture. But of
the huge area hitherto known as Western
Australia, and extending to the North-West
extremity cf the continent, a large propor-
tion la apparently desired by the Imperial
authorities for a different object. The pre-
sent populations of the self-governing
colonies have not developed those quallii s
which would Ingratiate them wlch the pre-
sent rulers of Great Britain. They are
democratic—almost Republican—ln their
Ideas, and Inconveniently particular In their
domestic arrangements. They legislate
latterly In such fashion as renders It difficult
for monopolists to acquire big estates, and
when acquired to turn them to full advan-
tage. Tae Queenslanders, for example,
alienate no more huge plantations for a song,
and set their obstinate white faces resolutely
against the Introduction of Polynesian or
cheap Asiatic slaves to work such plantations.
If North-Western Australia were granted to
the settlers now scattered along that
region, the same spirit would surely be
evinced, and the same consequences fol-
low. No man silting In London could
own whole counties In Western Australia,
worked by Coolies and returning fat revenues.
There would be no place in all Australia to
which paupers could be deported In ship-
loads. By securing North-Western Australia
both objects could be attained in combina-
tion. Rich men could have big grants, and
paupers be supplied to compete with China-
men and Coolies,
• * •
Already we know that secret negotiations
are afoot with respect to this matter. Con-
fidential overtures are being nude to the
Premiers of all the constitutionally-governed
colonies of Australasia, with special precau-
tions against divulgence to the populations.
It is to be apprehended that it will shortly
rain Grand Cresses, Knight-Commander-
ships, and Companionships of the Order of
St. Michael, St, George, and the Honor-
able John Davies. Tne Chinese trouble is
in a condition of exceeding vitality. China
wants free access to Australia, under
penalty to Great Britain of restrictions on
her opium and tea-trade and leanings
to Russia In affairs political. Tbe
Imperial authorities appear to hesitate in
deciding whether it may not be bitter to
risk a quarrel with Queensland rather than
one with China. North-Western Australia,
retained In her own hands, would furnish a
capital safety-valve for all such troubles.
She could offjr China free access thither,
sanction Queensland’s refusal to admit Mon-
golians, and thus accommodate both diffi-
culties. The fate of Australia hangs In the
balance. It will require watchfulness and
resolution to Insure that it shall not kick the
beam.
"The Door Is Shut!”
The other day an attorney of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales applied to Queensland
Supreme Court for leave to practise his profession
in that colony, and his request was ignominiously
refused; the Queensland Chief Justice merely
remarking “ that door is shut.” He might have
added “ the egg is blown, the potato is cooked,”
but he didn’ti; he simply said, “ that door is
shut,” apd fired the unhappy attorney out; which
proceeding seems peculiar and worth investi-
gating.
• • »
The trouble between the New South Wales and
Queensland Supreme Courts began in this way.
The New South Wales Court will admit a graduate
of any of the Universities to practise as an
attorney, after studying his profession for three
years; persons who are not graduates of any
University have to study law for five years. In
Queensland graduates and all have to study for
five years. Once upon a time a gentleman who
“wore the patriotic name” of O'Brien, having
passed through the Sydney University, applied to
the Queensland Court to know whether he would
be admitted to practise as an attorney in Queens-
land if he studied law for three years and passed
the necessary examination ; the ccurt said “ No,
you must study for five years ; three years is not
enough.” Whereupon the O’Brien replied that
he would go to New South Wales, study for three
years, become admitted there, and then come
back to Queensland as a full-blown New South
Wales attorney and obtain admission. The Court
merely replied, “Oh, indeed!” and the O’Bexbn
bowed himself out.
• • *
In due time the ’cute O’Brien reappeared as a
full-blown New South Wales attorney, and ap-
plied for leave to practise in Queensland. The
Queensland Court smiled a bitter smile, and said :
“How long did you study law in New South
Wales? ’ _ To which he replied : “ Three years.”
They replied : “ We only admit five-year students
here. ’ He answered : “ But lam a duly ad-
mitted New South Wales att. rney.” The Court
said in effect that they didn’t care twopence for
his New South Wales admission, and firmly but
quietly sent him home “on his ear.” Then the
New South Wales Chief Justice arose and had a
letter sent to the Queensland people to ask
whether it could possibly be a fact that they had
refused to admit an attorney from the glorious
colony of New South Wales. The Queenslanders
wrote back to say that they had refused to admit
him, and that they would be very happy to refuse
to admit as many more as he liked to send up on
the same terms. Then Barley and Co. decided
that if the Queensland Court refused to admit
New South Wales three-year students the New
South Wales Court would refuse to admit any
Queenslanders whatever on any terms whatever.
The Queenslanders immediately rejoined : “ Then
we won’t admit any of your men either.” And
so “ the door was shut ’ between the two colonies.
* * ,
It is easy to trace in the facts and consequences
of O’Brien's case, the combination of petty spite,
local jealousy, and Jack-in-offioe importance which
prompted the respective Supreme Courts to be so
very ready to “shut the door” and to stir up a
feeling of vexation and pique between the colo-
nies. The question at issue—viz., whether a
graduate of the University should be admitted
after three years’ study—was a paltry one, and
one which could have been easily adjusted; but
no, those high and mighty potentates, the respec-
tive Chief Justices, at ones got up on their “dig-
nity ” and “shut the door” with a bang. It
seems a pretty well recognised fact that a man
who has had the benefit of an education at a uni-
versily is likely to learn as much law in three
years as a boy going straight from school to a
lawyer’s office will learn in five years. This, how-
ever, is not the important feature of the case at
all. The features of interest to the public are
that in every colony there exists an apparently
entirely irresponsible tribunal which can, and does,
dictate whether a man may or may not carry on
his lawful calling in that colony, and that these
tribunals are apparently prone, for very slight
cause, to arrive at arbitrary and harsh decisions,
and to “shut the door” on very slight provoca-
tion. It lies apparently with the great Chief-
Justice Barley to say whether the 600 and odd
legal gentlemen which he calls the “Attworneys
of the Ooort” of New South Wales should have
to compete with outsiders, and Sir Charles
lilley in Queensland can, on his own idea, drive
away from the Queensland preserves any legal
practitioner from the other colonies. We have
always understood that Judges were appointed to
admin’ster the laws, not to make them. But
these Judges seem to have absolute powers to
make laws, to control a man’s livelihood, to dic-
tate where he shall and where he shall not carry
on his trade; and to “ close the door” between
the colonies, as they so felicitously phrase it.
This power should be in the hands of Parliament,
and of Parliament only. By their petty quarrel-
ling the Judges have clearly shown that they
are unfit to bo entrusted with it. If it
is thought necessary to hedge in the profes-
sion of a lawyer with any restraints or
qualifications then those restraints and qualifica-
tions should be imposed as all other laws are
made, by Parliament. Let the Judges stick to
their own business of administering the laws as
they are appointed to do. We say, “If it i a
necessary to hedge in the profession of a lawyer”—
and right here the public get a good chance to
understand the privileges which the lawyers
enjoy, Theyarethe “officeraof theCoort,”as Judge
Dabley puts it; no one can carry on the business
of a lawyer and charge for legal work unless he
complies with a lot of Judge made rules, and pays
a lot of fees which effectually keep poor men’s
sons out of a profession which ought to be free
and noble ; and then the Courts arrogate to them-
selves the right to say—“ We will not allow any
outsiders to come in here and compete with locals
except as we think fit.”
* * *
The New South Wales Court lately put a taxon
foreign lawyers applying to practise here. Not
an ad valorem tax but a specific duty of £5O per
caput. The doctor practising in New South
Wales has to fight in open competition with all
comers; also the engineer, architect, and sur-
veyor. Why should the lawyer be granted a
monopoly? In Victoria they have for years im-
posed a tax on lawyers applying for leave to prac-
t!se locally. If we are to have Protection in one
trade let us have it in all. Let us prevent any
foreign actors or lecturers landing here except on
payment of a heavy tax. What is sauce for the
goose is sauce for the gander. Let us tax foreign
artists desirous of coming to these shores. Let us
put a duty of It 0 per cent, ad valorem on journalists
and editors. Let us keep out English architects
and engineers. Under the present state of things
the legal ring is a disgrace ; these men are shel-
tered by the courts, competition is shut out, and
their charges are kept up, and then, ye gods, they
stump the country lecturing on Preetrade ! If it
is thought necessary to hedge in any profession,
either from the competition of outsiders or from
the competition of poor men in the same colony,
then the hedging in should be done by Parliament
and not by any “ Coort,” or other Council, com-
mittee, Corporation, or Star Chamber whatever.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Phthisis, Germs, and Slop Suits.
í


ĭ
i
ment, and the steady decline of the Imports left
the colony a profit of nearly £1,000,000, which
means that the gold of the outside world is rolling
in at the rats of £4,0C0,C00 per annum and is coming
to stay. Such a c-miercial awakening as this
in the laud of perennial insolvency is a thing that
wants inquiring into. The Sydney D.T. says
that the cause of it is “economy and industry,”
but this is too thin—ten years ago the Maori
farmer and artisan were resolutely toiling from
dawn to dark and living on the smell of an oiled
rag, and still they did nothing but drift downhill.
Eighteen months or so of consistent Protection is
the real reason of the change, but then according
to all the old-established D.T. theories New
Zealand, instead of rising to sudden prosperity,
should have fallen into utter ruin, and instead of
being bankrupt and starving in the old Foreign-
trade days it should have been on the topmost
pinnacle of affluence, and as neither of these things
happened the poor old PuLSFORD-ridden sheet
finds things rather difficult to explain.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—Mr. Oarruthers, the
New South Wales Minister of Public Instruction,
thinks the salaries of the teachers of all schools
under his authority are fixed on a sufficiently
liberal basis to allow them to themselves pay for
the cleaning-out of their seats of learning. The
following is extracted from the diary of a
teacher: —
April, five weeks (Note; Teachers are paid monthly,
conEK quently once in every quarter their month has five
weeks, i.e., 13 weeks—l quarter):—
EXPENDITURE.
Five weeks board at 15s £3 15 0
Washing 1 , &a 0 7 6
Superannuation at 4 per cent. ... 0 4 0
£4 6 6
RECEIPTS.
Salary for April £5 0 0
Balance in hand 0 13 6
Thirteen shillings and sixpence saved at the end of
five weeks, or an amount earned at the rate of
2 s, Si. per week ! And yet a man or woman, as
the case may be, would have the bare-faced
effrontery to ask his or her bleeding country
for a few shillings for fuel in the winter,
aud to clean the dust and cobwebs out of the
school-room. Truly the teacher of the Pro-
visional school under Minister Oarruthers has a
happy time. Mr. Oarruthers, pit ass go out for
one month into New South Wales, 50 miles the
other side of civilization, and take charge of one
of your many Provisional schools. Take with you
neither scrip nor purse, and only one threadbare
suit of clothes, and live on £4 165.! If you can
do this successfully, you are well worthy to be
Minister of Instruction to any country under the
sun.— Pedagogue.
*
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,— The Melbourne Argus
has now satisfactorily solved the Parnell
problem. As Parnell didn’t write those letters
when he ought to have done so, why Pigott
had to write them, and Parnell has never
yet satisfactorily explained why he didn’t write
them, which, of course, is his own fault, and
he is to blame for the whole thing. “ Suppose
that Pigott had been assassinated en route to
Madrid, would Macdonald have been branded as
a criminal if he had written that 1 he could not
refuse to admit that Pigott had got no more than
his deserts ?’ ” Just so—but Parnell was In this
dilemma:—He is branded as a criminal because
he was believed to have written those letters, and
now he is branded as a criminal because he didn’t
write them, and the Argus and the Times be-
lieved he might, could, would, should, or
ought to have written them. All which
is highly consolatory. The next time I want a
cheque for £IOO from my friend Jones which he
refuses to give me, and I think ought to give me,
I shall fitst quietly write out my friend Jones’
cheque for him and in his name, and then he will
be guilty of felony because he ought to have
written it but didn’t. And then all will be joy,
and the world will keep on moving and the Argus
wil l have an increase of 100,000 subscribers per
diem. You see if something did not happen
which ought to have happened, and nothing came
to pass for which somebody wai to blame, it is
clear that Parnell is shockingly blameworthy,
all which is extremely logical and convincing. A
few months ago the Argus crushed a well-known
solicitor who addressed to it a few words of modest
remonstrance, by giving him the lie direct. Now
that it has the same answer given to its romantics
it does not seem to like it. —X.
♦—
Now and then even a British ecclesiastical
“horgan ” drops into unconscious humour. The
following extract is from a poor, wilted Anglican
boiled rag published in London.
Bishop Crowthbr, the blank Bishop of the Niger, was
as welcome a guest as any among the Bishops who at-
tended the Lambeth Conference. At the house of the
Bishop of Dover, at Canterbury, he was entertained with
honor ; and there was no suggestion of incongruity in hts
being there. The form of address “ my lord " seemed
just as appropriate to him as to any of the brethren of
the episcopate. At the Lord Mayor's banquet in London
he was received without condescension.
How is that for Christian meekneis ? The editor
whose ancestor was a stupid, unlettered, bull-
headed giant with neither literature nor clothes at
the very time when the infant Redeemer was
growing up In Africa, thinks it worth while to
write a whole paragraph to prove that the Eng-
lish Church didn’t act like one incarnate snob in
the presence of its reverend black brudder from
the Niger—simply because he was black. Was
the Saviour of them Himself a white man, we
wonder, and if he wasn’t ought He to have been ?
The Hebrew hadn’t been bleached white in these
days by living in northern climates, and he is
generally supposed to have been a swarthy man,
just dark enough to make the Anglican bishop, if
he could see him now, wonder whether he was or
was not a “nigger ” after all. What then If the
Founder of the Church was himself a man of
colour ? And if he was how ought any reverend
white person who edits a paper to act in such a
trying emergency ?
♦
Dr. Oapfyn, of Brighton, Melb., has written a
novel “Miss Milne and.l,” and has had it pub-
lished in London by Remington and Company.
In the book a realistic description is given of the
panic which the small-pox outbreak a few years
ago caused In Sydney, and of the horrors atten-
dant on the quarantine system of the day. The
S.M.H. stigmatises Dr. Caffyn’s attack as
exaggerated and unreal. Butt Dr. Oaffyn is
right. His description is photographically real.
It is true that there was a fearful and unreason-
able and disgraceful panic in Sydney over an
outbreak such as causes no sensation in the old
world. It is true that the panic equally seized
the public and the authorities. It is true that
people in raging fever were dragged out of their
beds by drunken Government officials and towed
down the harbour on winter mornings to a quaran-
tine ship on board which there was not a living
soul who dared to wait upon them or who was not
stricken with the panic which unnerved the
general population. It is true that the decom
posed bodies of small-pox patients whom nobody
had attended were found in quarantine, under the
most horrible circumstances. The history of that
outbreak, or rather, the history of the infer-
able small-pox patients of whom the Go. m-
ment “took charge,” forms one of the most
ghastly chapters in the history of Australian
society. The Bulletin shudders to think of
what would happen in Sydney if cholera came.
*
The Divorce Bill of dear old Sir Alfred Stephen,
Lieutenant-Governor and ex-Ohief Justice of New
South Wales, offers marital freedom to the
present life-partner of a man or woman in prison.
But the Criminal Law Amendment Act of the
same Sir Alfred Stephen imposes seven years’
penal servitude on the same life-partner if he or
she marry, and five years on the man or woman
that marries one or the other. This is a splendid
example of consistency. It is also an excellent
illustration of the fact that at least half the crimes
in the brutal code of New South Wales are lawyer-
made crimes rather than offences against abstract
morality. Sir Alfred Stephen, if he had tried
for a thousand years, could not have given himself
away more neatly,
♦
The first public address delivered in Sydney by
Bishop Dawes, the first Anglican Bishop con-
secrated in Australia, was compressed into 2h
inches space in the S.M, Herald of the 3rd in-
stant. Had Bishop Dawes been consecrated in
London he would have commanded a column or
more in that journal for a first exposition of his
episcopal views. There is human nature in this
—of the gawky and very commonplace stamp,
lo it, distant hills look always green and cows far
ett wear long horns ; but there is something of the
dog eating dog idea also in the chewing down of
Dawes to 24 inches, for many of the Herald men
rowed for years in the same boat as Dawes, and
would, had they b?en sure of a bishopric, have
stayed away from journalism,
+
Apparently there is no fixed tariff for contempt
of court in New South Wales. A few days ago
an inebriated witness came up before Judge Back-
house, and that gentleman vindicated the out-
raged law by sending him to prison till the ensuing
morning. Then, finding him sober and in his
right mind, he took his evidence; and having
investigated the circumstances under which he
became intoxicated, he set the offending witness
at liberty. Judge Windeyer, on the other hand,
sent his intoxicated witness to prison for
twelve months, from which we must pre-
sume that Mr. Windeyer is 3G5 times more
dignified than Mr. Backhouse, so that an insult
levelled at him in his official capacity is so many
times more virulent; and in such a case we can
only say that the Supreme Court autocrat is too
important altogether for a young country with so
big a Treasury deficit as New Couth Wales. Or,
possibly, the explanation may be that Mr. Win-
deyeb is 365 times more irascible than the other
man, andif so he is altogether too combustible for
his situation and too volcanic in proportion to his
salary. It is hopeless to suppose, by any stretch
of imagination, that Mr. Windeyer’s witness was
365 times more drunk than the other one-there
is no such possibility in existence. The
unfortunate testifier who received twelve months
was understood to have been sat upon
to this extent because his conduct led to
the sudden collapse of the case in band,
but Mr. Backhouse, who seemingly had more of
his senses about him, did not allow his case to
collapse—he simply postponed it until his witness
was sober. Consequently, except for the fact that
Mr. W indeyer got biling mad over a very small
incident, there was no real harm done, and the
fact that Mr, Windeyer got into a temporary
tear is only a feeble excuse for another man who
was only placidly drunk getting 12 months.
Therefore The Bulletin urges for the
365th time that Judge Windkjkr should be
removed to some position where he can boil over
without breaking anything. In his present situa-
tion he too much resembles a bull placed in
charge of a china emporium, and when a man of
the stamp of Judge Backhouse tacitly registers
his opinion that the great man is 365 times too
bounceable it becomes evident that our old-
established opinion on this point is taking root in
various quarters.
*
J. P. T. Caulfield on drink :
What are the great achievements of tea and cold water
drinkers that they should expect the world to look to
them alone for guidance ? The teetotallers lost Paradise.
A teetotaller was tlie first murderer and teetotallers were
so evil that Providence swept them away in the flood.
V\ e find fc that the Patriarchs, the Egyptians, tte Jews,
the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Persians, the Greeks
and the Romans Mr. Dan O'Connor, cur Postmaster-
General, will he able to bear me out in this—and more
recently the great nation? of Europe, including our own
grand ancestors, were all drinking people. Civilisation
has been accomplished by drinkers, and the barbarians
have as a rule teen teetotallers. The English and Anglo-
Saxon races, the great drinking nations, and not the
Chinese, Hindoos, blacks or copper-colored races, have
been the real men of the earth. Here in this country the
natives were abstainers, and it cannot be asserted that
they were up to our level. Not a single man of firsl-t lass
eminence, living or dead, has ever been a total abstainer.
There is no teetotaller of eminence in the British 1 louse
of Lords, or House of Commors, amid the gatheied
intellect of the nation. There is not such a one, either,
in the French Legislature, or in the German Reichstag,
in the American Congress, or in the Parliaments of this
or the adjoining colonies. Not more than three clergy-
men of distinction in Great Britain are teetotallers. No
scientist of eminence in the whole world is a teetotaller.
Bismarck, Gladstone, Grevy and scores of other great meii
use intoxicants. The men who have distinguished them-
selves on the battlefields used liquor. A story told of
General Grant—of course it was only allegorical—referred
to his stumbling about the steamboat cabin at midnight
and fumbling for the whisky bottle. “He drinks too
much whisky,” said General Bluenose toPresident Lincoln.
Apropos of Gfant; “he’s too fond of old Bourbon. 1 ’
“Then, by Jingo,” replied Lincoln, “I wish you would
all get the same brand.”
And just here we want to point out the strongest
argument of all, and one which Mr. Caulfield
has somehow overlooked. There was no grog In
Paradise, and yet Satan h»d his origin there ; he
fell in that calm teetotal atmosphere and has been
a low character ever since. But even at his worst
no one ever saw him intoxicated.
*
Sydney Echo says that the Sabbatarian question
Is one “which at the present time exhibits the
most ridiculous Inconsistency on the part of those
who advocate either the one side or the other of
It.” The Echo shows it has learned something
lately in discovering that the side of the question
it so long championed is loaded with ridiculous in-
consistencies ; but, however zealous its recreancy,
it must not be suffered to retreat under the cover
of calumnies against its old opponents. Anti-
Sabbatarians are most certainly not inconsistent.
Their course has been, and is, direct, straight, and
clear. The Echo, if it chooses, can say they have
been and are wrong, but to charge ridiculous in-
consistencies, or any inconsistencies, agamst them
is to stupidly or wilfully misuse terms,


Ben franklin printing office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MAdARDV,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress 1 nnter, Diesmker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a speciality.
■nt i. .j j f° r List of Contents.
Note Address— .
319 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY,
N.B.— Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Garde
•no Fancy Goods inspection invited
A “Loyalist" Meeting.
The meeting a 1! Sydney Protestant Hall
on Monday night, May 20, was called to testify
the “loyalty” of the people of Australia to thj
Brinish Empire, and to p mtast against the Home
Rulers. As a matter of fact it was not an Austra-
lian meeting at all. It was a meeting of bitter,
black. North of Ireland men ; there was scarcely
a single Australian on the platform and a very
small percentage in the body of the hall. The
audience were mostly old men, white-haired and
white-bearded, their eyes blazing with the excite-
ment caused by a chance of showing that their
long-cherished hatred and spite against the Irish
of the South had nob been allowed to die out when
they to this country, but had been trans-
planted hither in full vigour : they were men to
whom no question of nationalism, no question of
Australian welfare, no hope of ces auon from
blrody religious feuds and quarrels had any attrac-
tion : men bred and born to hate other men, aid
determined to force themselves and their “ black
bile” upon a young and rising country : men to
whom the political questions of the day were as
nothing compare,d to the importance of “Boyne
Water ” aod “ Croppies lie down.” Such was the
meeting in the Protestant Hall on Monday night.
0 0 9
Or coarse the meeting was “ packed.” On
entering the hall large bodies of men were to be
seen congregated in various quarters, all wear-
ing a red badge. One of these, speaking
with a North of Ireland “burr,” rough enough to
file horeehoofs with, told a comrade : “ Sure, an’
this is where I was placed ; I’se got my orders.”
He had his orders, and from his actions one could
easily tell what his orders were. All round the
hall were similar bodies of men who “ had their
orders ” from the Orange Lodges. The platform
was crowded with men, mostly old, all bitter and
vindictive—not a Young Australian face amongst
them. The chairman was an Irishman of the
broadest type, North oi
Ireland of coursa. The
speakers were til North
of Ireland men. The
chairman opened with a
“spaiche” in which he
stated that they had met
to show that Australia
was not unanimous. He
might have added that
so long as he, and others
such as he, were allowed
to crawl about in it, it
never would be unani-
mous about anything ex-
cept strife and old-world
quarrels. He next made
some sneering allusion
to Mr. Gladstone. This
name was received with
a perfect storm of bus-
ing, hooting, and yell-
ing ; but an old man in
the audience, apparently
a Scotchman, got tip
excitedly and yelled:
“ No, no ; for
Gladstone 1 ” In half a-
minute was seized by
some score of the
roughs who composed
this meeting of the
loyalists of H/dney, this
public meeticg where
every man was suc-
posad to have the right
to bis own opinion?, and
hustLd, kicked, and
chucked out of the hall.
The audience rose up and
watched while the old
man fought gamely, but,
being outnumbered ly
twenty to one, he was
thrown cut; then the
chairman urged the meet-
iig to face the situation
coldly ; with odds of
about twenty to one they
omld afford to face it
boldly. As his speech
went on every now and
a Tain a white handker-
chief was raised from
the back of the plat-
form, and every time
loud cheers burst forth;
the white handkerchief
was of course a sig-
nai and the audianoe were “fulfilling their
orders.” After the chairman stopped, there ensued
what, to a person having any veneration for reli-
gion in any shape, was a most painful
si?ht. A slergyman, the “Reverend” Dill
Mackay, arose to move the first resolu-
tion, to the eff ct that the Australians did
not sympathise with the Irish who were struggling
for Home Rule, and he did it justice. Jerking hi?
body frantically from side to side and back-
wards and forwards, this apostle of peace
belched forth a tirade of abuse against the
priesthood of Ireland and against Roman
Catholic? of all sorts, sizes, and denominations.
Ho wound himself up to a pitch of frenzy, and
every time he yelled out the words “popery,”
“priesthood,” or “religion,” the white handker-
chief was exultingly raised and a ptrfect hurri-
cane of applause followed He said that religion
was at the bottom of everything—Shat everywhere
in the world Protestants were educated, en-
lightened, and loyal, while Roman Catholics were
degraded, ignorant, and disloyal. This cheerful
sentiment met with a round of applause that
lasted several minutes. An dd man with a face
as sour as vinegar tied a red handkerchief to a
club which he was carrying and waved i) franti-
cally. However, the “other side” appeared to
have one or two adherents in the hall brave enough
to speak their minds. Afuer the Reverend
Dill Mackay bad delivered his next sentence,
in which he said that all the distress in
Ireland was owing to the priests, before
the white handkerchief could go up or the
crowd thunder their applause, before the words
were well out of his mcuth, in fact, a stentorian
voice in the hall shouted, “Itis a lie 1” A loud
yell of “turn him out!” went up from all over
the building. There was a rush and a scuftis
and a glimpse of fierce men trying in dozens
to get at this dating offender, a charge down the
passage, and the next minute the interrupter was
breathing the pure night air of Castlereagh-street,
and reflecting on the glorious freedom of speech
in public meetings. The “ Reverend ” continued
his address by urging the crowd to stand firm
against the organised conspiracy to defeat their
meeting. An organised conspiracy of about three
men who were so absolutely defenceless that when
they were flung out the only difficulty was for
the “ loyal ” brave hearts who put them out to get
a kick at them, as the loyal brave hearts aforesaid
got in one another’s road. The Reverend Dii]
Mackay then continued his speech. We do not
like t 0 say naBty tk i ng 8 about clergymen, but
when a man professing the religion of love and
P eac e and kindness goes onto a public platform
an( i delivers a speech calculated to awake all the
worst passions of ignorant men, and which was
abuse ot other religion-, then we cheer
® *?’JJ® °, cca , v . aad tay for any
pnest or parson to talk In such a strain is to
bring the name of religion into c mtempt. It was
the same keynote all through. When the speakers
went inb° argument on the matter of Home Rule,
? 30 attention °f fbe audience wandered and a
hum of conversation arose. While they were
blunderingly trying to prove that Ireland should
. Y 0 self - government although this country
lb > c ,y were scarcely listened to. But when
tuey mentioned the_ “ Pope of Rome,” “ Boys of
fr 3rry >. -priesthood, or “Priestridden,”up went
the white handkerchief and yell afteryeii followed,
I hejseconder ofthe resolution was unfortunate in
£o™iEig_ “for the Reverend Dill. You see Dill
,7 l : ake ? B *' b . wind out of his sails by his
a ?Y d unsparing abuse of the Irish religion,
80 j seconder, White by name, had to try
an d do some arguing. This was his style. “What
have the Scotch got that the Irish have not got ?
yet the Scotch ate contented to be poor but
“he Irish are not contented to be poor.” In any
noting but a packed meeting of Orangemen such
absnrd argument would have been met with
detifloa. As it was, it was received with silence.
r Baid thatl . “ measure after measure and itatue
after statue had been handed the Irish but they
were not content”: their appetite for statuary
being apparently insatiable. The speaker later
on, got on to the Pope heavily and blackguarded
the Roman Catholics nearly as heartily as Dill
himself and sat down amidst an ovation
* * •
The Chairman then rose and. said he would
put the resolution. And right here a thing occurred
which showed what a magnificently fair, openly-
conducted meeting this was. A little man clam-
bored up to the platform and proposed to move an
amendment to the effect that Australians, though
TWO OF THE IRISH NATIONAL DELEGATES.
MR. JOHN DILLON, M.P.
SIR THOMAS GRATTAN ESMONDS, M.P.
[MR. DEASY'S PORTRAIT UNPROCURABLE.]
tLCCTRI^J^
í
they did not sympathise with outrage, were of
opinion that Home Rule for Ireland would be a
good thing for the Empire. He explained thaHbe
was an Ulsterman and a Protestant; but the white
handkerchief was frantically waved from the back
of the platform; the crowd, who “had their
orders,” howled, hissed, yelled, and hooted, cries
of “chuck him down l ' were raised, and he was
not allowed to say a word. Thus did this noble
public meeting display its fairmindedness. That
little man, whose name was announced as “Alder-
man Taylor,” deserves great credit for his pluck,
Wuhout exaggeration, it was a brave act to face
that crowd of howling bigots, and move anything
of which they disapproved. At one time a rush
was made towards the platform, and if Taylor had
fallen into the hands of the audience he would
have enjoyed a sickly time of it. He resumed his
seat, amidst hisses, groans and catcalls and
another apostle of brotherly love the Rs’v W
8 Frackleton (an apoßle imported from Ireland a
y ear or two ago), arose to froth out his fierce denua-
olations of the people who professed to wor-
ship God in any way different from his own He
tried to make a great point bv savin/ that
when in Ireland he had been fired at in the dark
He fairly fizzed and yelled and shrieked, raieing
his voice to a wild, unearthly scream. Some
rascal in the gallery imitated him with creat
fidelity which rather “ knocked him off his perch”
but he immediately waded into the poor old
Pope right and left, and made that dismantled
poientate look even sicker than the previous
speakers bad left him. During his spsech he
mentioned that the young colonials appeared to
sympathise with Home Rule, and a dirty seedv
newchum, out at elbows and walking 7 ’™ his
uppers, but retaining the symbol of his departed
greatness in the shape of a very high collar
ejaculated loudly: “ Heah, heahl Go it old
fellow ! Give it to the dern colonials ” Of such
was the meeting of Australian “ loyalists ”
0 '
* *
The nexb speaker pub the finishing nroof
on the fact that the meeting was not an Aua
trslian meeting at all. He said • “ The crvhas
been raised of ‘Australia for the Australians ’
Do yon know wbat that means * It means Ans
tralia for the Papists.” This rather sobered the
few Australians present. They began to realise
that these loud-mouthed orators and their sup-
porters merely looted on this country as a R tamp
Ing ground whereon to fight out their accursed old-
world ‘ ‘religious ” feuds; they saw that with the vast
majority of the meeting it was William of Orange
first and Australia nowhere; that no national
sentiment had any lodging in the breasts of these
fierce and bigoted men The old men of the
audience applauded the sentiment; what did they
care how Australia was governed so long ai they
could have room to fight out their hereditary feud?
* * •
Then happened the great pla episode. @ne
of the speakers, after drivelling about the Queen
for a long time, produced, with great mystery, a
pie- crust! He said it had covered a pie at the
banquet to the Irish delegates, and that it had on
it the Shamrock and the Thistle, bub not the
Rose. Howls, yells, shrieks 1 “ Where was the
Rose?’’ Some one suggested that one of the
traitorous Irish delegates had eaten it, but the
orator sternly pointed out that the absence of the
Rose on the pie-crust was damning evidence of
deep and bloody-minded conspiracy. What an
unconscious humorist! More howls of applause.
The pie-crust was handed round and found its
way to Abigail, who gazed at it long and f mdly.
Perhaps he was thinking how much could he ad-
vance on it and at what percentage. Then it was
handed to Alderman Taylor, sni perhaps that
gentleman will hand that pic-must down to his
posterity as an evidence that one of the Taylor
family had pluck enough to speak up against large
odds.
• » •
Load cries for Abigail then rose. Afoer
much persuasion that great banker came forward,
but before he was well under way some one in the
gallery said, “ You are more Pr psry than Eiscal.”
Heavens ! what a row there was 1 The unlucky
wight was rushed out of the gallery, and we could
hear him bounding down the stairs nineteen steps
at a stride, thud, thud, thud, wallop-ker smash,
like an old man kangaroo rushing through the
scrub. Then Eranois said with dignity that in
the violent disturbance which had been raised
there was an evidence of the effect of ’Ome Rule.
To see one man being slung out of a building by
about five hundred was indeed a depressing sight,
Then Abigail wound up, the chairman declared
al( the resolutions carried, cheers for the Queer,
Abigail, and the Reverend Dill Mackay followed,
and the crowd were surging out when the chair-
man got up and said be wished to explain seme-
wh.»h had hurt Mr Mackar’. feeling,. He
the chairman, had raid that he bore no hatred to
Roman Catholicism, and the Reverend Dll
Mackay had objected to the sentiment—he would
.mend it, and .a, that he bore no haired lo
Roman Catholics but he did hate Roman
Catholicism. With which declaration of war the
Reverend Mackay was satisfied, and the mealing
closed.
* *
Isn b It a pity we can b put all the people
who “ travpl ” on importing re irion into politics
into one big ship and moor it outside the Heads,
and let the artillery blow it to the devil! Amen 1
Sic John Gladstone, the GO.M’s nephew,
is the Hercules of the Life Guards, one of the
feats he used to perform with ease being the
raismg of two men from the ground, and holding
them, one in each hand, at arm’s length.
The new heir to the Austrian throne, be-
sides being a descendant of the Cfesars, will be
king of nine countries, wear eighteen titles as
duke, one as archduke, two as grand duke, four as
margrave, and so on to the total number of 54
Dpan ffiiiaM, * t> .
Dean Elliott, of Bristol, who la 00
years of age, has done no clerical duty for
the past 15 years, but he has religiously drawn his
clerical stipend of £l5OO a year during the whole
of that period. And of such is the Kingdom of
Heaven!
President L’ecdlii bad a pleasant little way
of putting off unfortunate office-seekers. He told
one troublesome fellow to go and learn Spanish
and to call again. For some months the offioa-
seeker disappeared, and when he turned up again
It was with the statement that he was now a com-
plete master of the Spanish tongue. Whatever
hopes be had. indulged of appointment to the
American Ministry at Madrid were rudely dashed
when Lincoln replied blandly, “Then you bad
better read DonQnx .te in the original at once ;
yon will find it mo«o delightful."
*
Personal Items.
Sir John Robertson has just celebrated has
golden wedding
B
Of 580 Weileyan clergymen la Au trilla
500 are abitainers.
Governor Norman’s second dmghber fa
lady-superintendent of the hospital at Gibraltar
o'. . , „ ~ , . L ~ . „ '
. *ha loyal Gafaam sahjec.s In South
Auitra.ia oahel their lata Governor “Wilhelm
Robmsonner.”
Captain Kane* the now celebrated com
mander of H.M S. Calliope, is a total abstainer
He is also “ great on hj m ■ s ”
mwj m ' ,
mrSi Ward * tna lasmanian authoress of
“ Robert Elsmere,” was recently offered £lOOO for
a story 30,000 words long— Si a word,
Henry Dauford, the oldest European real-
dent of F ji, died recently. Sixty hal r -bred
children and grandchildren followed his remains
to the grave.
m . ~ ‘ ~ „
- Mrs. Jdarn% wife of Mayor
Harris °f Sydney, laid the foundation-sione of the
Centennial Hall; Mias Harris, her daughter
* s * d *be finishing stone of that buiidiny,
FJtzglbbon, the pompous Town-clerk of
“t&'rt'odTbe^h't P t£ Si*
shouhfbe an ass. We don’/say he is. T ’
T __ i 4.1 « ul . ~,
inscription on Matthew Arnold s grave In
Saleham churchyard; “There is sprung up a
| ! ght for the rightsoua.” It should be: “There
s P™ n g U P a sweetness and light for the Philis-
m*s*
Millais threw open his home to the nnhlh.
last year on “ Show Sunday,” to let them see his
Academy pictures. Over 3000 people turned i<n
and it cost him £2O worth of his plate To &
discontinued, P ate ‘ 1 be
R J. Bloxsldge,
who did at Mordiallcc
( vie.) recently, was pas-
sionately fond of steeple-
chasing and rode old Dig-
ouufc in the first adver-
tised fct r eplecbase run
m the Cabbage Gai den.
Me was a familiar of the
poet Gordon, with whom
he had many a wild gal-
lop in Gippsland.
E c K‘ng Milan of
oervia is a cool gambler.
He has all the aver-
age gambler’s faith in
the Maacottes ”he car-
nes about with him. At
one time it i 3 a rusty
rail, or a piece of a rope
wi h which a man had
hanged himself ; at
another old sleeve-
links or socks that are not
fellows.
Ihe name, the whole
name, and nothing but
the name of Mr. N.S.W,
Commissioner Eddy’s
imported locomotive
superintendent is—
Ceodatus Helm Wil-
il*® Johnstone Nelson
O Neale Neale ’’ Great
Cfes r! The Neala looks
Ike a little locomotive-
hauling along a goods
tram.
Mr. Barton Bradley,
of Sydney, is the oldest-
prsc.uing solicitor in
Australia, having been
admitted in 1840 40;
years ago. Mr. Bradley
is a practitioner of the-
old fchool, and is known
in the profession for his-
s.rcasm. On one De-
cision a young clerk —
but really the story is too
venerable a chestnut.
Ihe last article writ-
ten by Crown Prince
Rudolph was descriptive
of a fight to the death
between two stags to,
decide which has to be
p,T, with t^ e °°“Pany of a young do?.
Kudolph s own death was brought about by a
"“I I ** the V wife of a forest
ranger btiag the doe in question.
The proprietors of the Times are feeling
lha effect of the expenses cf the Parnell com-
mission inquiry. One of the co proprietors who,
last year, drew £3600 as his share of the profits
has, this year, received only £900.; while another
shara is reported to have fallen from £6OO to £7O
Q wen Victoria’s daughter, the Empress
Ired.-riok, i® * freethinker. She is familiar with
the writings of Strauss and Herbert Spenc .r, and,
The Governor of N Z is bald headed.
This is fortunate. He won’t have to waste his
wM^ ie «V r?ing U? k f p h i s ha ' r on wi(,h bath hands
while chasing his ba} down the streets o: the
world s windiest metropolis.
The? late M Ohevreul’s son died two years
65 f , r0 u m e^ aer exhaustion caused
SLhS w d l?s th 9 celebration of his father’s hun-
dr,edbb birthday. The centenarian, it is recorded,
attended his son s funeral oa foot.
Prince A'berb Victor, heir to the British
throne-or what will be left of it by the time his
turn comes is about to visit Ireland. If a face
and a form on which are stamped hopeless con-
genital idiocy, to say nothirg of colossal wooden-
headedness and the most hideous form of
num-skullism, can arouse the loyal enthusiasm of
«S fiff* d h “ ve “ 8001 “ me


Write for Plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited 96 Bathurst street. Sydney.
Dry Impkrial Champasnb.— Messrs. Meet and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “ DRY IMPERIAL 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2800 acres In the choicest districts in Prance.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
IWKST BOKOMIA the New Ferfnme. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
5a., and 10s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORB. 188 Bourke st„ Bast,
MELBOURNE.
Sundry Shows.
Thbatbk Royal,—" Sinbad the Sailor ” P- 14.
Hbb Majesty’s.—“ Romany Rye ...
Drttkeion.—“ Mamma ” ••••"■*;•-*** ••
Gaiety Theatee.—“ Fan on the Bristol
The Oyolobama.— The Battle of Gettys-
burg "
The Widow O’Brien haa re-opened at
Sydney Gaiety, but alas! she is not the
widow we used to know, and we drop a
silent tear and pass on. The story of the fair
Cieophtra, whose name has since become Bridget,
has been overladen with songs and dances untilAt
gatra heavily along where it used to travel at an
uproarious gallop, and in the effort to fill up the
company with actors who can sing, actors whoa**
act have been to some extent left out Wora
O’Brien, who used to be a joyous maiden of 17 or
thereabouts, has been transformed into a gushing
infant in a pinafore and ribbons in order that she
may fit in with a certain imbecile
dance which blocks the track of the whole
comedy just at a time when it seems as if
it is going to start again after another long
pause during which the Count has mused in song.
Asa natural consequence Nora presents a sad
spectacle as a desperately juvenile thing in short
frocks with a full-grown lover in the background,
and this pretence is too thin. The inf “ nt h °
elooes in her perambulator with a rattle and a
feeding-bottle should skip with something nearer
her own size. Mr. H. M. Imano, as Count
Meniggio, is a deep baritone exile in a long coat,
but he is so anxious to boom out bis top note to
the last gasp that he leaves all the fun out of his
part, and his humorous dialogue sounds hke a bill
of sale. Mr. Delafield, in the character cf Dora s
lover, is too much like a long curate escaped from
an asylum for parsons 7ft. high, and Miss Vera
Pfttey and Mr. Sutch are alnaost the only
features, apart from Mr. Sheridan himself. thatwe
don’t feel sure we want to cuss at. As for Mr.
Sheridan he is the same perennial widow that
we have always worshipped, and if he ,
shovel about eleven songs out
scrag the man who first suggested the skipping-
ropedance, and make the ( ount with a name like
a wild beast show hustle a bit instead of stopping
every five minutes to warble a plaintive hymn,
and in a general sort of way if he would make the
piece move instead of always making the
think that something isgorngtohappen, andthen
holding the crisis'over till it is flat and stale in
order to give somebody a chance to hum some ex-
tended psalm that has nothing to do wish the
business on hand, then “Fun on the Bristol’
would probably be the same brilliant succei s as of
old. But the tffort to include a whole variety
show as well as a comedy in this two-act scream is
like attempting to include a bowl of hot soup m a
family Bible—the two things don t go together
with any degree of success.
* * # *
Her Gracious Majesty having resolved to
have a birthday on the 24th inst, Mr. John
Solomon has announced that he will signalise the
occasion by commencing a season of the undressed
musical drama at Sydney Opera House. If it is
possible to galvanise the establishment above the
public-house into renewed prosperity Mr. Solomon
will probably manage it, and in the meantime
there is an unwonted stir among the gophers and
the rats, and the big, shiny, case-hardened beetle
Is being shaken out cf the drop-scene, and the
paunchy spider has been pursued from his home
under the floor, and everything is getting ready
for a gorgeous ceremonial. The proceedings optn
on Friday with the “Bohemian Girl, and among
the pieces that follow are several new operas by
sundry composers of more or less hair-lifting
power in the musical world. Mr. Henry Bracy
and Mr. Kowalski are both on deck, and a number
of other talented artistes are at the bat.
* # * *
Bland Holt is coming back to Sydney
Royal on Saturday night, and then the gore-
stained lunatic, and the funny murderer, and the
clown who finds the lost will that was hidden up
the chimney fcy some pre-histonc grandmother
without teeth, and the simple-minded young man
who knocks down eight brawny ruffians and
escapes over a roof in a snowstorm, will reappear
in all their glory. The season commences with a
portentous shriek known as the Ruling Pas-
sion,” in the course of which various things hap-
pen in a wild, miscellaneous way that bt files time
and space, and biffs out probability on its impro-
bable ear. “Romany Rye” still attracts the
bloodthirsty multitude at Her Msjistys, and
if Bland Holt wants to get ahead he will have to
hustle with unwonted vigour. ‘ Mamma is in
evidence at the Criterion for one week more, and
otherwise there is nothing theatrical to report
that is newer than the twelve apostles who per-
vaded Syria in the days of yore.
* * * *
One cf the numbers of the new “Fun on
the Bristol ” company at Sydney Gaiety was found
galloping along Macquarie-street the other night,
pursued by a man witn a revolver, who was after-
wards charged at the Police Court with shooting
with intent.” As this event took place two or
three days before the company opened, the action
of the man with the shooter seems somewhat pre-
mature. No doubt there are a large number of
comedians who ought to be shot at to see if it I*? 1 *!
make them act any better, but to shoot a comedian
without waiting to ascertain how bad he is and
whether he requires to be killed or only maimed a
little, seems rather a tasty mode of procedure.
Possibly, however, the alleged assailant had seen
his intended prey on the stage on Eo “ e
occasion, and felt himself the agent of a great
public necessity, and in view of this contingency
we urge the police to make careful Inquiries. _
are getting ready ourselves to shoot our winter
stock of bad comedians and heavy tragic men with
iron jaws, and any theatrical gentlemen requiring
assassination will be promptly attended to.
# # # #
To-night (Thu aday) the Darllnghnrst
Skating Rink (Sydney) will open under the min-
agtment of Mr. R. J. Aginton, and add one more
to the burdens of a muoh-rmked city. The
interior is decorated to represent the M ikado s
palace-not the old, low, whitewashed palace con-
sisting of a hundred one-storey structures enclose d
by a dead, diriy-yellow-painted wall in the centre
of which the sacred Emperor of Japan used to be
hidden away, a pocr, tired, bored, blank, dreary,
disgusted potentate, too important to be touched,
too holy to be allowed to rei d. or talk, or think ;
too sacred, in fact, for anything except to sit all
dayinahard chair and glare and groan and go
mad—but the palacs as it is now, or if it isn t, as
it ought to be. The floor space is understood to
be the most extensive rinking accommodation m the
colonies, and there will he a band, and electric
lights, and the omnibusses and trams will bo
found very handy—also the gaol. The Darling-
hurst rink, in fact, is handier to the gaol than any
other existing, but somehow the management
don’t seem to emphasise this fact much*
$e sge aft ft
The monster benefit for the partially
cremated Brough and the incinerated Boucicault
came off on Saturday afternoon at Her Majesty s
(Sydney) with tremendous eclat. Everybody who
had ever seen or heard of the two scorched
comedians rolled up to express his sympathy, and
the takings would have put many a busted South
American republic on its feet once more and left
enough over to make the whole population reason-
ably tight in the lar d where the eagle of liberty
is always on the scream. The programme in-
cluded everything and, everybody that could
reasonably be crowded into the space, the most
conspicuous among a whole directory of names
being those of Messrs. Royce, Thornton, luacy,
the two Oogills, Eignold, Gourlay, Sidney, Cates,
Corlesse, Rainford, Leston, and Misses Lucia
Harwood, Annie Taylor, Colbourne-Baber, llora
Graupner, Brenda Gibson, and a multitude more,
who, owing to the limited dimensions of this
paper, cau’n be inserted without hanging over the
edge. Fragmentary bits of a whole siack of
varied dramas were piled into the bill—a shred of
‘ Romany Rye,” a stray splinter of ‘ -Jack Shep-
pard,” and the trial scene from Pickwick, with
Mrs. Bardel), moist, clammy, pathetic, romantic,
and muddy with tears wailing in the background
as usual, and various recitations and other things
in between. By a special dispensation of Provi-
dence no one inflicted that bloodstained chestnut
“ Eugene Aram ” on the audience, though Mr. A.
R. Lawrence escaped on to the stage and poured
forth Tennyson’s story of “ Godiva, and as no
one shot at any member of the company it may be
presumed that general satisfaction prevailed.
* * * *
With an open-handed generosity that Is
not epldem-'c in these times, Mr. G. C. Miln broke
his run of “ Hamlet ” at Melbourne Opera House
last Monday in order that Messrs. Brough and
Boucicault might be benefited by a special evening
performance, the whole cost of which was defrayed
by the tragedian aforesaid. Considering that Air.
Miln Is a comparative stranger in the land, who
might have been the reverse of a phenomenal suc-
cess in Melbourne without moving his brother
lessees to any display of practical sympathy, his
action in this matter indicates that his brainy
head is governed by a heart of unusual dimensions.
It goes without saying that Monday s perform-
ance filled the Opera House right up. ihe
Brough and Boucicault company appeared in a
choice assortment of good things. Mr. Mayne and
Mrs. G. B. Lewis recited, while Mr. Miln gave
the graveyard scene from “ Hamlet, wherein
Miss Louise Jordan assisted an imposing tout
ensemble by playing the silent character of
Ophelia’s dead body. This last act of unselfash
courtesy suggests that the Triumvirate, on some
benefit occasion, might graciously Consent to im-
personate the heap of slain in a battle piece.
# * # #
Melbourne shows proper wobbled along
uneventfully during the past week. New
Babylon ” lasted at the Royal until Monday night,
a brief close time terminating this (Thursday)
evening, when the new dramatic company make
their debut in 11 The Pointsman,” an individual
that evidently wants watchiig in the bmelliul
City. They are announcing last nights ol
“ Yeomen of the Guard ” at the Princess?, pro-
bably with an idea that the opera will grow 011
the public after it has gone, or because the unfor-
tunate absence of Miss Stewart is creating a
vacuum in weekly receipts. Meanwhile, Miss
May Pollard ia improving with practice, and
carries out the author’s plan rather better
than her predecessor. Another change from the
original oast has been brought about by au acci-
dent to Miss Ameris, who fell out of her chariot
recently and suffered a further shock to a voice
which seemed pretty well shocked before this
catastrophe came to pass. The contraltii pro tem.
is a long, thin, rough-and-ready angel with a bar-
barous mode of articulating her parts of speech,
but her lungs are in fine condition, and she so
sings the best number in this gloomy work as to
make it a matter fo»- sober j ay that the other lady
tumbled from a waggon.
# * # *
“Hamlet” completes its little month at
the Opera House this week, a feat of endurance
speaking volumes for the thoroughness of that
inky cloaked young man’s preparation at Mr.
Miln’s hands. Last Friday the wily management
ran a special Shakespearian tram from Ballarat,
and in the interests of travellers by this classic
conveyance Mr. Miln revived Humpy Dick
the same night and gave a seccnd Hamlet
matinee on Saturday. In the midst of all
this prosperity news that the lease of the
legidmate drama must shortly _ expire has
fallen upon the admirers of Miln with a sickening
thud, and their harrowed feelings present a
ghastly spectacle. If "Richelieu 1 is put up on
Saturday it will about see the season through.
" Bachelors” attracted decent attendances to
the Hibernian Hall, but Brough and Boucicault
are weary of struggling against fate with only
one change of scenery, and they commence three
final, last, concluding, farewell performances of
" Two Roses ” tc-moriow (24th.) The delightful
vision of Miss Xdlian Gillmore will lend enchant-
ment to these parting occasions.
* * # « *
Mr. Alfred Dumpier ia still crowding the
Alexandra as none ever did until he came along.
An advt. of undoubted respectability alleges that
fifty thousand human beings of both sexes have
seen “ Shamus O’Brien ” already, so that the
brain reels and totters under the distree sing strain
of estimating how many more thousands are
waiting to see it. and what proportion of the sum
total would like to see it over again, and, in how
long a period of time they can all complete their
task while working six nights a week. The awful
success of "Shamus’’has upset a widespread be-
lief that Irish drama was decaying off the face of
the earth and rapidly bsooming extinct.
* * * *
Frank Claik’s show at the Victoria Hall
has been boomed by a burglarious attempt to
sneak his Saturday night's receipts. Fiends
wearing the aspect of Christian men appear to
have spent last Sunday morning in rolling Clark s
safe around the deserted premises and hitting it
with a poll-axe until their dream of avarice was
on the point of being realised, after which
they went away to attend Divine ‘-
Meanwhile the general manager walked in
and accidentally breathed upon the mal-
treated safe until the lid fell out and
then he found that Providence had watched over
the cash-box. So he offered up thanksgiving and
informed the police, and carried the glad tidings
to Frank Clark, who called his company together
and the whole galaxy of talent celebrated this
confusion of the transgressors in a joyful outburst
of "Good old Mary Ann." Nothing else remark-
able has occurred in Melbourne, with the excep-
tion of the Battle of Waterloo cyolorama, a class
of joy hitherto unknown to the local population.
#* * *
The “ Silver Falla,” having worn out its
welcome with Adelaide audiences fresh from other
and more disastrous falls in silver, Messrs.
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s latest drama-
tic importation appeared in the evergreen comedy,
“New Men and Old Acres,” and suceaeded in
scoring a much greater triumph than they did in
the lurid agony of their gaudy melodrama. Mies
Clara Cowper, as the daughter of the representa-
tive of several ag( s of crumbling and moss-grown
ancestors, created a very favourable impression by
her archness and sympathetic acting, while the
Bunter of Mr. James Stevenson, albeit sc fl aring
by comparison with the late Fred. Marshall’s
conception of the character, was play ed carefully
throughout, every point being made to tell. Mr.
Bucklaw, as the typical British merchant, Samuel
Brown, maintained the good opinion he had pre-
viously created, and the remainder of the com-
pany filled their respective ri>les with credit. The
company left for Melbourne on the lltb. May
Holt taking their place at the Adelaide Royal.
Bloodshed and strife are dispensed with a liberal
hand through six weary acts by this lady and her
company, and their multifarious sins command a
moderate attendance of those people who revel
in goah. Frank Lincoln, at Garner’s Theatre, is
convulsing the inhabitants of mournful Adelaide,
while his genial manager, L, J. Lohr, scoops in
the shekels of the elect with a jubilant smile such
as Noah of old might have worn when he daubed
across his venerable dug-out that ancient, moss-
grown legend “ Slanding Boom Only.”
** * *
« Tom ” Bellalr, well known on the Vic-
torian stage a generation ago, keeps a large hotel
at Wagga Wagga.
♦* * *
The Triumvirate have decided to erect a
new theatre injsydney as soon as a suitable site
can be secured.
** * *
Santley says that Melbourne Princess’ is
the most complete theatre he has ever seen.
#* # »
John Morrison Morton, author of “Box
and Oox,” “Lend me Five Shillings,” and many
other farces and comedies, is broken down and in
an English alms-house. Morton had a brother of
a literary turn, who kept a tobacco and stationery
shop in Market-street, Sydney, a few years ago.
*# * *
The British Privy Council, who are to be
the final arbiters in the Theatre Royal box case,
Jack Want v. Mrs. Moss, will be a bit tangled up
as to which of the parties want the box to a finish.
## * *
Sydney Grundy wrote the comedy,
“ Mamma,” in a week.
*# * #
From the Eba :—“ A funny incident re-
cently occurred at the Paragon during the interval
between the two scenes “On Guard.” By some
mistake the signal bell for raising the curtain was
touched before the scene was properly set, and the
curtain rose half way, disclosing a man carrying a
tomb under each arm, and others pushing the
church, which is a solidly built structure on wheels,
towards the front of the stage. This unrehearsed
effect caused a good deal of merriment.”
«* * *
The undiowned Remenyi, the violinist,
intends presenting £lO,OOO worth of art-treasures
to a museum at Buda-Pesth. By the way,
Remenyi will shortly play in London.
Mr. WalHngtop, Governor of N.S.W., has
been appointed secretary to the Melbourne Club.
Charles E. Hacker, or Stirk, gymnast, is
requested to send his address to the S. F. News-
letter office, where a valuable letter lies ad-
dressed to him.
At Dillon’s meeting, the other day, a
speaker asked: ‘' What is the remedy for Ireland’s
woes’” There was a pause, then a still small
voice in the pit shrieked, “Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.”
A story is going the round of the English
papers that Gov. Carington will lose £lO,OOO if he
returns to England before his five years’ term is
up at Botany Bay. Baron Bob, it appears, laid
Lord Charles Beresford ten to one in thousands
that he would see the gubernatorial term right
through, and he means to have every thick ’un of
that thou’.
We read that “in an action brought by
Mdlle. Louise Baldossi, a French dressmaker,
formerly in business as a Court dressmaker in
Sloane-street as Mdme. Louise, to recover
damages from Mrs. Labertouche and her three
daughters, ladies of position (formerly of Sydney)
who set up a dressmaking business in Bond-street
under the name of Victoria et Oie, judgment was
given in the Queen’s Bench for plaintiff for £ICO
for wrongful dismissal, and for £325 on a bill of
exchange.
A demonstration, successful in every way,
of Don’s patent Smoke Extinguisher and Fuel
Economiser took place on the s s. Narrabeen in
Sydney Harbour, on Saturday last, in the presence
of a large and representative gathering. This in-
vention not only completely exterminates the
smoke but converts it into fuel, minute and care-
ful tests having shown beyond question that it
will save from 10 to 30 per cent, of coal. The in-
vention hss been already patented in £9 countries,
and the rights are said to be worth hundreds of
thousands of pounds. It is not too much to say of
Mr, Don’s process that it is one of the most
marked advances in the application of steam to
machinery that has been made since the days of
Stephenson, and the clever inventor, a Sydney
artisan, will, we hope, reap a golden reward for bis
ingenuity.
The Referee.
The big bicycle meeting at Sydney on
Saturday was rather flat; the rain made the track
soft and the wheels cut ruts in it and made the
machines likely to run off at a tangent. The most
exciting finishes always terminated in favour of
the man who had inside running, and on a quarter-
mile lap the inside running is worth a lot. None
of the men riding for New South Wales at present
are up to the calibre of Bennett and Wood. Busst,
from Melbourne, won the two-mile scratch race,
after a big set-to with Fenlon, an Englishman,
who rode well. There is some talk of sending
Busst to England, but we rather think he would,
in the vernacular of the unwashed, “ get done
bad.” The professional race was, like most pro-
fessional races, a ghastly sham and a hollow
mockery. The clubs ought to leave the profes-
sionals alone if they can’t ride any batter than
they did on Saturday. The professionals tcok
longer to ride their mile than amateurs generally
do. There is talk of “bcoming” bicycling
into a gambling business by giving big prizes and
encouraging bookmakers to lay the odds, and if
men would ride straight and fairly, the thing
would draw well, because a good tycic’e race is as
exciting as a good horse race. But “ stiff ” tunning
will kill everything,
* • •
There was much dissatisfaction at last
Rosehill races, and both starter and judge
came in for some heavy tongue lashing from the
crowd. In the second Nursery Handicap the
favourite Kensington was badly left at the post,
and never had a show ; and in the Rosehill Mile
the judge declared a dead-heat between Gentaur
and Unnamed, with Retort third, whilst the
general public who were standing near the judge’s
box, to a man declared that Retort had won. The
heat was run off when Unnamed came in first, but
was disqualified for boring Centaur out of his
course.
• o *
It 1s somewhat remarkable that with
scarce an exception the progeny of the stallion
Musket that have been named after a weapon
have been good performers, while those that have
merely been given a warlike name to show their
connection with the defunct son of Toxopholite
have been of mediocre merit. In the first cate-
gory come Martini-Henry, Nordenfeldt, Manton,
Carbine, Matchlock, Petronel, Mitrailleuse, and
Maxim, whilst “amongst the middlings” are
Fusiiade, Ohainshot, Rifleshot, Ramrod, Ricochet,
Teksum, and Muskarina- The two sons of
Musket —from which great things are expected
next season—Corunna and Curassier are therefore
not luckily earned.
• t •
Sydney badly wants an Athletic Club run
on the lines of the California Athletic Club.
• » »
At the Oxford (Eng.) athletic sports re-
cently, 0. R Clark, of Christchurch (N.Z.) put
down the Britishers in the long and high jumps,
and the mile and a-half flat races.
t * •
Sprinter Samuels has recently shown a
stride which measured 9 feet. It was taken as he
finished a spin of 130 yards.
• • *
The statistics of last season in N.Z. show
Oynisca bv Apremont— Nautilus, and Corunna by
Musket—Nellie Moore, to be the crack two-year-
olds of N.Z Oynisei won eight out of nine races,
and took £1202 in stakes. Corunna started five
times and won four events, his prize-money total-
ling £829. These cracks have not yet met. After
them, in order of stakes won, come Dunkeld, by
Apremont —Athole; Scots Grey, by Musket-
Maid of Athol; Merry England, by St. George—
Rupee; and Cissy, by Musket—Frailty.
« *
The 'Friacans are lionising Jackson more
than ever. At an entertainment recently given
in his honour Peter sang several songs—though he
can’t sing as well as he can box—and his trainer,
Sam Fitzpatrick, we read, gave some clever imi-
tations of the Scotch bagpipes.
• - •
We have to acknowledge the receipt of a
handy little turf publication—Charles West-
brook’s alphabetical list of the names of 2000
racehorses. It is published at sixpence.
* • •
A dividend of £9l 16s, was paid by the
totalisator on Merlin, the winner of the Maiden
Hack Race, at the Hutt (N.Z.) meeting last week.
The boy James, who rode the winner, and won
the div., rode another winner in a hack race last
year. On that occasion his father gave him £l—
instructions to invest it as he saw fit. 1 Unk-
ing his horse had no show the boy kept the money
in his pocket and had the mortification to see £3OO
slip from his grasp, as there was not a single in-
vestment on the previous animal. This time,
however, he took care to invest his pound, with a
£91165. result. His father, a canny Scot, who
owned the winning quadruped, took charge of the
coin and rode off post haste to the township to
bank it.
* * *
George Morris, a Sydney bookmaker,
has dreamt that May Queen will win the Royal
Stakes. He says if it doesn’t come cix it will
show that his dream was only a night-mare.
. # •
The Y.R.C. hold their own meeting at
Flemington on Queen’s Birthday, a date formerly
appropriated by the niggardly Melbourne Hunt
Club. The V.R.O. programme includes five
events, which divide £lBOO addfd money among
them, so this new racing fixture is likely to be a
large success. s
Un sustained objections to Ringmaster for
each of the two races he has won in England
make it appear that the win, tie, or wrangle
school of British sportsmen is increasing and mul-
tiplying. The dooks and earls, to give them their
due, seldom raise frivolous objections to the horses
that have “ just done them ” —in faco, some of
the old-fashioned sort refuse to protest against
anything short of a deliberate fraud.


ì
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS,
GREAT «* RELIEF IN ~ RHEUMATISM.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Oo>, Ltd.,
96 Batburst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whitr
Patent Rollsb Floub. It Is the greatest snooess of the
age.
High Abt Photography.— For artistic posing
effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& UO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarlngtoa
!' By Appointment "
The Late Father Damien and the
Lepers of Molokai.
(SPECIAL CORRESPONDENOE OF THE BULLETIN.
The Hawaiian Islands have been called by many
visitors to their picturesque tropical scenes the
• Paradise of the Pacific,” and their residents
have proudly accepted the title and freely use it
by way of catching tourists. “ Naaman was cap-
tain of the host of the King of Syria, but he was
a leper.” Fair as the Kingdom of Hawaii is
beyond question, with a climate than which none
is sweeter on the globe, it gives shelter to misery
enormous in proportion to the population, incar-
nated in the victims o! leprosy.
This frightful disease was introduced among the
natives of these Islands about three score years
ago. There is some mystery surrounding the
beginning of the scourge. One account is that a
foreigner brought it in his system from China,
and, being of loose habit?, became the medium for
conveying it into many families, each of which
proved a nucleus of pestilence. Another theory is
that the outbreak was more general from a great
common cause—disease introduced by the vilest
c'ass of sailors from the time of Cook to the time
of the whalers. What makes the matter for ever,
insoluble is the gradual progress that leprosy
makes in its victim, so that he may have it for
months, and even years, before even the most
practised physician is able to detect its presetce.^
At all events leprosy—the scourge of patri-
archal time?, of Europe in the middle ages, of
the Orient and Scandinavia in modern days—in-
vaded the Hawaiian Islands. The aboriginal race
was known as the finest in physique, the mildest
in temper, the most chivalrous in war, the highest
in intelligence, of all the races inhabiting Oceanea.
It was not a cannibal race, as the most authentic
evidence proves. The hospitality of the Hawaiians
was proverbial; is still, although partly crushed
out by the abuses to which that godlike quality
has been subjected by more privileged and pre-
tentious people to whom it has been extended
with unaffected grace. In this very hospitable
nature lies part of the secret of the appalling
spread of leprosy. To their own people, as well
as to strangers, the Hawaiians offer all the
privileges of their homes. This custom afforded
intercourse free and fatal, which bore fruit from
the first even until now in the progress of con-
tamination by geometrical stages.^
Leprosy was scarcely known in Hawaii until
the inhabitants were brought to realize that it
was spreading with terrific rapidity. The natives
being fatalists did not fear it, but the Grove rn-
ment of the group has been for a long period
directed largely by foreitm intelligence. It was
soon resolved by the authorities that the only
correct policy was that of strict segregation. J?he
unclean must be separated from the clean. _
A survey of the whole group resulted m the
selection of a spot on the Island of Molokai as
the most suitable for the establishment of the
leper colony. About six thousand acres of arable
land on the northern coast of that island were
bought and devoted to that purpose. The leper
settlement there, established and opened m
January, 1866, is as nearly inaccessible as possible
from unauthorised intrusion. It is on a peninsula
at oily a sms 11 elevation above the sea, with
almost perpendicular cliffs from 2000 to 2500 feet
high guarding the rear. On the right flank, when
approaching the one comparatively safe boat-
landing, the tall precipice joins the roaring
breakers in barring admission. Over the cliffs
there is a tortuous trail, up and down which man
can painfully creep. Cattle for the meat supply
have sometimes to ba driven down this path,
almost invariably leaving one or more carcases
somewhere on the slope. This part of the settle-
rnent—there being two villages built up on the
area, with straggling inhabitants between—is
called Kalaupapa. The opposite hamlet is called
Kalawao, and is even more isolated from the
world. It has a bay of surpassing beauty, and in
fine weather one unused to the habits of the wind
would pronounce it at first sight a peerless har-
bour of refuge. Landlocked and seemingly of
great depth, it looks a desirable haven when the
weather is mild, but those who know say no ves-
sel should venture to trust its invitation to shelter.
A remarkably beautiful object is a perfectly-
shaped cone rising 50 or 60 feet above the water.
Communications are made with the settlement
chiefly by water at Kalaupapa. One of our two
inter-island steamship companies—the Wilder’s
Steamship Company—has a yearly contract with
the Government to make a round trip by steamer
bstween Honolulu and Kalaupapa every week.
The boat carries not only supplies but all the
people who are pronounced lepers by the health
authorities at Honolulu. It also affords mail con-
nection. All mail matter from the settlement is
fumigated before leaving the beach. The steamer
has to lie a safe distance off, passengers and freight
being taken to and fro in boats. An interesting
sight is the landing of cattle, which, however,
is common to similar traffic at nearly all the
beach landings in the islands. The animals are
lowered from the vessel in a sling operated by a
steam-winch. Men in boats lead two or three of
them, according to the force employed, on either
side of each beat. The cattle swim until they
strike the rocky bottom over which the surf
dashes, and then with great difficulty are made to
scramble to smooth and dry ground beyond, In a
cargo seen landed by the present writer no legs
were broken, but certainly there was all the
liability imaginable for such mishap to the brutes.
The first year that the settlement was in exist-
ence the number of lepers admitted was 141, The
number increased in 1873 to 487- During the
twelve years up to 1866 (I take these figures from an
excellent pamphlet, “Letters from the Hawaiian
Islands, by Rev, J. A. Zahm”), “the average
number of lepers actually present in the settle-
ment has rarely ever been below 700.” From the
Board of Health office, Honolulu, I have the
following statement of the infected population of
the settlement for the week ending February 19,
1889
Of these there were 17 boys and 10 girls under
ten years of age. The lepers live in cottages
ranged on both sides of the single street running
through both villages. They are not obliged to
work, but those who are able and willing do so,
the Government paying for their labour. With
the wages thus earned they are able to command
extra comforts or luxuries. The Government
furnish all with rations of good beef, bread, rice,
and poi—the last-named being the national dish
of Hawaii, made of taro. All private land rights
in the district are not yet abolished. There are
16 private kuleanas (small homesteads) remaining,
but legislation has been effected whereby the
Board of Health may acquire these whenever
deemed necessary. Numbers of kokuas (helpers)
to sick people are domiciled in the settlement
under privileges conceded to Hawaiian affection.
Marriage is not prohibited among the lepers, and
probably it would be impossible ever to get the
native portion of the body politic educatedupto the
point of consenting to that extent of restriction.
In India, where leprosy Is becoming a momentous
concern, it is said that the authorities are con-
vinced now that no degree of segregation will be
complete which does not include absolute separa-
tion of the sexes, as well as the sound from the
unsound.
Until the present Government had been some
time in power, or within the past year, there was
another leper settlement in these islands- It was
established in 1881 at a suburb called Kakaako,
on a wide coral reef close to the entrance of Hono-
lulu harbour. It was intended first only for tem-
FAC-SIMILE OF LETTER FROM FATHER DAMIEN.
porary lodgment of suspected lepers, who, if they
developed the disease strongly, were sent to
Molokai, but if cured were discharged. Owing,
however, to the natural repugnance of the
Hawaiians to being doomed to the more thorough
isolation of Molokai, it gradually came about that
the Kakaako Branch Hospital (so-called) retained
lepers to the last stage and held hundreds of them
all the time. The hospital grew until it contained
a group of about 20 buildings. These included
schools, a chapel, ccnvent of the Sisters of Charity,
and the Kapiolani Home (called after the Queen)
for the healthy children of leper parents. How
ever, as very little was being attempted in cura-
tive measures, and the presence of this lazaretto
being generally deemed an eyesore to citizms and
harmful to the city, as being the first object to
meet the eyes of incoming strangers, the Govern-
ment last year broke up this hospital. Its build-
ings have been removed to a secluded site far in
rear of the city, and the establishment will hence-
forth be used only as a receiving-station for lepers.
The seven Sisters of Charity of St. Francis, who
came here from Syracuse, New York, to minister
to the lepers in Kakaako, have removed to the
main settlement on Molokai. There they have
been provided with a comfortable dwelling-house
by the Hon. O. R. Bishop, the leading banker of
this city, whose late wife was a princess of the
Kamehameha line.
Nt Leprosy has generally been considered to be in-
curable, and the policy of the Hawaiian Govern-
ment regarding it has included little in the way of
curative measures. Dr. Arning, a German follower
of Kcch, spent some years in the Islands, en-
couraged by the Government of the day up to a
certain point, endeavouring to discover the germs
of the disease. Dr. Goto, son of an eminent
Japanese specialist in leprosy, was employed
by the Government a year or two in the
Kakaaka hospital. He used medicinal baths and
specifics for internal use, and seamed to have secured
a measure of success, for several were discharged
from his treatment as cured. He left here to
further prosecute his studies in India, intending
to return after a few years. A half-caste girl,
daughter of a German father, was lately taken by
the latter to Germany to be treated for leprosy by
Dr. Unna, of Hamburg, an eminent specialist in
skin-diseases, The father has just returned home,
reporting his daughter as cured and remaining in
Germany only to receive a musical education.
These cases would indicate that there is still some
hope for the poor leper, and the only doubt that
can be thrown upon the record of cures is in the
suggestion that perhaps the subjects were not
really lepers. It would, however, probably be as
easy to prove that the prevailing scourge was not
real leprosy as that the cases in question were
afflicted with another thing altogether. At all
events, the first duty of segregation is in its official
discharge coming nearer than ever before to a
thorough reality, and when the system ii once
working smoothly and perfectly the hands of the
Government will be freer than now to make the
leper settlement more of a hospital than a prison.
The native Hawaiians are still to a large extent
strongly against the policy of segregation. They
conceal their infected friends, scmetimes even
violently defend them against apprehension. Two
or three instances are on record during the past
year of lepers and their friends staving officers
of the law off with firearms. While I write there
is a band of lepers entrenched in a cave high up on
the side of a precipice, only a few miles from this
capital city of Honolulu, and armed with Win-
chester repeating rifles they have defied the police
for some months past.
Father Damien, the Roman Catholic priest who
devoted himself in the prime of life to the care of
the lepers on Molokai, is now himself dying of
leprosy. In reply to a request for information
regarding his life and mission, he writes me under
date of February 27th, 1889, as follows :
Kalawao, Feb, 27, 1889.
Mr. Daniel Logan.—Dear Sir,—Your favour of 25th is
on hand. lam sorry to say that my present indisposi-
tion and failing state of health makes it next to impossible
to write you any detailed outline for your intended
article—but I send you a little pamphlet, “ Lepers of
Molokai,” which I hope will give you all the desired in-
formation about me, my work, and the leper settlement.
Heavy pain in my right hand obliges me to lay down
my pen.
A kind regard to old acquaintances. Truly yours,
J. Damibn, Catholic Priest.
From the little work sent an above by the
father, the author of which is Charles Warren
Stoddard, one of the beat descriptive writers who
has visited and made copious observations upon
the country, I extract the following sketch that
will scarcely bear condensation
** Bo * n in Louvain, Belgium, January 3, 1810.
When he was but four-and-tweuty his brother
who had just entered the priesthood, was ordered
to embark for Honolulu, but at the moment fell
sick with typhoid fever. Young Damien, who
was a theological student at the University
having received minor orders, and belonging to the
same order, at once wrote to his superior, and begged
that he might be sent upon the mission in his
brother s stead. In one week he was on his way
to that far country. He was ordained upon his
arrival at Honolulu, and for a few years led the
life of toil and privation which Invariably falls to
the lot of the Catholic missionary,
“In 1873 he, in common with others of the
clergy, was invited to be present at the dedica-
tion of a beautiful chapel just completed by
Father Leonor at Wailuku on the Island of Main.
There he met the Bishop, who expressed regret
that he was still unable to send a priest to
Molokai; for the demand was far in excess of the
supply. Father Damien at once said; ‘My
Lord, I hear that a small vessel will next week
take cattle from Kawalhae to Kalaupapa ; if you
will permit me I will go there to help the lepers
make their Easter duties.’”
His request was granted, and, in company with
the Bishop and the French Consul, he landed at
the settlement, where he found a colony of 800
lepers, of whom between 400 and SCO were Oatho-
lici. A public meeting was immediately called
at which the Bishop and the Consul presided!
His Grace arose to address the singular gathering
and said, “Since you have written me so often
that you have no priest, I leave you one for a little
time ; and imparting the benediction, he re-
turned immediately to the vessel, which was to
sail that very hour. Father Damien added : “As
there is much to be done here, by your leave I
will not even accompany you to the shore.” Thus
the good work was at once begun. It was high
time; the lepers were dying at the rate of from 8
to 12 per week. The priest had not time to build
himself a hut —he had not even the material to
build it—and for a season he slept in the open air
under a tree, exposed to the wind and the rain. ’
Soon after, he received a letter of congratulation
from the white residents of Honolulu—chiefly
Protestants—together with some lumber and a
purse of 120 dollars. Then he put up his little
house and began to feel at home. After remain-
ing some weeks at Kalawao he was obliged to go
to Honolulu, there being no more convenient
priest to whom he could make his confession.
He naturally called upon the President of the
Board of Health, who seemed much surprised
but received the priest with frigid politeness. He
then asked leave to return to the settlement on
Molokai, and was curtly informed that he might
indeed return, but that in that case he mast
remain there for ever.
Father Damien explained to this gentleman how
necessary it is for one priest to see another at
reasonable intervals, in order to make his con-
fession, and asked permission to visit Lahaina on
the Island of Hani, not far from Molokai, pro-
mising to return there directly in a small boat as
soon as he had attended to his religious duties
This was denied him. He was told that he must
remain at Kalawao, and not leave it on any pre-
tence whatever. Nor would the Board permit
the priest at Lahaina to visit Father Damien at
Kalawao.
Here an eminent physician—one of the Board
of Health—pleaded his cause, insisting that per-
mission be granted the Father to go and come at
will. This is the rule in all civilised countries
said he; “the priest and the physician are ex-
empt. They have privileges which no one else
has, and which no one else should have.” The
doctor was heartily seconded by the French Oon-
eul, in whose hands the business of the mission
was deposited; and Father Damien returned to
Kalawao on a special permit.
Shortly after his return he received an official
notice that he must remain where he was • and
that on any attempt to leave the island, or ’even
to visit other portions of Molokai, he would be im-
mediately put under arrest. The notice was
sharply worded. This roused the indignation of
the priest, and he notified the Board of Health
that If they would attend strictly to their duties
he would attend strictly to his. When it became
necessary for him to visit a priest on a neighbour-
ing island, he did so, asking no leive of any man •
he also visited his scattered flock on the circuit of
Molokai, attending faithfully and fearlessly to the
wants of his people.
Often on these rounds he was the welcome guest
of a gentleman, the son of a Protestant missionary •
and on one occasion the host said to him play-
fully : “I suppose you are aware that I have
orders to place you under Immediate arrest if you
presume to leave your leper settlement V” And
this was the Sheriff of Molokai.
Six months later a permit came, granting
hather Damien leave to come and go as he
pleased; but in eleven years how seldom has he
cared to use it I
* * •
Father Damien’s duties were never-ending
From early Mass till long after his flock was
housed in sleep he was busy; and when at last he
had sought his pillow, it was too often to lie awake
planning for the future, and perhaps to ba called
again into the ward-rooms to ease the anguish of
the sick or the dying.
The neat white cottages which have taken the
place of the thatched huts of the natives were
erected under his eye; and, furthermore, he per-
sonally assisted in the construction of most of
them. The small chapel which he found at the
settlement has become the transept of the present
edifice; he, with the aid of a handful of lepers,
enlarged the building, painted it without, decor-
ated it within; and there he daily offers Mass,
preaches frequently instructs the children, and
fills all the offices of the Church.
* *
Your correspondent first met Father
Damien in the year 1886 on the occasion of a visit
paid by the Legislature of the kingdom in a body
to the leper settlement. He was then quite robust-
looking, exceedingly hearty and cheerful in man-
ne** The fell disease had, however, at that time
taken hold of him—one of the pronounced symp-
toms, viz., swelling and discolouration of the ear,
being present, It has in the three intervening
years made rapid progress in the heroic priest’s
system, and I was not prepared to hear that
the disease had made such fell progress
as his own letter, above Quoted, went to
show. Already has his self-sacrificing ex-


The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
Packed Only by
JAMES INGLIS & GO.,
i and 6 Dean’s .Place,
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Most and Chandon’s Champagns.— Messrs. Moet and
Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers In the world. Their ■
Imperial” 1831 vintage is the pure Juice ol selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres In the
choicest districts of Prance. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia, the Imperial
Crown Is in each ssrnsi «! lahsl, aid 1834 branded an
satk and labsl.
“MyTailor,” 154 King Street. Newtown, Don't forget
him. Suite to measure for £3 Bs.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers A 1 Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
4,s.page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
36-page Gist Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Muisims, Cottiges, Allotments, &o.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Daily.
All lists posted Free on application.
ample gained a successor, Father Oonrady, a
missionary priest who had been ministering to the
North American Indians, having installed hirmelt
among the unfortunate inhabitants of the settle-
ment last year—to succeed the priest who must
shortly die of leprosy I . ~ , „,,
There is no more pathetic sight among all tne
scenes of woe this earth has ever witnessed than a
view of the colony of lepers in their hopeless
banishment to death, as it were, by piecemeal I
can never forget the spectacle presented in 188 G
when they were massed in front of the dispensary,
while all who chose or were chosen to be their
spokesmen stood forward to recite their wants,
wishes or grievances to the members of the
Government or Legislature. There were no
smiling faces in that group of hundreds, and the
most sullen looking countenances were those of
the European lepers. A description of the
distortions, the mutilation of features had better
not be written. The bulk cf the afflicted people
are Hawaiians, hut there are numbs rs of Chinese
with a small proportion of Caucasians. When we
landed we were cordially greeted by an intelligent,
well dressed half-white. This was the assistant-
superintendent of the settlement, the son of a
former eminent foreign resident. Part of the
hand he extended to each visitor had been eaten
away by the disease, but the destroyer seemed to
have stopped there in his case, and I have never
heard that his respite did not prove a lasting one.
We rode through the villages and deep into a
mountain gulch to inspect a prospective source of
water supply. Many lepers accompanied us on
horseback, in some cases holding the reins with
the stump of a hand, off which the fingeis had
more or less decayed. These were Hawaiians,
and this was the nearest approach to cheer-
fulness that was teen at the settlement.
Here and there we called at a cottage,
where some visitor had an afflicted ac-
quaintance of former days—perhaps an old
family retainer or the son or daughter of such.
One aged Hawaiian shed tears of joy at sight of a
member cf the Legislature, in whose father s
family he had been a servant from his youth.
From the doors of cottages, from the wayside,
came greetings of “Aloha” (the comprehensive
word of love in Hawaiian) to ths sympathetic
strangers, whose int. usion to their dreary existence
was unfeignedly welcomed .
Most pleasing is it to see how many of the in-
habitants have made paradise out of their pris m.
Cottages covered with flowering vines, pots
yieldiag wholesome vegetables and delightful
bloom and fragrance, are the rule on either side
of the road. With reference to the water supply
mentioned above, the Government has within a
year constructed a system of water-pipes from an
unfailing source in the mountains, by which the
lepers have an abundant supply of as pure water
as Nature yields.
Lately great interest has beenarousedin England
regarding Father Damien and his greatest of all
sacrifices, and large amounts of money have been
contributed as at once a recognition and an aid to
his work. This is encouraging to those who
believe in the ultimate establishment of man s true
brotherhood in the world. From the reply of
Father Damim to my inquiry on behalf of
your paper, I judge that he considers his race
as run, his warfare accomplished, and that no
appeal to the benevolence of the outside world
will evermore be made by him. This need not,
however, shut up the avenues of practical Christian
sympathy for these afflicted people for money could
be made a means of real mercy. The lepers, how-
ever, are not wanting in ths necessaries or com-
forts of life When funds are ever raised among
residents of the islands for the settlement, it is
for brightening the public holidays of the mhabi-
t&nts —such as Christinas, New Year s Day, the
King’s Birthday, etc. There are within the
tabued bounds not only leper children but unin-
fected children of lepers, whose oheer.ess youth it
may well be the province of sweet chanty to en-
liven, Daniel Logan.
Honolulu, March IG, 1889.
A recent visitor describes Wellington
(N.Z ) as “a howling Sheol with the heat ab-
stracted.”
Perth [(W.A.) abounds In auction- marts.
Every man who fails to knock the Government
for a billet purchases a hammer and becomes an
auctioneer.
Modern Society, the moat widely-circu-
lated London weekly, says: “The Sydney
Bulletin is the smartest and most sincere of
colonial papers.”
The Evenoose prints a telegram from
Wollongong stating that “the various hymns
sung by the pupils n fleeted credit on the pro-
moters.” Poor Old Evenoose !
Considering how the British sailor ia going
to seed, it is generally believed in nautical circles
that the steam-ark in which mankind will escape
the next deluge will have to be manned by China-
men.
“ Tiger Inglls ” Is announced to deliver a
lecture at Summer hill, on “ Nihilism : What is
it ’ ” The Bulletin, in answer, would say that
Nihilism is depriving shivering children of school
fires in mid winter.
“OsbornGuasyplutn Hinbsst” is the whole
name of a recently captured burglar in London.
It is generally understood that the owner of it
took to burgling in order to escape from the
maddening contemplation of his own appalling
designation.
Advertisers should not lose eight of the
fact that The Bulletin is the most widely circu-
lated journal in Australasia. It is sent weekly to
upwards of 1000 towns and villages in Australia,
New Zealand, Tasmania, and the Pacific Islands,
and is the only Australian paper which circulates
largely in England.
Mr. Hamilton, 48 Wynyard square, Syd-
ney, has shown us specimens of ohipwood-oarviog,
now very fashionable in E a gland, it is beautiful
work and especially suited to ladies as it only
requires patience and neatness of hand. Mr.
Hamilton is anxious to form classes, and will call
and explain on address being sent to him,
About 20 Maori chiefs of the Wellington
district presented Governor Onslow with an ad-
dress in which they conveyed the assurance that
they continue faithfully to discharge the sacred
trust reposed in them by their ancestors, which
trust was, and is, to shield and protect the Euro-
pean people. Under these circumstances, what a
pity the N. Z. Government went to the expense of
erecting fortifications !
POLITICAL POINTS
The fossil man f ound at Orange, N.S.W,,
should be at once called to the Legislative Council.
Governor Ouslow, of N.Z., says that Im-
port Federation is the “Homs Rule” question
of the future.
Nothing la to be done in the case of John
Davies. John has teeth and can bite, and that’s
what is the matter.
It Is now pretty evident that the N.S.W.
Foreign Trade party are conspirine to get rid of
Parkes and take in Jack Want as Premier.
Did Cardinal Moran make that journey
to Hobart in order to avoid being present at the
reception given to Dillon and his comrades !
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly has
affirmed the principle of payment of members.
“ Heaven helps those who help themselves.
Abigail “ wishes N.S.W. could ba Inocu-
lated with some of the go aheadism of Victoria.”
The affronted Abigail is on the political rail.
On the Dlllon-Eimonde-Deasy committee
at Newcastle are Messrs. William Grahame and
“Joey” Oreer, Ms.L.A., two of the hottest
Orangemen in N.B. Wales.
German hon-mot. They are selling medals
at Berlin with the image of the present Emperor
aid his father and grand father behind him.
“Two dead lions and a live dog.”
Judging from the results of the by-eleotlons
since last British general election, the Gladstonian
Liberals should, when next the poll is appealed
to, have a majority of 40 in the House of Commons.
“ You all know my opinion about the
honourable member. If I had a menagerie I
would not trust him in charge of it for fear bed
steal the tiger.”— Gem of MS. TV* Parliamentary
oratory. . , „ ,
Hera is a summary of the witnesses called
by the Times in the Parnell Commission : -Irish
police inspectors, 10; Irish constables, 98; in-
formers and convicts, 18; experts in hand-
writing, 5.
In France, with a population of 37,000,000
and a total area of 153,000,000 acres of land, there
are 125 000 acres under cultivation. The number
of farms is 5 072,000, with an average of 33 17
acres each. In all France there are only 142,000
farms exceeding 100 acres in area.
A certain member of the N.S.W. Assembly
may fairly claim to have lived an exciting career.
He once returned thanks for being at the top of
the poll when his financial prospects were repre-
sented by no fewer than 37 Supreme Court writs
from pressing creditors, The nexb day he sue*
oeeded, without) the loss o! a sixpence, in quelling
the demands of the galaxy of plaintiffs by floating
a big land company.
A meeting has bean called In Sydney of
“ those interested in the integrity of the Empire.”
The Bulletin quite believes that it would be
much better for the Empire if it were possessed of
more integrity and didn’t constantly send people
round to plunder the poor niggers.
Dr. Garran, M.L.O. of N.S.W., ex-edltor
of the SM. Herald, is looked upon by the
Chinese in C oina as the wisest man in Australia.
His speeches are frequently translated and pub-
lished in the Chinese newspapers. Parkes and
Melville are looked upon as barbarians.
A member of the Queensland Parliament
objeots to subsidising a mail conveyance between
his colony and England. He says he has been 35
years in Australia during the whole of which time
he never received a single letter from across the
seas. Therefore, he argues, the conveyance is no
good.
A cabinet-maker, an experienced and com-
petent workman, applied for work at a large
Sydney furniture establishment lately, and on
union rates of wages being mentioned was told by
the employer that plenty of men can be got at 3s.
per day. That is what Chinese competition has
brought the furniture trade to.
Jack Gardiner, M.L A , ex-footballer and
Victorian Government whip, has been badly
blackballed by the A.N.A. on putting up for
election as a member of the Carlton branch.
This is surely the ghastliest insult ever slung at a
senator who draws £6OO for his political services.
Rejected by the mutual admiration society of
Natives!
John Haynes’ latest bull la : “ I’d much
like to see the Premier who’d dare to make room
in a Cabinet for anyone to whom the finger of the
public voice did not point.” This is the first time
we have heard about a voice’s finger. We don t
think that even John Haynes’ voice has a linger,
though, as John often opens his mouth only to
put his foot therein, his voice may possibly have
a toe or two.
Melbourne Age says, in a recent issue,
that “thoughtful men will recognise that the
security of acquired property is the indispensable
stimulus to enterprise and progress. Acquired
property,” it maybe briefly explained, is anything
you have got or anything you can get, no matter
how you may get it, The Arkansas planters
nigger was acquired property, and when he be-
came insecure there was an upheaval which made
enterprise and progress feel very bad for quite a
long while.
Isaac Sawyer, lately sentenced to a month’s
imprisonment under the N.S.W. code, for having
his own watch in his possession, the same being
“reasonably supposed to be stolen” by a set of
policemen who had no evidence and who failed to
show that they were mentally qualified to suppose
anything, has been liberated. Nothing is said
about compensation for the injury done him, and
the “justices” who sent him to gaol are still
authorised to administer such law as is served out
to obscure citizens in N.S.W.
At the funeral of the wife of a saloon-
keeper in Brooklyn the undertaker had just
ordered the cortege to start for the cemetery,
when a stranger walked up and said : -*-“ ia
funeral can’t go on; I’m a walking delegate for
the Haokdrivers’ Union, and you’ve got a scab
driver in the line; he’s got to stand out before
this funeral moves on.” On hearing this 40 out of
the 41 drivers present threw down their reins and
declined to stir. Protests were of no avail, and
finally the undertaker paid the “scab” two days
pay, mounted the box himself, and the procession
passed on.
The Melbourne press has taken up a de-
cidedly hostile attitude towards the efforts of the
Irish people to obtain autonomy. It officiously
demands an account of the expenditure of the
moneys contributed almost exclusively by Irish-
men, in a purely Irish cause, large sums of which
must of necessity have been expended in a way as
to which it would be impolitic to enlighten their
enemies, There is little doubt that large sums
have also been expended by the British Govern-
ment under the head of secret service money in
carrying on the contest with the liberationists of
Ireland, and of which they refuse to give any
account to the Legislature. They are even
charged with having expended large sums in the
recent outrageous attempt to destroy the character
of the Irish leader, and, through him, to discredit
the Irish cause.
The British navy now includes 192 ships
of all sorts and sizes including cripples and hulks
aud other relics of the past. It also supports 108
admirals on the “ active list,” which is about two-
thirds of an admiral to each ship. Some of them
have the gout very badly, and others are rheumatic,
and several of them are imbecile through being
upwards of a hundred years of age or so, but they
are on the active list all the same. Further, there
are about a hundred retired admirals, and more
commodores than the world could shake a stick
at, and several thousand captains, active, passive,
retired, full-pay, half-pay, old, young, blind, deaf,
dumb, paralysed, and otherwise. Whenever
there ia a new war-scare Britain builds an extra
mud-punt or two and appoints 109 new admirals,
commodores, and captains, and if there are two
war-scares she appoints 320 new admirals, &c ,
and overawes the world.
The recent N.S.W. Government seed-
wheat distribution racket has brought forth as
fine a crop of champion mean men as any land
could hold. Although the limit was fixed at 30
bushels, some farmers in Bathurst district went
so far as to apply for an average of ICO bushels,
and one ultra prudent party put in a modest
claim for 400 bushels. The prize winner, however,
turned up in a level headed clod-crusher who
applied for 3CO bushels, and who proved to be a
single man with a bank credit of £5OO and the
owner of 10 horses worth £3O each. Even this,
however, didn’t get far ahead of a Goulburn man,
who having received bis portion of the Government
dole, coolly carted it round to the nearest mill and
had it ground and turned into cash at once. Talk
about pauperising such fellows as these ; why you
could catch the whole of their ixnmortable souls
by baiting a rat-trap with (id.
The British House cf Commons has de-
cided by a Tory majority of 50 votes that it won’t
disestablish the English Church in Wales. The
Church, in the land where the remnant of the
ancient Britons still anathematise the British
crown, consists of sundry bishops who can’t speak
a word of Welsh, a number of parsons, most of
whom are also ignorant of the language of the
country, and a number of empty churches with
about five adherents apiece who don’t attend
service The parsonical salary is collected by the
police after a stand-up fight with every resident
in the parish, and when the police get licked the
reverend gentleman has no salary at all. About
once a year or so half the country is sold up by
distraint to recover the means of grace from a
nation which would gladly kick the whole English
Church into Gehenna, and every now and then
there is a riot and a small insurrection, and the
Griffiths and the Llewellyns turn out with clubs
and hoes to ask why they should be heavily taxed
to support a church which they don’t want.
Thus is the Gospel brought to the door of the
humblest of the Cymty, and the banner of
Terewth is hoisted on Snowden and Piinlimmon
with a bailiff and an expensive policeman to hold
it up.
A Melbourne Hekald bard describes his
best girl as “ a poem.” This conclusion must be
founded on her quantity of feet.
A Melbourne man has invented a new
process of making butter. The cow has long been
out of circulation in Melbourne.
It has transpired that the raid on the
London Baccarat Club was made at the instiga-
tion of Lady Dudley, who found that her son, the
young earl, was being fleeced there.
Sharks are now so plentiful in Sydney
Harbour that a sailor’s boots thrown overboard
will bring a dozen cf the man-worriers to the sur-
face to inquire what time the sailor himself ex-
pects to tumble in.
The proprietress of a highly respectable
N.S.W. up-country hotel has been fined £5 for
selling liquor after hours, the evidence being that
the informing constable heard through a closed
door the drinks being ordered.
The Melbourne Secular Society has at
length secured a hall of its own. It is situated in
Victoria Parade and is a plain but commodious
structure without a steeple. “There,” a local
paper savagely remarks. “Symeswill preach the
Gospel according to the devil.” It is well to have
both sides of the question.
Says Canon Wllbarforce : “At the next
general elections in England, Ireland’s demand
for Home Rale will be conceded by the immense
majority of the English people” [it has already
baen conceded by an immense majority of the
Scotch and Welsh] "in the name of Freedom,
Justice, and the Fear of God.”
General Booth says he once saw a reporter
with a tear in his eye at a Salvation meeting, and
on another occasion he believes he caught a
glimpse of a repentant newspaper man putting a
shilling in the collection-box. The military saint
evidently hasn’t sized up the Aryan pressman.
There have been saved priz3-fighters and contrite
bank-managers, and even the sausage-maker has
found grace at times, but the redeemed journalist
is a stranger in the land.
"Suppose"
\ was a barber once converted,
From Satan’s camp he had deserted —
$, And oft thereafter tried to save
|| Their soais who came to get a shave.
H One day a stranger to his place
Entered with bristly chin and face,
A stubbly beard grown rank and bold,
His urgent errand quickly told !
“ You were to die right off just now
This very moment “How, sir ! how?
Hands off-you villain—there, take that!
The stranger cried, and knocked him flat.
The artist placed him in a chair
And round him cast a garment fair,
Then lathered well his face with soap
And for his soul began to hope !
And while he raised the shining blade
To reap the harvest of his trade
Ha seized the stranger by the nose
And solemn said, “My friend, suppose
He dealt the barber such a crack,
It laid him senseless on his back ;
He thought him doubly mad, of course,
And stiusk with all his might and force.
The cure was thorough—from that day
The barbar clipped and shaved away,
Stuck to his razor, shears, and soap,
And left men’s souls to priest and pope!
Wellington, N.Z.
ALEXANDER STUART.


Y OUNG AUSTRALIA: “You may rely on me, Pat. I know what a good thing Home Rule is."


rc /r
/p a9 i *//- rr/»Ji~ yf^Mu i
78 /'V
Seif ecs o.
}y ey 6ocC/y *pf
a/S /fict-f/s
" P? "
4^
/rL t , Y our
frrsr a /***•
/A Softer yoj-a./}
/iccf e a ? <5/e> '-
V
fc, 7. /i-
-w tp-
Z?yr~?
0 To
rfccf- a/Ar /yc'r-r.a.j*
7-- dtpe C 'fsr-ft'Y °-
/< 7~e~7?y J~c<rc. 7Z~ li V >ec ' <^y.
fiarpf- apa ./><*■•?*' oct/ ~
y, a. }<■
CO*?/- y“J
p.oJy * '-*• s '' /s - , ? cC
1 r S^rau.ti 9Sn
,i “4"
/** t* s k!
/,(c >' . ~
«*. r*
S *'■? <j;
r\ s ar ‘ I
X Toj
vr^- y
>r:*r^’
~ rsut
CcujTjot j6t> JaetfacJiy faWjt wrfocc ft
(/uetjfJ<*yiYy p uor> ~ <^.
11 yf jr?//} /po>~e- e-f7epcCe-*C
I C-C&coa./n/&ncie~ A/y7<i
/ mcut* ston%** c °v£^ :
fas'Se- rens'op f./ r ,
Ae 7)o U ”/* ”? y* s P**/r*‘ r '
««
fiiacf/LS*.
Out cjyre fay
/?* faofa door Arey o y
'*- h^\Y
/
jo TfoYafety ol '
eon?*.
-* r/ ?$
'afte.'jS Tfye. cLoot-
ybarSof/Q fly
fi i°*
q <li« r o If <9
sn r
/ o
Qr./p-ftcCOj //" / &CL. <*■
/ / fat u/Stroje.** ft Jyote.
ffj our Ocop j/oc*S & '
(urf /> J o fy 0 ' v
"/JhU ?c>ofr he-re,! Jf
' ooa.nf-+<> J
itt s ° u i
ya.r-cC /'/fre.i'e.'S / „
Sk-'?* oa-t o/ °
pr oFcn^-
I N TH tSUyj
4ND GFT
A
iM ire
'7 , _
/.'jt'.sZ? 6iSi?/cC Cc. vW.
v r y&6c/~ -Z'opq vT <?/ /fit'*- *■?*</**s'?s
, yc'a.7£~ Jjfe- /?o>~7&?o ef S?Sy/uy
i T snirn
\A t REST
LftST
'3 y*- 1 ? <*'*-5, /' 6 /^ 7a " 1
/Vj- /ecco cCo*S yore, h/outy.
f/jty 7o JpccAr-e. yeirc-f-
-f/,ar> aJ? /// ose.r
s
J/?e cCoc.sJ t fta/-y
/pt Sa/ya- cy/Sp
Isyy cCe.ct.t- Soy-/p-/a.u)
<Z/-e. fiec /•*■&/- ,
AT „
"jr TcC o s *y> '/y° 40 a *
"bacu/ of y>'”C "ff you. etc, - ILL
W/iUA/r yj£ Y/'* —' ££±A
"Isms that haunt us"-Mother-in-law-ism.


QRESOENT BREWING OO.’S
“AURORA ”
PILBB3NHR 881
F. P. WHEELER & 00.,
866 Clarbnoh Strut,
SYDNEY.
COLONIAL ■»■*«»■*■ BiSK,
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Arcade )
Deposits received and interest allowed as follows :
8 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
G Months ~. ... ... 8 per cent.
3 Months ... ... ... G per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
IV.H. PALING & Co., Ltd., George Street, Sydney,
HAVE just opened a magnificent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEINWAY, ERARD, UEBEL, FENRIOH, LIPP, RONISOH, BLUTHBER
OOLLARD and otbevi ; also of the wonderful YIOTOB planoe at £45, and ESTEY ORGANSr No such variety or value elsewhere yob cash or terms,
Society
Pathos Is the strong point of the Aus-
tralian bush pressman. Whenever a solemn occa-
sion arises he clothes himself in misfit pathes and
raises his gruesome wail of ungrammatical sym-
pathy, and on his tearful page there linger memo-
ries o! funerals and grief, and faint reminiscences
of a smudged “ Dead March in Saul ” that a dog
has been sitting on in a muddy spot. Every
remote newspaper office has an unkempt man on
the premises who does the soulful and pathetic
business when wanted, and whenever a local sub-
scriber dies the injured groan of this person fills
the listening air and spreads over half a column.
Sometimes he begins this way
The waning of the moon saw also the gradual fading
away of a resident of this district, whose grey hairs were
in the sere and yellow leaf.
This means, of course, that the old town drunk
has gone under and will get tight and break the
public-house slush-lamp and bang foot-policeman
Biggs no more ; and that his bleary smile and his
exploded boots and his dynamited hat have shone
for the last time over the spikes of the local police-
court. But it sounds pathetic all the same, and
has a mournful cadence in it as if a great man had
passed away. Again, on other occasions, the
Hlolian harp strikes this plaintive note —price
twopence :
LssS week the angel of death oame with his message to
Hollow Log, and a fair young life drifted away into eter-
nity, leaving a void whioh will never again be filled.
Her name was Sarah. She was sft. llin, high,
and never wore stcckings except on Sundays, and
her customary occupation on earth was connected
with the post-and-rail industry in the old man’s
farm. She hardly ever opened her mouth except
to Insert food in it, and then she generally forgot
to close it until two hours afterwards. Her death
was caused by her treading on a snake, and the
last words she used on earth were : “ O lawk I ”
But the hired mourner breathes forth bisgrhf
and gin with a louder sniff when he gets on a topic
like this :
Yesterday the wedding-bells rang out a joyous peal to
inform the district that the union of two loving hesrls bad
been cansummated, and that two joyous had teen
linked together in life-long harmony, &0., &o.
It is only Jonah Thompson, who inherited the
public-house at the corner from old Thompson, his
parent, and who lately screwed up courage to
smile a great wide smile, and ask his Mary Jane
how it would do if they were to get ’itched. But
it sounds better when the country pressman has
cast the glamour of his inventive genius over the
incident, and, besides, that is what the country
pressman was built for, and he has got to cast a
glamour or lose most of his subscribers. x His
great mission in life is to shed a halo over the
large-footed daughters of the land, and to
throw a radiance upon the agricultural show, and
to construct a subdued poetic mournfulness on
the lonely, cheap sarcophagus of the local dead-
beat ; and in addition to this he is required to oast
a reflection of international importance upon the
impounded cow of Brown and the lost white horse
of Fergnson’s widow, and to show that the ac-
cumulated wisdom of Solomon and Moses is in-
volved in the matter of a brown heifer branded
U upside down on the left eye. He is joyful at
times, but pathos is his strongest point, and on
top of his inverted soap-box he writes in a mourn-
ful strain about the calamity in the next street
until that incident swells to abnormal proportions
and looks larger than the fall of Jerusalem, He
makes 30j. a week on an average by this employ-
ment and it takes him six months to collect it, and
he has to drink out his solitary advertisement at
the adjacent hotel,
• * •
At N.S.W. Government House receptions
tea is handed round by the footmen, but as there
is always a big crush whenever anything eatable
or drinkable is circulating it often happens that
the Government House young men relieve the
pampered menials of a little work by taking cups
of tea and so on to ladies to whom they wish to
make themselves particularly agreeable. The
other day a gentleman was thus engaged fn play-
ing amateur-footman in a small way, when one of
the fat women who in public life agitate the
handle of the shandygaff-engine, and who in private
wear gold cables and lash steel-springs and
cordage over their ribs to such an extent that a
man with a 38-inch arm could manage to com-
pletely encircle their waists —as we were going to
say, one of these fat ladies seeing (as she thought) a
waiter, strolling along in a leisurely way to a more
favoured guest, gripped his coat-tails and wheezed
out : “ Now, look ’ere, fetch me some tea ! I’ve
waited long enough.” The man with the coat-
tails smiled blandly and brought the tea He
was no less a personage than the Hon. Rupert
Citing ton, full brother to the Baron, and this is
one of the crosses he has to bear in this beastly
country.
* • *
Isn’t this playing lb rather low down oa
the lowest-tender and free competition system?
An advertiser says : “ Horse-clipper wanted, to
clip one horse. State price to ——, &o.” We ex-
pect shortly to see something like this: “Gent,
wants hairdresser to shave him for one morning
only. State price to Duncan M'Tavlsh, G.P.0.”
• *
The Secretary of the Melbourne Y.M.O.A.
boasts that his society, which has £3O 000 in hand
and is about to erect a £6O 000 building, have
secured the site of the local Polytechnic Theatre
“ which during late years had been the scene of
tin vulgarest and most unprofitable recreation.
They had, in fact, displaced the secular associa-
tion.” Yes, by sheer force of money, not by argu-
ment or Christian feeling. A rich and holy
syndicate has burst up a crowd as poor as church-
mice, and there is nothing to blow about in that
victory, so far as the Kingdom of Heaven is con-
cerned. What say you, gentle public!
# * *
Queen Victoria always carries her own
bedstead and bedding with her when she travels
abroad, ard has them set up in her room
whereever she stops at night. This is not
eccentricity, but common sense Since the Pre-
eminent -in ■ Grief began to grow corpulent
she has found it very distressing to kneel down
and make wild swoops with her sceptre for the
AN BABY ALTERNATIVE.
SYDNEY GIRL (to station hand who is killing a sheep); “"Oh you cruel man ! See
how the poor thing struggles ! Oh 1 look at it bleeding-Oh dear, oh
dear!”
STATION HAND (blandly): "Well, Miss, you can eat him alive if you prefers it,
you know.”
suppositious “man under the bed ” who is the
bugbear of all single ladies. Seeing her royal
nest constructed under her royal eyes, she can
now hang her crown on the upper starboard bed-
post and then retire with perfect dignity and
without the slightest fear.
The superintendent of Wagga Hospital in
discharging a servant gave her a “character”
in which he s bated that she was a good working
girl “ when it suited her.” She appealed to the
committee to alter the text but they wouldn’t.
» • •
Yon cannot prevent a police-magistrate or
any other man from getting drunk every night,
but you surely should be able to prevent him from
ascending the bench drunk in the morning and in-
flicting outrageous sentences upon venial offenders
at the mere behest of a set of glib tongued police-
men who want close watching. This affair is not a
grievance of to day, it is a matter of very long
standing—like many other N.S.W. grievances in
connection with the administration of “ justice.”
• * •
There was a loud and unseemly racket in
a Sydney tram oar the other day over a bag.
When the tram stopped a lady and a commercial
traveller clutched the bag simultaneously and
neither wou’d let go. The lady said it was hers,
and the bagman said it wasn’t. Then the lady
said that she believed he was a low character and
the bagman said “Oh 1” Further, the lady said
that it was a pity a female couldn’t go out by her-
self without being insulted and robbed by under-
hand ruffians and degraded fat men, and a crowd
began to gather and a policeman asked what it
was all about. The feminine passenger demanded
that he should club the bagman and run him in,
and both parties said the other was drunk. The
policeman leaned heavily np against the oar and
started to think for three-quarters of an hour.
At the end of that time a bright idea struck him,
and he suggested that the receptacle should be
opened, in the hope that the contents might eerve
as a clue, but the lady declined to have her ptr-
sonal wearing apparel exposed to the scoffing eye
of the general public, and the scheme accordingly
fell through for an hour-and-a half. At the end
of that time the policeman grew tired of thinking,
and then the commercial traveller found a key and
the bag was opened. It contained a bottle of
brandy, a pick cf cards, about a pound of tobacco,
an old olajr pipe and three odd socks, and when
the bagman gave in and said it really belonged to
the lady after all a female figure swooned heavily
in the gutter.
• • •
Two stranded speculators who had tried to
commit suicide and failed were brought up the
other day before the Criminal Court at Broken
Hill and ordered to find two reliable cash ;ecurities
that they wouldn’t do it again. If they commit
suicide after this precaution, therefore, they will
die and go to —well, wherever the place may be—
just the same, and the pair of kindly Samaritans
who went bail for them in order to keep them out
of gaol will have to pay up. The idea of requiring
a man to find another man ready to make a bet
with the Government that the first man won’t kill
himself is wonderfully English, and as the
Government doesn’t bat anything in return it i i
an awfully one-sided transaction in every respect.
But there is a hazy idea afbat in the judicial
mind that though a man wants ever so badly to
blow his roof off he will refrain because another
person has undertaken, in a manner of speaking,
to shake the State for drinks that he won’t do it,
the State not to pay for the drinks if it loses,
which transaction is about as useful all round as
a set of false teeth to a hen. It is very hard, how-
ever, to find a rational mode of curing a would-be
suicide. Perhaps the best idea would be to ask
him what in thunder he wanted to do it for and
thus ascertain what is the matter with him. Then,
if the trouble is curable, something might be done
to make him feel as if he would just as soon go on
living after all; audit it is incurable he o:uld be
furnished with a square meal and a certificate
setting forth that he is authorised to blow himsel f
up at any time.
• * *
The other day la one cf the Australia a
Supreme Court Judge declined to hear a case on
the ground that a relative of his, a nephew, or
cousin, or something, had an interest in it. His
Honor then immediately proceeded to hear a case
in which his son-in-law (who has just about half
the practice in his court) appeared as counsel. It
takes a well trained legal mind to understand
nice little distinctions of this kind.
* * *
Down in Victoria a policeman lately found
a dead Chinaman blocking a public thoroughfare,
and not knowing what to do he hauled the re-
mains into the Joss-house awaiting further in-
structions. It was quite an innocent act on his
part, but it has raised Cain among the local idola-
ters, and they want to know the reason of this
profanation. Even Buddha, sitting cross legged
on his lotus leaf and only waking from his dream
once in a hundred thousand years or so to flick a
fly from off his listening organ, is understood to
be raising a dust on top of his vegetable; and all
the dead Chinese saints with names like crippled
pots and pans are cursing in the rioefields of the
Chow’s Forevermore. The length and breadth
and depth of the ignominy heaped upon Joss is
too great for utterance, but as some slight mitiga-
tion of the insult the wooden god is being re-
painted and having a fresh eye pub in his head,
and iti is hoped that when these repairs have been
duly executed he will feel better. Offerings are
also laid before him daily, and the tom-tom is
banged In the sanctuary, and the true believers
are mostly engaged in turning somersaults and
blowing cff crackers, and by these and other
means it is hoped that a great catastrophe may
yet be averted.
* * *
A brawny old lady atChbuhilla (Q.) is In
trouble through prodding her daughter with a
dinner-knife. The young lady had boiled the
potatoes with the skins on, whereas her parent
wanted them in the undressed state, and after a
few riotous observations the aged female out a
large slice off her offspring.
* * *
Phil. Robinson summarily remarks that the
leading characteristic of Tasmanians is “lazi-
ness.” The Tasmanians certainly are a lazy
people from the standpoint of the man who thinks
that the main object of life is to meet a bill and
worry yourself to death. Everybody in Tasmania
is quite content to live on raspberry-jam and
barraoouta and clotted cream, and to go to bed
bif ore 9 o’clock ; and everybody in business in the
capital city, no matter how comparatively exciting
his business may be, has always plenty of time to
have a yarn with the stranger who drops into his
office for a couple of hours before lunch, and after
lunch he always has time to drive that stranger a
few miles along the Huon road, and next day he
hss time to take him up to the top of Mount
Wellington and back, and when they get down
again he invites the stranger to tea, and all the
family, including the girls, tell their guest to be
quite sure and come and see them when he next
visits Tasmania. The peaceful atmosphere of the
Island of Sleep conduces to scientific pursuits, and
nearly everybody in Tasmania who has not hope-
lessly given up his body and soul to Cascade ale
has a mania for bottling snakes and sticking pins
through files and other insects, and there are
more than 165 men in Hobart alone who can
write you a sound essay on the nerveoentres of
the hoploeephalus superhus and analyse the civili-
sation o! the cave-men Lazy ! Not lazy, only
sleepy at 5.30 p m. nightly.
* * •
A joyous wedding party at Haverford-
west (Eng ) lately struck a new idea in marriage
celebrations, and left behind them a considerable
bill for repairs in consequence. A blushing thing
with bedpost extremities had just contracted a
union with a noble youth in the coachbuilding
trade, and their friends honoured the occasion by
letting off six dynamite cartridges in the princi-
pal street of the tired little settlement. It wa
probably the first time they had fooled with dyna-
mite, and when they saw tte whole street rise up
iu fragments they were surprised—a little. A
passing horse gave a sort of sneezs and then scat-
tered its head in fragments all around the place.
The four wheels and the sides and the top and
most cf the varnish were b’aated off the wedding-
chariot, and the dinner was blown off the table in
an adjacent hotel. About 97 windows were
smashed into small dust, and the inhabitants suf-
fered a good deal through having the glass driven
into their systems, and ever since the disaster
Haverfordwest has been uibject to nervous
debility, giddiners, floating sp:cks before the eye.
St 1 , Vitus dance, locomotor ataxy, and other symp
toms akin to the above. The bill amounts to
more than the whole wedding party will be able
to pay in a hundred years, and the bride has suf-
fered so severely from fright and anxiety that her
sturdy kn°es have given way under her and let
her down in a heap about three times a day ever
since.
* * •
In one of fche Australlaa recently It waa
necessary for a young woman to be medically ex-
amined for the purposes of a certain law-case.
She did not go to the doctor, but sent her sister,
who was marvellously like her. The examination
had in the sister’s case a result which it possibly
would not have had in the case of the sister who
was not the subject of the doctor’s examination.
On the day of the trial the girl really concerned
went into the witness-box attired exactly as her
sister had been when she visited the doctor —who
swore to her off hand as being the person he had
examined. After this doctors, when they examine
women, ought to ear-mark them.
- • •
Oa the tapis— Brassela. N.B.—This is a
Melbourne goke.
* •
Dj ybu want to be very 111 ? If you do
read the subjoined—clipped from Sydney Mail—
if you don’t, then skip it :
Mr. Bardekin, for Sir Patrick and himself, deprecated
any idea that they had deserved the honour conferred ;
they were both fully sensible cf the honour conferred
upon them by their election to their offices, and had
earnestly tried to fulfil their duties, and were fully re-
warded if their efforts had met the approval of the society,
and had contributed to the spread of music. He fully
recognised the value of music as an elevating educational
influence, and hoped to see it as widely cultivated in
Australia as in Europe. The badge would be deeply
treasured by him, and if aught could increase its value it
would be the fact that he had received the lyre from “ the
hands of our beloved Governor, the worthy representative
of our noble Queen." The applause which rose spon-
taneously from three thousand voices and pairs of hands
may be imagined.
* a •
A detached female waa charged at Port
Melbourne police court, the other day, with
having feloniously entered the home of her
divorced husband and attacked everything with
an axe, She “ busied” up all the furniture and
bric-a-brac, chopped holes in the roof, scalded the
oat, and chased the dog with a brick. When
asked in court what she had to say for herself
she mopped up her tears, stifled her sobs, and re-
marked with great bitterness: “Why didn’t he
get an elderly person for a housekeeper ? ” Alas !
poor woman nature.


THE SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 Kino Street,
Agencies In London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of Interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
-8 years 9$ Per cent.
12 months 8* per cent.
6 months 74 P« cent.
3 months 54 per cent.
For the past three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
eV
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manager.
STAND AND DELIVER,
It matters not much if a man is a knave,
A hypccrite sleek who has swindled and forged,
Since his carcase from prison he’s certain to save
If the plunder is only with caution disgorged.
Melbourne Daily Telegraph The
native Samoans are a well-developed race phy-
sically, tut their chief industry consists of intes-
tine wars.” That’s about correct, for their chief
diet is oocoanuts. We have eaten them late at
night ourselves.
For Overworked Brains
USB hobsford's acid phosphate,.
Dr. Ed. T. Johnson, M.R O.S , 121 Rice-lane, Walton,
Liverpool, Eng. says: “I have used it with very good
results in oases of overtaxed and overworked brains, one
in particular, a schoolmaster, where it acted like a chaim."
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
WWW rr A UT.E -TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OP THE
prtStttmS PAID RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS, m Branohei to all the Oownim and in the Unitbd Kingdom.
The N.S.W. Pedestrian Boom.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Neither in the Greek nor the Litln can we
glean whetler there were aty “even-timers”
among the professional pedestrians of the day, or
whether “cronk” or “stiff” runners were then
prevalent, but wa have reason to assume that
obese latter are the product of our modern civilisa-
tion. la fact, the professional pedestrian is of
omparatively recent growth. In England men
have from time immemorial been known to occa-
sionally run for wagers just as was the case in
Au’tralia piior to the arrival of Hewitt, Bird, and
Topley, but those who “lived and travelled ex-
clusively on the gsme ” were unknown before the
last generation. The pugilist was the only athlete
at the beginning of the present century who re-
ceived extensive public support. With the
gradual decline of the prize-ring, how ever, other
forms of sport became better patronised, and it is
on this account that the turf assumed its present
position and that professional pedestrianism
sprang into existence. Tae real father of
the latter institution was one George Mar-
tin, who flourished about twenty five years
ago. Martin secretly employed all the best
runners of the day and travelled through England,
Ireland, and Scotland giving exhibitions for gate-
money and arranging bogus matches between his
proteges by means of which the public were
swindled for his own benefit. Martin, however,
became insane, his private affairs were exposed,and
the public, finding how they had been gulled, got
disgusted with the particular form of the game
with which he was associated. Martin’s “troop
of talking horses,” as the peds were called, com-
peted at distances varying from one to ten miles—
never less than half a mile—and the fact that
their records still stand this age of athleticism and
go.d tracks speaks much for their speed and
stamina. In their anger and disgust at Martin’s
doings the British public abandoned distance run-
ning and gave their support to shorter races
termed “ sprints.” This latter word is derived
from an ancient one in the Yorkshire dialect,
“springal” signifying a fleet youth. Short dis-
tance races had long been popular in the neigh-
bourhood of Sheffield, so it is not eurpnsing that
the hardware town became the headquarters of
the new order of pedestrianism, and though the
sport has become popular in America and the
United Kingdom, and running grounds are
numerous, yet it is the ambition of every ped. to
win a Shtffield handicap; and if he possess the
requisite speed he is sure to gravitate towards the
‘ town of blades.” Sydney, however, has become
a powerful rival in this respect within the last
three years ; and in many respects pedestrianism
ia N.S. Wales has eclipsed Sheffield running.
.
By adoption o! shorter raota foot-
running became far more popular. The reason of
this is easily explained. The training required is
not so severe, more contests can be got through in
a given time and the handicapper can manage to
bring more men to the same lev-1 in a short
than in a long race. The result is that more
athletes train, the public sea more for their gate-
mo ley, the finishes are much closer. In conse-
quence, there is much greater difficulty in fore-
telling the winner, and this very uncertainty is
the root of that gambling spirit which is the
foundation of modern sport. Pedestrianism
is in many parts of the globe a popular
institution by which thousands of persons gain
their livelihood. These latter may be divided
into three classes —She athletes who run; tbeir
paymasters, better known ts gaffers; and the
promoters of the handicaps. The pedestrians
themselves should merit attention in these re-
marks, but so far from this actually being the
case we shall now say nothing about 'hem, merely
p:\ssing on to th© “gafferi ” who control them*
* • •
Until pedestrianism became a pnfisalcn
the “gafftr” was unknown but was found neces-
sary to the development cf the sprinter, as the
short distance runner is called. L’ke the dog or
the horse, man physically improves by a course of
preparation or training. This, of course, demands
good feeding, practice in running, and cessation
from hard work. Wealthy young fellows such as
University amateurs could afford this, but they
are not the class from which the Sheffield runner is
recruited. Pedestrianism, however, is the medium
of much gambling, and certain speculators are in-
duced to support the runners in training, just as
if they were so many greyhounds or racehorses.
The “gaffer” may be a sporting publican, but
as a rule he is a bookmaker pure and simple. He
graes to feed and clothe the pedestrian and
provide other necessaries, luxuries being, of course,
never required by a man in training. His protege
receives no regular payment, but it is understood
that he is paid a proportion of his winnings. W hen
a man wins a handicap the “gaffer who has
perhaps kept him for years will, if any way
liberal, present him with the first prize, sometimes
ns high as £5OO, and will in addition “ put him on
a bit to nothing,” or in other words, allow him a
share cf his own winnings without any liability in
case of losses. The winner of a recent handicap
in Sydney received the first prize of £5OO with
£lOOO from his principal backer, while from other
supporters he received another £lOOO.
* » •
Then again, since the introduction of
“Monster Consultations ” a runner insists on
demanding from those who draw his number, a
guarantee that he will receive a certain share of
the prize. A recent handicap could have been
won by a man who, however, refused to try be-
cause those who drew his chance in a b ! g sweep
would not “ stand in.” In accordance with the
ethics of this class of sport it is mean and
unfair for those who profit by a man’s running to
refuse him a share of the spoil, it is also Impolitic
Woe betide the “ gaffer ” or backe: who refuses to
deal fairly, for the ped. delights “to take down
those who do not act on the square.” An instance
of this occurred in Sydney some time ago. A
“gafftr” behaved stingily; the winner raid
nothing, but getting into good condition began to
run faster than ever. The “ gaffer ” was delighted
at the qifck trials shown, backed his man heavily
for a large stake, but when the eventful day ar-
rived, the latter was defeated ignominiously, and
thus had his revenge. Be soon after entered the
service of a rival ‘ 1 gaffer ” who had pro-
fited largely by his defeat. As a rule, however,
both runners and “gaffers” find it better to act
honourably towards one another, on the principle
that there is honour among thieves. For the
benefit cf the uninitiated it may be as well to ex-
plain that when a runner means to win, he is
called a “trier,” or “jigger,” a man “on the job;”
when he starts with the intention of losing, even
after the public money has supported him until be
gets a place in the betting quotations, the term
applied is “cronk,” “stiff,” “spieling,” “not on
the jobwhile a “trial” is a test of speed to
which men in training are by mean’s of a stop-
watch subjected. In a handicap the man who hs s
to run the greatest distance is said to be on
“scratch,” he who runs the least is on “limit.’ A n
“even timer” in sprinting signifies one who
Can run at the rate of 10 yards for every second,
though at long distances this standard is altered.
"AN ENGLISH SPORTING GENTLEMAN.”
“In a sly-grog selling case against a fair Tobacconist a policeman swore that he
visited the shop ‘disguised as an English Sporting Gentleman.’”
For instance, a man who covers 122 yards in 12
seconds, is classed as “2 yards inside or better
than evens,” if, in the same time, he can only
run 118 yards, he is described as “2 yards
outside or worse than evens.” A combina-
tion of pedestrians kept by the same “gaffer”
or set of “ gaffers,” is termed a “ stable.”
One “stable” in Sydney keeps seven men alto-
gether, and has an interest in as many more, so
chat 15 runners are always under orders. There
are several other such establishments and it may
safflly be inferred that a combination of half-a-
dozen of the largest “ stables,” all kept by book-
makers, would be able to have command of one-
third of the men competing in one of the biggest
handicaps. The duty of a runner towards his
“ gaffer ” is to win or lose ai wanted, and also to
“knock out ”or defeat rivals. For instance, when
a “ gaffer ” wishes the vide ry of one of his own or
another “ gaffer’s” men all those in whom he has
an interest are directed to bring about the down-
fall of any rival dangerous to the pick of the
“stable.” The system of running these handicaps
in heats is, as we shall explain further on, favour-
able to this project. Should a young and promis-
ing runner appear he is, if available, enlisted in
the ssrvice of some enterprising “gaffer.”
• * •
The promoters of the handicaps may, like
all other men, be divided into two classes—good
and bad. Some of them merely cater for public
amusement, and are content with a legitimate
profit from entrance and other fees as well as from
the gate-money. There are others, however, who,
not content with these emoluments, further
enrich themselves by levying blackmail on certain
“stables” to whose runners favour Is shown in
return. Some promoters become “gaffers” in
secret and endeavour to enrich themselves by
betting on their own men. As the promoter him-
self has a voice in arranging the starts his ac ion
is in such cases similar to that of the gambler
who plays with loaded dice. In Sydney and
suburbs there are more ' unning grout da than in any
city of similar size on the face of the globe. The
three running grounds at Sheffield have dwind ed
down to one, while in Sydney the Botany, the
Carrington, and the Aehtield Grounds have at-
tained a degree of prosperity never before known.
Then, again, we have minor ventures at Tern y-
son, Lady Robinson's B ach, Eurwcod, and else-
where in the suburbs Newcastle, too, has its
occasional handicap. The big pr'zes given at up
country meetings need not be alluded to shea
they come rather under the category of holiday
attractions than of pedestrian enterprise. They
ate not, however, neglected by the “ gaffers ”
and their “ tools,” and it is not an uncommon r c-
ourrence to find Billy Oronk’un, winner of the
—— th Carrington, competing in the Youga Joml a
Sheffield Handicap as Jem Bluey, a swagnan
novice who has never previously donned a spik.d
shoes In fact, some of our are so expert
at disguising themselves as ever was “ a quick
change artist,” and they find a wig and false whis-
kers, &c., as necessary as their running pumps.
“ Cronk’un” can personate an amateur, or, after
losing one heat can come cut for the next and
assume the part of a fictitious novice who, after
duly paying entrance and acceptance fees, Is
awarded several yards start by the “flyer” Mr.
Cronk ’un A case of this kind has been sub
judice in Sydney.
* • *
So that the reader may fully comprehend
how the pedestrian boom is worked, we shall now
give a brief sketch of how a handicap is carried
out. The Carrington or Botany promoters an-
nounoe that in six weeks' time they will hold their
great handicap, with Ist prize of £l5O, and 2nd,
3rd, and 4th in proportion. By announcement in
the papers all peds. are invited to send in their
entries accompanied by fee of £l. In a few weeks
the starts appear. Those who are discontented
drop out; those who are satisfied “accept,” and
send a further fee of 10s. or £l. When the event-
ful day comes there are about 200 competitors.
These are divided into batches of four each, and
each batch compete among themselves, thus con-
stituting a heat. The fifty best runners are in
like manner divided into batches for the first
round, the twelve winners in the first make up
four heats for the second round, and these latter
compete in the final. It is a mistake to suppose
that every one of the 200 peds tries to win the
liberal prize. Some are out for an “airing,” or,
in plain English, want to deceive the handicap-
pers so that they may obtain a more liberal start
on some future occasion. Then much depends on
the state of the betting market and the will of the
“gaffers,” For instance, Jones is well-trained—
“good nick” or “fit” is a technical ex-
pression and his stable tell him that
his day has come. He wins his heat, but
Brown, who belongs to a different “stable,’’shows
superior speed in another heat. Dubious, the
backers of the former arrange with those of the
latter so that one of the two must not try to via.
This latter may be the favourite, may have given
the “straight tip” to his friends and relatives,
but he must obey the will of the “gaffer.” An
instance of this kind occurred in a recent handicap
when the favourite was kept back simply because
his brother had gauged the speed of the ultimate
winner in a preliminary heat. The outside public
when they hear cr read of a handicap regard it as
one contest; in reality owing to the system of
heats and rounds it may, as explained above, con-
sisti of 60 to 80 actual races. As regards betting
there is a lot of business done in preliminary
heats. In fact several men live by this latter ex-
pedient and the promoters, knowing that the suc-
cess of their ventures depends on the patronage of
the public, have lately introduced a different
system of arranging the heats which has put a
check on swindling. Formerly the different
h?ats were drawn a day or two before the race.
This enabled the ‘ ‘ gaffers ” and the betting ring
to “ready up” the heats or arrange so that these
were run to suit their own interests. Latterly
the heats have, in the interests of honesty,
been drawn on the track. The four com-
petitors who are unexpectedly summoned to run
in one of these preliminary events are kept apart
until they come on the track, and it is now
amusing to see the signalling that goes on between
the betting men and their tools on the cinder-
path. Since the introduction of this system one
notorious bookmaker who lived by “readying”
these heats has had to fly, and several of the
“stables ” have b:en forced to dispense with some
of the stiff. However, this change cannot
seriously affect the large stables, and after a few
months’ practice the “ cronk ’uns ” will be able to
“ ready up ” heats as before. Even now a ped.
knows by means of signalling whether the “gaffer"
wants him to win or lose.
* * *
We shall next endeavour to ascertain the
amount of money required to keep the game
going in Sydney. For the Carrington Han-
dicap held last Easter twelvemonths 342 men
entered. These were all of the first rank
but it must be remembered that some men
of that class must, through accident, Illness,
or other causes, have been unable to appear.
Then there is the second rank, composed of
novices and inferior men, who run in the small
handicaps. Lastly we have the semi-amateurs
who are virtually professionals. It is not too
much to assume that about 500 men are wholly,
and about half the number partially, dependent
on Sydney pedestrianism for a livelihood. On an
average every three of these 750 men require a
trainer. Now, a ped. has to be fed and lodged,
and clothed, his travelling expenses and nomina-
tion and acceptance fees amount to something
considerable, so that on an average he costs his
“gaffer” £2 per week. The trainer holding a
confidential position must be paid at least £3 per
week with a “ bit on ” when his charges win.
# * •
The promoters’ expenses are nearly paid
by the entrance and nomination fees, and the
gate-money is almost clear profit Let anyone
witness a Botany handicap and bear in mind that
admittance to the ground means 2u 6d. per
head and he can form an idea of the revenue from
this source The proprietors of the ground also
receive training fees, bookmakers’ licenses, &o. A
good authority estimates 'hat one of our racing
grounds brings in about £5OOO per annum to the
shareholders. The above items can give us no
idea of the money involved in the game, any more
than the cost of keeping a gambling-hell does of
the money which actually changes bands. The
proprietors of running-grounds make their ex-
penses out of the peds. and their profit out of the
public who pay gate money. The peds. and
trainers are kept by the “gaffers,” who, we may
be sure, are not likely to throw money away.
How are they to recoup themselves? Simply
through the public who bet. Id a recent handicap
the winner was backed for £lO,OOO. Yet the
bookmakeis managed to do fairly well by
betting on the heats. Now there are 130 book-
makers licensed at one running-ground and
others who, though they do not attend
the grounds, open books at tobacconists’ shops,
hairdressing-saloons, &o. We may be certain
that these gentry who support the runners
must obtain a good return for their investment.
Bearing in mind the Monster Consultations in con-
nection with these events, it is certain that quite
£20,000 has changed hands over a single handicap.
Anyone who reads the daily papers can estimate
the number held yearly. One who takes an in-
terest in these things has calculated that £250,000
yearly changes hands over Sydney pedestrianism.
The promoters gain, so do the “gaffers” and
bookmakers; and the public have “to pay the
piperfor no new wealth is created. The peds.
gain nothing-only one out of every twenty can
hope to win a handicap; and his gains generally
return to the betting-bag. Most of these
runners must resume their old occupations,
for which Sydney running has unfitted them.
Many of them have no future career save that of
the welsher, the trainer, the tout, the small book-
maker and others who constitute the outer fringe
of the betting world. Sheffield is the headquarters
of English pedestrianism, yet more prize moneyl
given here over one handicap than is devotedt
the eight held yearly there. Compare *BOO, the
total amount given there, with what is given in
prize-money during one year in the neighbourhood
of Sydney. Forty millions of people support the
former, less than two millions contrive to keep
tie latter going. When Sydney people con-
gratulate themselves on having escaped the land
syndicates and the mining boom of Melbourne
they should bear in mind that they have been
paying for a boom of another kind.
• •
Sinoathe bighandicap system was introduced the
police have bad great difficulty in bringing a certain
class of swell mobsmen under the “ vag.” When
charged with having no visible means of support
these individuals aver that they are professional
pedestrians, and, what is more, can point trium-
phantly to their names entered on the published
programmes. The police say that many houses
of 111-repute have attached to them “ pedestrians ”
who never run, yet whose entry and acceptance
fees are regularly paid for the purpose of defeat-
ing the law.


T
Department of PubllQ Works, Sydney,
May 21, 1889.
IENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For conditions see “ Government Gazette. 1 ’
Mature of Works and
Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Work*, Torpedo Saatlon, Ohow-
der Bay
Erection of Police Officers’
Charters, Tirana
Supply, of 1000 Ironbark Tram-
way S eep is
Supply of Compound Engines -
without boilers for Sand
Pump Dredge. Contract No
61 Svdn*y Sewerage (Waterloo
and R it fern)
B. idg p , Wiljon’s Creek, Road
Guars to Byron Bay
C >nstruction of Masom y and
t mber Landings, Spit Ferry,
Middle H«rbou'
Addition!, &c , Wharf, Sevan
O .ka, Maoleay R ver
Erection of Shed and M luring
Pile’, Wharf, Tweed River
Hea’s
Erection of Two Weatherboard
Cottages for Engineer, &5,
Trial Bay
Erection of Three Weatherboard
Cottages for Warders, Trial
Bay
Erection of Threa Weatherboard
Cottages, Sydney Water Sup-
Vly
Bridge Back road Major’s
Creek to Fairfield (fresh
tender )
Biakehurst Bridge, K garah
Road
Wednesday,
June 5,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
TTfCR MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
I 1 Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo Rignold.
Doors open at 1 ; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
tl.ls and Every Evening, at half past 7,
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY RYE ROMANY RYE.
PRICES— 65., 3 s., &s , and la.
Bui plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till f.
J P. MACDONALD. Aotln» Manairer
CRITERION THEATRE
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon’
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
FRANK THORNTON’S SEASON.
R'ilHaut Success of
THE GREAT DOUBLE BILL.
TO-NIGHT.
MAMMA! MAMMV! MAMMA!
Mr. FRANK THORN r ON as
JACK FONTIFEX.
Preceded by (at 8 o’clock) >
MY MILLINER’S BILL.
ADMISSION— £2 Zs to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr, JOE DAVI3.
Cr
aiety theatre.
STILL 10 THE FRONT.
WILLARD AND SBERIDAN OPERA AND
COMEDY COMPANY.
JOHN SHERIDAN , WIDOW O’BRIEN
SHERIDAN WiDOW O'BRIEN
SB ERID tN WIDOWO’BRIEN
An ovation every night greets the charming old
lady and her
NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
NEW ENGLISH • OMPANY
NEW ENGLISH COMPANY
In the evergreen
FUN ON THE BR'STOL
FUN ON THE EKISTOu
Everything New, Bright, and Sparkling.
Prices as Usual.
PEMBERTON WILLARD.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mqsgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer; Mr. Goodman
Undoubted Succefs of the
BSST PANTOMIME BVBR PRODUCBD IS SYDNBY,
SINBAD THE SAILOR,
or
TINBAD THE TAILOR.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Maokay’s,
G c Y Y C c L r 'o°R K A A M M A A !
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama.
(Opposite the Railway Station),
Open Daily From 10 a m. to 10 p.m.
Sunday a, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admisilon, 2«. ; Children, I§. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
“ Every detail is true to the life ”
—A Gettysburg Veteran,
C 0 Y y C O L l O°R b A a M m A a 1
Skating Rink|
î
-[Skating Kink
<a\T»\ - - Manager.
OPENING NIGHT ! Thursday, 23rd May
.fust Completed, and covering the whole
Of that immense block of land frdntihg Forbes,
Burton, Liverpool and Thompson Streets, Darling-
hurst, near the corner of Oxford-street and
Darlinghurst Stopping Places for 'trams.
Prof. Agintoa, World's Umnpim Trick Skater,
Will give Exhibitions of his Skill;
Skating Rink! 350 ft Long by 130 ft Wide.
Will rCprCsCnt the Mikado’s PalacC.
The Band of the Ist Regihient Yolunteer Infantry
every Afternoon and Evening.
The Skate Floor specially imported from the U.S.,
and of best American Pine.
The Skate-rooms will be stocked with Winslow
Vineyard All-clamp, Raymond Extension and
Richardson Ball-bearing Skates.
A Large and Efficient Staff of Conductors will
instruct Ladies it3T Free of Charge.
Season Tickets,
admitting holders on all occasions
(including Carnivals), now ready.
Terms: Ladies' Tickets,- 30s; Gentlemen, 355;
Floorage Tickets, 15s.
Admission on Opening Night—Two Shillings.
The Manager reserves the right to refuse admit-
tance to objectionable persons.
*TrocaderO*
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia.
000 l and Refreshing Atmosphere I
tT The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters !
(Irani! Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
ELECTICIC LIGHT.
♦ Skates Unequalled in the City!#
m- TRAM CARS STOP AT DOOR.
tore initios! Future Novelties!
Open Dally, Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... General Manager.
METROPOLITAN SKATING RIH,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
tSS" Nearest Rink to Redfem Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. TEJi
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.:
Ladies’ & Children only
}
Admission, FREE.
Skates, 6d.
2,30 to 5 p.m.; Ladies'!
~ Gentlemen j
Admission, 6d.; Skates, 6d.
~ Is.; ~ 6d.
7.30 to 10 p.m. ; Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d-
Double Ticket of Admission, Is 6d.
Weekly Tickets—Single, 35.; Double, 4s. Gd.
r LOOK AUK IKK 1..
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRYSTAL PALAOI SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yoek-stbkkt.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
bating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 66
York-street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
JjILITB SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling ; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets :
Gentlemen, 465. ; Ladles, 40s. Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
16s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 365.; Ladies, 30s.
Roller-bearing, 16s. extra; Ball-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed-
ford-street, opposite the Rink.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importert and Manufacturer!,
Batin’) Baking Fovdtrs,
N
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
tot, ft*., h.
Stbam Wobkh abd Bbbwbbts
SA&SIS BT&SST, ULTIMO, 87DNE7
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
* Adam Bede’s *
Reneyqlent Consultations.
"All the Yeah Bound.”
TWENTY TEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
On these events Adam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Charities, com-
mensurate with bis success,
NOW OPEN,
Coronation Handicap,
Run at Canterbury Pa> k, Sydney,
June 29, 1889,
Subscribers at £l Eai h
First Horse £BOO
S cond Horse 300
Third Horse 2 JO
Starters, £300; Non-starters, £400; to be
divided amongst them.
July Handicap,
Run at Eosehill, July 20, 1889,
Sub-.crlb rs at £1 Facb.
First Horae ilo'X)
Second Horse £ 00
Third £loo
Starters, £(S'JO ; Non-ttarters, £800; to
be divided amongst them.
Ad an Blit 1 ) is tb oily fair metkod of loaning,
The names af the holders ol the Winning Tickets
tvill on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdb until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
Is. exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
HAWKESBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
BANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty) ]
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr»m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See yon go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, Ac.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
m
m
i
I
0*
,50
i
SQUARE & COMPASS CLUB.
ss. CONSULTATIONS. 59.
An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE 30 per cent.
THIRD HORSE 20 per cent.
N.B.—The Square and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
remits half-an-hour before each race thus showing the
bona fid's of the affair. Toe rooms where the telegrams
are posted can be visited by subacdbcrs only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the
Si is day Times aiid Referee following the races.
MOTTO : “ Fair and Square.”
t%T Look at the Dividends we have naid on the
Donoahtkr Handicap r-Russley, £95 3t. 63. ;
Plutarch, £7 2». 9d.; Lady Kingsboro’, £l2 3t. lOd,
Consultations on Every Event.
Note the address of the Original—
Square —and —Compass —Club,
Care of M. Pal m-
-6'iti GEORGE STREET C 56
COLONNADE.
JJEWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manuvaotokti
SPRING & O’OONNKLL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
I Patented.
ï
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple yet Ingenious In Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s.; without Stand, 355.
Packing In canvas, If required, Ss. Bd. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton ft Lamb.
iiTi
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDB3TAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
one sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Rnler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Drawing room oabi
NETS.
Eahlt English
Chippendale Designs,
Newton & Lamb,
PIANOFOR ES bv R. LIPP and BOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB-
ì
í
Austrian bent,
wood
FURNITURE.
A Ykkt Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
BAST CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or lisd-
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, fir
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKINQ EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful — a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
i
T>EDBTEADS, all Blies
■*“* Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety,
[Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Nbwtob ft; Lamb.
, v .
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from Us. each.
CHBAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
18a. Od. | Dining Tables, from 30s. | Elbohen
Dressers, from 375. 6d.j Washsbands, from 13s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 10s. j Wardrobes, from
80s. | Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.} Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. i Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
JJ-E WTOH AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERS* S
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O'CONNELL STREETS,


D
R
I
N
K
î
i
ï
£5O reward £5O
FRAUD & DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from
being defrauded and cheated, the
American Hop Bitters Company offers
the above Reward for the arrest and
conviction of any person or persons
refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any
vile nostrum or compound as the
genuine and original Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, or for counterfeiting
the Company’s Label a Bunch of
Green Hops on a White Label, with
Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP * BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK).
OOBTAIMB
■OPS. BUCHU, MANDRAKE*
DANDELION.
A» TKB Putin AMD BIST MBDIOAL QdAUTIBB Of
ALL OTHBB BITTBBJ.
THEY CURB
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleepless-
ness, Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
Of testimonials Of the most wonderful cures, volun-
tarily sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not
make the cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soules
American Hop Bitters, that makes the cure. It has
never failed and never can. We will give reference
to any one for any disease similar to their own if
desired, or will refer to any neighbor, as there is not
a neighborhood in the known world but can show its
cures by Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
DO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
L.
Lt.'/U i
-
/.I
_‘'V ..
-Jv
-35^
I
* v'
sr 1
(3
&
Ml
QS'i^ 3,
a<
e? c'v n. CT'a
‘‘God Bless the Duke of ArgySe”
i
PIM
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticbba Soap.
Two years ago I was attacked with eczema. I
cannot tell yon what I suffered, I was the most for-
lorn spectacle you ever saw Charles Kennedy, of
this place, showed me your pamphlet on skin dis-
eases, and among them I found the description
suitable to my case. I bought the Cuticlka
Remedies. I took seven bottles, with the Ctm-
crr.A and Soap, and the result in a permanent
cure. 1 thought I would wait and see if it would
come back, but it has proved all you said it would
da, so I will say God bless you and yours.
THOS. L. GRAY, Lcavertown, Ohio.
• I, John J. Case, D.D S., having practised den-
tistry in this country for thirty-five yca.e, and being
well known to thousands hereabouts, with a view
to help any who are afflicted as I have been for l lie
past twelve years, testify that the Cuticuka Rem-
edies cured, me of Psoriasis, er Scaly Skin, iu
' eight days, after the doctors with whom I had cors-
sulted gave mo no help or encouragement.
Newton, N. J. JOHN J. CASE, I). I). S.
The Citticura Remedies have permanently
I cured me of dandruff and facial eruptions when ail
j other remedies had failed. Por nine months my
j head has been entirely free from the slightest signs
) of dandruff, and my skin is as clear as when I who
i a boy. LOU THOMPSON, New Britain, Conn.
HANDS
Soft, white, and free from chaps and
redness, by using Cuticuua Soap.
Address : B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, New South Wales.
ī
EYERY LADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER BY USING
Madame Weigel's Cut Paper Patterns.
“ Weigel’s Journal and Catalogue of Fashions,”
Containing Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of tho
country on receipt of (lOd.) Postage Stamps,
Madame WEIGEL, 161 King Street SYDNEY
(Near Tramway).
[?]
846 Macquarle-street North, Sydney, May 22 1889
DEAR MOORABINDA,—
George Grossmith, an authority on the subject, tells us
that H.R H. “ Wales"and his “set” invariably danoe
tte deux temps —a walkey sort of waltz in which one
hardly rotates— Albert being a little giddy, I suppose.
Then to “ reverse” (except in the polka) is considered by
Wales’s “set” to be moat atrocious form, though I
notice that the Navy—at least that portion of it in Aus-
tralian wa‘ers—still maintains its predilection for porting
its saltatory helm in crowded ball-rooms with more or
less dis'strous result?. “ Programmes” an “ absolutely
interdicted” at the “ best” hops, and dances are now an-
nounced as they occur, when De Vera vacantly grasps
the first duchess who happens to be handy. Finally, we
are told to remember that Wales's set don’t say “ walse "
or “ waltz,” but “ r asse ” and “ vassing.”
Another idol'with a bold bad eye" has fallen. An
irresistible actor well known to Sydney and Melbourne as
the possessor cf a soulful pair of rolling cp’ics and a
way of speaking as if he had a large hot potato in his
mouth, has just been successfully sued by a Sydney song-
stress for thirty odd pounds, money lent.
Which reminds me that a lot of people in Australia are
j ;st now saying that it is a most awkward thing to be
the critic of a daily paper while your wife wears tights in
public.
On returning from a recent wedding I became pos-
sessed of a grievance which I am about to air. It's this.
Haven’t you noticed that bridesmaids are often dressed as
if their aim and purpose was to eclipse the bride ? A
tow-haired girl with a doughey free is shadowed often
enough by maids lavishly trimmed with red and yellow,
which colours make her look more doughey and washed-
out than ever—and fo’lowing a sallow-faced brunette one
sees a horde of girls generously “ picked out" with green I
Toe consequence is that the bride looks completely “off
h»r pretty,” and the bridegroom gets far more commisera-
tion than the case really warrants. In Sappho’s opinion
bridesmaids should act as subdued foils lor the snowy
whiteness of the leading lady.
The Sydney Hunt Club are to hold one of their
eminently enjayable race-meetings at Rosehill on July
10 b, when everybody who likes fun ought to make the
trip. Tne Members Steeplechase should alone be worth
running a mile to witness.
The benefit concert tendered to Miss Pedley at Sydney
Protestant Hall on 15th drew together a moderate
audience that had “dotted all its iV’in the matter of
toilet. A white silk en JH'ectoire over an apple-green
jnpe with lacings of the green and full vest of the same
colour ; a pale moonshine green, with interludes of shell-
pink, V shaped stomacher-vest designed in pearls ; and a
black lace and moire with jet ornaments and a huge pale
pink feather fan were, amongst others, equally in correct
taste, which is the main thing in drees. The concert was
up to the usual standard, Mies Pedley’s singing of Tosti’s
hypersentimental “ Ask me no more” being one of the
succ.sses of the evening. The chief item on the card was
the cantata “The Lady of Shalott,” which was satisfac-
torily rendered by the members of the “ St. Cecilia ” choir.
Sir Henry and dear Lady Lcoh are, the cable hastens to
tell us, guests of L'rd Lytton, English Ambassador at
, Paris.
Sydney High School annual sports eventuated on the
18th inst. at .the 'Association Ground, when a jam re-
su.tsd, mamma, auntie, and the entire family turning out
to see Bobby run last in a handicap. Music was provided
by the Balmain Coldstream B»ni, and the dressing wasn’t
anything in pa, fcalar. A dark green cashmere with full
fiontof deep terracotta and deep green straw Dcrothy
hat trimmed with green ve’vet aid terracotta plumes
lacked rather stylhh.
The Irish delegates were accorded a magnificent recep-
tion at H.M.’s Theatre, Sydney,, on the afternoon of the
],3i)h j nB t. The dress-circle was crowded with women—at
ten shillings a head, too—and our sex was well repre
sented all over the house, while a party of ladles in the
vice regal box carried bouquets and weird ft’ral devices,
which were subsequently fired at the delegates. The
dressing was nothing unusual, bub the gene ml demeanour
was, I have never seen the dresa-oiic’.e exhibit so much
feelii g before. I didn’t think it could. I have lived— l
won’t say how long—but I never expected to see women
clap their hands and cheer from the d.o. of a theatre.
And now I have seen this I think we ought to enthuse
oftener. Ex ritement is infinitely more becoming than
apathy.
Don't ride in the Sydney Centennial—or Soentennial—
Park unless you have a horse which can hoi 1 Its nose.
I am requested to state that the Cimpbellbown Mounted
Infantry ball, held in ihs local town-hall on the 10 ih inst.,
was an unqualified success. PUin and fancy dresses were
worn, a brunette “ Daughter of the Regiment” appearing
to have carried all before her, whilst a lady in black and
lace and buttercup colour had many admirers. Dancing
terminated at dawn.
A Sydney daily recently contained this advt.: —
r Christian Parents.—Wanted, Girl, about 15. who
can wash and iron; will be tuight cooking ;
housemaid kept, three in family. Apply by letter,
Jenolan, llurstv lie.
Now where is the truly Christian Parent who would allow
her 16-v ear-old child to drudge as a slavey for no re-
muneration save instruction in the way to construct shot-
proof dumplings and mix the soul destroying hash 1
The marriage is announced of Dr. R. Fairfax Reading
with Miss Wylde, on the 23rd inst,
I hear that Adelaide womenkind has fallen violently
in love with Lady K ntore for the simple reason that she
'shook hands with it at her reception, instead of nodding
at it as her hubby did. The manner of announcement
has been altered at the Holy City’s Government House-
two epick-and-span A’s d-o. doing the name-shouting
racket a great deal better than Jeames ever did.
A Sydney daily remarks that “Toe Church Emigr.t'on
Sod ty of Linden are sending out a protected party of
young women to Aus'ral'a.” Certainly. Yet, with a
scorching blush, I would like to rise and demand if ih-re
aren’t too many protected young women out here alreadj ?
1 hear that a certain leoturess now raging somewhere in
Australia isn’t so amiable as she looks. On her voyage
out a concert was got up by the saloon passengers and she
was asked to help it along. “Thank you,” she replied,
“ I never sing except on a platform ’’—which strikes us as
having been a polite way of saying “ I never squall with-
out passing the plate.’’
It is whispered in Brisbane that Lidy Norman “dis-
'ikea ” dancing—and now society is wondering if Govern-
ment House is to be as dull as ever.
Next Saturday—the 251 h—the Sydney Suburban Bicycle
Club hold their second race meeting at the Association
Ground. On the Ist June the Eastern Suburbs AA. Club
hold their always enjoyable sports on the same ground,
when I suppose the usual throng will turn up.
There is warfare in the hospitals of Sydney just now.
The noble-faced girl who felt she had a mission to go fofth
and rub cough-mixture on the chest of the poor male
invalid with the nice mousUche whilst she administered
oil and ammonia internally with unfaltering hand is
at present menacing the authorities. It seems that when
a girl enters on the high-flown duties of nurse, she under-
stands that she will just flit from bed to bed in flowing
robes and plant ice on the brows of ideal patients, consult
in whispers with nice-looking young doctors, be called a
“ second Sister Dora ” by the newspapers, and have nice
white hands. But behold 1 she is banged down on her
marrow-bones by invisible authorities to scrub dirty
wards and stairways, the doctors also turn out to be more
or less married and bald and nasty—and when it comes
to taking her turn at “ washing up ” and scalding her
hands in the process, then gentle, self-sacrificing Sister
Dora actually “ snorts It is maintained especially
by those ladies who go into train as nurses that too much
menial work is required of them, and that the washing of
dishes and scrubbing of floors is nob a necessary part of
their education. The ruling powers think otherwise, and
some probationers are leaving in consequence.” As a
remedy for this sad state of affairs, I strongly advise the
importation of a fresh crop of single medical students.
One great London paper asserts that another great
journal is certainly mistaken in supposing that Lord
Lome will be appointed to one of the Australian Govern-
irships—Victoria or New South Wales. These are now
costly posts, and, moat assuredly, Lord Lome will nob be
ient to any colony where the expenses exceed the salary.
1 should think not, indeed 1 If anyone entertains the idea
hat this might come to pass it is only necessary to re-
nember that Lime is Victoria’s son-in-law.
A huge crowd swarmed into Her Majesty’s Theatre on
he afternoon of the 18th inst.—the occasion being the
aatiaee benefit to Brough and Bouoioault. Every seat
vas taken weeks ahead—some of the boxes realizing as
uuoh as £7O. I hear that the Baron has contributed
argely to the fund.
Men are very partial t 1 twitting us on our love for what
they call “ superfluities” of the toilet—aren't they ? but
( chanced to glance into I'eap-s and Shaw's window on
the block in George-straet the otier day and the array of
masculine “ necessaries ” was a revelation to a single
person. A tightly-furled umbrella I saw therein wts
peculiarly adapted for the " masher's ” use -it had such
a pretty donkey’s head carved on it 1 As for s?arves,
they were legion, and, j udging by the number of black
ivening ties, I suppose they are to be in again this sea-
son. A cosy-looking dressin j-gown was of bluish-gr.y
material smarb y trimmed with bluish-greyish cords and
assets, and the piles on piles of new-pvtterned tweeds in
every possible novelty of colouring almost made me rush
in and order a dozen tailor-made go vns on the spot. Bu*,
alas I Leap s and Shaw have given up attending to our
vants I which just shows how much mo e paying lofty,
lothes-despis'ng Man must be, doesn't ib ?
Toen to revel a little in feminine finery, I explored the
'orgeous windows of J. L. Hordern and Co., of Pibt-street
nd fell in love with the evening wraps. A crush-d
trawherry plush with bows of moire ribbons en suite, a
opper-red plush with copper-red ribbons, a salmon-pink
asbmere lined with white satin and edged with white
urs were sweetly pretty, but the most eLgant was a
vhite plush ornate with broad white moire ribbons,
diioh I have coveted ever since. A handsome Direoboire
ea-gown of greenish p'ush over a striped and designed
kirt and vest of oreamish greenish silk, which would look
“spiffing” on a fair woman, was another confection bo
uake every member ot my sex break one of the oom-
oandments on the spot.
Mrs. Fairfax’s reception at Admiralty House on the 15bb
nst. was very well attended, the day being perfect. Mrs.
Fairfax wore a dark-green silk polonaise over deep
purplish-crimson silk, and the Baron attired in a “ boxer ”
.nd some other things, lent his yawn to the proceedings
or a brief space.
The Suburban Championship Bicycle races at the Asso-
iation Ground on 18bh Inst, were, despite the humidity
if earth and air, very largely patronised. The grand-
tand was absolutely crowded, for most of the girls
eschewed the lawn, which was rather squashy. Of those
vho risked getting their feet wet in order to show their
tresses perhaps the most satisfactorily-groomed were a
labhy-looking girl in the new “ fawn " green—which Is no
aore green than 1 am—made in a quaint, full style with
'esb, revere and Empire sash of dark-green moire ; a very
lark green velvet with full front of light spring green
sMk, small shoulder-puffs and wide Empire sash of black
noire, dark-green hat ornate with green ribbons and
fawn wings; a black and grey striped redlngote faced
wish black silk over a black silk petticoat—hat trimmed
vibh black-and-white striped ribbon and a black wing,
vppeared almost Heaven-sent on a lawn where every
eoond woman had green on, which verdant tint—so be-
xnuing to blonde girls— is to reign this season. Then there
was a dark-green cashmere with white serge collars over a
1 louse vest of white silk, dark-green teque hat with green
feathers and ribbons a moonshine green redingote over a
vest and skirt of cream bi.k and large red Giinsbro’ bat
trimmed with re 1 ribbons and feathers ; while a chrome-
green cloth skirt with deep black braid in design round
the feet, .a huge fawn “Victoria” boa reaching to the
feet, and a daring sort of bat with a high cluster of fawn
tips and trimmings of dark-green, was a rakish turnout
on a girl who ought always to present the back of her
head to society. Then one relentless object elected to
come in vivid scarlet, adding thereto a pink vest, and
one of the cyclists was a thing of beauty in bright blue
satin from head to heel. He was beaten, too, and 1 felt
sorry. It must be painfully humiliating to run last in
blue satin. And, in a kindly spirit, I would suggest that
some of our wheelmen “ pad them shanks.”
Tear-drop from a Sydney daily
Hubrrt.—Oh 1 why art thou silent thou star of my
night. Ruth.
There are quite a number of reasons, Ruth, but I think
the nearest one is that Hubert is at present acting as the
guiding planet of that nasty cat over the way and can’t
make solar twins of himself without rehearsal.
Yours affectionately,
Sappho Smith.
It is said that the Evening Standard
man who went out to intercept Charles Santley
at Geelong commenced “ Interviewing ” the
itinerant baritone thus : “ Before touching upon
music, would you mind giving us your opinion of
Central Africa as compared with what you have
seen of Australia. Of coarse we, out here, have
heard all about your yarn of the finding of
Livingstone. Have you been in Africa since ?”
Stanley, the explorer, la looked upon as a
bit of a bore in London society. At a c’ub dinner
once he gave a long-winded narrative of one of his
adventures in Africa, and in the course of the
recital said, “Just at this juncture the woman
shrieked to me, * Wodondo, cadudy comalpos
minonky.’” “That’s just what I thought she’d
say,” put In Edmund Yates dryly, and Stanley
wondered why the most dramatic incident of his
pathetic story elicited such a yell of laughter.
1
- “ Tf’Cre are more cures made with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters than all other medicines.”
1 Doyle’s New Hall, Junee, the bast on the
Southern Line. New scenery and fire escaper *
1 Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Junee. Price
Moderate.


BARBERS*
suraiiß
•—Hairdressers—
If you want EVERY or any REQUISITE for
Fitting out or Furnishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
CRAIG & AITKEN’B
K, I Wales Barbers’ Supply lore,
Where you can get, at lower prices than
at any other House in the Trade :
Hairdressing Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPE’S HAIRCLIPPERS,
■CREAM OF LIMES (In Bottle & Bulk),
SPRAYS, ANTIQUE OIL,
COSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISB,
And Every Other Necessary,
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial „ from £2 10s.
ROLE AGENTS far the CELEBR ATED
“ Plum "
«T RAZORS and SCISSORS *W
"»
Complete Saloon Quim
FROM AlO UPWARDS/
s+s+s
illlitants Engased for Town A Country
Customers.
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco & Cigar Merchants
And IMPORTERS,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KBEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
in the Trade.
▲ll the Leading Brands d
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
♦
BOLE AGENTS TOR th»
ARMY & NAVY
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
IT SWEETHEART cumin
An Immense Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, etc., etc.
Silver-mounted Meerschaum and Briar Pipes
A BARGAIN. "Ml
Bend for our Price List and judge for yourselves.
Note Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tobacco A Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET
(next to Priddt & Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
TABLE D’HOTE ON THE LAKE OF OOMO.
“DONT YOU, THEN, EVER WASH HERE?”
“OH, DEAR NO ! I ONLY SCRATCH AND RUB ! ”
[Mlaa Tomkinp, overhearing, leaves the table abmptly much disgusted. She afterwards
hears they are members of the R'tyal British Water Color Scciety who were dis-
cussing the technique of their profession.]— Life
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maooassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kaltdor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London,*
E. C. ELEY
S'
o
<<
ft
$
&
&
$
g>
&
<b
S'
*
v
&
&
S?
&
Oi
&
o
N>
o
v
£
&
r
o
o
<5
*
o
&
o
<2>
<c x
390 a GEORGE S T
TATTBHSALL’S
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal races through-
out the year.
See Evening News Brevities for full particulars,
or write to “ Tattersall,” care of Geo. Adams,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gaze te, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study ol CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury uecl. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, cr f orfeit
£2OO. Hisreas .nfor doing eo is this—when there is no
organic disea e, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibi ities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims on y to he a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaiuing their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spkbr, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Oflise hour j ,
10 am.to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a m. only.
a&Ji- 1 -
Aiii
»».
:
, i
-j
m
WL
,
i
■■[Vl
i
nil
"tUotSfiPHOTfI-ENB* CO-. 8 BBIDct-Sr,, tYßWfe'
The Oxford Hotel, King Stroot, Sydney.
■■OS"
H. THORPE
Proprietor,
Jc3n.es’ eewl2n.gr
- fOR *HE 800 l AND fAILORINQ TRADES. ——
The Best Manufacturing Machine* in Existence.
Now perfected, the NEW No. S and No. h MACHINES on an entirely New Sys'em.
r STOCK JUST LANDING.
FABLGIBB, ISTTSSIU & Co., Tannon and Leather Mershaati,
16 YORK STREET, SYDREY.
. g o i e Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
~ r . „ for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details, including Machinery,
Also Importers of R-qmsltes t<w ' wwjgji man pjjERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
, aT 8 K mO Tanners Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms.
D*f. RICHARDS
ting RO
CON*
m
D" RICH ARDS
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence In their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
In the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
Irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfnllness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably marry, nervous-
ness In society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. In stamps he will send secure from
observation In a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general Informa-
tion and prescription may assist yon In restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced Incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, It would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly In your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
B» to mention this paper when wrMn§.
COHSTTLTATTOF Fill.


HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street
Egyptian Cigarettes.
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
M. Mclachrino A Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all tbe Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All tbe leading British and Continenta
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
lar Have the LARGEST 1411! In the World.
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best
Sole Agentsi
WARREH & ROWS, H Barrack Street, Srdney.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100 s
No. 8 66/- „ 7/- ..
Orders from any part of the town or country, If accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Tbs Imperial Land, Building & Deposit Co.
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Alex. Milsop, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
H. L. Summbrfield, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P.
E. V. Manning, Esq. Wm. Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
ing Society Business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Intirest allowed
at the following rates: —12 Months, 7 per cent., 6 Months,
6 per cent., 3 Months, 5 per cent. Advances to Muni-
cipalities on the Secarity of rates on very liberal terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Properties at lowest
current rates. Libera! assistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
principal, or both. D.vidends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
More than 70.000 Oases already Cured 1
Ike Greatest Success!
ef Modern limes. /
OOKSUM
{All Ohronlo Disease
are Curable.
Ir. H. E. ZDEf&LKAVN, Cosssltiar Eolectic (
Skillxd Spioialist po* all Ohkokio Disiams,
•• WliaiAM STREET, HEI.B® VRNB.
Any sufflerers enable to call can write for a lie! of ques-
tions (pan) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann's treatment dlflers from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
Understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
■omplete cure. Tou can then have treatment or not, as
yon may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
Used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands motel
[OOPT.J
Glenhope, IBth July 1888'
!• H. I. CueiLMAMH, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, 60.
Dear Sir,—This Is to certify that 1, Frank B. B. Knight,
If Glenhope, was taken 111 with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of It for about six months, when 1 com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went Into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
Without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor In Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was In a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
tor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medl-
slnes, as all 1 had taken lor the last 16 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
vary reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
surable. During the time 1 was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
from my
ime 1 saw
you, which 1
did In March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any Information, and even
Without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
yen could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
Which I gladly availed myself of. Alter having taken your
Medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse; expec-
torating very muoh, and throwing up several pieces of
»ln from my lunge about the size of the palm of my hand |
hut after this crisis 1 commenced to Improve very tost.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
■ntirely left me, and 1 bad gained over two stone In weight,
* result which my friends considered little short of mira-
■nlona, as all expected 1 would soon die : and from that
"Me (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
■ave not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
«8 as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
to hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
■‘leased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
wain, ever thankfully yours FRANK S. E.
n , ’ Wltness-J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhops.
. red before me this 6th day of August, 1888, at
Ryatton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
IE All Consultations Free. H
- Notice-—if preferred, a Signed Agreement given whisk
provides that No Con Is Incurred In Ihs event of Cons
■w saws KrrsoTßD.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants' Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
V’evi
Of SYDNEY,
JHNOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&oe§ &o*|
515 SEIM 51., Sitwiu luiß-rt,, i S.P C
Musical.— patent scale indica-
tor, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Aboadb. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s.
Australian Roller Flour &, Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE.
Sydney Office: 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
BRUHTON’S
Patent—Roller—Flour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation” of the iurors of the Melbourne
International Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9.
A S. GAS. GAS.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
F. W. CURNOW, Manager.
Office Honrs; 9to 5, and 9tol on Saturdays.
PETTY’S FAMILY HOTEL, York Strent, Sydney.
■! : I-
m LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. *M
31a,r©n.d.on. Hotsl, ls/£stn.l3T.
THK BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
: k :
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banqnets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enloy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
tore also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can sibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic artl nrovided. Tablt
la Hint* at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays. No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
dlltors comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Orposra. OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
Z£fp7
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d.; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
GRA!i & AITKEH, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
—— Nine Halroutters always Employed I
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic «» Stock w Importers,
Kate Uehtaer A €•„ 33 O’CouclS Street.
r lOHTNBR & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal Into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavons to still deserve their
kind attention In the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
8181 6EORHB STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN
ESTABLISHED 1849-
HEAD OFFICE J
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dikeotobs :
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL, Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING. Esq.
Aotuabt :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.IA.
Seoeetabt :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Offioeb ; JAMES 0. COX, M.D.
The Society la now in its forty-first year, and IB
the only Australian Life Office which gives
AHVA& BONUSES.
Policies in Force, over
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ...
Accumulated Funds nearly
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Divided ... ...
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887
86,000
£33,000,000
£8,000,000
£1,500,000
£3,250,000
£357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
The Anglo-Autraliu Imbnl, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. _ £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) „ 250,000
Rkservk Fund .. .. _ 60,000
Dead Office s - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENßY GORMAN, Esq., J P.
Vice-Chairman— F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P,
London Office s ■ 31 Lombard Street E.C.
Chairman — Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well-
known suburban estates, which are mostly within-
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the*
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
Magic Meal
FOR PATTBNINQ all kinds of
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonial
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyrt
"I have tested a sample of the ‘Magio Meal’ lot
poisonous metals suoh as Antimony and Arsenic and
have to report, after a most careful examination, that I
have been unable to detect a trace of anything that
would be injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion
that this article shou'd fu'fll all the conditions specified
in the handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon] *•
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oowe, At
the same time keeping them in good condition."
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 35., UfObs. ss. 6d., 66lbs,
18s. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P.0.0t
Parcels of 661b5., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Fort within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerbaqh StbbiT/
SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Impobtkb of
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER*
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &0.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,'
539 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
WE STE BN AUSTRALIA
Destined to become
A NEW BRITANNIA in another World.
Tha man that hesitates is lost.
Then be wise in time ’tis madness to defer.
Send at once for Marked Plans.
MOORE PARK ESTATE, City of Perth.
WOOLLAHRAES TATE, Albany, KingGeotge’i
Sound.
Good Building Sites ; low prices. Eisy terms.
Torrens’ Title. Free deeds. Land is, and musl
always remain, the best of all securities.
T. TATE & CO;, 158 Pitt Street.
The recognised Agents for Western Australian
Freeholds.
FREE
PRES CRIPTION3 are id
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A cop^ -
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
7(5 Hunter Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivera. Apply
BtJIXfTTN Office,


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
The eye. 0, the Writ ate how Oh WESTERN AUSTRALIA where "tftf&SSSG&f K”' o’SVSe' TT“". cW
T 0 YOU - N " merous Propert ‘“ ,or s " 6 “ BUlt ““ a
buyers SYNDICATES, &0.. from AlO to A 20,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119 a Elizabeth Street, S3rd.Ei.e37-
»sr NOW Is the time to Invest your FEW POUNDS TM
iST TO REAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
ì
Fashion,
FIT, and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES
We have in Stock
lake to Older
THE FINEST
Sews Ms Mi Ms
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition !
A Visit will Prove tlic above Assertions,
TBS CD-OPESATiVE B0;T
í i
i
376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Oo).
F. C. NICH9LLB & CO.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners and Pastrycooks,
City Buildings,
736 GEORGE STREET,
IT A. - ? I*l iKK EiT.
Steam Wi rks :
017, 019, 021, 539, 511 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cdkes, etc., Made to Order.
“ Can’t B Beat.”,
“ CAN’T B BEAT.”
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market
(The Origihator of ( heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spitfe of competition is still, pnr' % ellertee, the t’eople’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran s'ill bad*. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t I! Heat.”
Something New ! Something New !
The £‘i Package, “ Can’t B Steal ” (registered)
EW” Smoker's Companion! M
containing the following
lib. Williams’, Jib. b'ocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
111). Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tonaceo
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. Ills Manila Cigars
1 silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Docket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco touch
1" Ilectro-platcd Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Mb. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
ISf” Delivered Free at Red'ern Station cr any " hu-f on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque tor £2. Any article
not rtqu'red can he left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what yen don't want and state what
>ou require in its p ace. All can be a commodafed. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! .Note the address :
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
WESTERN HOTEL,
i
WARRNAMBOOL.
THIS old-estaMished and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First C.ats Hotel with home
comfortp. ..... ,
Ii is in fall view of the sea and within a short
distance of the Picturesque Scenery of the Hop-
kins’ River, which affcrds the finest Rod and
Fiy Fishing in the colony. . .
Arrangements made for the hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fuhing Tackle. Pail, &c.,
supplied. Goid Shooting in the immediate neigh-
bourhood. It is also within Two Minutes Walk
of the Hot and Cdd Sea Water Baths, which are
unsurpassed in the colonies.
livery and letting stables.
Booking Office for COBB and Go’s Coaches.
Thomas Ocok and Sons’ Hotel Coupons Taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE ■ - Proprietor.
EPPS'S
Crateful—Coinfortlng
COCOA
FOR SLAB.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, limited, 9 Bathurst-street. Sj dney.
PESMTH
The Capital City of
WESTEBM mm ALIA
The Best Investment Going I
C3T GOOD BUILDING SITES *^|
Paddington Estate, Perth
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance In 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Bowl Buy Bowl
Ind reap Large Profits like early purchasers In
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd,,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W J. Douglas ... ... Manager,
Sr
S*
C 'CTU
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “Nervous Complaints,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to show
a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and lias treated a large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he docs undertake it, he is willing to
give a Written Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of b.th sexes who ex-
perience "the following symptoms, viz., Dizziness,
■ pecks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c., &c., should send for this hook at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same. .... ~ ,
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher’s treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance :
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence : “ Clonmel,” Waverley.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works : CLYDE, N S.W.
Hbad Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Jambs Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; James A. Brown, Central
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D Merton, Cunnin gar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
she purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description. . . ,
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable iw the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and Is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies. . . . . .
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
Appr6ci^t6(li
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each pi*roel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Ounningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
See Signature in
Blue Ink acro&s
the Label thus:—
í
XJSE
LIEBIG- COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Peapes & Shaw's New Establishment
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
TO BE
TkiLWBTtUn COMPLETE GMSM'S OUTFITTING WASEHOESE UIVBU,
Either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES and SH IW are now showing the who’e of the Gxds contained in the Two
Beautiful C*ses receat’y sho*n by
WELCH, MARGETSON & CO., at the ME I BOURNE EXHIBITION.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Stylish Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in ITats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts
For Cheap and Good Ready made Suits.
VISIT
IVa i»<‘s
A
Sliaw
For Boys’ Beady made Clothing.
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys and Youths' Eton Suits.
Visit Peapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
—R E M E M B E R!—
The Largest and Choicest Selection of Coeds
*’cm
MEN, YOUTHS and BOYS,
IS AT
Peapes etna.
Right opposite their Old Shop In GEORGE STREET,
i
AuC
v PtIIB™
jfn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERS/// RE
SA CfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Ptmns
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
hears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the, original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask Jor LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on (VrapPer, Label, Bc&U and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
' Blackwell. London, Sre., drc. ; and by Grocers and Otlmm throughout the World.
A BOWHA^’S
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. bo 21s.
219 PITT ST., SYD.VEY (Year Tallersa's.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
Trade supplied wholesale at n (Treat advantage
ONDI AQUARIUM
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds ol
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. t" 6 p.m Admission,
1r i OMldr«n. 6d T»arn runs to f J»*p» — fare. 4d.
JOHN BUOK H A M,
440 EuZABKTH PTrKKT MeLBOI bue
TENTS, T*rp»ulin», Wool, Dr«v i.nd Waggon
C^verß'{g r e«sed oiler), C‘Evas Water Botths,
C olers, Whim Bucke 8, Haber's C«rt Covers;
Horse Rigs, Nose Bags, 0i ed Loin Cloth*, Cab
Apron*. Send to, or call at
.14)11*' Itl 4 liSl AIH'S.
440 ELIZAbETH tsTREET, MELLOURXE.
Oldest Established House in the Trade.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Strrrt,
OOLLINCWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.


R?MBRO CATION
wi
G (<.
\\SOLO
/
36
JJIBBLB & OOMPaNX,
—ART +♦ DHOOBAIOB 8—
N Castlereacta Itnet,
Okb Doob fbom King Stbbm,
JJ R O U’S INJECTION
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE
dares promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J - F £1 BB B ,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rup Richelieu
Box 120, G.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Fees.
SI«M WBITHBI
IfPYT AYTT VI ( Sufferers from JNervout
JU-Cill v/liJLix ! I Complaints. Sure cure;
14 days. Apply in ooifidenoe to “MEDIOUS.”
bo wo ins
"OEMS
HOTEL
BOWDBN 3 8 HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOSEPH C. BOWDEN • - Proprietor
LONG'S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
■OOaPORATBD UNDUE COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Owner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of In-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 ..
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
limber Vercbacts, aid Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, Ac., In
Viueensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office —245 Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried on at our new premises,
245 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited
F. 0. HBDEMANN \
L. O. HENDERSON /
Trustees.
mHI FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
X INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited.
Incorporated finder Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200.000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STRBBT.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted. Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit:—3 Years, 10 per
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent. ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent.: 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
lof Directors. A. W. MILLER Manager
Board
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
(@)PffES
Thn iut In the World
WHOLESALE a oENTS «
Jtliu MiMl £ Eg.,
CLARENCE STREET.
BEHAN’S
Slacks Oils
OB
EMBROCATION.
roB
BOSSES, EiHLE & DOBS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Boars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1881.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing tor FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, BAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MAN 61 j
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bed fern.
Wholesale s
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hoffnnng
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbibbanb; E. Fletcher, Jnnr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
J. BEHAN, T.S., 33 Pitt Street. Red ter a.
PBIGE Ss. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mata, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 74d. per lb (free
from seed), Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops from 30s. to 50-., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frili-
Inga, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free, Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List,
Communicate freely ; yon will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address-LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER - & SOHS,
General Importers and House Fubnishebh,
SYDNEY.
UBTABLTBHBD 18M.
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW M MINUTES
iTT
t
PALACE HOTEL
'• ::
m
KSa^SS&B^s^aisa^KaasM
it lit
V
J.A.WILSON
I PROPRIETOR
.G.W.CLARE
L mum, I
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
iar NOW OPEN, ti
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxl
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Yentilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatoby Basin, Hot andjOold Watbb, and Shampoo Spbat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatoeies and Batheooms, and every Room is Lighted bv tha
Eleoteio Light and fitted with Eleotbio Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
mr TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. «
LADIES' BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terms i SINGLE BESIOOV, 2s. Gd, isr
tr MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGEE, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITJVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
D. SPALDING
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
. I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURB IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties I
The time Is over when, It was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Oubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12; 2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
pUB L I 0 NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel ud General Sulim Stoker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. I|
is his Intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and In the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


ONLY
Murder!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Satwell, of 6
Park-street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. if he does not keep it seek
one who-does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F. W Say well &. Co.,
6 Park-street, Sydney.
r;
'
ow
For !
AIR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Peevents and Akeests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A puke, non-geitty Tooth Powdee. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE *-iw-
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
Hotel,
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc., etc.
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
Reading Rooms.
Eull particulars as to Tariff, See.,
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
I .
SYDNEY.
SET
s, are lofty, well-
§ ventilated, and
Tie D!TO-?.001
is complete
in every re-
AND
PSsCI
HOTfcl-
i
' ■
-
o
©
Lever Clamp.
American Club Roller Skates.
rrHE age for Cheap, Inferior Skatea is past, and no skater of to-day can become expert on wheels, or enjoy an
JL evening on Skates without they are on some securely-fastened, smooth-running Skate, such as is offered in the
“American Club.” It is acknowledged by all skaters on ice that the “ American Club” fastening as used upon the
most popular Ice Skate in America, England and Europe for the past 13 years is more quickly adjusted, and more
secure than any other mode of fastening ever invented. Roller Skating has now become a popular amusement, and
the demand for a Skate for experts has caused the production of a first-class Roller Skate with the “ American Club ”
fastening. Sizes, 7J to 11J inches. &T Special Prices to Rinks and Clubs.
) (
Wholesale; i 8. Bill, 5 Bridge-street; Retail; HEBBLEWHITE & CO., Eeorge-street, Svdner.
) — (
To arrive—Some very fine Lithograph Carnival Posters.
When next you bake try Pemoll’s Snow white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilo-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level
N B.—Only two hours from Melbourne,
“My Tailor " 154 King-Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 Bs.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horsec and buggies for hire.
Vanities.
Pretty Peggy Thompson
(Tnompeon with a p)
Hated servile labour,
Foolish maiden she 1
Peggy was a milliner.
And a thing or two
01 the art ol trimming
Pretty Peggy knew.
Pretty Peggy Thompson,
In a thoughtless hoar,
From a naughty old man
Took a fragrant fio wer.
Now the foolish maiden
Lives on bread and honey,
Owns a lovely cot jags,
O wns a lot of monev.
Pretty Peggy Thompson
When the parsons say,
Oh, you naughty girl,
Gone so far astray,
Sits down in her cottage
With her millionaire,
Counts her gloves and laoes,
And don't seem to care.
EXCHANGE.
The great bustle-manufacturing ndustry of America is
now getting its full share of protection and encourage-
ment. The bustle policy of the new administration seems
to be no half-way, halting affair. A manufacturing com-
pany in Marion, lowa, advertises the fact that Mrs.
Harrison wears a perfect poem in steel springs and cream
satin, presented by them to her, and for which they hold
her reoeipl dated February 11th. A bustle architect in
ShelbyviUe, Indiana, publishes a letter of acknowledgment
and thanks from Mrs. Harrison’s secretary. Tnis second
bustle is described as “ of medium size, covered with fine
white satin, and is a work of art.” A Connecticut
artist announces that he has received from Mrs. Harrison
“ a most graceful acknowledgment ” and letter of thanks
for the most wonderful bustle ever constructed by human
skill. It is of “blue satin, trimmed with rich lac a, and
furnished with gold mountings, all of the metal parts
which are exposed being of gold.”— Argonaut.
In Paris years ago, General Gallifet gave a ball at his
bouse, which was arranged in a most original fashion.
Two sets of invitations were issued, one to Society, the
other to his friends in the demi-monde, and arrangements
were made for the two estates to arrive by different en-
trances. The ball-room was kept closed until the
appointed time, when the doors on either side were sud-
denly flung open, and the General took up a Mephis-
tophelian attitude in the centre to watch the two oppos-
ing forces meet, and to study and enjoy the expressions
of astonishment and dismay on their faces.
A London diamond expert recently gave the most
approved formula for making paste gems. He said :
“ The basis is rock-crystal „or quartz finely powdered ; this
is melted with other -metals in the following propor-
tions:—Rook crystal, six-ounces; red-lead, nine and a
quarter ounces; pure carbonate of potash, three ounces
and three draohms ;-boracio,-aoid, three drachms; white
arsenic, six grains. The product is extremely beautiful
and of superb brilliancy, and some of the original make of
Paris diamonds would 'deceive everyone but an expert.
Many hundreds, it not thousands, of these imitations
have flashed before Royalty on the white necks of haughty
dames whose real gems have gone on prolonged visits to
‘ my uncle.’ ”
The Marquis of Donegal has had much experience of
divorce-suits. In early life he was the co-respondent in a
suit. Then he married a divorced woman, but soon after
divorced her. Six years afterwards he married the pre-
sent Marchioness, who, however, it appears, he is not
likely to get rid of in a hurry.
It is a vagary of fashionable English women to write the
word “Town” on letters addressed to the city of London.
This little fad was recently imported to New York, but it
has already fallen into desuetude as most of the letters
found their way to lowa—the angularities of the average
female hand rendering that interpretation common.
Woman grew so strong'a hiir-crop in the stalwart days of
t old, ; •«
Hanging on the back, she sat upon it easily, we re told.
You may still with ease be seated on a woman’s golden
hair, J,, fl - v 3 ......
Hanging loosely on her.back —er —that’s the back of her
arm-chair.
Mrs. Gant-Davis, wife of tha rascally English M.P. who,
with her children, was deserted by her husband the other
day (he ran away with "a leg-show parson) was, like moat
women, more grieved atlosing.her unworthy husband than
she was shocked at his conduct. Even in her sorrow at
hearing that Mr. Davis had a female companion on his
passage across the Channel, his wife paused to ask “ what
sort of a looking creature” the companion was, and ex-
pressed her concern lest he had gone to France, “as he
cannot speak the language.” Love speaks all languages.
A Queensland paper recently contained the following
rather remarkable notice: “Mr. Charles Johnson and
Miss Fanny West were married by the Revd. S. Hills, on
Wednesday last. So far no trouble has resulted, and
those best informed as to the situation say there will be
none. The prospects, however, are by no means pro-
mising.” Of course the infuriated bridegroom and a yard
of cowhide called round to interview the editor at once,
but he got off by anologising and explaining that part of
an item respecting an incipient strike had been “ lifted ”
nto the wrong place.
During the late Flo wer Carnival at Monte Carlo there
were 15 duels and 16 suicides.
Squatterson, at picnic : “ I can tell you, Miss Emily, if
you keep on growing younger from year to year, I shal
not be surprised to read your name one day in the list of
births.’’— Adapted.
Justice Stephen, of London, is a firm believer in
“Woman’s Rights.” Alluding to the case of a husband
who sought to escape liability for certain expenditure by
throwing all the blame of undertaking it upon his wife,
the Judge blurted out: “ Stuff and nonsense 1 That’s an
old excuse. I often felt that Adam—l mean—that is—
well_er—um 1 I have always wished to hear Eve’s
account of that transaction.”
The Duke of Portland, who is having the family ewels
furbished up against his approaching marriage—Portland
cement I—the other day inquired of a London firm their
estimated value. The reply was £250,000. At this rate,
if the new Duchess were to deck herself out with all of
them at once she would, at 4 per cent, be wearing an
income of no less than £IO,OOO a year.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., Ill
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
Dlngmau’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cammeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lain s, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from Nothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
Its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Uncle George —“ Do you like to have such
long hair ? ’ Charley—“ No ; I’d rather havei
short myself, but mamma wants me to look like
one of those and and cherubs.”— Exchange* j
Sb. James’ Episcopal Church, Sydney, has
a spire which bears a cross surmounted by a light-
ning-conductor. Which reminds one of the
parson, who, when travelling by rail, always chose
the centre carriage of the train and the centre
compartment of that carriage, and left the rest to
Providence.
Byron Bay was nob bo namjd in honour
of the poet, bub after that relative of his “ who
had no rest at sea.” When we add to this the
fact that Cape Byron is the most easterly pro-
montory in Australia, we are in possession of all
necessary capital to start as local authorities,
antiquarian and geographical. The blue waters
of the bay are unrivalled for clearness in fine
weather , except, perhaps, within the “atoll ” of
some Polynesian island. The tourist enjoying a
sail in the fishing boat kept by the hotelkeeper, is
pleased with the rocks “Juan and Julia.”
Anchoring near them for the purpose of deluding
the unwary schnapper or yeilowtail, one cannot
but admire the submarine beauties visible fathoms
below. There are coral grottos for the nymphs of
the sea, if not amber beds for their repose, with
strange pelagic fishes darting hither and thither
and appropriating bait intended for edible
varieties. It is to be regretted that there are no
mermaidens left on view, the last specimen (an
old rancid one) having been devoured by a
hungry unprincipled shark, since deceased. There
is, also, a trifling curiosity for the natural-
ist, the only existing ganoid fish connect-
ing us with the Triassic period. A turtle,
seven or eight feet long, may be seen a
dozen yards from the boat exposing his horny
back above the surface. We are told that he has
been stormed at by shot and shell fall many a
time, and is very partial to the tport. He is
popularly supposed to be several thousand years
old, like the stag of Rhedyrrure in 1010 Mor-
ganwig, and is covered with barnacles and zoo-
phytes. Bub the greatness of Byron Bay does not
so much depend on the beauty of its foreshore,
nor on the abundant marine fauna, nor even on
its possible prospective position as the oapi al of
tropical N.S.W. Its local value is determined by
the geographical fact above hinted at. The hos-
pitable settler, showing the traveller around, con-
fidentially imparts the interesting fact to him.
The hotelkeeper, in a voice husky with emotion,
repeats the same infernal old legend. Even after
we had sought the relief of the downy pillow, an
inebriated selector opened the door of our bed-
room, and asserted again and again, in tones of
unalterable conviction, that “ Cape Byron is the
easternmost point of Australia
Dear Bulletin, —As one who felt very
squalmish, bat had not sense enough to be afraid,
on board the Oity of Melbourne during the Dan-
denong gale, permit me to corroborate and add to
the remarks concerning the voyage in a previous
issue I well remember the lady who worked the
champagne racket. She was, I fancy, an Irish
blonde, and nearer 140 than 90 pounds in weight,
and was going to Melbourne to meet her husband,
an officer on the Shannon, then due. One little
yarn about her is worth repeating. The day after
our return to Sydney a party of us went down to
view our battered bark Sitting round the
smashed wheel we fought our battle o’er again.
Oue burly person, in the diamond trade (dark
ones), since a Mayor of Melbourne, who, on the
night of sailing, had loudly declared his intention
of sueing the A.S.N. 00. for refusing to take his
racehorse on board, and who during the trip had
been conspicuous for the manner in which he lay
on the flat of his back and howled “ Stoo ard !”
was now particularly minute in his description
of what “ I says to Paddle.” and the death
of Nemesis, Sovereign, Robin Hood. &o Send-
ing round a wink, we listened quietly, when sud-
denly there was a slight commotion in the crowd
and the stalwart Irish heroine, elbowing to the
front, said, with flashing eyes and uplifted fore-
finger : “ Hear him ! Share ye’re very bowled
now, but when ye were aboard, if I’d have
dropped a tear on ye it would a drowned you.”
A big laugh went up—l thought Johnny Wallis,
now dead, would have a fit—and when it was over
the fairy tale-teller had evacuated the platform.
I have very distinct recollections of that trip. In
the cabin next to me lay Lang, the Brighton
trainer, deathly sick —so sick that when they told
him that his charge, Nemesis, was dead, he merely
said : “ She’s lucky ; I wish it was me.” In the
bunk overhead roosted little Albers, the cham-
pion billiardist, now in Adelaide, who, during the
night, used to take advantage of every lull in
the storm to lean over and inquire ; “ Sheorge,
do you link I ever see my little Hermina again ? ”
and then satisfied with my unvarying “ Of course,
you old fool,” used to lie back saying, “Veil, I
go to sleep some more.” Close by was Edwin
Adams, the American actor, the finest Hamlet I
ever saw, then dying slowly of consumption!
This voyage materially hastened his end, which
took place soon after in America just after he
had been accorded a £7OOO benefit. It may,
perhaps, interest you to know that Chapman
(“Augur,” of the Austbalasian), and Bond
(“Beacon.” of the Leadeb), were apparently
among the most unconcerned men on board.
The Chrysolite colt (Robinson Crusoe), who
apparently was dead ten minutes before our
getting into smooth water, while we were steam-
ing up the harbour, opened his eyes, and after a
few efforts got on his feet. His mate, the “ornery ”
Redwood, the other equine survivor out of a
dozen, was much less damaged. I can also
recall distinctly the image of the Thompsons
clambering smartly up our weather-beaten side,
and the large, round, salt tears in “Jack’s” eyes
as he took his little one from its mother’s arms ;
while I remember the regret and satisfaction
with which we saw one of our number marched
off by a detective for embezzlement. Regret,
because we all liked him ; satisfaction, because it
explained his donation of his passage-money to
the fund we got up for the sailors and firemen,
which had sorely perplexed us. I might babble
on for a week, so shall dam the flow abruptly.—
Yours, Gettysburg.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits Patbnt Ro lrr Flour Is the
best in the market.
O! Dillon and Esmonde and Deasy,
Just make your minds perfectly easy,
It is better the Age
And the Argus should rage
Tuan besmear you with compliments greasy.
No, Deasy and Esmonde and Dillon,
Your mission they can’t put a chill on ;
’Tis a splendid success
Spite of Tory-worked Press—
That we’ll wager a five-dollar bill on.
Then a toast, the “Three Envoys from Erin !”
We’ll drink It good whisky or beer in ;
The lies on each page
Of the Argus and Age
Are as black as the ink they appear in.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
V'N'ii
h n
3!
EUREKA
|ELECTRIC BELTf^
MttL
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt bj
the wearer. It has great improvements over all othej
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured m three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp foi
postage.
Address s-« ' VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Bos 916, G. F. 0., Bydnbt.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
limit" limits
Has an ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
Is now being introduced into the colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every wise mother will certainl}
use it.
Dp. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
T IFE PRESERVATION
Dr. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
ID Lonsdale Street East, MBXaouBOTk
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Ner .us, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
Quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Oa, 4 A’Beokett Street West, Melbourne.
COLEmane & sons
m
Eucalypte Oil
Victory Ointment*
THE TREE OF LIFE
saffisf
Pllßt
TUe only pure Encalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
. Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Encalypte Pills, Encalypte
Hair Restorer, Encalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Encalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
peop'o Also, makers of the Encalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Medical.
A WQHSSEFUL MEDICINE,
Beecbam’s Pills
CJI4
$
'V
■
PATENT
PILLS
$
&
&
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
. and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, Ac. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which, are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcham’s Cough
Pills a t.ial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. XJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Jj-ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed id. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Boo* Free. Address —
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
rjlO SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Dr. ANDERSON
(Late Cowan and Anderson),
—-SPECIALIST ON—
OHBONIO NERVOUS DEBILITI.
SKIN CONTAGIONS,
And all Diseases of the Genito - Urinary Organ'.
Consultation Free.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all Oases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, securely packed, tc
all parte of the Colonies.
Neitt Dr. ANDERSON,
165 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
A Wonderful Discover}
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling a>
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dtiuue
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and ooolii
to those who have weak eyes, or whoee work compels the
to strain their eyes. Highly recommended by the leadb
Oculists.
f The public are requested to notice t)
i worda) “ROSE’S CELEBRATED EY
LOTION,” with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Bh:
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing th
Lotion, without which it ie a forgery.
*“ - ROSE’S MATEO ETE LOTH
Not for Rose Eye Lotion,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palm:"
off on yon for the genuine article, thus misleading tb,
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
5. A. ROSE, Einniifl A Wtctstno' Chemist
531 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses
Established 1858 (By post, 3?. 6d )
ty Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH and
RHEUVIATIC PILLS
JUST PUBLISH E. 1
A most Unique Woi-k on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Ne:.
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rule
are worth its weight in gold. Send your fi I
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy
given away for the next -ix Months Only. Writ
to Professor R. T. S ELBY, Cleveland Stree’,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
—Wa Can Recommend—
B. EUGENE’S
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLE MBITS
Hairdressing Saloon
As the moot Central and Well-Appointed
of any in the City.
tsr WKMtAKlire and BAER WORK. H
Frenah and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address i
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from Q.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all Kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
H&rrl*.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to bis care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" Tor Framing i Picture Neat and Will."
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Stork, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
pecial attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G, STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, YATS.
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE YATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c.
Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Bet* een King and Market Streets.
î
î
mi
pUCH
m
INC
*A
?/
D^R
PC
ife *§£" tY^i^
IS, manufactured by .A
\S C/f/iWCM J%ariovrS t r
Wx.' )V/,-v' ,’v jii < J*.l ire/tttfif.-v ,\
S '. s 5
rssi
Business Announcements.
Guiness’a Extra Stout.
FIRST - QUALITY.
Ilf “I! <1 V 3 it m :V<? ■. #
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
30L0NIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION.
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agent* i
3AL CHI IT, JOOSIOH ud Co*
Commercial Chambers, Bond St., Sydney.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£ ft.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and jour
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Stdottc,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos*
tumes. Repairs neatly done
K
MAI«UPAtTuft£R9
ft IMPORTERS or
•»_ I j
HATS CAPS fc
438 CEORCE ST
3VDMEY %
0/O//03 1 fe LaosetCers
//
\sp
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
*#IHTCASTL£ g SON$
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
llunners in the street.
CONSULT
M-
H
OGG
GORE &
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On ali Diseases cff the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, comer of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
PRINCE 03T WALES’ HOTEI*
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.


MASON BROTHERS,
m
' • j\ }
(LIMITKD,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
S¥I)KEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S"
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Britten berg & 00.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrgrs, Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themsel vefe of N ervous Debility, Lost V itality,
&c.. &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
buckboard buggies
Regular shipments *of the best Buckboard
Busies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passanger Buakboards with pole,
&c, £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms j'Oash ;or
Banker’s Reference. COP R and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South),
E». R« I^iLRKIN,
IMPOETKB OP
<sr WINDS, SFIBZTS, BHBRS &0 0., <ScO, ■«
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
-
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Danville's, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood}, Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. KST All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
WMesa e and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
&T SEND EOR A PRICE LIST.
nm-CLASS LADIES’ RETmaisEHT~ BOOM and LAVATDH,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdbbn & Sons).
Produce stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, M, 500,000. Rkskbtk, £3T0,00&
Wool Season, 1888-80.
EEGULAR SALES OF WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wools
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether hem
large or small dips.
dW Growers Advised and Consulted with hefare
Sales of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Weal
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Fao«
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shlpmsel is
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial BMsaL
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manages.
SYDNEY WOOL St GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Beixxjb and Loftus Stekets.
Genuine Swedish made * crown
BRAND” HORSESHOE-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower In price.
Samples to be had at any leading IronmoefW*
or from
G. A. FALSTEBT,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMIOfI.
There is not a country in the ollvltoed workl when
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not base
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordfaas,
ailments of humanity their beneficient action it at OMS
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their oat
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Man*
faotured only at 78 Nrw Oxford-st., London. gSt F»
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and PeW.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street; London, they SN
spurious
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THB
Wertneim
SEWIMB MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
TITS
Wo/se/ey Sheep Shearing Machine
PABTOB/ALIBTS are notified that, to avoid disapppintmea*
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
AOBNTSt
T- S- Q-IDDES <55 Co,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
mu t. ram s to.
UNOIN2KR3, COPPERSMITHS, FINISHERS, PLUMBERS,
Brass & Bell Founders, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbbs, Art and Medieval Metal Wobkemu
ROLLER, SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices -11,000 Fires already in ufl*
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance*
BON ACCOBB WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Staumore Bead, Petersham.
Perdriau cSfc 00.,
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &a
TSXNIB SHOES and BALES.
AUSTRALIAN RUBBER WORKS, 270 SEOROE STREET, SYDNEY,
AMERICAN
WATCHES.
srzs
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD
in
OT Have obtained GOLD MED ALL and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
-S s J-
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very beat materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Gases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, tty back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. he “No. 1 sine’ just introduce; in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is tb# smallest and most p rfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches ar«* used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading linos of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-pivo". Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Ohbonoguaphs and '•’iniitk Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold a vantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
i ì
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
