

Ask yonr
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the best Ale or Porter. Lancet.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
OPENING!
OPENING!
OPENING!
We beg most respectfully to announce tbat we have
illi
mm immsf
mijmi
a/Pj
(Directly opposite Messrs DAVID JOISES & CO) as a FIRST GLASS
BOOT & SHOE EMPORIUM.
We can conscientiously say, without boasting, that our New Premises are the Best Lighted, Best Appointed and Most
Centrally-situated in the City.
T A DTPS’ APARTMENTS are separate; Handsomely-fitted up and elegantly furnished, with Lavatories and all necessary
requisites for privacy and comfort, combined with civility and attention We may also state that we have secured the services
requisites P J this department, who have given the manufacture of Ladies’ work their particular study.
By our CO-OPERATIVE SYSTEM we are enabled to Sell the Finest HAND-MADE
BOOTS or SHOES at Prices generally paid for Inferior Qualities.
We have secured the services of the BEST WORKMEN OBTAINABLE, and make all CLASSES and STYLES.
We pay Special Attention to WEAK ANKLES and other personal peculiarities.
WE USB NONE BUT THE BEST OP MATERIALS.
norms sold bv us are made by ourselves and bear our Trade Mark, and we guarantee them FIRST-CLASS in all details
All GOODS sold oy us are m , our OBJECT being to give
EASE. ELEGANCE & DURABILITY.
... , , .. „ or( , nna i supervision and care of our KUnag r, End no effort will be spared to please our Patrons
All Orders will be under the persona^uperv, A visit is ni st cordially extended to all.
and give them the best
Yours truly,
THE CO-OPERATIVE
lA
fm
y
□ n
w.
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Directly opposite DAVID JONES k CO.)
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
IK
IXSOPSONS
<&Ut.
*
m
a
☆
o
Po QV
SIR ROGER
O
a
riDa
mm
iai
DiXSONS
E
XCELSIOR HOTEL,
TOWERS.
CHARTERS
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported In bottles and used in treat
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYI'ER-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CUT.ON 10
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CAICULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUuEL- SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLB, 32, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
01933
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, occ.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HADTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
y^Ticxnsrsoisr’s
QUIS1ME HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark—“White Rose" on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address-in lull.
Williara «» Cargill,
Phonographic Stock Importer,
26— MARKET—STREET,
SYDNEY.
M'T.BAN BROS. BIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
Co
&
IRONMONGERS
5
o
v
o
*
*
<b
REG?
SPECIALITIES ;
Davit l Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES ;-LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
'BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, ftc., fto.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
R
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEAS. FLIES. BEETLES. MOSOUITOE
|COCKROACHES.SF < :SA c AND I
AT THE SAME TIME QUIT
HARMLESSfb BIRDS DO
FOWLS OR OTHER
ANIMALS* jS l ’
R
R
SOLD]
All CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
WMOUSfiU
FELTON* GRIM
. - MELBOURNE —■
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware o': the
numerous im tations.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received _ ...
Advances Made ..
Total Income „ ~ ~
Year ending
Oot., 1885.
£180,425 ..
61,630 ..
93,581 ..
123,248 ..
200,106 ..
Year ending
Oot., 1886.
£350,000 „
120,000 _
261,500 „
247,840 „
451,085 ..
Year ending
Oot., 1887.
£431,125 .
206,685 .
391,356 .
307,828 .
797,990 .
Year ending
Oot., 1888.
£580,000
231.015
1,123,940
625,826
2,048,051
Deposits received at following Rates ; —l2 months, 7 per cent. ; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
iVFLE FUNDS for Borrowers. T£EUS LIEEUL
m
’T
I*l
I .'II
mm :g==ni
•;.'fio,l
- ■i■ i m •
t jc;
Jifc
nszatEgas lijli imMf/
•-i
m m
■jIl: a —n
..y;
wj;
\.-.i
"■ I: W , to
‘‘V?.
ik
• r- ■'■; ~
■-■■.-
d~n
i— j »i_- nt»
aw**
naiiirn
|l= •' III?:’ " f ■ r: : t l!l -_ f IK. I
ill!
~j
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£tAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cash.
The holders of t e First Issue of these Shares received In October,
1885, £26 Is. &d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat i of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOU.\ AIM 10, M.P., J.P., « „ Chairman*
.WILLIAM IMUIi: It TV . Acting-Secretary.
Jr
THE
Federal coffee palace,
CORNER OF
IjZlrrg: Sc Colllrrs Streets, Ulel'bo-a.rrre,
Containing 560 ROOMS, ia now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Ch&f, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen ..... Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 479.
SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1889.
Price, 6d.
|lsL
“Big” Clarke, Secundus.


The Bulletin
The rational Australian Newspaper.
“ AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But zve
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By, sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirety
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, APRIL 20, 1889.
The National Programme
A week or two ago the “ Liberal ” Political
Association of New South Wales—called
liberal on account of Its conservatism and
stagnation—undertook the duty of drawing
up a programme for the future government
of a colony that ia already governed too
much, and the principal results of Its efforts
are now before the country. The Associa-
tion includes almost all the prominent) men
of the Foreign-trade party and a great part
of the rank-and-file of the same decaying
organisation, and consequently its political
confession of faith is practically a statement
of the creed of the Parkes Administration,
and an explanation of the reasons why that
body should still be allowed to encumber the
various public departments of the country.
It ia a catalogue of the things which the
ruling party intends to do if It Is not too
tired, and of the things which It proposes to
leave undone unless It will pay It batter to
act otherwise; and under these circumstances
a miaerable list of vague generalities is put
forward which, ia comparison with the pro-
gramme cf the same patty only two short
years ago, is like the feeble latter-day
mannderlngs of Tennyson concerning the
“ lord-manufacturer,” when contrasted with
the poems oa which his fame was built
before his muse commenced to tottar on
crutches to its final extinction.
» * •
Freetrade is, of course, the leading item in
the Association’s programme, and following
this comes the accustomei hoary chestnut to
the effect that retrenchment and strict
economy will be the watchwords of the
party. Retrenchment and economy, in
fact, have been the watchwords of every
party and of every individual politician at
every election since responsible government
began. It Is necessary that some allusion
should be made to finance, and as the party
which promised Increased expenditure and
extravagance would promptly find Itself an
ejected gang of brigands it naturally follows
that retrenchment and economy are always
to the front. Practically, they are as much
a matter of course as if the party pledged
Itself not to appear in the House without
clothes, and as Mr. Burns gave this Item of
the catalogue his cordial support it may be
taken for granted that the making of roads
on the ex-Treasurer’s private lands is economy
of the highest order. Good government
also is promised as it has been promised by
every potentate from Nimrod downwards ;
land-nationalisation Is left out because the
Foreign-trade party Includes all the richest
landlords of New South Wales, and land
m tlonalisation and landlordism are fatally
antagon stid ; the abolition of plural voting
was proposed and rejected by an over-
whelming majority j and payment of mem-
bers is also cast out of the programme as a
measure which tends to enable men who are
nob wealthy landlords to take part In con-
trolling the destinies of the nation. A shape-
less inspiration in the direction of mining
rerorm, a vision of a land reform which will
pcs'pone land nationalisation in New South
Wales till the coming of the Greek kalends,
and a renewal of the old promise of Local
Government which has been promised In
vain ever since Parkes first took a hand In
politics, constitute the balance cf a political
platfoim which is remarkable only for the
things that are not In It, and valuable only
f s a monument cf mental dry-rot and In-
curable inertia.
• * *
Unfortunately for Itself, the Liberal Politi-
cal Association labours under the disadvan-
tage of having been born dead. The theories
which It advocates are all stumbling to their
final fall, and the old Institutions which it
was created to prop up are sinking upon
their crumbling foundations. Its policy con-
tains not one dogma which Is not threadbare
and tattered from old age and senile decay,
not one promise which has not been broken
a thousand times, not one idea which is
younger than the age of fossils ; and this
hopeless want of originality Is fatal to It in
a wcrld where everything must move or die.
Its mission, as explained by its own leaders,
Is to stand still and grow old and gray and
mouldy while watching over Ks cherished
doctrine of Freetrade, and even a Divine
revelation would perish In the atmosphere of
dull commonplace in which the Abe ©ela-
tion pursues its crab-like progress backwards
Into premature antiquity. Australia wants
a live faith, not a dead superstition ; it wants
to lead the march of progress, not to be
dragged along at the rear ; and in a world
where life and motion are synonymous terms
it has no desire to be the emblem of living
petrification—the Dead Sea of human decay.
The political system of this Continent must
either continue to advance, or retrograde
Into the barbarism from which it sprung,
and consequently The Bulletin, speaking
on behalf of the party of progress, desires to
sketch cut the programme of the new gene-
ration, and leaves It to the Liberal Political
Association and similar aggregations to
preach the old, cast-ofl doctrines which were
already dying when George the Driveller
babbled and shrieked on the British throne
sixty years ago.
* *: •
The principle of One Man One Vote, so
contemptuously rejected by the Foreign-
trade organisation, must take the fint place
in the new National programme, not as
being, In Itself, a reform of any special value,
but as the only means by which reform can
be rendered possible. Hitherto the pro-
pertied class In Australia, and most of all in
New Sonth Wales, has been the one insur-
mountable obstacle in the path of progress.
Land Nationalisation is Impossible while the
few men who own land can vote down,
by their individual pluraliiy off votes,
the many single-vote electors who do
not own land ; national Independence Is
unattainable while the country is controlled
by the “representative Australians' 1 who
abase themselves In search of one-horse titles
conferred by a foreign sovereign ; and almost
every other reform is blocked because to the
man of propeity the world Is a very pleasant
place as It is, and change means only worry
and exasperation. And along with the
abolition of plural voting must be abolished
the elaborate residential qualifications by
which so large a portion of the wandering
population is perpetually disfranchised.
Universal suffrage In Its widest sense means
that every adnlt white man and woman of
sane mind must have one vote, and one only,
and when this result is anived at the balance
of political power will be shifted with a sud-
denness that will shake a hundred old-estab-
lished fetishes from their thrones in one
general cataclysm.
• • •
Oathe day when the allotment and manure-
yard vote Is abolished, and the power trans-
ferred in reality to the hands of the people,
the establishment of a great commonwealth
In the Pacific"—the United States of Aus-
tralia of which Lang dreamed In the early
days—will first become possible, and this,
above all others, is the purpose of the new
National Party In Australia. No possible
change of policy on the i art of thj British
Government—no possible concession which
could be granted—can avert this result.
Perpetual dependence Is Impossible In a new
nation with the vigour of the old Anglo-
Saxon pioneers In Its veins. The mere
knowledge that the deliberate decisions of
the Australian legislatures are constantly
liable to be overturned by some irresponsible
Smith who in us a bookstall, or some other
Minister who is an English country squire
and deeply versed In hogs—that its whole
policy can be reveled In a moment by some
chance politician who is its master because
the British Hodge has voted as the squire
told him to do, is fatal to the continuance of
the British supremacy in Australia. Whether
by peace or war the Australian Republic
will yet be established ; and along wilh this
the National Party demands an extensive
scheme of Decentralisation—tha disintegra-
tion of the present unwieldy colonies into
smaller states, each with Its own internal
Government and its elected Governor, but
all subject. In matters of national Interest,
to the Federal Legislature and the President
—the uncrowned kings of the fifth continent.
* * *
Internal Freetrade and Protection against
all the outside world are the next great items
In the creed of young Australia, and both
are now nearly accomplished. Except where
New South Wales sags heavily along under
the burden of a policy whoso one recom-
mendation la its English origin, all Australia
is already protected against the products of
the low-priced Chinese leper and hla almost
equally miserable brother the white slave of
England, and In the course of a very few
months New South Wales will inevitably
fall Into line. Hitherto the fact that
Sydney presented ai open door for the en-
trance of European shoddy and Asiatic glm-
c: acks and cheap American “ notions " has
made Intercolonial Freetrade Impossible, but
with the removal of that difficulty the border
Customs houses will decay of their own
accoid. Protection Is wanted as a safeguard
against outside degradation and against the
competition of servile races ready to toll for
a pittance and to bring down the wages of
the white Australian to their own level; and
against similar degradation within our own
territories Protection, (a the extent of abso-
lute exclusion, Is also the remedy. With or
without the consent of the foreign suzerain
who. still claims the right to muddle the in-
ternal policy of Australia—by peaceful
means if possible, and if they should prove
Impossible then by any means that may come
to hand—the Chinese will yet be ejected
from Australia, and tha present refusal of
the British Cabinet to allow the Restriction
Act of Queensland will make no difference
In the result. And along with the Mongols
must go the Kanakas, the Indian coolies,
and all the other imported black labourers
by whom Northern Australia Is overrun.
This country has neither time nor Inclination
for elaborate ethnological experiments,
neither does she seek to rear a mongrel
parti coloured race of mulattos and quad-
roons, zmbocs, mestizoes, and ccboroons,
and other strange varieties of the human
race. The elevation of the Polynesian and
the Chow, concerning which the fathers of
the Church speak so glibly, Is a work to
which the united efforts of all Europe are
admittedly unequal, and the scanty popula-
tion of this new world, being unable to
regenerate the teeming milliors of the old,
desires to avoid all risk of being dragged
down by constant association to the'r level.
*
The nationalisation of the lands of Aus-
tralia, by the Imposition of a tax equivalent
to the annual unimproved value of the soil
is a conspicuous feature la the National creed
which is now faking shape in Australia. The
horrors of the world’s great cities, where
thousands of miserable human beings are
doomed to swelter In noisome slums and to
die in pestilential alleys and dens In order
that one man may be the undisputed lord of
thousands upon thousands of acres, the
miseries of the Irish peasant, the Indian
ryot, and the Scottish crofter, the dismal
degradation of the English labourer perpe-
tually wallowing In abject abasement to the
squire and his relations, are only a few of
the outward signs of a stupendous evil which
is already fast taking root In Australia, In
several of the Protectionist colonies the Im-
position of a small land-tax has commenced
the destruction of this monstrous Iniquity,
»-d though In New South Wales the dead
wall of the Freetrade party —-that is to say, the
party of vested Interests—has so far blocked
all reform the approaching overthrow of
these apostles of a mummified faith gives
better promise for the future. Yet it must
be remembered that Land Nationalisation la
Itstlf does not "create wealth, but merely
provides for Its more even distribution •
When the lands of Australia are all practl-
cally the property of the State the Industrie's
of the country will still require protection
against the competition of foreign servi'e
races unless the country is willing to see Its
artlzvns competing on equal terms with the
Chinese worker, who Is ready and willing to
toll for a few pence per diem. A few fanati-
cal disciples to whom Henry George is the
political Messiah of the age fondly claim that
Land Nationalisation is a panacea for every
human ill, but in practice it will no more
serve to protect the operative of the city
factory against the ruin of Asiatic competl.
tlon than it would guard Melbourne from
the guns of a Chinese squadron anchored In
Hobson's Bay.
* ♦ «
The universal payment of Parliamentary
representatives, the abolition of nominee
legislative councils originally instituted
as feeble copies of the House of
Lords ; the prohibition of foreign titles
the utter destruction of the sectarian ele-
ment In Australian politics, the establish-
ment of a powerful militia for home defence
—not for foreign aggression, and a sweeping
reform of the judicial system, especially by
finally wiping out the lash and the gallows,
are the other leading features in the coming
policy of the Australian Federation. To
some extent, no doubt, this programme is a
policy without a party, for no political
organisation in Australia has ever yet ven-
tured to adopt a platform so universally
Democratic in its details, but this point con-
cerns us little. Ten years ago Australian
Republicanism did not exist ; seven years
ago the whole Protectionist party In
New South Wales might have been
swamped by the foundering of one
small flat - bottomed steamer in Sydney
Harbour ; five years ago Land Na-
tionalisation was the dream of a dozen
cranks scattered loosely over a continent;
yet to day these three questions overshadow
all others in politics this side of the Pacific
Ocean. Therefore we prophesy fearlessly
that In three years more The Bulletin’s
programme will be accepted In its entirety
by a party whose strength will be felt from
Port Darwin to the Great Australian Bight
and from the furthest shores of New Zealand
to the Swan River ; and that ten years hence
when Parkes has become a legend, and
Gillies’ Imperialistic policy is a bye-word
and his political grave has been defiled, and
his house sown with salt, It will be the
policy of an overwhelming majority of the
united nation. Events travel fast In the
nineteenth century. la took England some
sixteen hundred years to complete the plans
and specifications of a constitutional monarch,
and now that the work Is about finished she
feels little satisfaction in the result. Lass
than one-tenth of that time, dating from the
day when the first British Governor landed
his band of convicts at Botany Bay, will
suffice to convince Australia that monarehs
of all descriptions, with their aeoompani-
menta of landlordism, feudalism, political
dependence, decorations, titles, and empty
adulation, are a needless excrescence on the
face of the earth.
The “Necessary Fees.”
In Darlinghurst Gaol, Sydney, one day last week
somebody accidentally dug up a prisoner who had
been put in there and forgotten some 17 months
previously on account of a debt of £2l. Imprison'
ment for debt, in the ordinary sense of the term,
of course, has long since been abolished in New
South Wales, and any man who is shut up among
common malefactors for the crime of not owning
any money can obtain his release on filing his
schedule and paying the necessary fees, but if he
hasn’t got the fees he is, under certain circum-
stances, which occasionally occur, as in the
present instance, imprisoned for not having them,
so the ultimate result is much the same. The object
of filing his schedule is to state officially that he
doesn’t own £5 in the world, and he is required to
hire a legal cormorant and pay him from £5 to £lO
for doing this. In order to force him to hire the
legal cormorant the forms of stating the simple
fact that he is “ broke” have been elaborately com-
plicated so that no layman can go broke by him
self with any reasonable hope of ever getting
there, and therefore he must either pay the hawk
with the certificate money that he hasn't got for
filing a paper showing that he hasn’t got any
money, or must stay in gaol. It doesn’t do the
legal profession, or the creditor, or the debtor him-
self, any good to stay in gaol, but he remains there
as an awful warning to men outside that they must
always pay a lawyer even if they can’t do it. As
he doesn’t earn any money in gaol it naturally
follows that he may in the ordinary or extraordi-
nary course of things remain there 20 years and
cost the country an awful amount in food, and yet
be no nearer to paying the statutory vulture than
he was when he started, but that doesn’t matter.
Other men who have brained policemen, and
stamped on their wives, and crippled their
mothers may come and go, but the man who


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OE AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
London Bankers:
AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK,
2 King William Street, London, EC.
This Bank undertakes the exchange o! money
of all nations In addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
3 years 8J per cent,
12 Months 8 „
6 ~ ... ... ... 7 u
8, RICHARDSON m« Managing Diroolo*
hasn’t the money to pay a lawyer st&ys on for
ever, unless some kind-hearted judge takes pity
on him and fires him out. Now and then, of
course, there may be a prisoner who knows how to
file his own schedule and how to get leave
to file it, without hiring a high-priced ort-
side assistant to help him in the onerous work
of not having any property, but as he can’t get
out to file it, it doesn’t do him much good. And
even if he could get over the wall and break
the pedestrian record to the insolvency depart-
ment so as to get there before some one overtook
him and hauled him back, the department insists
on a fee for impaling his documents on the office
spike and leaving them there ; and c onsequently
he is bowled out once more in his efforts to go
broke officially as provided by the code of his
native laud.
* • *
Sometimes, ho sever, a special dispensation of
Providence gets the schedule through; and then
the debtor, after duly attending his meeting and
being examined in the ordinary course, can go
free. That is to say after he attends his meeting
he will be released, but he isn’t necessarily re-
leased to attend his meeting, and consequently,
having been in gaol when the meeting was on he
is afterwards kept in gaol for not being present
at the meeting. Generally nobody sends him any
notice at all about the matter—in fact it isn’t
anybody’s business to send a notice to anybody
unless he hires a wolf of the parchment order to
look after his interests and pays the customary
fee a. Possibly, a long time afterwards, he learns
that there was a meeting, and that everybody was
much surprised that he wasn’t there, but as often
as not this information never reaches him. When
he gets quite tired of being in gaol, he probably
petitions for his release, and then he learns that
when he has paid the necessary fees he can ba ex-
amined before a species of insolvency mandarin,
and after that he will probably get out. Not
having the fees, however, he mostly stays where
he is. After a month or two more of rest end
seclusion, the debtor most likely gives up the in-
solvency mandarin in despair, and applies, if he
can raise the fees, to hire a barristerial raven to
apply for him, to the Judge in Bankruptcy, and
then he learns, to his great relief, that if he can
raise the fees usual in such cases he can summon
h’s creditors to show cause why he shouldn’t be
released, and if somebody chances to send him
notice when the case is coming on, and be has the
luck to get out to attend and ascertain why he
shouldn’t get out, and he can raise the fees to pay
another wool-headed legal fiend to appear for him,
and the other side don’t manage to show cause
why he should remain in, a document may possi-
bly be drawn up on payment of the necessary fees
by which he will be turned loose on society.
• *
In the present instance the Judge in Insolvency
has cut the knot by ordering the release of the
debtor, provided he gives his own security for
£25, which sum he,can't pay because he has tried
for 17 months to raise security for £2l, and hasn’o
Been successful to the extent of even fii.; and
having deposited this bogus and valueless docu-
ment which isn't worth any more now than it
would have been when he was first arrested the
year before last, he will be cub adrift. His in-
solvency business', however, remains just where it
started, and as he is now liable for the original
£2l and for the bond of £25 as well, to say nothing
of the customary fees, which will probably start
again the instant his .creditor makes another at-
tempt to recover the debt on which the whole
trouble wai founded, his position doesn’t present
so many joyous features as it might do.
He has, however, acquired a lot of legal know-
ledge in the course of his 1,7 m nbhs’ experience.
He has learned that the work of stating that he
hasn’t any momy is too intricate to be accom-
plished without the aid of a valuable attorney or
conveyancer at £5 or upwards ; that it takes about
£3 more to fix tha complicated document on the
file at the proper dep rtment, and £2 more still to
hold it on, and about another £2 to keep it from
coming off He has ascertained that a bankrupt
is locked up so as to prevent him attending a
meeting he never heard about unless he cau hire a
deaf solicitor to hear about it for him, and
that he is afterwards kept lockfd up because
he wasn’t at the meeting, unless he can pay
a mentally lame and broken-down statutory j ackal
to forget to go there in his stead. He has dis-
covered that he can’t petition anybody fir a hear-
ing without employing a valuable legal mind to
stump ti the table and mumble something, and
then bash down the document at a high figure,
and that when this has been done he can’t petition
again for his release without defraying the ex-
penses of another learned brother to fall forward
in court with the paper in his hand so that it may
come under the far-reaching judicial eye. He has
found out, in short, that it costs about £3O in legal
expenses and 17 months of hard work bo explain
to a thick-headed judicial system that he hasn’t
got £2l, and even (hen his education was pre-
maturely out short by the Judge in lasolveacy,
unless, indeed, the want of some more necessary
fees staits him on a new career of judicial
research-
“Books” and Sweeps.
Are not the professional gamblers making the
world a little too hot to hold them? This is a
gambling community, it is true, and everybody,
from the chief of the State to the milkman’s
errand-boy, is naturally expected “ to put his bit
on ” each of the leading events of the racing year
at least. The smart clerk or commission agent
who proves to ba just a little too smart for com-
mercial life gravitates to the ring and takes his
place among the great army of minor penciliers,
while the giant bookmakers count their trans-
actions in tens of thousands and keep a staff of
accountants who are nearly as swell atd qaite as
B Pry as those which adorn tbe bank c untars of
Melbourne or Sydney. Almost every barber’s
shop is a betting-shop without disguise, and nearly
every tobacconist is a bookmaker. “Consulta-
tions ” are held on all sides, some of their or-
ganisers dealing honestly enough with £50,000 or
£60,000 in the course of a season, and some bag-
ging a few stray pounds from inexperienced specu
lators and then being heard of no more. Indeed
the difficulty is to avoid being drawn into a sweep
without your own concurrence since you may
sometimes find yourself tbe unconscious holder
of the theatre ticket which bears the magic
number entitling you to a gold watch,
or the winner of the prize offered by the
proprietor of a city dining-cellar to the cus-
tomer who eats the largest number of dinners
in the shortest space of time. Evan those whose
calling prevents them from openly doing anything
with horses contrive to have a finger in every new
boom, and are keen to scent cut the occasions when
they may take a little money to a stockbroker to
“ invest at his discretion.” In short, the gambling
mania, universal as it is, has reached a point at
which a burst-up is inevitable.
• • *
Of course piety is alarmed at the spread of
“ consultations,” and so, indeed, are people who
are not pious, for the bookmakers all of a sudden
discover that “consultations” absorb a lot of
the money which used to come to them. There-
fore, for once the parson and the metallician are
in the same boat, and Johnny Solomon and
Pastor Jeffebis are neighbours in feeling as in
fact. The bookmakers are getting up “ consulta-
tions ” of their own, whereby they will be able to
skin the lamb on all sides—the pious party are for
putting consultations down with a strong hand.
So hateful is this unhallowed form of making money
to tha benevolent people who are yet always ready
to boss usurious financial institutions that they
cannot even bear to Eee it devoted to charitable
uses. When the profit of The Bulletin “Hospital
Consultation” was received by the Committee of
the Sydney Hospital it stuck in the gizzards of the
goody goody members of the Board, and for a
moment seemed likely to be refused. The matter,
of course, was of no consequence to The Bulletin,
which bad nothing to do with the consultation
beyond suggesting it, and necessarily reaped no
profit whatever by the transaction. But it was
highly interesting to see members of the Hospital
Committee forgetting that their institution has
certainly a natural and legitimate claim upon the
money devoted to racing, which sport assuredly
brings]a good deal of work to their doors.
• *
It is quits true that consultations have become
alarmingly numerous and that they will have to
be regulated or abolished. The only question is,
which shall it be ? There is no difficulty in their
abolition. That has b-en proved in Victoria,
where a simple post-office regulation forbidding
tha issue of money-orders and the delivery of
letters to persons concerned in them stopped the
whole business. But would it be just or wise to
enter upon an unreasoning crusade against on-
saltations and leave the ring to do as it likes
untouched ? Would it not be better, if we are to
attack the gambling usages of society, to do the
work thoroughly and extinguish the bookmaker
as well as tha sweep-promoter and so end the
evil at once. For the bookmaker does far more
barm than the sweep-promoter. There is no
doubt about that. Now and then, perhaps,
money may be stolen or embezz’ed to s;nd for
the “ Consultation ” ticket, but direct theft is the
constant result of the visit of the bawling book-
maker to the unlucky clerk or shopman who has
become his debtor by losing a bet. The book-
maker is the best debt c Elector in the world, and
if legislation should deprive him of his present
occupation there wqll be found room for him on
the face of the earth. There would be no very
great difficulty in putting an end to his operations.
It would only be necessary to proclaim every race-
course as a public place and to forbid the crying of
odds or booking of bets at all. There would be
no need to curtail the privileges granted to racing
associations which certainly, by the way, receive
more favours at present than they can show any
just claim to possess.
* • •
It is alleged, in the interests of the bookmakers,
that without betting there would be no racing, for
that owners could not afford to breed horses simply
for the sake of the prizes offered to winners. It
is n it worth while to point out that many of the
greatest breeders and best supporters of racing
have steadily declined to bet at all, because it will
ba quite easy, if the bookmakers’ calling is
demolished, to increase the inducements cflared to
owners. For this purpo .e the totalisator offers
every facility. It has been tried for nine years in
New Zealand, where it has been perfectly success-
ful and has satisfied the public, the owners of
torses, end the racing associations ft certainly
appears to be the best method of dealing honestly
with the money the public choose to stake on
horse racing, since its aitiin ensures fair play and
makes it easy to determine the percentage of
profit to be divided among its managers. If we
grant that it dpes not pay owners to breed racers
for the yalue of the present prizes the best way of
.encouraging breeding must necessarily l?i to make
the prices larger and more numerous, and there is
no way of doing this so certain as that the totali-
salor could afford under legal regulatiin. The
.consultation promoter deducts 10 per cent, of the
whole sum entrusted to him by the public, the
ordinary bookmaker nets a considerably larger
proportion of the money he handles, and there is
no doubt that horse owners do not, under the
present system, receive sp much of the money
wagered against their horses as the legitimate use
of the totalisator would give them.
* • •
If racing associations were allowed to add the
totalisator to their scheme of management and
compelled to permit its use by authorised persons
where they did not choose to manage it themselves,
the odds, which are after all only the practical ex-
pression of the opinion of the public, would be
much bigger than they are now and the gains of
the winners would be larger in proportion. The
10 p;r cent, deduction from the money passed
through the totalisator could be apportioned
partly for expenses of management —which one per
cent, would fully repay ; three per cent, to public
charities, which certainly have a good claim on
money of this class; and six per cent. 1 to augment
the stakes for competition Thus, supposing that
a million sterling is yearly devoted to betting
in New South Wales, that sum passed
through the totalisator would yield £lO,OOO
to the managers, £BO,OOO to the public charities,
and £60,000 for the benefit of hone owners
in augmentid stakes, which is more than they
receive under the present system. Credit betting
would be practically abolished, the bookmaker’s call-
ing would ba gone, and the temptations to em-
bezzlement reluced to a minimum. Sir Julius
Vcgel, a great sportsman himself and a thorough
man of the world, intended to legislate in this
direction in the N Z Parliament, bat the defeat
of his Administration on other grounds prevented
him from carrying cut his intention. There is no
difficulty in the whole mat er since a very short
legal enactment would enable the racing associa-
tions or other authorised persons to work the
totalisator, paying over such proportions of the
takings as have been mentioned for the purposes
named, while a couple of ten word clauses would
squelch the bookmaker and abolish the consulta-
tion sharp also. The big bookmakers are trying
to abolish the little ones, and both together are
banded against the consultation system. It is
time for the State to sweep them all away, and to
protect the perfectly legitimate interest men show
in horse-racing when they bet on a horse’s speed
or breed a horse to win. At present the large
bookmakers pretend tlat because horse-owners
naturally prefer to bat with them rather than
wibh the small fry horse-racing could not go on
without them. Bub if the use of the totalisator
enables an owner to secure the market odds for
himself attd to win a heavier stake into the bar-
gain, the bo )kmak(r will be as unnecessary as the
dragon, and his disappearance from the face of
creation will be equally beneficial to mankind.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Swindled Land Nationalisers
Me. M‘Millan, Colonial Treasurer of New South
Wales, has gone back on all his pledges to the
Single Tax League in one unwholesome act. The
Land Tax, which was among the broken promises
of the Foreign trade party in 1887, was again pro-
mised in 1889, and again it is not forthcoming.
According to Mr. Seaveb, himself a Freetrader of
the deepest dye, the one or two votes necessary to
overturn the Dibbs Cabinet were obtained on the
solemn oath of Sir Henry Paekes —the same old,
hardworking oath which has seen so much wear
and tear in politics, and has broken down under so
many ordeals —backed up by the equally solemn
swears of Messrs. Beunkbb and M’Millan, that
a Land Tax would be among tha first measures
introduced by the new Government and that they
would stand or fall by it; and in addition to this
Mr. M'Millan, only the other day, pledged his
reputation and honour, as a Foreign-trader and a
softgoodsman, that lha protective duties hitherto
levied by the Freetrade administration would be
removed at once, and the unclean thing abjured
for evermore. The imposts on batter, bacon, and
cheese, by which Protection was granted to the
South Coast farmers on condition that they voted
for Freetrade, were to be removed ; the kerosene
duty, by virtue of which Mr. Street is a protected
Freetrader and votes the Freetrade ticket in the
House, was to be abolishsd ; and the gap thus left
in the ravenua was to be filled by means of a Land
Tax, which would also supply the funds to wipe
off the fabled Dibbs deficit of past years, and at
tha same time drive in the thin edge of the wedge
of Land Nationalisation, and prepare for the time
when the Custom House would be abolished, and
the land itself would be the sole source of revenue.
But, somehow, all these dreams have vanished
into chaos. Tuere is no Land Tax in the Foreign-
trade programme, for Burns and Buedekin, and
the obner wealthy landlords who find the money
for the Foreign trade propaganda are prepared to
see their party in Tophet before they will
endure any such impost. The kerosene duty is
not to be removed, and the duties on dairy
produce are to ba retained for the good and suffi-
cient reason that the Bouth Coast farmers want
Protection, and if they cannot get it otherwise
will vote the Protectionist ticket as one unani-
mous agriculturist at next election. Ako the
deficit of £2,600,000 is to be extinguished—not by
means of a Lind Tax, but by the sale of £2,600,000
worth of the national estate; and thus seyaral
hundred more landlords will be created, every
one of whom will regard Land Nationali-
sation as a public conspiracy got up to con-
fiscate his 50 x 130 allotment; and £2,600,000
worth more votes will be counted in favour
of the cause of “ proputty.” Ten square
feet of land is sufficient bo make the averjge
citizen a Conservative of the deepest dye; aid
tha sale of the vast array of small suburban allot-
ments by means of which Mr. M'Millan pro-
poses to restore his financial equilibrium will ba
sufficient, in itself, to convert half the present
supporters of the Single Tax movement to ram-
pant Toryism. And, not content with thus throw-
ing over Freetrade and Lind Nationalisation in
one breath, tha Treasurer heaps needless aggrava-
tion on tha heads of his Socialistic supporters by
deliberately stating that the one seriotis attempt
at checking tha evils of landlordism which was
ever made in New S ruth Wales originated, not
with the Paekes Government, but with the
Dibbs-Jennings-Stuart combination which the
leaders of the Single Tax movement have so
bitterly abased. Tae famous Dibbs deficit, he
stiates, arose not through extravagance bub through
the stoppage of land sales —the very object for
which the Land Nationalises have so persistently
agitated ; and through the fact that the Opposi-
tion, led by Pabkes, successfully blocked all
attempts to obtain money by that direct taxation
which is the great objact of tha Single Tax
League. Fm-ther, he declares that the deficit, at
the worst, only amounted to £2,000,000, and that
the £600,000 which was so persistently added
oa to it by Mr. Burns was really the new
deficit which that gentleman erected on his
own account. In other words, he practically
ffeclares that 4he famous Hornsby landlord
mixed up the public accounts and promul-
gated a fiction which reflected either on his
honesty or his iutelHgence — or possibly on
looth. But the personal squabbles of Burns and
M'Millan are of small importance to the country.
The rne point of real moment is that the Land
Tax has vanished and that landlordism is making
a new start in New South Wales, and as each
separate allotment which is sold counts for one
more vote on behalf of “proputty ” it is time for
the Single Tax League to declare war.
*
The Printers’ Strike
Editor Bulletin,— Not alone from the sympa-
thetic tone of your article last week on the Union of
Trades Unions and its beating on the Brisbane
Printers’ Strike, do I know that you have the
best interests of the trade at heart. I now
ask for a brief space in your columns to ex-
pose a danger to the New South Wales Typo-
graphical Union which unfortunately is internal,
and if not immediately grappled with will lead to
a complete collapse of the Union. Thera is a lot
of selfishness in the conduct of the Society. The
steadily employed big (night-work) wage-earners
on the daily papers, many of whom regularly earn
from £5 to £6 a week, are the greatest siieklers
for the maintenance of trade usages, and naturally
so, no doubt, as the Society is the bulwark which
stands between them and a reduction of wages.
The men in the jobbing-offices (day-work) earn
barely half what is earned by the news printers,
and have far from constant work, and yet they are
aoked to contribute on the same scale as the
big-earners, and to ba quite as enthusiastic iu the
maintenance of a society which benefits them in
a by no means equal degree. I know oases of
genuine distress that have existed amongst
printers of the latter class who have gone
hungry through remaining true to the society,
and, though an uncompromising unionist myself, I
really do find in my heart some kind of palliation
for the act of a man who “ rats ” and goes to Bris-
bane. Work of any kind is a strong temptation
to a man when his pockets are empty and his wife
downcast and his children are crying for bread.
Surely men who decline employment for the
maintenance of a principle show as much zeal in
the interests of the trade as the men who
go out on strike for the maintenance of a principle,
and yet we find that the strikers get strike-pay
while the unfortunates who are out of work get
nothing. Now, sir, I have come to the conclusion
that if Trades-Unionism is to continue an institu-
tion beneficial to the interests of the printing
trade, true Socialistic principles must be admitted
to a place among its tenets, in so far that society
members unable to obtain employment must be
maintained by those in work. The plan I would
suggest is that from month to month the
Society’s board should make an assessment
of Is,, 2?., or 3s, in the £, and more, if
necessary, on the amount earned by each man in
work during the month for the maintenance o!
the unemployed who can satisfy the Board that
they have genuinely sought for work in Union
offices and have been unable to find it. This
should take the place of the present uniform scale
of contributions, which is unjust in principle. The
fact that so manv men have ignored the Society
and taken work at Brisbane must show theunionists
the necessity of grappling with the evil at once,
and if the selfishness of the men in steady em-
ployment prevents a change, then all I c an say is
that they will vary soon find the whole carefully-
built fabric come toppling about their ears like
a house of cards.— A Printer.
♦
The Whole Hog or None.
If Freetrade is the best thing for New South
Wales, as Mr. M'Millan, Mr. Wise, and Sir
Henby Parkes aver, there cannbt be top
much of it. The people of New South Wales get
their clothes and furniture from England, theig
butter and cheese and bacon and green stuff from
Victoria and New Zealand and Tasmania, their
machinery from Europe, and they even import
their clergymen. The best course that they can
possibly adopt, we are assured, is to leave off
locally manufacturing anything which they can buy
cheaper abroad. So be it. Why, then, do they
not shut their University and import their doctors
and lawyers? No one nan pretend that we can
educate a doctor or a lawyer as cheaply in Sydney
as at the Universities of Glasgow or Edinburgh or
Aberdeen or Barham. In the Scotch universities
education is so cheap and rules are so easy that it
is not uncommon for young men to earn their
Hying by handicraft occupations pursued in the
intervals of study. Not only have school-terchers
and clerks and apprentice engineers contrived 1 1
obtain their degrees but carpenters and waiters
have been known to blossom into full fledged
Masters of Arts and D-ctors of Medicine or Laws
and Learning. As these coupses are cfearjy im-
possible in New South Wales the best thiog the
Government of that colony can do is to shut down
its purse-strings at once, close the University,
grant no aid to any but elementary national
schools, and import learning as they import linen,
from the cheapest market in which it is on sale.
— f —
Tlie Revolutionist and the Peep.
A pew days ago John Dillon, Irish revolution!it,
and Lord Kintoee, the common or garden peer
who is to supervise British interests as Go-
vernor of South Australia, arrived simultaneously
at Adelaide, and the population turned cut to
great them. At least they turned out to greet the
Irish patriot end left the British peer to hustle
pretty much for himself, John Dillon, the
representative of Irish Nationalism, the advocate
of Home Rule and of the abolition of that callous
E jglish regime which has lain like a nightmare on
Ireland for 600 years, the so called Fenian, the
rebel ” and “ dynamitard ” of the frantic Tory
press, was tie centre of a tremendous ovation,
while Kintoee, whose last public utterance in
England was an emphatic declaration that, in his
dual capacity as a rampant Christian and a ram-
pant Conservative ha approved of the reign of
coercion and bayonets in the sister isle, metaphori-
cally struggled ashore with his carpet-bag and his
coronet, and was greeted with the customary
prosaic address drawn up by the fat and solemn
councillors of the city. The enthusiasm which
swelled around him was like the head on the beer
that was opened last week; the wild applause
that rcse in Dothebojs Hall when the much-
spanked students of that seat of learning
were informed that Mr. Squeers had re-
turned alive and well to get up the arrears of
flogging was hardly more pallid ard flabby, and
the martial flow of Douglas S laden's muse
ntyar halted worse on its superfluous feet Ex-
cepting for the welcome of the local Bum isles,
Kintoee was all but forgotten at the very outset
of his career, arid while the man of the peop'e was
addressing an enthusiastic meeting which crowded
the To vn Hall to the very doors the hired op-
ponent of Nationalism was left to vegetate in
neglect at Government House. The “loyal’
press of Auslralia will no danbt endeavour to
explain away Dillon s success by declaring that
his audiatcos consisted mainly of expatriated
Iris 1 'in an and exiled Fenians and ether mixed
revolutionists, but this explanation has tean used
till the public has grown vary tired. The growth
of Australian Nationalism has created a feeling
of sympathy in th°se colonies for the nations!
aspirations of other countries, and there it a
welcome now in Australia from all o’asses for
the Iri<b, tha Polish, and the Hindoo pa-
tiiot alike. Among the prominsnt citizens who
reo ived Mr. Dillon was one member of
Parliament with the obtrusively German name
of Krichauff, and another wifi the distinctly
Hebrew deAgnation of Cohen, and the presence
of the Kbichauffs and the Cohens is a distinct
evidence that our rational democratic septiment
rests on a better foundation than the exiled Moike
and Bridget could supply. And even the
“ loyalty " which still survives is not the loyalty
it was in the days of the Redmond mission.
♦
It is stated that the present Gillies Ministry will
introduce a Bill for the purification of limited
liabilidy companies in Victoria, on the lines of one
passed by the Houses of Commons last session.
The most vital dame in the English measure
s ipulates that “A prospectus must truly disclose
pardiculars as to property, the consideration to be
p fid fc r it, and any arrangement by which any
p romoter or any person on his behalf derives any


Ben franklin printing office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Uiesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &c.
Maclardy's £5 Box of Stationery a speciality-
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address —
319 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N.B, —Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goods Inspection invited.
benefit from the purchase-money payable by the
company on the issue of any shares or deben-
tures.” If some of the land-boom prospectuses
had truly disclosed a few of these things, there
would not now be so many verdant individuals
cursing the day when they tiled to make a
fortune by joining a syndicate, nor so many “pro-
moters ” bewailing their own unexpected entangle-
ment in the webs they spun. By the way, the
most unfortunate feature about that same land
boom is that it seems to have enriched nobody, or
hardly anybody, except the original unearned in-
crementors who held the land at the outset. A
few of them sold their uncultivated dirt at sinful
prices, and added the money to their bloated
hoard, while the majority, still holding their pro-
perties, have annexed the forfeited deposits, and
walk around Melbourne saying that they have
risen to be what they are (ye gods !) by their own
energy and enterprise.
One of the first Bills bo be sub aaitted to Parlia-
ment if Sir Thomas MTlwraith returns to the
helm in Queensland will be a Bill to limit election
expenditure by candidates for seats in the As-
sembly. Under the present electoral law whole-
sale corruption may be carried on with impunity,
and, as Sir Charles Lxlley lately stated, several
members now sit in the Queensland Parliament
through having taken full advantage of this legal
laxity. One member, whose seat was challenged,
admitted that he was seat out of the room while
his committee were passing his election accounts,
and that immediately after he paid these accounts
without asking questions or examining them. Sir
Thomas, on hearing this, ejaculated, “Heaven
help us !” and at once placed himself in communi-
cation with Sir Samuel Griefith so that Parlia-
ment could effectually help itself.
+
Sir Alfred Stephen, once Chief Justice and
now Lieutenant-Governor ot New South Wales,
would like to see the office of Minister of Justice
(i e. Solicitor-General) abolished. That was the
meanincr of his recent motion in the New South
Wales Legislative Council respecting Judge Win-
deyer and the case of Reilly v. Hincksman. Sir
Alfred holds that judges ought not to be assailed
at “ the will and pleasure of a Minister of the
Crown who may preside over a certain depart-
ment.” It is quite true that the office of Minister
of Justice has been very often badly filled. Men
who did not understand the principles of either
law or justice have been hoisted into the position
on account of political and party exigencies. But
men almost similarly umulted for the Bench have
bsen lifted there on precisely similar grounds. It
is by accident some men become M'nisters of
Justice, and it is by fatal accident some men be-
come judges. But in both cases the man in posses-
sion must be nermitted to exercise the functions
of bis office. The reason why the office of Minister
of Ju itioe exists is that technical law may be kept
in accord with oommon-ser.se and national policy.
The judge should concern himself with the techni-
cal law, the Minister with the bearing of that
law as delivered by the judge on the general com-
munity. Where the indecency comes in is in a
judge indicating that he wants the Minister
abolished. When a judge has delivered sentence
he has performed his whole duty, the only after-
service he can bestow being to report on the case
if requested bo to do. As far as justice is con-
cerned he should have neither influence nor in-
terest in the fate of the sentenced man. That is
wholly for the State. That is wholly for the
Government Toe sentenced man is officially the
property of the Minister of Justice. Sir Alfred
has been all his life working to make the judge
supreme. This latest motioa of his is cn the old
familiar lines. But the community will stand to
the Minister, stand to the Government, stand to
the State. The iudge must never be accepted as
the fountain of Justice.
Why do not the apostles of Decentralisation in
New South Wales protest against the frequent
provision inserted in the Acts of Parliament which
requires all public notices regarded necessary by
these Acts to be published in the Sj dney daily
papers? This provision is often made the means
of practically subsidising a single journal which
reaps a rich harvest from this peculiarly protective
legislation. Very frequently it happens that the
announcements in question are neither understood
nor heeded in Sydney, while they may be of the
highest importance to people in the township to
which they relate. Is it to be inferred that the
residents on the Darling are to be compelled to
take theS.M. Herald, or is it considered desirable
that their existence should be entirely ignored un-
less they do so? As the case stands a number of
countrymen may at any moment find that their
interests have been dealt with behind their backs
and without their knowledge. If this matter were
thoroughly looked into, some very curious little
wrigglings would be exposed to daylight.
Mr. Billinghurst, of the London and West-
minster Bank, has tak<=n up the story of Austra-
lian debt and Australian ruin. At a recent
meeting ot the Sinker’s Institute in the Imperial
metropolis Mr. Billinghurst rose with a half ton
manuscript in his hand to divulge the universal
insolvency of this great Southern land, and when
he had poured forth bis message of desolation
there was grief among the great financiers who
formed his audience According to his statements
—most, if not all, of which apoear to bo incontro-
vertible—Australia now owes England no less than
£231 000,000, the public debts of the various
colonies amounting tn about £130,000,000 and the
remaining £100,000,000 reoresenting, at a very
low estimate, the miss of English capital lent out
to private boirowers. The interest on this vast
mortgage amounts to some £10,000,000 per annum,
and the question which Mr Billinghurst asks is :
How long will Australia be able to keep on paying
this yearly subsidy to the jubilated British bond-
holder ? Apparently not long. Either Australia
must keep on piling up impossible liabilities till
the Day of Judgment and universal insolvency, or
she must contrive that her exports shall exceed
her imports by £lO 000,000 pi r »nnum in order to
keep her present liabilities afloat. In place of
this, however, her imports already exceed her
exports by £ll 000,000 per annum—in other
words, between the excess of her purchases and
t ie interest upon her miscellaneous liabilities she
is adding £21,000,000 each year to the tremendous
1 m upon her industry. No elaborate political
economy by Wise or Pulsford— no anguler
diagrams showing that a nation’s prosperity con-
sists of what she owes, and that the real basis of
exchange rests on a triangular system by which A
borrows money from B which mnney he can’t pay,
and sends produce to C which C doesn’t want—
cm explain away this result. Australia must in
s ime form or other pay for her imports and pay
also the interest on her public debt out of her own
resources, or else she must keep on borrowing
until she ends in bankruptcy, and judging from
present appearances the latter seems the most
probable result.
The Referee.
The elghb-oar race between crews from
six of the Sydney rowing clubs came off last
Saturday. It was not rowed on the Parramatta
River course, because that course is not very
straight, and it was thought unlikely that six
eight-oared boats would get past the Hen and
Chickms without a fowl —(copyright joke). Con-
sequently they shifted the tcene of operations to
Iron Cove where there is more room, but the pre-
caution was unsuccessful, because, after a brilliant
race confined to the East Sydney and Mercantile
crews, they fouled about half a mile from home,
and the stroke of the East Sydney boat broke his
oar, wh'ch enabled the Mercs, to come in first.
However, the referee disqualifi’d the Merc?, for
THE VOICE OF LOVE.
“Gen'l'm'n," said the belated citizen, rather thickly, to the two friends who
were assisting him up the stops at 3 p.m., I dunno w’ether thiz z’my
housh ’r not. Nanshy!” he called out loudly, “m’ dear, are you
(hie), are you there, m’ dear?”
“I am, sir!" answered a cold metallic voice on the inside, accompanied by a
clinking sound like the rasping of a shovel on a stairway, “lam
waiting for you, you drunken beast!”
“Gen'l’m’n,” said the belated citizen, with dignified solemnity, “this is th’
right housh! Good momin’!”
fouling ard awarded the prize to the S duey
Rowing Club, which finished second. The Syd-
neys will not take the pot under those circum-
stances, to we will probably see the race rowed
over again. Of course there is a good deal cf talk
as to whether the Mercantile crew would nob have
bsaten Bast Sydney, foul or no foul, but so far as
appearances went, the East Sydneys would never
have been caught only for the accident. They are
a light lot, but very hard and wiry, and
rumour has it that their training walks in the
evening comprised calling in at a few of the better
known bars about town, and a tmoke at a leading
tobacconist’s. A*ter all, it is a great question
whether it is not a very wise thing, when training
a lob of young fellows who work in offices all day,
to let (h‘m do pretty much what they like when
out of the boat. Too much stiict training has
made stale many a good crew. The Sydney crew
were real “dead horse” from the jump, getting
no pace out of their boat, although their form was
good; they seemed a trifle fine drawn and stale.
The Mercantile crew thought they had a certainty
in the race, and it was a ghastly surprise when
Myers’ fight crew of the East Sydneys began to
draw away from them. This sorb of racing will
do no end of good for the Intercolonial races as
the success of the comparatively new East Sydney
Club will encourage the other young clubs and
make the older ones brighten up a bit.
* * •
The Australian Jockey Club have decided
not to advertise in any paper published on a Sun-
day. This is rich from the settlers of gambling
disputes. They should now decide that any wag> r
booked by the Yidishers on a Sunday should not
hold water, and that any of the “ books ” playing
Nap overland to Melbourne on a Sunday should
have their licenses cancelled. The A.J.C. should
now decline to admit to their racecourse the re-
porters of Monday papers which are set on Sunday
night.
• m •
Harry Jupp, the father of “atonewall”
batsmen, has lost his wicket for good and all.
Twenty odd years ago, in the days of H. H.
Stephenson, Caffyn, Tooley, and Souther ton, it was
customary to speak of Jupp and Tom Humphrey
as the “ Surrey pets,” and for the habitues of
Kennington Oval there was no greater treat in
life than to watch the “pets,” who invariably
opened the innings for their county, tot up a long
score. Jupp long survived Humphrey in the field,
in fact, he held his own at the head of professional
batsmen until nearly all bis old Surrey comrades
had fallen into the sere, the yellow leaf. For the
Flayers v. Gentlemen he made many “cen-
turies ” by that slow, wearisome cricket which was
not so general in the seventies as nowadays, and
therefore gave Jupp someth ! ng of a unique posi-
tion among contemporary cricketers. Neverthe-
less, a protest against this Surrey pet’s too
defensive tactics may be discovered in a very
ancient article published in Bailey’s Magazine
Jupp came out to Australia in 1873 as a member
of W. G. Grace’s Eleven. He and the champion
always walked to the wickets together, and
photographs of the pair “grouped” denote how
highly the deceased professional was estimated in
the days which are no more.
New racing clubs are springing np round
Melbourne at an alarming rate, and it is surprising
that N.S.W. owners doesn’t send over some of their
second and third raters with a view to picking up
little fishes, instead of confining their attention to
the big meetings across the border, whereat they
mesfly cut each other’s throats. Despite the fact
that racing excitement centres at Sydney just
now, the V.A.T.O. hold a fairly attractive Caul-
field meeting next Saturday. Wobinson in the
chair.
* • m
The Sydney yacht, Volunteer, will be sent
to California to race Spreckels’ yacht, the Lurline,
provided £4OO or £5OO can be raised amongst local
yachtsmen to pay expenses.
*> » •
Mr Gonld, that Innocent Ministerial maid,
whom M'Millan doubtless numbers among Parkes’
“ spotless political virgins,” solemnly assured Mr.
W. P. Crick, in the N.S.W. Assembly, the
other night, that he was not aware that the
totalisator, though not legalised, was in operation
in Sydney. From this we infer that the Minis-
terial Pecksniff ia desirous that he shou’d not bs
deemed guilty of reading the advertisements in
the sporting pilots. In these days of Botany
corpses and Carington dead-birds, such ignorance
is inexcusable even in a third-rate country attorney
whom Fate has destined to prove to the political
world that “ all is not Gould that glitters.”
•* «* *
Mrs. John L. Sullivan recently found grace
through the medium of a Salvation Hirmy cap-
ting, who ia reported to have knocked out her
husband, in a spiritual sense. Whether the
Slugger approves of the Missus testifying to her
redeemed condition at Harmy meetings, is not
mentioned, but probably he doesn’t mind much.
Anyhow, shout Hallelujah I
# * •
Scalier Searle and hla trainer Matterson
go to England shortly, where the former will
challenge O'Oonnor and Teemer to row for the
championship.
# * *
Hawkesbury meeting hai come and gone
leaving its usual reminders in the shape of forlorn
backers and ever-ravening bookmakers. The two
big races, the Rowley Mile and the Hawkesbury
Handicap, went to Golden Crown and Keith re-
spectively, and 20 to 1 could have been easily
obtained about either horse, while 3 to 1 and 4 to
1 chances finished buried in the ruck. Even the
selling-platers seemed to have caught the infla-
tion, because in one selling race with only three
starters the winner was unbacked at 10 to 1, and
in another the favourite, at 6 to 4 “ on,” was put
down easily by a longer-priced animal ; and they
don’t often make mistakes in selling races, you
know —not often. In both the races Plutarch was
second, as usual.
♦ * •
The V.R.Cb’s experimental meeting at
R emington last Saturday was a big success, con-
sidering that most of the racing talent, human
and equine, had engagements at Sydney. About
the time when Keith was winning the Hawkea-
bury Handicap, that slippery mare, Sedition,
proved that her Newmarket victory was no fluke
(how could it be?) by annexing another little
handicap over the same course. During the sfofr-
noon, too, The Charmer made some amends for
the past by winning the first race and Whalebone
ran so palpably * easy ” ia the Hurdle that the
stewards reprimanded or cautioned the rider. To
reprimand a jockey merely is a farce.
• • *
Ah the Balmain swimming matches last
week, Landeyon, of Newcastle, mads the best
dive on record in Australia—Bs yds, 2 ft. He
hadn’t strength left to hold his head out of the
water when he came to the surface ; he was black
in the face and nearly drowned. Johnson won
the 1000 fds. championship for the third time, and
appropriated the prize permanently. Time, 17min,
12 3 siec.
mom
The first priz 3 in Adam Bede’s Consulta-
tion on the Hawkesbury Handicap, went to a clerk
in the employ of the Queensland National Bank
Townsville (Q ), the second to a lady at Hartley
Vale (N S W), and the third to a lady residing at
Sirry Hills, Sydney. The other piiz°s were
pretby evenly distributed throughout Victoria,
NZ, S A , and N S.W. Adam Bede informs us
that though not required to do so by his understand-
ing with The Bulletin, he intends to make a
contribution from bis comrrission on the Hawkes-
bury and Sydney Gold Cup sweeps to St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, Sydney.
• • •
Harry Prince, a well-known turf celebrity
in N.Z had a couple of horses entered for the
Dunedin Cup, and one day shortly before the race
an Auckland friend of his wired to know if it was
worth while backing either of them. Promptly
came back a telegram bearing the mystic words,
“ Ecclesu ates ix , 7,” and signed '*Harry Prince.”
Now, turfy people not having, as a rule, a very inti-
mate acquaintance with Holy Writ, the receiver
of the telegram was completely non-plussed He
convened a select little meeting of Tattersallians
at the corner of Vulcan Lane Old Dick safely
remarked that Ecc’eaiasies waen't the name of
any ’orse in the race, and Bob Blaikie showed
that the characters ix. 7 could not mean list. 71b ,
as there was nothing with that weight in the
handicap. “Blow me!” put in Brimbleocmbe,
“if I don’t think it’s the name of scmsthicg in the
Bible.” So they subscribed sixpenca each and
bought a half-crown Bible, and after a laborious
search discovered a text. “Put not your trust in
Princes,” “Ha means his mokes can’t win,” said
Andy Jackson oracularly. Let’s chaffey it at
Mick’s.” So they irrigated and agreed that the
Bible was as useful a compilation as Centaur’s
Index and the Turf Record.
• • •
Rosehill Racing Club hold their autumn
meeting on the 4ih and 11th of May.
Harry Taylor, one of N.Z.’a beat cross-
country riders, has decided to settle in Sydney.
Taylor’s best season’s record was 12 wins out of 14
mounts.
• * *
Corunna, a colt by Musket —Nelly Moore,
and consequently a half-brother to Lochiel, will
worthily represent Auckland, N.Z., in the next
V.R.C. Derby.
* * •
A certain jockey, now dead, bequeathed
his watch to a fellow-rider. It was inscribed
“Honesty is good policy’’—not " the best.” Do
you notice it ?
• • •
An alleged brother cf Champion John L
Sullivan is conducting a series of mission services
in N Z. He says that a Methodist prayer-meeting
in Auckland did the trick for him, and that he is
now whi-i-i-ter than the snc-o o-w.
• » •
It takes a fellah a long time to understand
racehorse form. In the Selling Race at Hawkes-
bury on the first day Creeper with sit. Clb. wen
easily, Lady Lovell with flit. 51b, running no-
where. On Saturday the pair started on the same
terms, when Lady Lovell won and Creeper, who
had started at 7 to 4 on, failed to run into a place.
How was this thus ?
• • *
With regard to cases which are now going
the rounds of the press respecting mares bringing
forth marked off* wing, the writer had a half-bred
mare which came down heavily on her knees when
some months in foal, and when a filly was dropped
it was badly scarred about the knees, which marks
she never lost.


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Frefeh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Everybody should use Pennell's latest best Snow-whits
Patrnt Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
*ge
T
HE SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 King Street.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
3 years 9i per cent.
12 months ... ... 8| per cent.
6 months 7A- cent.
3 months ... ... 5| per cent.
For the past three years a Bonus of ONE PER
CENT, has been paid in addition to the above
rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T, S. RICHARDSON, General Manager,
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Hans the Boatman ” ... p. 14.
Hbb Majesty’s.—" Madame Midas ”
Obxtbeion.—“ The Two Roses ” „
Phillip Park. —Pain’s Fireworks „
The Oyclorama.— The Battle of Gettys-
burg
“ Hans the Boatman,” In the earthly
shape of Mr. Charles Arnold and his dog, has
taken possession of Sydney Royal, where his wel-
come presence helps to wipe out the memory of a
piano-wrecker and sawed-off dramatic elephant
who lately tore himself away. This last remark is
offered in a kindly spirit and is not meant to be
personal. During the months that have elapsed
since Hans was last in Sydney, Time has planted
no obtrusive footprint on Mr. Arnold and nis dog,
and the pair are as joyous in their childish mirth
as they used to be. No doubt Hans is more of the
ideal than the genuine boatman the real
specimen is an animal in an exploded hat
who ought to be led away and lost some-
where outside the city boundaries if only on
account of his tobacco and his boots—but he is in
his private capacity a thing of undying beauty,
and New South Wales will always offer him a
csrdial welcome and find a spare policeman for his
dog to take some light refreshment out of. Mr.
W. H. Leake fills his old part as the boatman of
real life, the gritty mariner with the half-ton feet,
and the horse-hide countenance, and the head like
a lost junk upon the Hoang-ho, and Mr H. R.
Roberts improves upon the part formerly filled
by Mr. Bernard, but otherwise things have not
gone very well with the company. Miss Nellie
Mortyne is a poor exchange for Myra
Kemble, and Miss Montie Frederics makes
us feel hurt as we recall old memories
of Pattie Browne formerly the winsome
daughter of the honourable boat building rowdy
who crunches along the shores cf the Sohroon
Lake among the Adirondacks. Also, we desire
to set our great fiat feet to some extent on Mr.
Gao. h. Gordon, who has got a misfit part as
Darrell Vincent, a ruffian in his Sunday clothes,
who ultimately embarks on the bosom of the great
waters in an unstable gridiron or a window-
shutter or something equally A 1 at Lloyds, and
goes down to the undertaker and the inky cuttle-
fish and the kraken and the eals. But these dis-
advantages are but trifles at the best; and despite
them all “ Hans the Boatman ” is a joy that will
never fade in this world of b filing passions and
hissing, seething, babbling, cursing excitement,
where the doings of Jack the Ripper are trodden
upon in the columns of the press by the assassina-
tion of some unpronounc able potentate with a
bomb under his throne, and a N.rrid Murder falls
over the boiling ot a bishop at Timbuctoo, and 500
people scalded on a blown-up steamer get mixed
up with the tourist in the Yellowstone Park who
bad bis feet amputated by an Indian with an axe.
Consequently we mention with regret that Mr.
Arnold departs alo it this time for the land which
gave birth to George Washington and the
lamented Bunker Hill, and Australia will probably
see him no more.
#* # #
“ Madame Midas ” has left a good record
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), but the awfully de-
moralising nature of the part filled by Phil Beck,
and tte obvious fact that that gentleman must he
allowed to ventilate his moral being unless he ia
to degenerate into a w alking Sodom and Gomorrah,
are probably the reasons why “Remaiy Rye” ia
announced for Saturday. On the same night
“Sweet Lavender” appears at the Criterion;
and as a further tribute to a great Christian
festival of a solemn and funereal character,
the Cogills intend to resume possession of
the Gaiety with their hearse-coloured minstrels,
to bang the lyre which used to sound beside the
Big Black River and other euphonious American
streams. Also, by way of heaping up the religious
fervour of the occasion, and in order to further
bash th i loud timbrel beside Egypt’s dark sea,
Messrs. Stanfield and J. A, South intend bringing
along another printed madness at the Academy of
Music, in the shaoe of a raving pantomime known
as “Whittington and his Oat;” the squalling of
that kitten's caterwauling to commence panel u
ally on Saturday night, and continue till
the animal’s voice gives out. In addition
to wh : ch Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater ” will
occupy Her Majesty's on Friday evening, so
that pmaons of a serious or sorrowful or artistic
turn of mind, who don’t like to have the feasts
and fasts of the orthodox faith tangled up among
stage cats and pantomime monkeys and ram-
shackle steam elephants that make puns behind
the footlights, will be able to enjoy that sort of
subdued spree which riots in the epistle to the
Corinthians and shrieks down the pages of the
S tor ter C atechism. Asa further concession to the
feelings of the same c’ass, a great sacred and
classical concert will be given at the Criterion. On
Saturday Professor Jackson will do a chaste and
refined balloon ascent in the Ash field Recreation
Grounds, followed by a moral and select fall from
a height of 8000 feet; and Pompeii will be des-
troyed as usual.
*# * *
The accustomed Christmas pantomime Is
still toiling on the surface of history, and “ Sinbad
the Sailor,” after having lost four months through
catalepsy or some other affliction, is announced to
arrive at Sydney Royal next Saturday. It will be
supported by the immortal Royce and the par-
tially immortal John Gourlay—two gentlemen
whose language is particularly select and who are
filled with poetic sentiment and noble aspirations,
and the accustomed menagerie of three-cornered
animals will be presented on a scale of unwonted
magnificence.
** * *
The Bondi Aquarium and cold fish depot
rioted round last Thursday in unwonted carnival,
when the howls cf the revellers made even the
speechless frog sit up in his tank with amazement.
A fancy dress skating entertainment was held
and the unwonted efforts made by the band left
that body doubled up and prostrate for several
days afterwards. The Bondi Aquarium is making
great efforts to keep up with the times, which is
rather a difficult work in these days of chronic
public insolvency, and even if the shark and the
cuttle-fish should faint in the last ditch it means to
get there or know the reason why.
** * *
We must forgive poor Pastor J efforts for
the nasty things he says about N.S.W. ; he is as
mad as a wet hen at the wicked Johnny Solomon,
of the Sydney Criterion, holding a theatrical and
whisky-license near his tabernacle. As the good
pastor doesn’t see any further than Pitt-atreet he
naturally thinks that the whole country must be
going to the dogs. That’s the way of human
nature. When we have got a head on us nothing
under Heaven pleases us. We don’t want even to
hear the German band.
## # #
The Sydney D.T. publishes a great
outpouring about the arrival in Sydney of Mr.
Austin Brereton “ one of the leading dramatic
critics of the day,” and intimates that he will
probably lend the radiance of his ink-pot to Aus-
tralian journalism. If he does, we reckon that a
shock equal to the concussion of a thousand bricks
will shortly descend upon Mr. Brereton. That
gentleman evidently strives to elevate dramatic
criticism into a fine art, and when he i* Introduced
to the representative of the Evening Howl, who
is also a critic, and who has written up the
“ proj aice report,” and done the police-courts, ani
recorded that Margaret Burke, brought up fer
breaking windows, was a “ handsome female,’’and
that Bertha Riley, who stood behind the spikes for
patting a head on Moike Dooley, was a ‘ ‘ buxom
girl,” before going out to oast his critical eye on
“Macbeth,” he will feel, in a faint tort of way,
that there are retources in literature of which he
had no previous knowledge. And when, on lop
of this, he finds himself cal’ei upon, in his capacity
of dramatic critic, to consider the proportions of a
fat woman weighing 3401b5., in a sixpenny show,
and to write an article on the vast expanse of her
back and front view, it is probable that the digni-
fied language of criticism will be insufficient to
express Lii feelings.
## # *
Nellie Stewart made her ajpaarance at
Melbourne Princess's on Saturday oy Vice-regal
Command, or else the Acting-Deputy Lnd’s
Anointed turned up by command of Miss Stewart
—the advertisement being somewhat 1 azy on
these points, and only definitely seating that pro-
ceedings were “Y.R.” Anyhow, Nellie was
there, and Wobinson was there, and the everlast-
ing “Dorothy” delighted an overwhelming
audience in the usual manner—(V.R ) Also the
restored prima donna, whose sweet pby I gnomy
has been kissed by the sun during her period of
convalescence, was deliciously artificial in the
name-part according to precedent, while the rest
of the company seemed much about the same as
before (V.R) “Dorothy” is merely fi.ling up
the space until to night (Thursday) On Saturday
the new Gilbert and Sullivan opera, “The Yeoman
of the Guard” will fill a long-felt want, especially
if it happens to be Y.R.
#* # #
Another prosperous event was a revival of
“ Run of Luck” at the Royal, where business is
now assuming the large dimensions customary with
Bland Holt’s seasons. This cheerful and eques-
trian drama, however, is likewise understood to
be arriving at a thrilling termination to-night,
unless the public petition for a little more cf it, cr
the vice-Gov. Lsues a command on the subject.
But according to arrangements at time cf writing
Mr. Bland Holt will send Holy E istertide into
hysterics with “The Ruling Passion,” in which
the virtuous heroine is taken up to Heaven with-
out dying—in a balloon.
*♦ # #
Miss May Holt was to take her farewell
benefit and slither frem the Alexandra on Wed-
nesday. The Melbourne Press has not been spar-
ing with marmalade for May, perhaps out of
regard for her popular name, or because the Loard
has joined her to a baronet in posse. The lady’s
views on play-writing and acting have found their
way into the 'Erald and other dreadful publica-
tions, until it almost appeared that the whole
British drama was vested in this distinguished
authoress, actress and manageress. That Miss
May Holt has been permitted to appear in one of
her alleged plays for two consecutive nights is the
darkest mystery that ever made Oreatim cuss.
As a sister and a future lady of title Miss H Jt is
doubtless an excellent institution—but as an
authoress-actress she is far more than words can
tell. On Saturday Mr. Dampier will make a very
welcome and necessary re-apoearance in “ Shamus
O Brien, the Rebel Chief of ’98,” which seems a
ripe old age for any man to attain in such a ritky
business.
** * *
“The Candidate” cornea to a sorrowful
end at the Bijou to night (18 sb), and on Saturday
the Marvellous City will open its fond arms to
Brough, Boucioault and “Betsy.” Talking of
“Batsy” reminds us that the beautiful ballad,
“ Good Old Mary Ann,” is warbled at the Vic-
toria Hall, by Slade Murray, a London comique,
whr>se songs and voice are accaptable, even when
denied the extraneous aid of a pot of baer and a
p ! p°. Others of Frank Clarke’s recent importa-
tions are not specially interesting, and if he had
left them in the land cf their birth it would have
made no difference worth mentioning.
♦# * ♦
Frank Lincoln’s fresh and whohsome
entertainment bad to leave the Athenaeum on
Wednesday, and now he is mixing his shadowy
cocktail round the suburbs of Melbourne prepara-
tory to appealing to the higher intelligence of
those country districts wherein all sense of humour
has not yet been eaten up by the rabbits, or lost
in unfortunate mining speculations. Macoabe has
engaged the Athenaeum from Saturday to Monday.
•* * ♦
All this while “Julius Cseiar ” la rising
from his ashes with vast success at Melbourne
Opera House, and the story of how this severely
classical production has worked up a naturally
irreverent population to enthusiasm deserves to
be written, in Roman characters, upon the sands
of time. According to all accounts, the young
men of Melbourne feel the improving influence of
Mr. Miln to such an extent that they go home
and babble of him in their dreams. It is certain
that many old bands who are blase to stage per-
formances, so far forget themselvi s as to let off
“Bravo!” at the tragedian, after which they
blush with confusion and try to look as though
the cry proceeded from the old lady in the next
seat. Mr. Miln has added finishing touches
to Marc Antony’s few remarks upon the subject
of Ceemr’s cold clay, and the chances are
that the original Roman couldn’t orate within
coo ee of his fascinating impersonator fre m
America. In contrast with the powerful unoon-
ventionallty of Antony, our old friend, the noble
Brutns, seems somewhat legitimately stagey;
nevertheless Mr. Cathoai t is solid in the charac-
ter. The lean and hungry Cassius continues to
uphold Mr. Douglas’ reputation as a pleasant
Shakespearian actor, and of the other people
mentioned last week it may be again stated that
they are “ all honourable men ” —including Miss
Isabel Morris. The head on Caesar's bier must
appeal to the critical eye of any brewer on earth,
and the whole show has visibly improved upon
acquaintance, excepting only the mob of citizens,
some of whom ought to get the Roman equivalent
or the sack without delay.
Two of the Melbourne theatres are adver-
tised to open on Good Friday. Holy music will
transpire at the Bijou, and Mr. G. O. Miln will
lecture upon the congenial topic of “ Church and
Stage at the Opera House.
** * *
Mrs. Alice Shaw, the American whistling
lady, is to marry Buffalo Bill.
** * *
Mrs. Langtry and Mrs. Brown Potter are
the daughters cf clergymen. The stage stands
midway between the Ohurch and the devil.
** * »
Dion Bouolcanlt says that true genius now
does not obtain recognition on the E aglish stage,
and ascribes this to the venality of the critics,
who accept bribes. For our own part, we think
Dion doesn’t know what he is talking about. The
difficulty does not arise through the critics taking
bribes, but through the appalling scarcity of
actors generous enough to offer the critic any cash
insult worth accepting. We know one man who
did 11 years of hard criticism in London, and all
he was ever offered was a solitary half-crown, and
that act of generosity came from the hind legs of
a pantomime elephant.
** * *
Gilbert, the librettist, sold the American
rights to his “Brantinghame Hall” to D’Oyly
Carte for £lOOO ; but as soon as he read Olement
Scott’s criticism of the piece, and realised that it
was a failure, he sent the money back to Carte.
#* # *
Cheery Pete Hughes, manager for the
Triumvirate, is negotiating with J. K, Emmett
(Fri z), for another visit to Australia. Emmett
was here 12 years ago, and his memory is still kept
green by old-time play-goers.
*# * #
Mrs. Langtry, Mrs. Potter, and onr dear
old friend Mr. Kyrle Bellew, are all said to wear
a number six shoe. From which we infer that
the possession of a number six foot has a by no-
means saintly tendency.
#* * *
Mr. Robert F. Cunningham, who was a
passenger by the R M.S, Ormuz, last week, was
accorded a concert on Tuesday week by the Mel-
bourne L'ydertafel of which he was a member.
Mr. Cunningham, who is the fortunate possessor
of a tenor voice cf unusual quality and power, is
a native of Tasmania, in which colony his parents
were vocalists of a calibre seldom attained
by amateurs. His present determination to study
music under Shakespeare, or some other cele-
brated voica-oultlva'or, is the result of advice
given to him by Mr, F. H. Cowan and the late
Mr. Henry Keiley, of the Argus. The concert
was an immense success, Madame Boema, with
whom Mr. Cunningham has, on more than one
occasion, sung operatic music, gave the Jewel
Song from Faust and another number. Mr, Cun-
ningham, amongst other contributions, sang
“Through the Forests ” (Der Freichutz) and met
with a great reception. Among the parting gifts
the young tenor received an address and purse of
sovereigns from his fellow officers in the Mercan-
tile Finance and Guarantee Company,
## * *
Some well meaning but misdirected person
—may his sins be forgiven him-organised a con-
cert, last week, on board a steamer which was
rolling heavily off the coast, half way between
Melbourne and Sydney, and, as usual, the amateur
reciter was there. He is always there, in fact—
the individual with the dull, damp pomelet about
the wavelet on the streamlet, or the maudlin
allegory absut the orphan boy and his faithful dog
with the cold nose, or the washy lamentation
about the perishing grandfather, or the soulful re-
frain concerning his c snsumptive mother who took
in plain sewing and talked prophet Jeremiah;
only this specimen was a little more waterlogged
than usual in the rains of his brain. He was a
laohrymosepersonwithabad scream in his head, and
in shape he consisted chiefiy of an apple-shaped
skull on two long drumsticks. He was evidently
wound up for the night, for he waded for half-an -
hour through what was supposed to be an excited
’possum-shooting contest, with somebody sawing
wood in the background, also a toothless grand-
mother jawing across a wooden fence at the boys
who upset the ash-barrel in the lane, and even
then he seemed to have only got fairly started.
Somebody interrupted to ask him if it was a
pamphlet on Pharaoh and the seven lean kine,
but he withered him with a glance of awful
scorn, and said that it was the battle of
Landula and several other episodes of the
Zulu war. Then he started again, and reeled off
two more columns of the appalling oratorio, when
tuldanly a crisis appeared to supervene, for he
stopped suddenly and began to throw his feet all
over the place and wear a look of agony. Pre-
sently the agony increased, and the speaker started
to reach back into the bush and mountains of
Zuluhnd and bring out lost fragments of his poem,
and to claw for forgotten verses in the vicinity of
Natal, and to scoop up scraps of rhyme from
Cetewayo’s kraal; and all at once a grea*, glad
smile spread through the audience—the amateur
had broken down. Dead silence followed, so
that the fishes could be heard swearing in the
sea, and the auihor perspired a quart, Then
there was heard an appalling crash in an
adjacent cabin, as a sleeper fell from the top
bunk to the floor, and a voice cried out in
tones of unsp jakable relit f : “ Thank heaven, O
thank heaven, it was only a dreaml” Close behind
the voice an excited, half-dressed tragedian burst
into the cabin. “ Bring me some brandy,
steward !” he gasped. “ I dreamt that I had been
taken up by the police for Jack the Ripper, and
tried, and found guilty, and sentenced to be taken
to Africa and tied up in the middle of the Great
Desert and talked to death by a deranged old
Arab who was to recite a Hottentot poem to me,
100 yards long, about the Zulu war.” And amid
the howl of insane mirth that followed the crushed
reciter euddenly gathered up the bark and shav-
ings of his verses and fled to his bunk, where he
remained for the rest of the voyage.
** * *
Minnie Palmer says she values her dia-
monds at £65,000, The Bulletin values John
Rogers’ cheek at £165,000.
## # #
“ A Night Off” at the Adelaide Royal has
to some extent aroused a little more enthusiasm
than usual amongst the deni/,ms of a city which
never, or hardly ever, comprehend a joke until
several days afterwards. This amusing comedy
gives scope for Mr. Wybert Reeve as Marcus
Brutus Snap, and he is excellently supported by
Messrs. A R. Lairenoe, R Inman, Mrs. George
Gordon, Miss Maggie Knight, and others. Hicks’
coloured minstrels are doing good business at
Garner’s Theatre, but the last nights are an-
nounced. Wirth’s Circus will be an additional
attraction at Easter—at which season Adelaide
is even more badly In want of something to keep
it up than usual.
Among the six men of-war which were
wrecked in Samoa daring the late hurricane no
less than four were lost because the captains went
back at the last moment for some Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
In view of Governor No; man’s threat that
should his expenses as Queensland Governor ex-
ceed his income as such he will resign, there is no
doubt that the National party will never submit
to raising his screw.
John M'Guire was a New York Catholic
but believed in the single tax theory. He died
suddenly at one of Father M'Glynn's single tax
meetings, and the Catholic Archbishop refused to
permit the burial of bis body in consecrated
grounds. His friends appealed to the Law Courts,
and their decision is that M'Guire having been
disobedient to the Church in attending the ex-
communicated priest’s meeting, the Church had a
legal right to r<fuse him its ministrations and
privileges. An American paper, alluding to this
matter, institutes a comparison with the treat-
ment by Mother Church of the remains of the
suicided Austrian prince, and adds: “ The
Church bows down before the throne and says it
cannot do wrong. So Rudolph, debauchee and
suicide, is buried in the consecrated cathedral, in
the odour of all the sanctities, while John M'Guire
an honest, pure enthusiast, is refused Christian
sepulture.”
The Pope lately received from Ireland a
number of medals and other trash, which he was
requested to bless with a view to their distribu-
tion among the faithful, but the old man sternly
refused bestow his benediction, on the ground
that the Irish “preferred the gospel of Dillon and
O’Brien to the gospel of Jesus Christ.” Evidently
the successor of St. Peter imagines that it is
the gospel of Jesus Christ which turns the Irish
peasants into the snow and seizes the pig to pay
the rint; and just here it strikes us that the Head
of the Church is rather short of brains, and that
unless he goes very slow at the present crisis he
will come to grief. For the question of national
independence comes first with Paddy, and in com-
parison to it the ancient image at Rome is nowhere.
Either the Pope must give up backing a blind and
idiotic tyranny in Ireland, or there will be an
advertisement in the Dublin papers before long
calling for tenders for the construction of a new
Head of the Church on the ground that the old
one doesn’t know enough to be even the tail-end
and the feet of that crumbling institution, and
then when the new Irish Pope starts out to curse
the old. busted, Italian Pope, and the moth-eaten,
dusty Roman potentate rise to excommunicate
the fresh Antichrist of Ballyhooley there will be
cheerful times among the descendants of St.
Peter,
That big newspaper property, the S. M.
Herald, which returns about £BO,OOO a year, has
now passed altogether into the hands of Mr. J.
R, Fairfax and his three sons—Messrs. Charles
Fairfax, Geoffrey E. Fairfax and J. 0. Fairfax ;
Mr. B, Ross Fairfax, the younger brother of
“Mister James,” having just sold his birthright
for a lot more pottage than he can eat if he lives a
thousand years. Mr. E. Ross Fairfax, it is under-
stood, means to settle down in England, to which
country Mr. James Fairfax will also shortly go,
leaving the level headed Mr. Ournow and the
jocund and energetic Mr. Sam Cook to dry nurse
the young gentlemen and see that they don’t turn
the Herald into a comic paper. So far, the
Messrs, Fairfax, junior, have been very popular
with the employes of the firm, and it is believed
that they will be able to do j ustice to them ■
selves, and to all concerned, in their manage-
ment of the huge business of which they are the
fortunate heirs. In the past the Herald has
been noted for its intense conservatism, but it is
only fair to say that if its proprietors have been
rather antiquated in some of their notions they
have on many occasions shown that to the old
fogey’s faults they joined the first of the good old
fogey's virtues—his love of old faces and his kindly
consideration for those who had served him faith-
fully and long. At a Herald picnic held last
week there were present many men who had baen
over 20, and some who had been frem 30 I o 40
years, in the service of the firm—a state of things
which contrasts remarkably with that existing in
one or two other big and prosperous Australian
offices which men only enter because they are
hungry and which they always leave with curses
on their lips.
To Somers Vine.
Steal gently in, O muse divine.
We’ll sing a stave to Somers Vine,
The Tory plant that has its root
In th’ Himperial Hinstitoot.
And young Australia will disown
The puppets that you wish to crown—
We’ll have no truck with schemes so fine—•
A pin in this, Sir Somers Vine.
We do not care for lords or docks,
We cannot bow to Smith or Snooks,
We grovel not for Tummy’s self,
Nor worship at the shrine of Guelph.
Indifferent to the old world’s kings,
To counts and earls and such like things.
Desist, and try not to entwine
Us in your tendrils, Somers Vine.
We are a race of democrats
Who will not shout and wave their hats
Whene’er a British trumpet keen
Strikes up the air “ God Save the Q ieen.”
An Emu bold is on the tramp
Across the Queen’s own tup’ny stamp.
We seek to quaff Australian wine
Nor seek for more from Britain’s Vine.
Oh, leave us then, for we are “ gettin’ ”
Too many for the land of Wettin.
Such fads as Knights and O.M.G.’s
Long, long ago have ceased to please,
And we would tear up by its root
The great Himperial Hinstitoot !
We’ll do it, too, or make a shine—
A pin in this, Sir Somers Vine.
FRANK CHANDOS.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
la more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And 1b a
Para Refreshing Beverage*
Be Oacefnl fon obtain WoirtV
Hors tom’* 4cld Phosphate
FOR ABUSE CP ALCOHOL.
It relieves the depression therefrom.
Write for plana £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
“My Tailor," 154 King-Street, Newtown. Don’t forget
h>m. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
High Art Photogbapht.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarington
"By Appointment."
r “The greatest nourishing tonio, appetizer, strength-
ened and curative on earth—Dr. Soule's American II )p
Bitters.”
Dry Impbrial Champagnb.— Messrs. Meet and Chandcn
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro
duoers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL” 18
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2600 acres in the oboioest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is in eaob corner of label, and 1881
branded on oork and label.
The Brickbat
[SLUNG BY "TITUS SALT.”]
A person living in the vicinity of Bathurst
(N.S.W.) writes bo complain that Government
officials up that wav are too particular, and too
much addicted to filling in large printed forms
which shatter the intellect when contemplated in
their entirety, and that they are too fond of send-
ing in elaborate returns to the Colonial Secretary
setting forth that they are thinking of doing
something if he doesn’t object, and then wailing
several years for a reply before doing ib. Even
in such small matters as paralysing a homeless cat
or shifting a noisome goat it is neeassary to draw
up pompous statistics and have them compared
and entered, and initialled, and copied out, and
other things, and while this is being done the
animal generally leaves for the adjacent county
and becomes a nuisance outside the jurisdiction of
the officer who wasted so much stationery about
him. A small local difficulty concerning two old
men who live in adjoining tenements has lately
strained the resources of the district authority to
the bursting point, and yet all this waste of pers-
piration and stamps has left the two rowdy
Methusalehs in the same offensive attitude which
they occupied before the trouble began, The
oldest baggy patriarch started the worry by ac-
cusing the other cripple of having a dirty back
yard, end the second
cripple said that he was
another. Then the first
offender invited the in-
spector of nuisances to
contempt.te the pre-
mises next door, and
the inspector replied that
ha couldn’t legally do it
until a paper the size of
a roof had been filled
in and signed in the
presence cf two sane
witnesses of ordinary in-
telligence who were not
asleep at the time of
signing. The other ruin,
hearing of this, called
and informed the in-
spector that if he at-
tempted to interfere
jvith his back yard he
would set a dog on him,
and he was ah o requested
bo fill in a printed re-
turn setting forth the
age, size, parentage, and
average ferocity of the
dog which he proposed to
employ in this assault,
and, if possible, to furnish
diagrams of the animal
and particulars of his
method of feeding. Wfcen
he had finished this
literary labour he re-
turned home to find that
the adjacent enemy had
dropped a decayed gcat
into his water butt dur-
ing his temporary ab-
sence, and after foaming
wildly for some time over
this insult he called in
the rural policeman and
told him bo set the hingin
of the law in motion.
But the stolid constable
only told him to fill in a
printed form and swear
an affidavit stating in
detail how he supposed
the goat bo have arrived
there and how long it had
been dead, also supply-
ing particulars about
its smell and the colour
of its fur. Until this
was done he posi-
tively declined to move
in the matter, and in a
frenzy of rage the oiti-
zen rushed into town and seizing hold of the ma-
gistrate demanded to know how he should pro-
ceed in order to force a constable to arrest a
man who put dead goats in his water-butt. And
the impassive beak replied tbat he really didn’t
kn->w, bub perhaps the safest thing he could do was
to fill in a printed form.
« • •
On Wednesday last week the soul of Charles
Taenbar, of Nhill (Vic ), fled from its earthly eled
to roost upon the rafters of the great forevermore
and be a s c raph or a cherub within the misty
golden portal, where the anthem rises and where
the good nigger goes. The deceased, while on
earth, earned his ordinary prog by being a farmer,
an occupation which is supposed to lead to a con-
templative turn of mind, and to calm those earthly
passions which tend to blasphemy and clubs ; bub
in his case the remedy did not seem to work.
Perhaps he did not farm enough; possibly if he
had all Victoria laid down in turnips it might
have soothed him a little ; bub as matters stood he
was of a wild and violent temperament with a
tendency to fly out and throw himself about, and
kick his corn out of the ground, and shoot anybody
who was passing whenever his hen laid on some-
one else’s premises or his dog looked tired. If his
razor wouldn’t shave properly the deceased
generally wanted to rake down an empire and tip
a dozen nations over into the sea, and when he
struck a bone in the hash he was mad enough bo
go out) and throw green apples at a saint. The
ultimate cau»e of Lis undoing was a dray tbat
stuck in the mud. The deceased and his hired
man struggled frantically to get it out, and all the
while they did so the irate agric rlburist grew
madder and wilder and fiercer, and wanted to bang
his own grandfather with i erpents and dragons,
and then he bugged again without any success
and longed to throw the whole orbhedex Church
to the lions of the Colissßum : and he hauled some
more and his bile rose higher and higher, and he
struck out wildly at things in general and felt that
he was pining to own the whole human race for;
one thrilling moment that he might pour boiling
water ever it and see it jump. Then the man
went away to get some more horses, and the
aggravated farmer hung on to the fence while his
carnal dander kept going up, and he tried to be
calm, but the more he tried the more he longed
to have 800,000 people hanged in order to make
him feel batter about that dray; and when he
took soundings in the mud and found ib was two
feet deep he yelled with blind ferocity, and called
upon the twelve apostles to come down that he
might stand them on their heads beside the
dray and emother them, every mother’s son.
By and-by the earth began to spin round in
dizzy gyration s ', all because one ordinary dirt-
cart had gob stranded on the high-road,
and the owner began to see stars and grow apo-
plectic with fury, and he felt that he must perpe-
trate a crime right off or burst, and he longed to
commit murder and piracy on the high seas, and
barn-burning, and aggravated horse stealing, and
parricide accompanied by mutilation of the old
man’s fragments, and he wanted to amputate all
the limbs of a complete stranger who never did
hiun any harm, and then he became a raving mali-
man because his dray was bogged by the wayside,
and, finally—Somewhere about an hour afterwards
the hired servant came slouching peacefully back
thinkin? of nothing at all, with his hands deep in
his pockets and a tranquil grin on his features.
The horses were still there; the dray continued
to be serenely bogged as before, and the gsnaral
aspect of nature was unchanged. Only the farmer
had hung himself on a fence, and his mortal
remains were still attached to the end of the strir g.
He had got tco boiling mad to live any longer.
Persons convicted cf felony are not per-
mitted in Victoria to adopt the profession of
gatherers of rags and bones. They may, hovever,
hawk fi h,
Joe I veep, a N.Z. politician and journalist
who has started mere papers than probably ary
other man living, has just launched a little even-
ing sheet at Albury, N.S.W.
Tinsley, tho publisher, saya that Oaida
obtained her close acquaintance with the manners
and customs of tho e languid hero-s, whose
manners bdong to the mess-room, ly inviting
young officers to her mother’s house to dine and
smoke. She would entreat them to ‘ carry on”
just as if no ladies were present, and while they
took full advantage of her permission, she noted
their peculiarities for literary use in the future.
An English parson, the Rev. Bartholomew
Edwards, has just died when he was within a
month of completing his century. He held the
same living for 76 years, and six generations of
rustic parishioners snored through his sermons.
Those feeble platitudes that the Rev. Bartholomew
thundered from his pulpit in 1813 he subsequently
repeated, in a piping, toothless treble, to the great,
great, great grand children of many who were
among his first congregation, and who afterwards
listened to their shepherd’s remarks on that great
passing event, the Battle of Waterloo. The
record is unique.
We are told of M Dtrmob, known aa the
Prince of Ooolavin, who belonged to one of the
principal Connaught families, that his inc me in
1776 barely amounted to one hundred pounds ster-
ling a year, yet he never suffered his children bo
sib down in his presence. His daughter-in-law
alone was permitted to eat at his table ; even his
wife was not accorded this privilege, as, though
well-born, she was not of royal blood. When
Lord Kingsborough, Mr. Pcnsonby, Mr. O’Hara,
Mr. Sandford, and others, all men of position,
came to see him, he took notice of only the two
last named, whom he thus aldressed: “O’Hara
you are welcome ! Sandford, lam glad to see
your mother’s son ” (his mother was an O’Brien).
“ As to the rest of ye, come in as ye can.”
The Representative Australian
When the next distinguished colonist, loaded
down with golden dust, hangs up his shiny tile in
the halls of the dear old mother land, and deposits
his carpet-bag in the passage to be fallen over by
the spirits of our fathers, and stands his gamp up
against the hereditary throne of England, he will
be greeted in a manner that will take him by sur-
prise, and, load(d with insult, he will fall in aflat,
discouraged heap. For the daughters of Britannia
are raging over the surface of the earth, and
seeking the fragments of the representative
Australian, and are cursing him and his drought-
cursed country, and h ! s jackass, and his kangaroo,
and his rabbi", and his Bathurst burr, and his
wombat, and everything that is his. One low
ccckatoo farmer has wrecked the “returned
colonist ” industry for 20 years to come Ha was
a toilworn, stubbly person from the west, a de-
j °cted individual who had been an English gentle-
man about a generation previously, but who had
struggled with the stump-covered acres cubby the
Lachlan River for many years and grown no
j icher all the time, and had almost given up the
use o? human speech except when he swore at a
dog that was nearly as unhappy as himself. Still
he was contented in his peaceful misery until he
commenced to be crowded up by a man with a
wooden leg who came to live within 25 miles of
him, and then his retirement was broken into and
HE WISHED HE COULD
POLICEMAN! "SHTOP, BEGORRA!-OR OI’LL SHTOP YEZ!”
RIDER (on runaway horse) : “FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE DO, PLEASE!”
he began to desire a change. The want of
elbow-room arising out of the man with
the wooden leg made him feel stifled; he be-
cime restless and deranged in his manner, and
talked about the madding crowd and the busy
haunts of men end things of that sort; and at last
he took a sudden resolution that he would shave
himself and put on a clean thirt, and take out the
turn of £2OO which he had deposited in a hole in
the wall, and have one mora look at his ancient
haunts in Europe. That was how the trouble
commenced. The voyage heme awakened old
recollections, and a change came over him. He
gradually ceased to clump about the decks as if he
were plodding through the dust of his unprofit-
able farm ; he forgot the rabbit and sunk the kan-
garoo, and when ha arrived in London he bought
a shiny hat and an elegant suit, and grew a gray
moustache instead of carrying six weeks’ stubble
on his face, and he had his hair out short by a
professional artist instead of pruning it himself
with a fork and a rake and then shaking the grass
seeds out of it He returned to his London drawl
and talked on society topics in place of using
bull mk-driverese and swearing at his dog ; and,
finally, he drifted into the ranks of the “represen-
tative Australians ” and began to pose as a
squatter of illimitable wealth aud high position.
Lovely woman smi'ed on him in this capacity and
he smiled back. Beautiful girls explained to him
that if there was one thing above all others that
they loved and respected it was the kangaroo,
and he said “Haw!” Ladies with long
pedigrees explained to him that they longed
to see Australia, and to watch the gladsome
damper bounding on its native plains, and
to ride through the endless wilderness cn the
azila salt-horse, and to listen to the mournful song
cf the pannikin in its lair; till at last be took
pity on the fairest of them all- a girl with a long
row of buried ancestors, and a wealth of golden
hair, and a lordly pa who was bant double with
mortgages—and he took her t ) be h’s bride. And
then
• • •
A girl with golden hair was weeping out-
side an old slab hut beside the Lachlan River,
while a representative Australian sat ponderously
on a log and let her weep On the voyage out he
bad gradually fallen into his old ways as the in-
fluence of the kangaroo and the ’possum stole over
him once more. He had ceased to shave, and had
grown stubbly and wretched-looking. He had
given up combing his hair, and simply stood it up
with both hands till it bristled in all directions.
He swore at intervals, and talked of public-
houses, and clumped heavily about the deck, and
smoked villainous plug tobacco, and ceased to
view the emu in a poetic aspect; and as the ship
grew closer and closer bo the Australian coast he
had clumped more and more, and smoked harder
and grown more villainous in his general aspect!
And finally the old farm by the Lachlan River
rose to view and finished the illusion. There was
a forlorn paddock, and a driving cloud of dust, and
the footprints of a lost hog beside the door, and the
door itself was a ramshaikle contrivance with one
hinge, and was tied up by a rope, A gaunt laugh-
ing-jackass wailed upon a blighted tree ; a dog-
leg fence straddled wearily away across the great
immensity of the plain ; the lawn was a dumping
place for old kerosene-tins ; a discarded pair of
pants lay spread out where the shrubbery should
have been ; the old bashed tin and the piece of
soap with which the representative Australian
had washed himself the day before he left were
mouldering on a stump ; and a dead cow festered
beside the ancestral home. A stagnant pool with
one tired frog in it lent variety to the view, and a
little distance away the thread of muddy water
which used to be the Lachlan tottered feebly
along towards the sea. And wailing amid these
weird surroundings was a lady of high degree,
who would have bartered her lengthy pedigree for
one square feed that wasn’t damper and mutton,
and swapped her family coat-of arms for a blind,
three-legged horse to carry her back to her ele-
vated pa, and who would have given away her be auly
and her_ youth and all her other belongings, if,
by so doing, she could conjure up a great, wooden-
headed brother with feet of the flapjack order and
paws like the common ham of commerce to whale
the shock-headed author of her downfall. There
were strange sounds that day in the far West, and
strange noises that night in an unbuilt city of
anarchy beside the Lachlan River; and if any
stranger had passed that way—bua then theie
never were any strangers theieabonts—he would
have dreamed as he drifted by that the lone,
lorn kitten, and the hyaona that screams amid the
ruined towers of Moab and the fallen temples of
Ammon, were conversing thereabout and eating
bits off each other’s tails. But there was no one
at hand to listen ; and even when the high-born
bride threw the family pannikin out of the
window, and fired the only bit of yellow soap
within 25 miles at the smiling jackass in the tree ;
and clawed her husband so badly that he had to
tie her hands together with a bit of stringy-bark
and leave her in that condition all night, her
eloquence was only wasted on the silent river and
the dust-laden winds.
* * *
Next morning the biiie was released from
bondage on her own recognisances, and then
Australia beheld the strange spectacle of a girl
whose ancestors bad come in with ihe Conqueror
humping a bucket of water from the river in order
that she might wash herself in a cracked lin
planted on a stump, and perform her toilet in the
open air. She had one boot on and one shoe, for
the dog had worried a large part of her wardrobe
during the night. Her husband, who had re-
covered his temper to some extent and was par-
tially affable, had premised, however, that he
would look up an old barrel for her to keep her
things in, and when she moaned about the utter
desolation of her surroundings he cheered her
with the information that there was a woeden-
legged man only 25 miles away. Also he found
the remains of an ancient work on subsoil drainage
by way of food for the mind, and things began to
assume a more agreeable aspect. About a week
later, however, the mutilated neighbour with the
old board-limb came over and paid a visit, and the
lady surreptitiously induced him to undertake a
journey of 75 miles to post a letter to her father
in which ter miseries were set forth at length,
and owing to the advent of that epistle the “ re-
presentative Australian ” industry is nob quite
what it was in the great metropolis. For the
maidens to whom the gilded shepherd-king pours
forth his ungrammatic soul have gloomy recollec-
tions of a lost sister who once listened to a repre-
sentative Australian and now does her own wash-
ing in the pathless desert, and keeps her fashion-
able trousseau in a barrel in an old slab hut, where
the only tracas of outside civilisation are the foot-
prints cf a vanished hog beside the door.
The London edmon of the New Yoke
Herald, which is published on Sunday, is squaring
the parsons by reproducing their sermons,
lo la now said In London that Lome fcaa
gob bis eye on the Governorship of Ceylon. As
marrisge in his case has been a failure, he will,
doubtless, appreciate Singhalese, [Gonsalvo, a
brick.— Ed.]
At the Goaford banquet on Friday
Premier Parkes apologised for the absence of his
colleague, Mr. Brunker, “ who could not come
owing to pressure of Government business.” Yet
on Monday afternoon Mr. Brunker was to be
found in the rostrum of his auction-room at West
Maitland selling private properties !
The Chinese at Haddon (Yic.)areeeiiously
dissatisfied with their Joss, who is a cranky
wooden gorgon and slvrays brings down lain when
it isn’t wanted. Ha was a cheap Joss when they
bought him and soured by hard work atd dis-
appointment, and of late he seems to have gone
wrong completely. He liis up all day in his
temple grinding out misfortune and complicated
disaster for Lis proprietors ; and the Chinese com-
munity have at last decided lhat if he goes on
like this they will have to burn him and get
another. A serious admonition to this efficibas
been fired at his wooden head by the elders of the
congregation, bub so far he shows no sign of
amendment.
The energetic representative of the War-
ner’s Safe Cure Company, who has besn on a pro-
tracted visit to the Smellful city which sleeps
beside the Beautiful Harbour, during the past
month has mailed to the interior of the various
colonies of Australasia no less than 300,000 books
explanatory of the moral, physical, and intellec-
tual advantages to be obtained by the use of the
firm’s famous medicines known as Warner’s safe
remedies. It is many years since so vast a quan-
tity of reading matter has been fired at the head
of the Australian nation, and unless the public
organ of appreciation has been worn away by the
friction of politics, great results should ensue.
The postage alone on this immensa consignment of
literature was over £lOOO which sum has gone to
reduce the chronic deficit of New South Wales,


That famous old Sydney hostelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
I’asa hotel,
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. lludl*
man. "My Tauob." 164 King street, Newtown.
Write for plans
Western Australia.
Company, Limited,
£10 Building Sites, Perth,
Intercolonial Investment
08 Batburst-ftteeet, Sydney.
JOHN M'EWAN & C 0. P
AUCTIONEERS.
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers db Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Ifi-pagl Conntry Properties, Farms, Grailng
Properties, &0., ha.
Ig.page List Melbourne and Sabnrban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, ha,
Fslitsi list sf BulieuN fsr Islt tnisl Mnllr e
All tisti posted r«e» <?• appllwtior.
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia h our wife. England is our
mother-in-law, and the Imperial Governors are
her agents.
Overheard in Gaorge-sbreet, Sydney :
«i jf jcm get a blooming Fieetrade jury you’ll get
a conviction,”
Jacques, whi was defeated by Boulanger
a-i the Seine election, estimates his expenses at
2,000,000 francs.
Amongst the rat printers who went to
Brisbane “from Sydney Last week was one of
Parkes’ Eurasian compositors.
The Tory Earl of Klntore and the Radical
John Dillon arrived in Australia by the same
steamer. The bane and the antidote.
governor Carlngtoa says that the time
will come when Australia will elect her own
bishops. The time is not far distant when Aus-
tralia will elect her own President.
Treasurer M‘Mlllan promises to make the
income of the N.S.W. working man go further
than in any other country in the world. _ -than
Mac is going to allow the working man an income ?
J. E. Redmond, the Home Ruler, has just
done a month’s gaol for a certain seditious speech.
He says that while in prison his sole companion
was the Bible, which he read through half-a-dozen
times.
A little time ago Fioquat, apostrophising
Boulanger, said: “At your age Napoleon was
already dead,” to which Boulanger responded
with, “At your age Robespierre was already
guillotined.
Fletoher, M.P., suggests that each legis-
lator should speak only on subjects he understands.
If that were followed out the N.S.W. Assembly
would often be mistaken for a branch of the Deaf
and Dumb Asylum,
A Methodist parson who was compelled to
relinquish his cure in Adelaide on_ account of re-
fusing to bolieve longer in the existence of hell,
was elected the other day member of the Vic-
torian Legislative Assembly. Rat!
Oddly enough, the very first interruption
in the present s-ssion of the N.S.W. Assembly
was made by Mr. Wilshire, the head of _ the
recently-organised party of “Law and Order,
who interjected the word “ Nonsense !
Tha S.M. Herald publishes in all serious-
ness a long criticism on the recently-issued volume
of the Prince of Wales’ speeches It might just
as well write three-quarters of a c dumn about the
orations of Mr. Henniker Heaton’s ghost.
The evidence of La Caron, tha Fenian
spy, has moved tha Irish-Americans to request the
American Secretary of Skate to demand from the
English Government the names and addresses of
all spies they may at present have in the country.
Howard Vincent advocates the exclusion
of indigent foreigners from the United Kingdom.
He at the same time disclaims sympathy with the
efforts of tha Australian 3 to exclude Chinese from
Australia. Vincent should sit down and think
hard.
Rechabite Abigail, M.P., hardened by
poiitioal experience, no longer blushes at the
presence of champagne at public banquets to
himself. His excuse is that recent circumstances
render it necessary that such political gatherings
should be “ more fizzoal than Papal.
Quoth the cable “At a dinner in
London last week Mr. W. H. Smith, leader of the
House of Commons, said he felt confident the
union would eventually triumph if the merchants,
hankers, and manufacturers supported the
Government.” In vino veritas. Poor, stupid
Smith !
Boneyard Wise, whose “ professional
opinion” concerning Walker, MP., is freely
denounced as one of the meanest polit.cil offences
of the century, has been commissioned to prose-
cute for the Crown at Wagga Wagga. And in
the teeth of this there are people illogieal enough
to accuse Premier Parkes of ingrailtude to his
supporters!
Sydney’s biggest daily gives us an ifc'm cf
“ news ” (clipped from the Pall Mall Gazeitk)
about the almost incredible feat performed by one
Maclure, who delivered in the British Columbian
Legislature a speech over 24 hours long. As a
matter of fact this happened years and years ago,
and since then Maclure has been an Australian
resident. We are proud of his jaw.
The serio-comic performance, given by the
ass at the benefit of an ancient prophet, was re-
peated last week by the gentleman whom accident
and acquisitiveness have combined to place at the
head of the N.S.W. Treasu.y. M'Mdlan, having
bsen ceremoniously trotted out to hi® B ® , j B J|
aud curse the Opposition, abs lived and belauded
Dibbs and sarcastically berated J. F. Burns, the
kioked-out Colossus of Reads.
Under the glorious N.S.W. system of
Foreign-trade, lithographed labels and advertising
posters from America are admib-ed while
loed lithographers are charged a stiff duty on
the varnish used in the manufacture of these
articles. Australian candles, pills, boots, jams,
clothing, &e., are advertised by means of foreign-
made posters, while Australian artists and litho-
graphers are walking about idle
“Billy” Trenwlth has beaten Boslato,
C M.C, for the representation of Richmond
(Melb )in the Victorian Legislative Assembly. 1 or
17 years past no one could shift Bosisto, but in an
evil hour for himself he was made a C.M C., and
then a bootmaker was selected to kick him out.
Teen with was once committed for trial for a
trades-union offence, but the committal was
quashed by the Full Court on the ground that his
trial should be a “ trial at bar’’—that is to cay,
that it would take three judges instead of one to
try the gentle William.
“I denounce Sir Henry Parked aa the
greatest political prostitute that ever disgraced
our representative institutions ” This choice
morsel is not, as might be supposed, culled from
the flowers of M'Elhonian oratory. It is a
reminiscence of a speech delivered in 1882 to a
metropolitan constituency by the Honourable
Daniel O’Connor, Patkes’ present Postmaster-
General ! Coasis' eacy, thy accent is pseudo-
Hibernian !
One day last week Mr. Tonkin, a level—
not to say flat—headed member cf the N.S.W.
Freetrade party, moved that the timber duties
should be abolished out of respect for the immortal
principles of Foreign-trade. When he saw the
Freetraders rising up to vote against him,
however, he suddenly collapsed and gave his voue
against his own motion on tbe ground that he
didn’t exactly know what he was doing and had
drifted somehow, In a sort of way, as it were,
dontyerknow.
Mr. R. M. Sergeant, for many years one
of the representatives of Ballarat in the Victorian
Assembly, took his defeat at the last general
election very unkindly. Mr Sergeant arrived on
Ballarat 36 years ego, and has resided there ever
since. The present Wonderful City was then a
forest and has grown up around the old digger.
Not more, perhaps, than a dozen of the old iden-
tities remain; even Duncan Gillies has gone to
live amongst the Kew aristocrats.
In New South Wales 50,000 acres went
out of cultivation in 1888. The prtvi jus hai vest
was a good one in ev-ry respect, but even a good
harvest could not enable the Freetrade cornstalk
farmer to held on. And now the question await-
ing solution is this : if Freetrade, even combined
with excellent crops, comnelled the N.S W. agri-
culturist to abandon 50,000 acres to the dingo and
the kangaroo, how much agriculture cf any sort
will be left in the colony aft;r 1889, when Free-
trade aud universal drought have descended upon
the bucolic population at one fell swoop ?
The Argentine Republic gives a
square mils of country to every settler.
Treasurer M‘Millan of N.S.W. states
that ex-Treasurar Burns o! the same un-
happy colony deliberately appropriated as
current revenue £510,000 of asset) left by
Mr. Dibbs against his deficit), and while
thus annexing his pradecersor’s assets he
dated back as many af his own liabilities as
possible and added them to the Dibbs short-
age, by which means ha saddled the pre-
vious financier wish a £600,000 scarcity
which he had nothing to do with. As
Barns had positively den'ei these things
when previously chargad with them by
Dibbs himself, it thus follows that
M'Millan makes a rather nasty insinuation
at Barns’ political veracity.
“VICTORIA. CROSS OF PUBLIC LIFE."
Country Bumpkin (who is being shown round by
friend, passing the Sydney General Post
Office, and observing that magnificent Post
Office official in the red coat covered with
medals): “I say, Tom, who’s that?”
Tom (in great awe): “Whist! that's the Post-
masther Gineral.”
“ The Kanakas must go !” was a Queens-
land cry before “ The Chinese must go!” was
heard on the Continent, but the Kanakas now
hold more white men’s billets in Queensland than
at any previous time. Near Gladstone whites are
found working under the supervision of these
Hacks. They attend the chlorination furnaces,
they work the drives, and their women nurse and
wheel perambulators in most of the settlements in
the North. The cry that any special race must
go gives shelter to other inferior race’. Tne
national cry will yet be “ All cheap labour, male
and female, must go !”
That section, of the political world, which
at times suffers from satfron-hued hydrophobia,
marvelled greatly when, on the reconstruction of
the Parkes Government, Mr. Abigail was re-
morselessly left on the ice, Sir Henry has him-
self explakel the exclusion by characterising Mr.
Abigail as a man of many virtues_ and a politician
possessing the courage of his opinions, all which if
true, is a s olid and satisfactory reason why this
latest victim of the Premier’s adulation is unfitted
to be in a Cabinet dominated by the pious Pan-
jandrum who stabs his hardest when he flatters.
Like the boa constrictor, the Premier has learned
to make one operation only of beslobbering and
devouring his victim.
Says a dally paper :
“Decidedly a pleasant thiag to consider is the
emergence of Sir John Robsrtison from his late retire-
ment.”
And yet “ Old Jack ” got £lO,OOO from a grateful
country a little while ago, in order that he should
be enabled permanently to retire. Pleasant! It
is a gay thing to go to a roan s funeral and weep
over his remains and drink whisky at the way-side
pubs as you come back, and have all the fun asso-
ciated with “mourning coaches when the funeral s
done,” only to find your lamented friend, the
corpse, sitting down ready to welcome you at the
foot of your own pleasant dinner table.
The difference between N.S.W. Freetrade
and Victorian Protection is that the latter at
latest advices costs in Customs duties £2,094,356
and the former £2,011,947 per annum ; so that
Freetrade only charges £83,000 a ye*r less than
Protection after all. Moreover Victoria levies
£130,000 on silks, jewellery, and other luxuries of
the rich, which go free in N.S.W., so that, de-
ducting this from the total, the poor man pays
less in Customs duties under Protection than
utder the glorious polioy'of light and liberty. And,
in addition to this, N S.W. sells £BOO,OOO worth
more of Crown lands annually than her neighbour,
and goes to the bad half-a million per annum
against a half-million surplus in Melbourne !
The Tory Echo (Sydney) has had another
fling at the jury-system. It says that “some day
or other, if we still retain the jury system, it may
be lawful to demand from the foreman the names
of the stonewallers who stick out for acquittals m
the teeth cf the clearest and most damnatory evi-
dence. They need not be necessarily punished,
but good care may be taken that they are never
put in the jury-box again.” There are obstinate
jurors, no doubt, and prejudiced ones, too, but
jurors are not the only persons connected with the
administration of justice who are obstinate and
prejudiced. And if threatening a juror with
b ing named will cause him to keep hie vices in
check, an immediate application cf a simhar
threat to the presiding judge, for instance, will be
often demanded.
Goverroc Carington said he would not fail
to “acknowledge thenoble cheers which rose from
the American flagship Trenton when our own ship
passed them on her way out of tbe harbour in the
teeth tf the gale. (Cheers) Those cheers from
the Trenton showed, as Admiral Kimborhy said,
that bicod was stronger than water.” Now, the
matter not necessarily one of blood at aV.
The English and French soldiers, indifferently,
cheered gallant deeds performed by either side
during some of the bloodiest battles of the
Peninsular war. Any close friendship between
England and America will not and cannot be
founded on identity of blood, for there will be no
identity. In the States there are in round
numbers t c n millions of Germans, ten millions of
Irishmen, several milliors cf Frenchmen, Dutch-
men, Spaniards, and Italians, and ten millions of
negroes. It is true that the bulk of these people
trpeak what is called English, but they think n
Ameiioan. We speak English, but we think in
Australian.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) Mr. Postmaster-
General O’Connor attributed the glorious growth
of Tyre, Sidon, Rome, Venice, and Athens to
their adoption of “ the progressive principles of
Ereetrade.” As two of these cities are dead,
and the other three are well on the highroad to
decay. Mr. O’Connor’s logic can safely be en-
dorsed, for one 0 , by the most vehement of virulent
Protectionists. All we marve! at is that in his
explorations among ruined ancient cities Mr.
O Connor ignored two illustrious local)_i-s o
equal historic renown If Tyre and Sidon are
entitled to resurrectionary honours at the hands
of Ereetrade lecturers, why should Sodom and
Gomorrah suffer the ills of exclusion? By the
way, one of the Sydney dailies did report Daniel
as having said “ Tyre and Sodom.
What did Lord Carington mean when at
Sydney University last week he delivered himself
of the following ? .
Whatever might be their aoadetircal
they could not be otherwise than high—from what ho saw
cf them and from what Lady Carin{ton-(cheers)-3aw of
them on a certain memorable meeting in (he jabi ee year
of Ter Majesty's reign, they knew that the standard of
British pluck would never bo disintegrated in their hands.
There are some things about which it would be
better for Governor Garb gbon to say nothing, and
one of them is the occasion on which the agents of
S believers in Imperial ascendancy packed a
“ public ” meeting by means of tickets, police,
and soldiers, and by the aid of brawny footballers
with big feet and a lot of hired ruffians from the
prize-fighting public-houses prevented the unprivi-
leged majority from venting their political
opinions J And then the officials, hedged in by a
XTanx of square j awed bruisers with broken
noses, calmly Stood up and uttered threats about
cold steel and a “whiff of grape.
Personal Items.
Forger PJgott was baldheadcd. —’ike moat
bad men.
Dean Macartney, of Melbourne, acored 90
years of age, and not cub, on Wednesday last.
Mr. John Edola, squatter, of Colac, Vis.,
left £200,000 to be divided amongst his relatives,
William Grant, of Wallaend (N.S.W.),
has just died, aged 105. He was at Waterloo.
Sj were we.
A round million has, it) it said, been un-
availingly ottered to the Fairfaxes for the Sydney
Morning Herald.
Isaac Dennett, the fastest American steno-
grapher, recently wrote 250 words a minute for
five consecutive minutes,
“Triumphant Democracy ” Carnegie, the
American millionaire, s»ys that he began his busi-
ness career sweeping out an office.
Annie Basant has written to W. W.
Collins, of Sydney, thanking him for ‘ his brave
defence of her boob, the Law of Population.”
Gladstone has never permitted the Pall
Mall Gazette to enter his house since the publi-
cation of “The Maiden Tritu'e cf Modern
Babylon.”
Sir Hercules Robinson has made a ft rtune
out of the South African diamond mines and
intends trying to enter the House of Commons as
a Home Ruler.
A literary monthly, to be colled Zba-
landia, is to be Started in Maoriland shortly.
Sir G. Grey, T. Bracken and W. P. Reeves will
be contributors.
The late Prince Rudolph’s favourite tipple
was a mixture of champagne and cognac—a con-
coction calculated to shatter the nerves and addle
the brain of Hercules.
Boulanger 1s not exactly a handsome man,
being rather below middle height, with fairly good
features, a slightly heavy manner and utterance,
eyes that do not look you straight in the face, and
hair which is of a somewhat dingy, light brown.
Sir James M‘Culloch, ex Chief Secretary
of Victoria, has been appointed Chairman of the
English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Sir
James’ old treasurer, Sir George Yerdcn, occu-
pies the position of General Inspector for Aus-
tralasia.
Horn Francis Baling arrives here by the
P. and O. ss. Victoria. The Barings have a good
deal to do with Australian loans, and they have
sent the Hon. Francis, probably, to see whether
the bursting of the land-boom left this country
where it was before.
Flood, one of the four Bonanza kings of
California, died in Germany last month. It is
estimated that, with his partners, he raised
£30,000,0C0 worth of gold and silver from the
Great Virginia Mine. Two of the party are still
alive—Mackay and Fair.
The great Challls bequest to Sydney
University was at first estimated as being worth
£lBO,OOO. Two years ago the Chancellor re-
estimated it at £200,000; now he encourages us to
expect not less than £250,000. About £190,000 of
this will be handed over to the University before
the end of the year,
Spofforth has taken up hla abode in Derby-
shire, where that not very devoted Australian
expects to play for “my county” next season.
Spot, appears to be building up a county family
in those parts, and must have mended the manners
that used to be so “ darned unpleasant” when his
moon of celebrity was at its full.
Perky little Melton Prior has gone to Ob ill
with Colonel North, the “Nitrate King,” that
monarch having engaged him at a fee of £lOOO to
assist in booming the nitrate country with pic-
torial illustrations. Melton Prior goes everywhere
and knows nothing when he comes back. Hi)
talent for drawing is a freak of Nature.
Editor Plxley, of the Argonaut, has been
reckoning up Labcuohera in his usual frisky style.
He says that Labby is as garrulous as a hen and
that when his prejudices draw the red-herring
across the trail of narrative, it is as impossible for
him to follow the scent of truth as for a blind dog,
with cheese in his nose, to follow the trail of the,
fox.
Economy is rigidly practised by a certain
representative of Her Gracious not 10,000 miles,
from Oroagingolong. His Ex. sends somebody
regularly twice a week 10 miles out of town to buy
some cheap lots at the cattle sale-yards ; and
things have reached such a pass that no decent
tradesman will accept an order from Government
House.
Sir William Wasteneye, who has beome
the editor of a N Z country paper, has, we should
judge from the following chunk out of one of his
reports, gone to the country for a spell
tendant nyphs metamophistd into waitresses for
the nonce carefully tending upon the numerous
guests.” Or can it be that the foregoing is baronial.
English ?
They say that one of the really smartest
financiers in Melbourne, and a member of the late
Assembly, is making a Spartan effort to ovtroome
his land difficulties by living in a three-roomed
cottage and reducing his personal expenditure to
nothing a day. This is several degrees nobler
than filing your shovel and having a roaring time
with the estimated assets.
Lord Chelmsford, the “hero” of that
miserable war against the Zulus, has been playing
the clarionet in an amateur band at a cotc?rt
given to the nurses of the London Homoeopathic
Hospital. It was after the defence of Rorke’s
Drift—in which one or two of the British troops
were not annihilated—that Chelmsford immor-
talised himself by languidly riding up to the army
and saying: “Thank you very much for this
splendid victory.”


The Chinese Question in Queensland—a Sketch by a Chinese Artist.
“LORD KNUTSF ORD HAS SHELVED THE QUEENSLAND ANTI-CHINESS BILL.’
k
HlKjj
'«l! i l Mm ||f|
i ill fi Biiii
Ŕ
Ŗ
Ř


~77/'O/n #-
' r ''--5' '/'O, ly dL
■:%*, W/t*
c^/yrc^
faf >7^
V
%
iVv
\ * *4*4 / v nV
i Ait £
°? ferry}
W,t x
ft b f ° )* w
aj
R
f 0
v 'sJn
\it xW c e lfrV'
'sY> '
V““/#
[•//
r
6uA" V f -/“/* - (^ *
Ca/ico • fy
7 Su /k "
U)>fs /
S 71. ter** * r *<o?
r c yeurs. - uyr }** **-
( /teireeS f7~ /
£*s/tr
Cn'/i rt*v A „r/
' Afttauj > rfy / /~* ? *apsfour
\ <yoyf j y'/ s ‘j / a?*y° li ' r
——. — *Scr eiJ <]6")t? On J'ujt'rf*-
— fficef-S £cJ/}a.f s/~ fr? *t Ci 3
d* faster- te? cL-yfi'7 c y / ~ I I
*ac f~/* U ~ C T "
J y C^ s f ?r*tecTor ’ /es ft/
/U'ser. /W f "ye} ” Uary"?cy
7a.tp, ape* ft/ Jox'?s f / °‘'< ,i , ac '
JfptoSfj fty fty
7i.np! 3 /* - y*- 5 . PlTfry^.p^-
p fa /-« 7?7<i c<J ef* O. p Ac *rp erp bc.r _'/
7~fa. // /p fjfa “V - e <a- /'I? /£< ptee. f~
Lord Carrington hopes the time is coming
| when the colonies will find amongst themselves
their, owa bishops, engineers and University
rfe/j- Ooj/-? rr/or f.
7 v
Things in General.


QRESOENT BREWING 00.’S
“AURORA”
PILSHNBB BHHR.
p. B. WHEELER & 00.,
265 Clarknck Strrbt,
SYDNEY.
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd., 356 George Street, Sydney,
AYE ju.t opened > magnificent lot of NEW PIANOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEINWAT, ERARD, UEBEL, FENRIOH, LIPP, RONI3CH, BLUIHN
COLLAR!) .nd other. : dm of the wondertnl VICTOR pl.no. .I £45, .nd ESTET ORGANS. No soon variety or valor elsewhere eor cash or terms.
Society
The Victorian Commissioners of Police
have given orders that a constable shall attend
every place of worship in Melbourne during ser-
vice on Sundays. The reason ad vac cad for this
rash action is that it is taken to prevent over-
crowding. (This is mere subterfuge. Why do
not the Commissioners admit that they have at
last recognised the danger of allowing policemen
to sleep in the open streets ?) Tae harp:—
Now that Father Haffernan has been fined
a “bob” for overcrowding St. Francis Church,
Melbourne, it is reported on the highest authority
that St. Peter is shivering in his shoes for fear of
being summoned for overcrowding heaven. And
if St. Peter is soared how must the gentleman in
charge of the opposition ejelorama feel?
• ® ••
A good deal of bick-tc patching goes on
among these vice-regal persons. Onslow, of New
Zealand, told an Adelaide reporter that he “really
considered” the local subjects were “extremely
lucky ” in getting such a nice man as Kintore to
reign at Government House, their good fortune
consisting apparently in the fact that this last-
mentioned nobleman has delightful legs. “I
never,” said Lord Onslow, “ saw a man look better
n a kilt.”
Ttte high erudition of the N.S.W. Colonial
Secretary extends some of the officials in his
department, judging from an application tent to
the Belgian consul asking, o i behalf of the hospi-
tal, for a “ present of books in the Belgium
language.” Ye gods! This reminds us of a
penny novel with an Indian scalping someone on
the cover, which we speculated in sometime in our
boyhood’s days. The story opened on board a
ship in New York harbour ; there was a tmking
barque in the distance, and a boat vanishing ia
the dusk, and “across the waters there came a
loud shout in Austrian for astisbance.” Did Parkes
write that novel ?
• • *
Some months ago Fred. Packer, the popu-
lar clerk of the Tasmanian Legislative Assembly,
received a “command” to produce his comic
opera, “Sweet Simplicity to which he had just
pub the finishing tiouches —at Government House,
Hobart, before a “swell” gathering. The opera
was played, all the deadheads were delighted with
the excellent entertainment, Packer was warmly
felicitated, the success of his work was announced
with loud acclaim in the local press, and naturally
he felt on very good terms with himself. But soon
his happiness was disturbed by a note from Lady
Hamilton. “ Her Ex.” sent on to him all the
accounts connected with the production of the
opera. Sweet Simplicity! Packer saddled with
£l5O of liabilities and no money in his pocket!
Fancy a literary musician having to pay cne hun-
dred and fifty sovereigns for the privilege of enter-
taining the Government House sat with an opera
that would run a theatre in any other place I
People, of course, felt indignant at the treatment
Packer had received, and when he announced a
couple of performances of “ Sweet Simplicity,
two well-packed houses were the means of reliev-
ing Packer and his friends from a financial
incubus. It is an awful thing in Tasmania to be
patronised by Government House.
* * *
As a protest against the “disloyalty” of
replacing the Queen’s head on certain N.S.W,
postage stamps with the emu, a “ loyal ’ Sydney
merchant has decided to have printed on all enve-
lopes sent by him a large edition of Her Pre-
eminent in Grief —so large that the distressed
outline of the emu will pale away to dull obscurity
in the bottom left-hand corner. The indignant
emu will labour under the further disadvantage
of being partially obliterated with Government
ink by a designing official who has no regard for
an emu’s feelings. If this scheme became gigantic
and the population that is loaded with loyalty do
likewise the dynasty of the bird will give a final
kick and become defunct. God Save our Emu !
• * *
Apropos of cabl-e veracity, The Bul-
letin learns, on the authority of Governor
Caringbon, that Queen Victoria, who received the
siolen property cf Dhuleep S ngh, intends to re-
turn to Dhuleep the £2,000,000 KoMnoor diamond
—in her mind. The Queen has got a nice little
way of giving things back once she has got her
royal claw on them; so Dhuleep is to get back
his little diamond, and a cart-load of rubies and
emeralds, two tors of pearls, four bushels of
garnets, three and a half cwt. of amethysts, an
Indian shawl, a dukedom, a copy cf Leaves from
the Highlands, a copy of “ More Leaves,” and the
whole of England and half o! Ireland just to show
that Her Gracious has read in the Secret of
England’s Greatness that ibis more blessed to give
than to receive. We do wish we were Dhuleep,
don’t you ?
« * *
During the past three years 25,000 tons of
solid material have been put together in the
completion of Sydney Town Hall. The Centennial
Hall will be one of the largest in the world, and
will eclipse in size by far Melbourne Town Hall.
When completed it will have cost nearly a quarter
of a million sterling.
* * *
The Adelaide lady who was gnilty of
quartebtelets has lost three of them, and the
remaining babe is in a weak state. The poor
mother is likely to lose all four children b afore she
has had time to discover which was which. It is
a sad affair, bub the bereaved father will endeavour
to bear up. There are severs! twins and singlets
left bo console him.
» • •
A Melbourne policeman has got into
trouble for neglec.ing his duty. He was found by
a superior officer, courting a young woman in a
right-of-way when he should have been out on the
highway, suppressing disturbances ;
The Earl of Onslow was Interviewed by a
reporter from the awful Melbourne Herald last
week, and when the great man complained that
he couldn’t “do” Fernshaw, doncherknow, be-
cause the landscape, by Jove ! was too doosid wet
and all that sort of thing, the Herald man felt
oa'led upon to apologise. With a deprecating
cough and a nervous grin this newspaper flunkey
mildly insinuated that “it was annoying, cer-
tainly ; but he could assure his Lordship that
such’weather was not typical of the Australian
climate.” His Lordship, presumably, accepted
the apology on the understanding that there
should be no repetition of the annoyance, after
which he delivered himself of the usual chestnuts
concerning marvellous Melbourne, and the inter-
viewer crawled out upon his hands and knees
murmuring “ Not typical, your Lordship—quite
a mistake, I assure your Lordship ; not occur
again, your Lordship, if the Hebald can prevent
it.” Then he returned in a limp condition to the
office to inform the staff how Onslow seemed very
wild about the drought breaking up at this time,
but his manner was particularly nice and superior,
all the same. O 1 where are we all going to ?
* * »
The annual report of Sydney City Mission,
at whose tables 400 persons sat down, one night
last week, exhibits a degree of common sense and
accuracy not usually found in documents drawn
up by social moralists. It records 131 professed
conversions.
* * •
Apropos of the recent Battenberg mar-
riage morganatic, the London D.T. said: —“It
would be better for the princes of Germany if
there were more amongst them ready, like Prince
Alexander, to many a beautiful, accomplished,
healthy girl, though she is a peasant’s daughter,
than to rear, or try to rear, an heir to a throne
from the dull or sickly descendant of a narrow and
almost exhausted royal caste, lacking the force
and vigour that can only come from free life.”
This is only Tory radicalism, at the best. Our
stiff poet will explain ;
The rich prizes of the English Turf have
a trick, nowaday?, of generally falling to dukes
OLD CHEESE
MISSUS: “MARY JANE, BRING ON THAT VERY OLD CHEESE. I KNOW
UNCLE METAPHAR WOULD LIKE SOME OF IT WITH HIS SALAD!”
MARY JANE: “I’M SORRY TO HAVE TO TELL YE MUM, BUT THAT VERY
OLD CHEESE HAVE BEEN AND ESCAPED!”
who are already sinfully rich themselves. Thus
the bachelor Duke of Portland —the noble con-
victed of saying that some owners are worser than
jockeys—has won the £12,000 Prince of Wales
Stakes, at Leicester, with his Derby favourite,
Donovan. By the way, it is again reported that
the Duke of Portland intends to get married
(to a Miss Dallas Yorke, who is six feet high
and very lovely) so if anybody knows any
cause or impediment why the event shouldn’t
come eff he had better declare it right away.
Otherwise we shall allow the ceremony to proceed.
» a •
The great longevity of royal females
makes it a cause for surprise that the Duchess of
Cambridge has been snatched from us in her 92nd
year. She was a very respectable old lady con-
sidering her noble birth, and she often regretted
that her son, the gingerbred Commander in Chief,
used such shocking bad language. Australian
ladies, who turn pale at the sight of a parcel, will
ds well to note that the deceased royal individual
would —within the last 10 years—bend so low as
to call at a shop for a bundle of garden matting
and bear it away in her brougham. That she
always remained Duchess cf Cambridge, instead
of carrying the prefix Dowager, is accounted for
by the goodness and gentleness of Our Gracious
Queen, who has steadfastly refused to acknow-
ledge the fact that the present Duke was lawfully
married to a ballet-dancer many years ago. _ God
joined them together without getting permission
from the Queen, who, in the matter of family
marriages, rules the Almighty by special Act of
Parliament.
Particular holy drivel by the Archbishop
of Canterbury in the presence of Wales at a recent
public function
This historic room, which has been the scene cf many
signal marks of favour from your royal ancestors, and so
otten of interesting gatherings upon important occasions,
has held nothing more interesting than to-day’s meeting,
when Your Royal Highness has allowed chosen represen-
tatives of the ivorking men to grasp your hand.
It doesn’t need comment Wales, a short, fat,
bald man who never in all his life did anything
that was worth a copper, allowed certain working
men to clutch his paw—that was all. Some day,
possibly, they may clutch his ear, instead ; and by
that time the last Archbishop of Canterbury will
probably be rushing round with gravy in a tenth-
rate restaurant at “ 10s. a week and sleep cn
the coals,” for he also never learned how to do any-
thing that is worth a cent, to anybody ; and then
the ejected pair can look back on that elaborate
function at Lambeth Palace and wail for the day
when the working man disgraced himself by ex-
tending his hand to royalty instead of aiming his
foot at that once stately institution.
« «. O
Mr. Pantor, the famous magistrate, of
Melbourne District Court, adjudicated upon 150
cases in one day last week. Quick 1 the banjo—
this instant!
Says the S.M. Herald; — “Touching Sir
Somers Vine, the question has been asked why he
was not sent over with the collecting plate to
India. The explanation given ... is that Sir
Somers Vine is too distinctly pronounced for
Indian refinement, but with the hearty-hail-
fellow-well-met Australians he may possibly go
down.” Just so:—
The poor little Duke of Newcastle took to
wife “a stately English girl” recently, and a
sassiety chronicler of this event threw an uninten-
tional touch cf pathos into his report by mention-
ing that the young bride “seemed much depressed
at hir wedding.” It was the happiest moment of
her life—the realisation cf love's bright dream.
But when the joy-bells were ringing, and the
choristers were singing, and the congratulations of
the other duchesses were being dinned in her ears,
this new-made Duchess cf Newcastle seemed much
depressed 1 If she hadn’t been marrying a sickly
gentleman with a cork leg, the top of whose head
is just level with the top of her—well, corsets—one
might fear that the “stately English girl” was
positively regrettinar that the couldn’t become
Duchess of Newcastle without also becoming the
Duke’s partner for life. The solemnizition of
this alleged union of hearts commenced at 9.30
on a bleak winter’s morning, and lasted two hours.
Hnsbmd (whose wife has been reproving
him for smoking in her presence)—You often used
to say before we were married, “ Oh, George, I
do so love the odour of a good cigar.” Wife —
Yes, that sort of remark is part of every girl’s
opital.— Exchange.
» # *
Dear Bulletin, Concerning ‘ Wait-
resses.” Many years ago I knew two gentlemen,
both in Kent, and a rich man ( not a gentleman) in
Scotland, who could not stand “ pampered
menials ” (male). Strange to say they were almost
tabooed because they preferred to be waited on by
something that looked agreeable. The Kentish-
men had not even butlers, but their manages were
perfect The houstkeep-rs acted as butlers, and
though both were comparatively young, there was
no unseemly levity that was not at once checked
and remedied by them. Personally I hate being
waited on by a man, unless he ba a soldier servant.
A regimental la tman is an exception to the rule of
flunkeys. For a month he is a faithful servant,
during the second moon he is an attached friend,
and ever afterwards he is a tyrannical master.
One wants a bots to eee that things are right after
a heavy guest-night. Nearly all the hospitals are
taking to female nurses now, and, as the comfort
of the patients depends on the morals and manners
of their fellow-sufferers, the petticoat-rule Is a
success. The greatest roughs behave better when
the wardsman is a woman. —Yours, Scotty the
Wrinklke,
* * •
Mrs. Harrison Lee, who haa been ful-
minating (in the Melbourne Herald) against
something she calls the Social Evil, without any
regard for The Bulletin’s virgin modesty,
finished up her list of horrors with an essay on
“Remedial Means.” We don’t exactly know
what it is that Mrs. Lee wishes to remedy, but
sin gives us to understand that it will be all right
if we crucify the flash and keep pure. So, in her
We welcome this departure new —
We’ve lost ten hats from ’neath our pew—
At last a gentleman in blue
Will keep an eagle eye upon betrayers—
Those saints with just a spice of guile
Who pass the plate and sweetly smile,
And deftly sneak a bob the while,
Or crib our Sunday gingham during prayers.
And now the parson on his knees,
Who erst has felt but ill at ease,
Convincing folks there’s Oae wbo sees,
Won’t need *-o keep one eye upon the plate ;
Nor longer will ha need to vex
O’er elders gay who love “ the sex,”
And hug the girls on small pretex—
The constable will club them on the pate.
And sternly warn those elders proud :
“ Such conduct, sor, is not allowed.
Nhow moind, Oi saw yez overcrowd—
Sit further from th’ little gyrrul in blue !”
The Board of Health is well aware
That churches all have room to spare—
A crowded church is very rare,
But crowded congregations ain’t too few.
O ! Adelaide, you are in luck,
You’re in it to the hilt —
The Governor is such a duck
When he puts on a kilt.
For you will find my Lord Kintore
Is very strongly built,
And never man appeared before
So noble—in a kilt.
At other legs the little girls
Their noses, small, will tilt,
When they compare ’em with the Earl s,
As seen beneath a kilt.
And after gazing at the Gov.,
The fellows they will jilt
Whom formerly they used to love—
They never wear a kilt.
Then, if requested to explain
Their treachery and guilt,
The dears will say, with much disdain,
“ We've seen him in a kilt.”
At last the blocd of good Kintore
Will cruelly be spilt,
The jealous swains will shed his gore,
And murmur “Nov he's kilt!"
We sympathise with peeler X,
And think the charge enough
His sympathetic soul to vex
And make him cut up rough.
Protectors of the peace they’ve named
Our most efficient “ p’leecs,”
And peeler X should not be blamed —
Sht was his little “piece.”
What about poor Ban and Harry,
Sturdy, active, honest churls,
If a horde of princes marry
All the strong and lovely girls ?
Low-born beauty’s sweet caresses
Best were kept for Hal. and Ben;
Let the princes wed princesses—
While the Women mate with Men.
Wherefore graft on stock that’s dying
Cuttings from a he Ithy vine ?
What on earth’s the use of trying
To preserve a “ Royal line ?”
Let such institutions, rotten,
Wither, as the People thrive ;
Kings must die and be forgotten,
And the fittest shall survive.
Record bus 1 ) is !
Lightning justice
Like to this was never known ;
One case sum up,
T’other come up,
Guess the beak was rather “ blown,”
Drunks appearing,
Patient hearing
Got, and scurried from the dock —
Game and went hence,
(Trial sentence
Ninety seconds by the clock),
(Editor shouts)—
To descant on
Mr. Panton
Bard must choose another time,
Printer curses —
Finish verses—
Ninety seconds for the rhjme.
They’ll simply take all they can get
Of good Australian loot,
And pass round the hat—you bet —
To save the Hinstitoot,
But we’re just blawsted cads, yer know —
Stand anything, deah boy—
The roughest “dock ” can run our show,
We’ll welcome him with joy.
To “ culchaw ” we do not ascend,
But gladly “ stump ” our fees
To any coster “ sir ” they send
To the antipodes !
RICH RELATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a man who was dismally poor
In the course of my peregrinations,
.And bis neighbours all wondered why this was so,
For he hid very rich relations,
Who bad thousands of pounds in the bank, or lent
On mortgage, and several stations ;
But although he was starving no help could he get
From one of his rich relatione.
And, what was worse, when he asked for work
From others, they lost all patience
And said : “ Why the deuce don’t you get a lift
From some of your rich relations ?”
And the consequence was, as I afterwards heard,
He suffered such fearful privations
That to end his suspense, he suspended himself,
To the joy of his rich relations.
There’s a moral which wags with this tale, and ’tis
this :
If you wish to make sure of your rationr,
Wherever yon go, and whatever yon do
Don’t mention your rich relations !
A.S.


COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OP THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN.TONTINE SURPLUS, MT Branches In all the Colonies and In the United Kingdom,
summing up of the whole question of remedial
means, this sultry female Jeremiahess says: “Now,
first ministers, for I look upon spiritual teachers
as of first importance,” Without dipping any
further into mysteries that make us blush, we rise
bo second this particular resolution. Keep your
eye on the spiiitual teachers, Mrs. Harris in
jjo 6 ! They are of the first importance. Also
give your best attention to the dimpled little
darlings of the choir, and introduce a bill for the
Regulation of Sunday School picnics. And after
a whila the Social Evil (which one is the worthy
woman referring to ?) will vanish like a hideous
dream and we dull all be crucified with a remedy
which passath all understanding.
A •
Archdeacon Julius, a very venerable
Anglican pulpit-pounder of Ballarat (Vic.), and a
large, bony structure who can put up his hands
to great advantage when necessity requires, and
knock the combatative scoffer askew on strictly
scientific principles in no time worth mentioning,
has lately coma out strong as a special policeman.
A short time back a Ballarat resident got tired of
his crippled sister-in law, and proceeded to cripple
her some more by throwing her about the house
and hitting her with a tender The ven. Arch-
deacon was subsequently called in to administer
spiritual comfort to the banged female in her ex-
tremity; after completing which contract he turned
up his cuffs, and started out on the track of the
destroyer, and came up with him towards noon in
a public place. The purtuer and the pursued
came together with a clash ; there was a brief up-
heaval, a short, sharp souffle, a sound of sanguin-
ary profanity and scriptural quotations, and the
Rsv. Julius was seen to emerge from the dust,
leading his prisoner by the ear. “Be aisy nhow,
an’ come quoiet,” said the parson, as he led his
prisoner away. The Archdeacon booked his man
at the local leek up, a d departed rejoicing. This
seems a fit occasion to burst into song
Aide-de-camp very often means Ald-a-
scamp. #
The Australian Jarndyca v. Jatndyce case
(re the Underwood Estate) still continues. About
80 solicitors and barristers without number are
making a good thing out of this interminable
squabble, and meanwhile some of the alleged
beneficiaries are almost starving. A Parliament-
ary enquiry into the whole protracted litigation
is about to be requested by Captain S. E. Under-
wood, of Tasmania, heir-at-law of the testator,
James Underwood.
• • •
The mother-in-law fiend advb. once more: —
t MARGARET do not Intend to get credit, as
you never had the means to pay for it. I left
home through your mother. MARGARET ——.
Poor old mother-in-law, the most sassed and
abused of modern social institution’, at whose
head clods of derision are always flying. The
mother-in-law joke is eternal. The uncle has been
tried and has died oat; the step-mother went for
a little while and then fell fiat; the maiden aunt
collapsed in her early stages ; the orphan boy was
too damp and maudlin to last; and the twins who
couldn’t be told apart except by the strawberry-
mark on their arms, perished in the wash-tub very
young. The venerable grandmother with the
false teeth was eat upon for a brief space by story-
writers and comic clowns of literature, and then
she caved in with a hollow, reproachful thud ; the
aged grand-pa with the asthmatic wheeze whose
bark used to be heard upon the shores of the drama
as he told impossible stories about the wood he
chopped when he was young, has gone down to
be with the dust of Ananias; the bad boy who
wrote diaries grew up and became solemn and
respectable; and the jam-smeared baby of various
maudlin tales blossomed for a brief space and then
choked. But the mother-in-law keaps going on.
Like the Wandtring Hebrew of ancient legend
she clumps through fast and fiction ; she turns up
in the polica court and the palace; she is some-
times in a lunatic asylum, and sometimes drunk
on an ash-heap ; she is found drowned and over-
grown with barnacles, and she is discovered
flattened by a mud-cart, or arrested while heaving
bricks in a hotel; she is advertised for by people
who have lost her, and again she is advertised
about by people who have found her and wish
to heaven they could lose her hut don’t know
how; she ia sued for rates, and is summoned
for dog-stealing, chicken-stealing, bad language
across the fence, assault and battery, and obstruct-
ing the thoroughfare with an apple-cart, and yet
she survives it all God bless our home. Also,
in particular, God bless our mother-in law !
• * »
Dr. Ralph has been lecturing on “Blood”
to the members of the Bankers’ Institute at Mel-
bourne. The bankers have caused a lot of their
customers to lecture on Blood, in its adjective
state, these last few months.
A man who was summoned by„ his wife
for iruincenance laid in the Melbourne Court the
other day ihat “ he Lad forgotten he was married ’
His wife was an orphi n j ou may he sun.
A poor devil of a Jack Tar, tired of being
hectored by his officers for 2d. a day, deserted
from H.M.S, Nelson at Auckland six years ago,
apprenticed himself to and became proficient in
the carpentering trade, and eventually married
and settled down. The other day someone
“ peached on him,” and poor Jack is now under
arrest and en route for England, a prisoner on a
charge of falling to appreciate the advantages of
being connected with Her Gracious Majesty’s
Navy. And this is not the only occasi in on which
the relentless hand of British naval discipline has
been stretched out in these lands. Many years
ago a sailor slipped his cable from a man o’-war—
the Rosario we think —and settled in the Rotorua
district, N.Z , where he married and became the
father of a large family. He was recognised some
years ago by the doctor of his old ship, who was
touting in the district, information was given to
the polio i, and the unfortunate man was picked
off to E ugland to rot away years o! his life in prison.
There is hardly anyone who, on reading these two
episodes, but will admit that there ia something
abhorrent in the idea of men, Australian citizens
by adoption, married to women of the country
and the fathers of Australian children, being torn
away from their families because they had
absconded from a service in which there was no
hope for them. The Mercantile Marine does not
experience any difficulty in maintaining efficient
crews without descending to methods that were
considered necessary in mediceval times, and if
men cannot be kept from deserting the navy that
is the navy’s look-out, not ours. The barbarous
vindictiveness that allows a man to be taken from
our country and from his wife and children for an
act that our consciences tell us is not a crime mast
not be permitted to vent itself under the Southern
Cross.
ELECTRIC PHOTO CO., S BRIDGE-ST., SYDNEY
THE EARL OF KINTO E.
GOVERNOR OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA)
LaabFrlday afternoon, about 4 o’clock p.m.,
there was perpetrated in King-street, Syd-
ney, contrary to the teachings of the moral
law and the established custom of civilised
nations, an outrage which reduced a fat, good-
natured woman to tears and left her fallen in a
heap as a large British female in distress. She
was an immense, flit-footed, camel-gaitei lady
who moved in an uncertain manner over the face
of the earth as if she was tottering to a lame and
impotent conclusion, and behind her, surging
heavily along at the end of two yards of string,
came a corpulent dog which steered badly like a
tired flat fish in a heavy sea. It was a short,
boiler-shaped dog, and it was the pride and joy of
its proprietor’s old age, her comfort in the hour of
affliction, the solace cf her declining years, and
the chief ornament cf the street she lived in.
Some distance behind this procession there moved
along a depraved Australian youiih, who also had
a dog, but it was a sort of kitchen or backyard
animal with low instincts and no manners. It
was a mean, dirt-coloured beast with a slinking
tendency born of boiling water and old boots ; it
was bony and partially bald and wholly villainous,
its eye alone being sufficient to ensure it three
months with hard labour ; its tail had been split
on some ancient battle-field; it had one red ear
standing up and one mangy listening organ lying
flat on its head, and altogether it was calculated to
reflect discredit on the family if it wai seen standing
at the back door of a hanged murderer’s hovel at
Botany. Its owner was towing it also at the end
of a piece of string, and, sighting the old lady, he
gently ranged up alongside Next he softly—very
softly—tiad the cord which held his mud-coloured
reptile to the cord which bound the other pup and
its mistress together, so that the old lady was un-
consciously towing two dogs—one an animal that
was ca’culated to reflect credit on any pious house-
hold. and the other a blown-up scarecrow which
looked as if it had camped upon an ash-heap for
48 years. Then the proprietor of this last-men-
tioned disgrace lilently cut the other string and
eloped round an ad j aesnt corner with a res p act-
able, Christian dog, and the old lady mooned
along as before, uncomcious of the deceit which
had been practised upon her by sinful man in the
hour of his moral darkness. She had traversed
two streets before the living outrage grew tired of
his new surroundings and started to eat her
feet, and then she turned round and realised
that she had been making a spectacle of herself
a V mm^ ed a
if it had been brought up by foot in a den of n
fanay, and a heart-rending scene ensued. The p -
oeedinga close with a large reward for the recovery
of a respectable dog. and a ruined oa r bark g
miserably outside a stone mansion in a high-class
suburb. , , *
Probably the most frantically jealous man
in Australia is a certain New South Wales gentle-
man—the husband of a venerable tradition which,
before he married it, was a favourite actress on
the colonial stage. That was a long time before
the marriage, however, ani now, though the lady
is seldom seen by the public, it is pretty well
known that the old man may make hi) mind easy.
It takes two persons to give any man good ground
for jealousy, and the time is past when the lady
could get anyone to help her in harrowing up her
proprietor s feelings,
c . w ,„. „ (t » u a * n
ic William Jervola kerrldge has been
purchased by an opulent N.Z several per shenter.
And now the Roman Catholics of the land of
tattoo and long pig are much put out, bscauie
they had intended to buy it for their archbishop,
whom they wished to see going round and
ministering to the poor ani lowly in an illigant vice-
regal shebang.
* * ©
Beyond Bonrke, N.S.W., a Salvation army
„ OTV ,„u -n ao j ’ „
man named Reed was seen frequently praying
under a tree and saying that he coUid hear the
angels blowing their trumpets, By-and-by the
angels told him to tomahawk his wife, which be
at once did in a most workmanlike manner. It’s
an awful mistake while you are in this world to
have too much “ truck ” with the next world.
• #
*
A man has just been released from tha
debtors’prison at Darlinghursb, Sydney, who had
served 17 months at the instance of a lodging-
house-keeper, whose claim amounted to £2l odd.
That hash ought to be almost digested by this
time. We have often wished, as we pressed our
hands upon our agonised epigastrium, after eating
dinner at a boarding-house, that we could go and
sit down in a cool place for about a year and
a half.
* * *
A level-headed Oalrna paraon haa appointed
two lawyers to carry round the plate. He knows
that nobody ever offers a lawyer less than 6s. 81.
# # m
T . ~
Last week in Sydney there was a law-suit
about certain advertising mirrors supplied to Bal-
main skating-rink. It has of late been a habit
with some unscientific advertisers to display the
“steam of business ” on mirrors placed in con-
splcuous public posit ions. Deluded wretches!
For where is the man who ever looked into a
mirror to sea anybody but himself or some weman
or other ? And where, oh where ! is the woman
who ever looked into a mirror to see anything
but her own clothes ?
• * •
It Is often said that a woman “ Is aa old as
she looks.” The Bulletin considers that a
woman is j ust as old as she looks and feels about
the elbows and collar bone.
A Glebe (SvdnfisQ man last week adver-
~ J R.U.u matl -KW B6 aC j u
tised that he wouldn’t be responsible for any debts
contrMted by his wife. The lady responded thus :
Maiy , of the Glebe, couldn t if she tried
obtain in Martin a mine, he being so
well known. Mary scorei one.
* * *
Mrs. Marlon Leathern, editress of the
Molong (N.S.W.) Express, gives solemn warning
that on no consideration whatsoever will she sup-
press the names of persons who are fined for
drunkenness at the local police-court. All
grogsters are to have their names published in her
very best space.
• • •
The type-letters of Brisbane talk of start-
ing and running a daily newspaper there on co-
operative principles. So far as running papers are
concerned, compositors or ex-compositors practi-
cally run most of the journals in Queensland. The
Brisbane Courier, which occupies the leading
post in that colony, recruits, especially since Mr.
Buzacott joined the firm, its literary staff almost
entirely from “case.” There are at the present
time seven compositors in the literary depart-
ment. Mr. Buzacott likes, however, bo draw his
‘ ‘ leaders ” from many quarters and several of the
leading public men of the colony use the “ we ” cf
his columns.
* * *
The one subject on which the Fairfaxes
and their editors cannot come to a common agree-
ment upon is the advisableness or otherwise of
establishing a Foundling Hospital in Sydney.
* i. *
A Ballarat policeman haa arrested a dead
man for being drunk. That was very policeman-
like. Officer Muldoon rarely arrests a drunken
man for being dead, and that’s just why so many
people are found with broken necks or so in the
police-cells.
9
The estimation in which we are still held
ia-the dear old mother country may be judged
from the following, cut from the Scottish Leadeb
(Edinburgh) of 27 jh Fabiuary, 1889
A Sheriff's Advice to a Roving Thief —ln the Sheriff
Court, Dundee, William Johnston, fireman, was charged
with the theft cf a jacket from the Newcastle steamer
Crystal, and also of a p-cket-hant kerchief and a pair of
saa-boati from the Dundee steamer Spey. Sheriff Smith
. said he observed that during the 20 ye.-rs of his criminal
career prisoner had bean employed mainly in stealing
tdflas ia various parts cf the world, and as he appeared
to be of a roving turn of mind his Loidihip adviselhim
to go to Van Dieman’s Land and stop there, as he might
find the code of morals there more suited to his taste.
Sentence of four months’ imprisonment was passed.
Parkes eays ha is going to live a long time.
He cannot possibly give up the Ghost.
Mr. Hairless J ones, MP. for the South
Warrego Fiats, on one occasion had Tyson, the
great Australian millionaire, to lunch, Tyson was
on his way to inspect one of his few thousand
stations immediately adjoining Jones’. At
luncheon he praised the bief—-“ Magnificent
animal that must have been, prime condition,”&c„
&c. “Glad you like it,” rejoined the genial
Jones, adding: “It’s your own. We always
kill each other’s beef up here ” once missed
a very prime and fat roan steer, which he success-
fully traced to one of his neighbour’s (not Tyson’s)
stock-yards, but no further. Jones said naught,
but soon afterwards, happening to come across a
fine white cow belonging to that same neighbour,
he annexed her, bullfrog-bell and all. The cow
found her way to the harness cask and the bell was
hung up in a conspicuous place by the yiti. The
neighbour, looking for his cow, espied and recog-
nised the bel*, and accosted Jones “ Seen Snow-
drop anywhere ? Can’t make out where’s she’s
gone, but I see her b.ll here.” “ Well,” replied
Jones, “ I rather guess Snowdrop has gone away
in company with that roan steer of mine.” The
neighbour took the hint.
Here’s to Archdeacon Julius,
Who’s somewhat over seven,
And can give an unruly cuss
A taste of—well, not Heaven ;
We badly need more e’ergymen
As stern in their rebukes,
And parsons will be powerful when
They can “ put up their dooks.”
It’s very well to preach and prate,
And cussedness defame,
And promise all who bluff the plate
A future life in flame,
But more repentance will be won
When clerics do not fear
To grapple the ungodly eon
And neatly shift his ear.
The venerable reverend
Whose praise ia fashioned here,
His usefulness doth never end
With “tenthly, brethren, dear,”
His energetic ministry
Doth ehama the young beginners
Who feast with the elect whilst he
Is running in the sinners.
As priests as moral peelers pose
And one has ta’en this course,
Let’s find them all in clubs and do’s,
And list them in the force,
Tho’ all are not like him we sing,
At cold pie few will falter,
And none have more desire to bring
Poor wretches to the “ altar.”
Typhoid Fever.
Among the thousand ills that flesh is heir to,
typhoid fever seems at present to be claiming the
majority of victims. It is necessary to say bnt
little with respect to this disease, by which so
many colonials are yearly taken away. It has
formed the subject of numerous medical exhorta-
tions, and a still larger number of newspaper
articles. The disease still remains with us, and
the unfortunate part of the affair is that many of
those who fall victims, are persons who endeavour
to comply, so far as their knowledge goes, with
the conditions of life which would ensure immunity
from it. No man can be expected to be his
£l brother’s keeper,” and, moreover, no man can
be expected to know what his neighbour is doing.
Thus the most careful and cleanly person may
have living next door to him someone who is
altogether regardless of the commonest require-
ments of sanitation. Typhoid germs are prevelent
in all defective drains and sewer pipes, and if our
systems are in a low condition the germs are easily
impregnated. How many of those among us are
in a condition favorable for the germs of disease
to take effect in, is demonstrated by the large
numbers stricken with, and those who die from,
typhoid fever every week. Why not then take
every precaution by fortifying the system with
the use of Warner’s S.fe Cure, so as to render the
danger of contagion almost impossible. In re-
commending this great remedy we offer the follow-
ing from grateful colonials, who speak of its
efficiency :
The Rev. William Campbell, Presbyterian
minister, of South Dunedin, N.Z , writes, June
fibh, 1888 :—“ Warner’s Safe Cura has very often
bean brought under my notice as a specific for
kidney, liver, and general debility I know of
several instances of protracted suffering, where a
cure has been tffeclea through the agency of this
medicine.”
Me. H. E Shacklock, proprietor of the South
End Foundry, Dumdin, N.Z , writes, June 7bb,
1888;—“For three years prior to the taking of
Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills, I
had an attack of headache every three or four
days, which would last from six to twenty-four
hours with more or less violence I found relief
from the first dose. I took altogether fix bottles
of Warner’s Safe Cure, and two vials of Warner’s
Safe Pills. I have not taken any for ten months,
and during that time have not had an attack.”
Mr. R. Green, keeper of the Kapoel Bay Light
Ship, writes from Rockhamptom, Q., June sth,
1888 “ Ten years ago my work obliged me to
pass the greater part of the night in an open boat
off the coast of Peru, and as a result I contracted
a very severe kidney complaint. But it was not
until two years ago, when getting completely
drenched, that the disease became clearly manifest to
me, accompanied by inflammation of the bladder. I
tried several remedies without permanent relief,
until last October, when,l obtained Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills. I derived great
benefit from baking two bottles, tui it was not
until I had taken twenty bottles of Warner’s Safe
Cure, and twelve vials of Warner’s Safe Pills, that
I felt the disease was surely overcome.”


PUBLIC PTICE or REMOVAL.
PEAPES-&-SHAW
Are now located in their New Premises. 311 GEORGE
STREET, almost Immediately Opposite their Old Place
of Business.
They are Note Opening Up One Hundred and
t ib'ty Cases op New Goods specially selected in
the Best Markets of the World.
The Near Premises
Will be fonnd the best-lighted, best-arranged,
and most commodious for a EIR-VTCLaSS
GENTLEMENS OUTFITTING TRADE to
be found anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere.
Their future onerations will be exclusively con-
fined to the MENS’. YOUTHS’, and ROYS’
GENERAL OUTFITTING. All orde rs will be
under the personal supervision and care of the
propr etors, and no effort will be spared to please
their patrons, and give the very best value for
money.
The Tailoring Department
Three first-class cutters are lept constantly
and the stock of Coatings, Trouserings, and
Vestings is unsurpassed for quality, style, and
durability, and the prices will be found strictly
moderate.
The Shlrt-lldklog Department
Is the largest order-trade in the Australian
C Joi i *s, while the stock of ready-made Shirts is
unequalled for style, qua'ity, and finish.
1 he General (I mti (ting Department.
This Department ii one of the most important.
Everything that cm contribute to the health and
comfort of gentlemen travelling is to be found
here ( from the handsomely-fitted Gladstone Bag,
serviceable Portmanteau, Sieel Trunk, T-avellicg
Rug, or other minor necessities of travel, such as
Rug Straps, and Luggage Labels or Deck Chairs.
Gentlemen’s Bendy*Dade Clothing
Department.
In th s Department will be found every variety
of Readymade Garment, from the stylish Gentle-
manly Overcoat to the inexpensive Ready-made
Suits, ranging in price from 21a. to thres guineas
Youths’, Boys’ and Juvenile Beady-made
Clothing.
Special attention will be paid to this important
Department, recognising the fact that the child is
father to the man.
Bat Department
Tress’ and Christy’s Hats in all the latest styles,
and the very best quality these well known manu-
facturers can produce.
Hosiery and Mercery Department.
It is almost impossible to enumerate the variety
of goods comprised in these Departments. Scarfs,
Ties, Braces, elegant Sjarf Pina, Links, Solitaires,
& from Welch, Margetaon, and Co , and others
Hosiery, Undei shirts, and Pants, from J. and R
Morley, and other first-class makers.
Every attention and courtesy will be shown to
persons desirous of looking through our new
establishment.
PR APES AND SHAW,
Gentlemen s Hosiers, Glovers, Tailors and Out
litters,
311 George Street, SYDNEY.
♦ Adam Bede's *
Benevolent C qksultatiq ns.
“All the Yfae lqund ”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
On these events Adam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Caarities, com-
mensurate with his success
NOW OPEN,
Brisbane Cup,
Run at Brisbane, May 24, 1889
4,000
Subscribers at £1 Eich.
4,000
First H irse £KiOO
S cond Horse 600
Third Horse 400
Starters, £6OO ; Non starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
Birthday Cup,
Run at Randwick May 24, 1889
10,000
Subscribers at £1 Each.
10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Hone £l5OO
Third Hone £lOOO
Starters, £l5OO ; Non-:tarters, £2OOO ; to
be divided amongst them.
A'am Side's is tbs til; fail ostbii of drawing,
T e rames of ibe ho’rle's tf the Winning Tickets
will-on no account whatever be divulgel by Ada m
pKDk until niter the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their 1-tiers to
ersure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for rep’y and result, ani add
exchange to cheques.
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
H HILDEB,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Importer of
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, to,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FOR SALE. —Two Grani Water Frontages
Parramatta and Laie Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office
Doyle’s New Hall, Janee, the bast on the
Siuthern Line. New scenery and fire escapes.
Companies about to do the Southern trip would
do well to engage at once. Wire or write to W.
J. Doyle, Commercial Hotel, Junee. Price
Moderate.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAINS
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
B PHILLIP PARK.
Scenic Artists: Mr. Walter Mills
and Assistants.
Stage Manager : Mr. J. Raymond.
, accordance with the expressed wish of a large
body of the Sydney public who thoroughly ap-
preoiate the Entertainment which has been pro-
vided for them.
' EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS AND
ADbITIONS
will be made to the
MAMMOTH STAGE.
Under the personal supervision of
CAPTAIN RAISON,
assisted by a body of 200 skilled mechanicians,
work mg bv night, under KIRKLAND & CO.’S
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
Tois work will have the effect of raising the
entire STAGE and SCENERY
TEN EE ttT ABOVE
its present level, thus enabling persons at the
ex'reme end of the Grand Stand to obtain a per-
fect and uninterrupted view of every detail In
connection with this MAGNIFICENT SPEC-
TACLE, and will furthermore obviate the neces-
sity of any spectator standing up.
PAUL WEITZMANN in his daring performance
on the Wire.
ROMAN GAMES.
GLADIATORIAL COMBATS.
BOXING, WRESTLING, NET & TRIDENT,
Deadly Combat with the Net and Trident.'
The Pi ocession of Priests, Drill of the Roman
Guards, Mr. Raymond’s celebrated Flower Dance,
in which a trained ballet of lady artistes will
asnst ; living Roman statuary, athletes, gymnasts,
rope-walkers, &c , &c , together with numerous
other attractions,
_ . , , The whole invented and produced by
JAMES PAIN, of LONDON & NEW YORK
Be early and secure good seats.
H. DENTON, of Sydney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
c
RYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yokk-steeet.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Great Sensational Event to take place at an Early
Date.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
Mr. A. F. SMITH, CHAMPION SKATER
OF THE WORLD,
In Scientific and Character Skating.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent E'pctric Lights provided by
the well known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York street, Sydney
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
Metropolitan skating rink,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE COOLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE.
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and
has been pronunced Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G. K,
Kirkland and Co., York-street,
SESSIONS ;
M irning, 10, for Ladies and Children only
Admission free, Skates 6d.
Afternoon, 230 Ladies and Children : Admis-
sion 6d., Skates 6i, Gentlemen : Admission Is.,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 7 30. Admission (to all) Is. Skates Is.
Patrons (with own skates), floorage 6d. Season
Tickets ready.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’buses pass the doors
every few minutes. Toe management reserve the
right to refuse admission to objectionable persons.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE,
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
<ar To Night and List Night
BROUGH and BOUCIO AULT’S COMEDY
COMPANY.
To Night and Last Night
of
THE TWO ROSES. THE TWO ROSES
THE TWO ROSES. THE TWO ROSES.
ADMISSION—M is. to Is.
Box Flan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.j Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
Saturday next, April 20th,
ROMANY RYE ROMANY RYE.
PRICES— 65., Ss., ts., and is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till B.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
8. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers.
Baths': Baking Mrs,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF ,
Vinegar, Blacking,
fci«i *e.i Jkt>
SIIAM WOBKS AND BbBWIBT J
eiSBIS STREET, ULTIMO, STSNET
(opposite Goldsbrongh’a Wool Stores).
Theatre royal*
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer; Mr. Goodman.
S iturday next, April 20ih,
Grand Easter Pantomime,
SINEAD THE SAILOR,
or
TINBiD THE SAILOR,
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Maokajr’s.
Jjl LITE SKATING RIK K.
The R’nk has the renutatiou of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian c Juries.
Here y.u are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Adnrssion, O ie Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling ; Private
Skates, Sixp°nce. Season Admis ion Tickets :
Gmtlemen, 45?. ; Ladies, 40j Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased cff us. Gentlemen,
15s. ; Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vines ard L-.var
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
T'Cket included, Gtntlemi n, 35s j Ladies, 30s.
Roller-bearing, 15s extra; Bal'-bearings, £4
extra. Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s. 6d. Elite Rink Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink ; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo T.ams stop at Bed-
ford-street, opposit 3 the Rink.
Her majestys theatre.
Lessee Mid Manager, Mr. Geo. R gnold.
STAB AT MATER,
Under the Distinguished Patronage cf
His Excellency, Garino-ton.
GOOD FRIDAY M6HT, APRIL 19th.
Rossim’s ST*B*T MATER
Conductor—M. HENRI KOWALSKI,
Performed by the Members of the Chorus and
Orchestra of the
SYDNEY PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY
Who have tendered their services as a mark
of appreciation to their Conductor.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Mesais W. H.
Paling’s. Prices of Admission—s'., 3»., 2«. Is.
Manager for M. Kowalski, Mr. Philip Stuart.
G
AIBTY THEATRE.
Lnts'°p and Managers Copill Brna.
OPENING NIGHT-SATURDAY, APRIL 20
CoGILL BROS.’
MINSTREL & BURLESQUE COMPANY.
30 GREiT ARTISTES SO
First Time m Sydney of oar own Original
First P<*rt,
OUR TOURIST PARTY.
(S aenery by John Hennings)
Oir Pricei —3.*., 2s, and I<. Box Plan at
N cholaon’s.
FRED. W. DUVAL, Business Manager.
YCLORAMA,
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
THE OYOLORAMA ROTUNDA,
opposite the Railway Station.
Trams and ’Buses stop at the door.
Here you have stone and field, hill and ravine,
tree and brook transferred bodily to Australian
soil.
Open daily, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3to
10 p m.
No Sydney Visitor should fall to see
Admission 25.; Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG
AT
THE 0 YOLO It AM A.
OYOLORAMA.
CACHING EXTRAORDINARY.
£20,000 SPENT TO AMUSE AND INTEREST
Since the 11th October, 1880, Mr. P. J. Rumney’s
“ WONDER ” STAGE COACH
has covered no less than 163,595 English Miles in
peifeet safety, and Mr. RUMNEY intends to run
it again this year between HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, PICCADILLY, and the fine old
cathedral town of ST. ALBANS, The triple one
that no intelligent colonist visiting England ought
to miss, as it will rejoice his heart, purify his
blood, and enlarge hii views of English scenery
and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book :—Mr. P. J.
T.TTVMVnR'.V TRTiI “ WONPKR. » nOAHR
LUMNEY, THE “WONDER” COACH,
Hatchett's Hotel, Piccadilly, London.
THE PEOPLE.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 Down Street,
COLLING WOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KIND'S OE SCENERY MADE ON THE
SHORTEST NOTICE.
Write for plana £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. intercolonial Investment
Company. Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
JjJ'BWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS.
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mannsaotobt s
SPRING A O’CONNELL STREETS,
EASY OHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered 10 order, In an*
material.
LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and
\t WHOLESALE
LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, oomplate, In varices
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes tar
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON St LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPBIHO AND O’CONNBLB STBBBSI.
PIANOFORTES by R.
CARL RONISOH,
other Celebrated Makers i
PRICES. NEWTON and
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Eoonomio
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glaser, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’OONNBU, AND SPBINQ STBBKM.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable ear Ip
English designs.— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail j ToiLBT Tabm,
with Swing Glass attached ; Pbdestai Oufboabd
and Two Oanb-Sbatbo Ohaibs, 16 guineas.
newton”* eamb,
O'Oonnbib Awn Spbinq Stb>bx«.
-
Austrian bent
wood
FURNITURE
A VIBT OOMPKIf
Absobtmbnx.
Many quite new design*.
Nhwton & Lamb.
Ŕ
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for damping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and np to 10 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.« BxB,
9s. j 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.! 12x8, 12s. 6d. j
12x10, 165. Nbwton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Oonnell Streets.
Ŗ
PATENT
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DBTBB.
IBS feet of hanging spaas
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB,
R
QANVAB FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial ud Light,
Bailable tot Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prlee Verf Low,
NEWTO N ""I LAMB,
Farnltare Warehousemen,
Bfbino and O’OoNNita Btbbbbb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, Bft. long. Basi l
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. cash. Niwwc n
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, I9b. Verandah Chain
Indian Lonq-Abm Lodnobs.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
IBs. j and large variety of Chairs, from 18s
6d., eto. ; special designs, extra quality. Nbwton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices.
Nbwton At Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Nbwton At Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES. Wove* Wire, be.
•aka, also Spiral Spring, from 140, aaah.
NBWTON and lAMB.


Bona Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for s»le or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QTTITTKNTCLV BROS., HI.
Rus ell ttrett, MELBOURNE,
Americans say that England will let Ger-
many take Samoa and annex Hawaii herself.
At Freemantle (W. A.) police court the
other day Esther Develyn, charged with being cf
unsound mind, was “discharged with a caution/’
Up Norlh a gold mine was fold recently
for £20.000, The shares are now selling at a penny
apiece. A shilling a dozen! No objection to
stamps.
Queen Victoria attend id the funeral of the
Duchess of Cambridge last week. The graveyard
is the only place of amusement now affected by
her Majesty.
Pall Mall Gazette, referring to the re-
cent imprisonment by a Queensland Judge of a
newspaper writer, on a charge cf contempt of
Court, says : —“ It seems scarcely credible that so
gross an outrage could have occurred in any free
country.”
Reports a Sydney dally : —“Three Sydney
medical men and a clergyman were in a launch on
Lake Macquarie when the bottom of the boiler
came out. The four took to a boat until danger
was passed.” Of course. Who ever saw a clergy-
man trust in Providence ?
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay ” contains a series of vivid pictures of Aus-
tralia’s past, limned by a master-hand. It is for
sale at The Bulletin office, and at all news-
agents’, and will be mailed to any part of the
colonies on receipt of one shilling and stamps as
per advertisement on page 17 of this issue.
To anybody who wants to loaf for a while
among the coral islands, and make love to the
dusky maidens of the Solomon group, and pros-
pect for minerals on the cannibal shores, a favour-
able opportunity now presents itself. A party of
wild and adventurous spirits at £so each—men
who pine for a life of excitement and peril far
away from bricks and mortar and mahogany desks
and inky parchments, and whose moral character
can be passed as satisfactory by the committee—
are invited to scour up their respective battleaxes
and join the vessel which is to be started oat next
month by the Solomon Islands Trading and
Planting Co, of 50 Temple-court, Melbourne,
The objects of the expedition are to look for gold,
nickel, and other metals and to enjoy itself
generally, and it will either make its pile, or be
eaten for a cannibal tea, or have a high old time,
or something else will happen to it.
The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G ,
But Australia’s People’s William
la the Famous Billy Tea.
Packed Osly by
JAMES INGLTS & CO.,
4 and 6 Dean's Place,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Coaching Enterprise in England.— The taste
for coaching seems quite to have revived in Eng-
land. Mr. P. J. Rumney, the proprietor of “ The
Wonder ” stage coach, has expended no less than
£20,000 since Uth October, 1880, in running this
coach between Halbhett’s Hotel, London, and St.
Alhanp, and also between Eastbourne and
Brighton, in wh’ch trips the coach has coveted
168,695 miles in perfect safety. Mr. Rumney has
signified his intention of again running “The
Wonder” between Hatchett’s Hotel, Piccadilly
and St. Albans, with six horses up Holywell Hill.
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the pnblic
has ever met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bittefs.
It stands to-day the best known curative
article in the world. It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues. It does all that is
claimed for it.”
'< Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-half
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re-
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for your medi-
cine.”
“ I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of in-
digestion, debility, weakness, and in’ all
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and loss
of appetite, with the most perfect success."
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener, and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters."
«For all cases of diseases of the liver,
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, I daily recom-
mend the use of Dr, Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.”
“ In my practice I am constantly prescrib-
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found every
case relieved by their use.”
M I can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
« Gentlemen.—Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail.”
CAUTION.—See that eaoh bottle
has genuine label, bunoh of green
hops on white paper.
L>
?•
•jj
A*
ci
O
1+
s
T
o
U.
f
•JLSlfcxg MoWfcvg &
SdiniHd IVSSO3Q
*SXN39^/
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
April, 16, 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For conditions see “ Government Gazette.”
Nature of Works and
Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Works, Mounting Guns, George’s
Head
Sale to Government of two
Wooden Punts
Repairing Glebe Island and Pyr-
mont Bridges and Circular
Quay, Darling Harbour and
Uowper Wharves during 1889
Erection of Gatekeepers’ Cot-
tages, Goulburn-Cooma Rail-
way
Erection of Gatehouses, do., do.
Wednesday,
April 24,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture in the colony of
Water Pipes—to be constructed
either of Wrought Iron, Steel,
or Cast Iron
Repairs, Narrabri Gaol
Additions, &0,, Taralga Lockup
Additions, &c., Armidale Gaol
Supply of Ironwork, &0., for
Narrandera Bridge (contract
No. 1)
Erection of Bridge at Narrandera
(contract No 2)
Bridge over Back Creek Road,
Major’s Creek to Fairfield
Supply cf Ironwork, & , for
Bridge over the Darling River
at Wentworth (cont. No. 1)
Erection of Bridge over Darling
River at Wentworth (contract
No. 2) -
Supply cf Ironwork, &c., for
Bridge over Hunter River, at
Redbournberry (cont. No. 1)
Erect ioi of Bridge over Hunter
River, at Redbourneberry (con-
tract No, 2)
Construction of Wharf atEuroka,
Macleay River (time extended)
Wednesday,
May 8,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
“Mt Tailoe,” 154 King-street, Newl'wn. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure tor £3 3s.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 17, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Have you seen the “Empire” veil? Ib is formed of
spotted net, the upper frill being two rows of laoe, and
the lower frill one row. 16 is fastened at the back, and
there the narrow ribbons (threaded above the lower laoe-
frill) are drawn to make it fib under the chin. The net
hangs" like' a bag, giving the wearer's face the appear-
ance of the homely cold joint under the lowly wire-cover,
and the effect is not lively ; they will, however, be very
much worn this season. Another newly-arrived fashion
is the “ pork-pie ” hat, wh’cb is going to be the hat of the
season, and, as it is said to become everybody, everybody
will perch one.
Men are very fond of telling us that no matter how
hideous a style moy bo we will adopt it if it’s fashionable,
and Ihsy give little “superior” sniggers at our “ foolish-
ness,” as they call it. Now, I would like to ask them if
they think those bulgy sack coats—so ultra-fashionable
and “ English ” just now—are things of beauty ? I saw a
youth doing the Block recently with a small round hat,
a loose, ill-flbting, too I ow-in-the-neok untidy sac coat
showing an acre of “ diokey,” and wide-flapping continua-
tions. Ho was the most eligible scarecrow to frighten
crows off a cornfield yours truly ever encountered. But
he didn’t seem to think so. He was in the latest “ Home ”
fashion and life was one sofb harmonious whole.
Governor and Lady Carington—at present ent rtaining
(he Earl and Countess of Onslow—are expecting a further
consignment cf “ bong-tong,” whioh will, of course, put
up at Government H mse ; for though there are so many
eligible b‘aiding establishments adjacent to that moss-
grown asylum tbe itinerant title-bearers trot Domain-
wards with astoni doing unanimity. One of these visi-
tors, who is a real, live earl's daughter, spells her name
“ Ohoimondcley ” and pronounces it “ Chumley.” I hope
Potts Point will pore over its “ Customs and Manners cf
Good Society” before the arrival of the new cargo of
nobility, else it may call the earl's offspring “ marm,” as
one cf its lubicund leaders invariably addressed Lady
Carington ail last season.
Tloe goods of this world, alas ! are most unevenly dis-
tributed. One class of society which can get no work
and which, therefore, has no bread, is sleeping these cold
nights on the web grass of the Sydney Outer Domain,
while a number of non-proluoers, perhaps estimable
people in their way, but who neither toil nor spin, are
resting then selves on couches of down in the Inner
Domain. Four hundred and sixty men were counted on one
nighs last week sleeping with nothing to cover them but
the heavens—and this is our lovely and prosperous
Sydney. Ido hope that the rich people who put up at
Government House will not confine their walks to the
Governor's beautiful grounds, but will march round and
see a little of the seamy side cf Australian life.
I see nothing in tbe papers about the “clean sweep”
whioh the N.S.W. railway commissioners are making in
their offices—a sweep very much after the style of that
terrible Victorian Black Wednesday. Scores and scores
of clerks and arbiz ms, some of whom have been years and
years in the service, are being sent away, and only last
week 20 clerks were discharged from one department who
had among them 100 children to keep, and many of whom
must now, after al 1 , soor.fios the houses they were building
with building-society money, and also even the life-
assurance policies whioh were to provide for their families
in an evil time. The Commissioners have discharged 22
men out of 35 in a single branch.
Under these circumstances what a bitter safire it is to
find the unemployed labourer, whose home is breadlese,
going to see a Governor, who hes £20,000 or £30,000 a
year or more, with a view to getting work, and what a
satire it is that tbs fortunate Mr. Eddy (I daresay he is
clever enough) who has £BOOO a year salary, being ap-
pointed to dismiss poorly-paid tollers on the ground of
economy. There may b o too many clerks in the depart-
ment—l daresay there are, but yet I thick, and so do many
people, that the G overnment has been greatly to blame
for keeping the men till they get rusty and then turning
them out into a seemingly overcrowded world,
k A woman with a grievance writes to the daily papers
complaining that men gene a'ly (fon t effer her a seat in
the crowded “tuppenny” team-car, atd that “she
frequently has to stand all the way home.” Well, say-
only say, mind, because your only Sappho never has stood
a second—that men don’t jump up for us, perhaps if we
showed more consideration for each other they might
behave more nicely in every way. Sea a row of four
women on a seat to carry five. In comes the fifth. Does
one of the four move an inch or reef her skirts in ? You
may wager your new teeth to a jujube she doesn’t budge,
but surveys the intruder with the frosty acquired glare of
civilisation and would see her crush in between two China-
men before she would make room. I've often seen them
do it, and man, observant man, sees it too, and I expect
in some cases forms a resolution on the spot to let a tribe
so hostile to one another stand on one leg for a mile before
he’ll pub himself out of the way for it. I should, anyway,
were I a man.
The “ grand opening” of the Sydney Elite Skating Rink
for the season’B9 took place on the 9-To inst., on which
Occasion a large and hilarious throng, mainly desirous of
exchanging the safe support of their broad flat soles for
that of a oouple of pairs of airy, unstable wheels,
crowded the rink to the very shingles. And ib was a very
presentable throng, too, the pretty wife of the equally
beauteous rink-manager leading in a moss-green velvet
dress, cap en suite, with diamonds here and there. Bat
I saw one or two I wanted to kill: the short butter-tub
larger half (I am sylph-like myself, you know)of a Sydney
man made grooves in the floor with a handkerchief
tied round her apoplectic neok, a jersey that set off her
generous embonpoint to screaming grade and a “ mush-
room ” hat ; one youth with a face like a sardine in the
moonlight and a figure to match wore a cream satin vest
laced with crimson ; and one confiding young old girl in |
a very abbreviated white frock and huge green sash came
horrible croppers with such frequency that yours truly
began to think she wasn’t happy perpendicular. Apropos
of croppers, the rinkists don’t seem to have got at all j
rusty daring the dog-days, for, at the opening, the sight
of the strong skater cutting wild calisthenics in mid-air ,
and descend : ng with a crash didn’t occur often enough to 1
make oa-looking worth while, Ido so like to see people fall ,
down. The rink was charmingly decorated with fans, I
lanterns, flags, and greenery, and the music was quite
nice enough to listen to |
The old idea that Lent is (more than any other time)
un’ucky for weddings has been boldly challenged by the
girls of the Beautif j 1 Harbour, for six brides have plunged
into matrimonial jays during the flsh-and-pancake season, •
ohiefest of whom are Miss Darley, Miss Phillips, and Miss
Moss. After all, it strikes me that Lent is the only proper
time to marry, because so many people are (in the lan-
guage of the vulgar) “got the loan of ” at a wedding—
and besides “Lent” suggests “borrow,” and borrowing
and oonnubiality generally go hand-in-hand, don’t they ?
I see that powdered hair is very fashionable, just now,
Well, it’s a pretty style and awfully becoming to young
faces, but let the weazened-faced “ girl’’ shun it or else—
well, a rhjmelet describes what I mean—
By the way, it may interest some people to know that a
girl with a head of very pretty naturally-grey hair has
just contracted to be the bride of that bashful young
attorney, Mr. N. W. Montagu.
At the first exhibition in Sydney by the Anglo Austra-
lian Society of Artists there wasn’t much dressing among
the crowd. A grey frook made with a Directoire coat of
velvet (velvet is to be the thing this year, completely ex-
cluding plush, which will only be worn for evening wraps)
over a jape of striped silk and velvet, with vest, collars
and cuffs of the stripe ; grey bonnet ornate with grey
satin velvet ribbons and marguerites, a deep crimson
parasol lightening the tout ensemble— was, perhaps, the
most mouth-watery; though a Nile-green oloth—stylishly
out, and severely simple in detail, worn with a Gains-
borough hat loaded down with dark-green and sap-green
ostrich feathers was a very taking sort of costume. Not
so was the toilette of one fair picture-gazer who oame
out in a white frock—a trifle economical in length—a
yellow silk sash, reddish-brown gloves and a black bat 1
It was this apparition caused me to beat a hasty colour-
blind sort of retreat, dear.
Clara writes from Melbourne: “ Over 500 ladies and
“ min” attended Acting-Governor Robinson’s first “ At
Home ” on sth inst., wh°n, of course, music formed the
staple of our entertainment. Everybody was there, but
as it was between the seasons most cf the gowns were
venerable friends of mine. Mrs. Edward Miller wore an
enviable gown of shaded mignonette-green moire silk
with draperies of very dark-green velvet in the Empire
style; Mrs. Wrixon a t liver-grey brocade, en Directoire
comb’ned with paler grey p’ain material; and Mrs
Meechan, in black, wi'h a redingote of striped velvet,
black velvet hat with grey birds, looked particularly
smirk During the afternoon Lady Loch’s collie deg (left
behind because he was too old to travel far) made me
quite wretched. The poor old fellow went search ; ng
amongst the throng, evidently assuming that surely he
must find his mistress amongst so many people, and when
he couldn’t, he turned tail and went away so dejectedly !
Animals teach us a great lesson in fidelity, don’t they ? I
wonder how long we will remember Lady Loch when
there is another social head-light at Government House ? ’
Governor Carington entertained his Ministry and other
guests at a dinner-party on 15th inst. at Government
House. I hear on the very best authority that nobody
choked over his plate or called for two helps of soup.
Encore Bridget! The other morning a Sydney matron
requested her “ help ” to bring a brush to knock the dust
out of the “masther's” overcoat. The lineal descendant
of Brian Boru at once dived into the laundry and emerged
brandishing the blacking-brush 1
On dit that Miss Kate Dowling (daughter of Judge
Dowling) is fiancie to Mr. Digby Smith, a faot upon which
I congratulate her. Any man of that name mentally
strong enough to resist the temptation to spell it Smythe
is a person almost worth framing now-a-days.
The long-looked-for Autumn meeting of the A.J.C.
eventuates on 22 id, 24th, 26th, and 27 th instants at
Rand wick, when your Sappho hopes idyllic weather will
bless the festivities so as to give us a chanoe of sporting
our nice Autumn frocks on the lawn.
Mr. Frank Mitchell, youngest son of Mr. J. O. Mitchell,
of “Elbam," Darling Point, is engaged to Miss Constance
Morse, daughter of Captain Morse, of Gloucester, Eng-
land.
The Parthenon— a bread-and butter publication circu-
lating in the Sydney suburbs and run solely by young
ladies, alludes to Government Home as “The Court.”
How charming and old-worldy 1 I do hope they’ll go a
step further and christen the gaol Buckingham Palace !
In the S.M. Herald “social” summary for England for
this month thi only lengthy mention is one concerning a
“ garden party given by J. R Fairfax, E*q., and Mrs. Fair-
fax ” to welcome some Congregational saint or other to his
new lair 1 How soothing it must be to own a paper !
Fergus Hume, in "Madame Midas,” tells us that
“Sliver’s” acquaintances ranged “from an M.P. to a
larrikin.” Whioh shows how erroneous some impressions
are. I always thought Hume meant it to be inferred that
«• Slivers ” knew a host of psople—didn’t you ?
Rather an amusing incident happened in a N Z city
not an age ago over a divoroe-suit whioh nobody has for-
gotten. The 1 idy (married) and gentleman implicated
were, before anything Pickwickian was suspected, at the
same house one evening, and the geotleman’s wife intro-
duced them. “ I believe I have met Mr. Blank before,”
Mrs. said calmly, “ though I cann it remember when
or where.” The gentleman smiled a commonplace,
and it afterwards transpired in evidence that
only the previous day they bad ciqanised a
select picnic of two to try and discover what
the wild waves were saying ! This reminds me of a little
thing whioh happened to a Sydney stock-broker the other
day. He had been “ friends ” with a golden-haired seraph
for some time, but they parted, and she married a man
who, unknown to him, had become an acquaintance of
her former flame. One night he asked him to dinner and
proudly introduced “my wife.” The situation was sub-
lime, wasn’t it ?
Yours, sffeationafe’y.
SAPPHO SMITH.
The one drear fraud whom I really despise,
Wto makes me feel grieved and sad,
Is the girl with the well-stuffed cotton-wool bust
Decrying the girls who pad ;
And another, whom, to never see more
I would fain turn morose, ascetic,
Is the girl with the gorgeously-frescoed face
Decrying the gay cosmetic.
She was rather advanced in years, you see,
And she wore her hair powdered, and so when he
Went down on his knees she blushed bright red,
But “ Be my grandmother,” was all he said.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ W.S.E.”; The remedy is for those daily papers
which honestly pay for their cablegrams to move for ah
Electric Copyright Act, likettatof New Zealand “E.
Walker”: The Canterbury people don’t want the town
hall simply because, tince they heaid of Heafon’s ghost,
they suspect all Australians “Australia” (Perth,
W.A.): Tnanks. Will do something “Want to Know”:
There are ten R.C. Protectionists and four R C.,tFree-
traders in the N.S.W. Assembly. The daily press has duly
informed the community of the names of the Protec-
tionists; the Freetraders are O Connor, Hugh Taylor,
M’Court, and John Haynes. John has wandered a bit
from the thrue fcld, but “the bhoys " Icok forward to his
return one day, and they, we hear, pray for him nightly,
when they aren't belting him round ihe ring in the Assim-
Wy “Msphiato”: Your is as old as Sir Joh n
Robertson “Omnia Yincit Labour 1 ’: Please ca 11....
“J. M. Wood (Glasgow): Your £1 subscription will run
10 months (including postage), commencing Ist April to
end of January, 1890,...“ J.A.” (East Melbourne): Many
thanks “A.G.G.” (Quirindi): Thanks “Asaer”:
Don’t attempt poetry; Olympus is too steep for y0u.....
“Kangaroo Shooter”: Received “J.R.”; Sentiment
good; rhjme atrocious “Monaro Shepherd” : Your
father’s criticism is sound-barring his belief in the lash.
Flogging is an Anglo-Saxon fetich “Excelsior”: A
writer's best friend or his worst enemy is his manuscript,
and this should ba tha sole letter of introduction
“ J.8.H.” (Glenrowan): When you ask how Joe Symes,
athcht, compares with Archbishop Carr, and use this as
an argument in favour of the so-called Christianity Of
these times you are trying to establish a contrast between
the best man of one creed and one who is regarded by
the orthodox multitude as a very unpleasant specimen of
the ether. Be fair above all things. If jou want to make
comparisons, compare Newman, the Freethinker, with
his brother Newman, the Cardinal; place Huxley, the
agnostic, alongside Leo the Pope, or Victoria the Head
of the Church ; compare Ingersoll with the Archbishop of
Canterbury, ard then go and mix up Jos. Sjmes, Thomas
Paine, Socrates, Confucius, Robert Stout, Cetewayo,
Solon, Voltaire, Ahab, and other miscellaneous unbelievers
with Titus Oates. Judas Iscariot, A'exander Borgia, Ivan
the Terrible, David the Psalmist, Paul, and the founders
cf the Inquisition, all of whom were professing Christians
of some kind, and sort them out. For our own part we
would rather take our chance as Cetewayo than as the
Psalmist who killed his friend and stole his friend's wife,
Besides, Cetewayo hasn’t been dead so long “More
Disgusted,” &o.: Next week “L. Boyce”: One set of
ideas are established ideas which it is “blasphemy ” to
question, and where one side cries “ blasphemy 1” there
can be no temperate or useful argument. Most men get
excited over religious disoussicn because t ey are at
heart only attached to their religion in the same way
that the savage is attached to his hereditary fetiches and
shibboleths. It is uawiee to enter into personal religious
discussion, save with the man whose creed, whatever it
may be, is purely the choice cf his own intellect—purely
the outcome of conflicts within himself. The philosopher
doesn’t object to your using jour knife cn his special
Mumho-Jumbo, as his one desire is to see what it is
stuffed with. And as you can’t get people to start from
one point it is better not to start at a 11.... “ The Sneezer ”
(Eohuca): H.M. story old ; the other will be u;ed
“John J.” (M a lb ): Many thanks for explanation
“ E.N.”: “ Eskimo ” is right.—[Many letters held over J


Ŕ
Fashion,
PIT, and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES!
We have in Stock
AND
Hake to Order
THE FINEST
laaJ Sown Soots anil Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition !
A Visit will Prove tlie al>ove Assertions.
THE CO-OPESAII7E BOOT HUM GO.,
376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Co).
J
Ŗ
Australian Roller Flour & Grain Stores,
CRAIVILIE.
Sydney Office: 173 CLABENCE STREET
(near King Street).
BRUNTON’S
Patent—Eoller—Flour
AWARDED
The Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation” of the iurors of the Melbourne
International Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000. Reserve, £270,000.
Wool Season, 1888-89.
REGULAR SALES OF WOOL HELD
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation,
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wools
entrusted to the Company for sale, whether from
large or small clips,
Growers Advised and Consulted with before
Sales of their Clips are made.
, Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool
lien of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Pro-
duce, whether for sale in Sydney or shipment to
London.
® a^es °f Sheep Skins, Marsupial Skins,
Hides, Tallow, &c., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Egyptian coo Cigarettes!
MEIiACHRINO ~
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACIIRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINo'
M. Melachrino & Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the C Hurts and Embassies
of Europe ;
All the leading British and Continenta
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
Have the lARGE3T S4IE In the Wor’d.
Universally Aoknowldeged to be the Best 1
Sole Agents :
WARREN & ROWN,_li_B_arract Street, Sydney.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/. per 100.
.. No. 8 „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part cf the town or country, if a-com-
'panied by cheque or P. 0.0 , inclusive of cost of carriage,
“will receive prompt attention.
JMPERIAL HOTEL
KHV PASH,
William Toon ... Pbopeietob,
This First-class Hotel, close to Leach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
Genuine Swedish made * crown
BRAND ” HORSESHOE-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to bo had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
C. A. FALSTEDT ,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
Q. AB. BA B. k Q aB.
Protect yonrselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTHO
TIVI ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHANT), Manager.
Office Hocn ; 9 to 5. and 9 to 1 ca Saturdays
The represanbaliva cf Messrs. H. H.
Warner and Co., of “ Safe Care ” cslebriby, who
has been on a lengthy visit to Sjdney in the
interests of that bottled elixir cf life, is now tour-
ing the Southern and Western districts of New
South Wales.
An American literary woman named Drom-
goole wrote some stinging magazine articles on
the denizens of Tennersse, and when she recently
sought an elc ct:oa to a senate clerkship, a big,
rough-bearded Solon from up country arose and
roared oat: “She wrote agin themaunt’ns! I
war be known’st ter it, an’ I’m agin her 1” The
senate sat petrified and Miss Dromgoole incau-
tiously giggled. It sealed her fate. Another hill-
oouutry legislator was hoisted to his feet by his
indignant colleagues to second the objection. He
did it tersely and effectually : “ She ’lowed the
wxmmen folks went b’arfrot an’ ther men talked a
diurlec. I’m agin anybody as Is agin the moun-
t’ns.” The issue was joined, and on the ballot
being taken Miss Dromgoole was be aten.
Pbarls in thb Mouth.—White and sound teeth, healthy
e'ums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pbarl Dbntifriob. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
jnd produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
o chemists.*
Ois obj, Oafal, Hook, Sherry, Betwiliea. Madeira,
4asoai, Sfosay, fee. Unequalled Hlgh-oi««s Wiaea use
>“*7 to be had from Hoosen&s of 410 aeesge-strbet. crCcr
Marshall, chemist, near Kiag.g'ereeS. 3
C. FLEY
S'-
o
SP
s?
<s
tfft
&
*
0
Jr
#
\\
s'
*o
&
V
*
o
0
&
o
o
V
<b
r\
<c'
O
390 a GEORGE S T
A. “ pcpjry and Fi-cal ” Item. The former
editor of the Wellington (N.Z.) Catholic Times.
is sueing Archbishop Redwood for £250 for alleged
wrongful dismissa 1 .
On Sibnrday and Sunday week 170 points
of rain fell at Oobar, N.S W. Had Nebuchad-
nezzar been turned out to grass in the Cobar
country during the recent drought he would have
got dog-poor.
Marital advb from a French newspaper :—
A WOMAN LOST.—Mme Gothy, the mother of three
children, the wife of the undersigned Gathy, gas-
stoker, having left her home to cohabit in the Rue
Ravel with a waggoner named R , is hereby in-
formed that unless within three days she returns to
her home I shall pursue her wherever she gees, as
they hunt lost dogs and all other beas's that run
a*ay. Everyone tikes his chattels where he finds
them, and I shall not require Clause 214 to do me
justica.— Gothy, Stoker—A reward will ba given to
any person who will bring back the said woman.
William a Australian Inseatlcld 1b death ta tU iisoii.
Simple In Application—sore In efieol. Ibis 1b tba only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while It le perfectly harmless to animal
iile, and therefore may be need without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide hae no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing oS a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Bold In
» • boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, S'7 Klrg-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs 8111:61 Bier,
and B. Prosser ft Oo.»
£2O
BSTCKBOAISB ESSJ^fiIBS
£2O
Regular shipments of the Bent Bnokboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x Sin. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buokboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
A ustralasla. Call and see us. Terms : Cash i or
anger’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggs
Boad, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERQ fc 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 OI.ABBNOB Stbbbt, Wintabd Squabb,
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
*
wm MARS) table: show rooms & factor!,
'SELMABE- (OUSHIONS;, &o. s MADE ON THE PREMISES;
®M Tables ye°£tted by ©ray own mesa-
■m@®Sg s @WlS,lASLi is «took,alf® OEIGEEf s LAWN TENlfli ft I®WMI
BUEEOUGHES & WATTS,
HLL A M A. MARSHALL A CO.
Bnchnbebs, Ooppbbsmiths, Bbabb and Ban Fodndkbb,
ransM, Fsdmbibb, Gaspittbbs, Ship & Gbnbbak Smiths, Abt ft Mediaeval Metal Woekxbg
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels,
ts'ly’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Taoht and Boat Work of every description in
! m c» Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
1W ACCOMD TfCSU, I Mae«narte Plasc s Sydney, and Btanmere Bead, Petersham,
Jean.©©’ SeTjrl3D.gr l/j.«c13.12D.e5,
FOR 188 BO OX AND TAILORING XRADBB.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence,
Now perfected, the NEW No. 3 and No. 4 MACHINES on an entirely Neio Sys'em.
13T- STOCK JUST LANDING,
fASLUBB, IBTTBEIV I Es„ tmm and
16 Y 0 R K - BTRE E I, BYDN E Y,
—— Bole Agents lor the ehova for Now Boath W«lu end Queensland.
Favourable Terms
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
P-O
L'T
NSU
D* RICH ARDS
■«
■
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-eatablished and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY" YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who Buffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
Irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, disccntentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably marry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of 6d. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir*-
oumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
oases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
JBs sure to mention this paper when writing.
Oo»StfI.TATtO» Fill.
THE SABBATH,
As it might be if lefo to those who insist upon closing the Museums upon Sunday
Why rot devise some means like the above for protecting the rest of mankind
against the sinful effects of nature upon that day? —Life.


Bsifinoii Annocmoemenls
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthde Gayll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
“The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists ,
L. Hopkins and Phil. Bay.
Price ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, la. 3d. (except Queensland.)
SOLE AGENT POE QUEENSLAND :
J, H. THOMPSON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
R
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
ilkj
The Best In thn World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
iBip
CLARENCE STREET
AT the Federal Help Hompany, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter,
street. j STRAFFO RD DIXON,
Secretary.
E P PS’S
grateful —Comforting
COCOA
He&lesla
More than 70,900 Oases already Oared 1
■be Greatest Success'
of Modern Times. .
KtnBHOO
All Otaronio Disease
are Curable.
Hi, 3,3, mUH> Cnnltiv Etktic,
Bmujp Spboialist fob all Chronic Diseases,
It WIS.SIAM STREET* HKIBOUBH.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
lions (frbb) by which they can be treated equally well at
* n J r Kugelmann'B treatment dlflers Irom all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at onoe what it is, and the cost for a
oomplete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
B, Eead thefollowlng Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886!
HI H. K. Kdiblmahm, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This Is to certify that I, Prank B. B. Knight,
Ol Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
like any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went Into Heathoote, and was treated lor four months, but
Without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton ol considerable repute lor six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
lor live months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists medl-
lines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite In-
surable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter worn my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which 1
did In March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature ol my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
Without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself 01. Alter having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse | expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces Of
Skin from my lungs about the size ol the palm ol my hand)
but alter this crisis I commenced to improve veryj&al.
Alter three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
I result which my friends considered little short 01 mlra-
aulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours PRANK B. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. BWING, J.P.
MT All Consultations Pres. *CK
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement Riven which
provides that No Cost la Incurred In the event it Duma
■Ot buns Bffbotid.
________
■ r: . .
•V.
* -i -Jsls S'tJi |- Mpp
p. .in-- ■•’£. m’ * *JI
. ' ; ~;
«w«hc:
...
■ ■ ■
a
.
PETTY’S FABSiLY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
-i : i-
«r LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. ia
3i,€izeza.d.c33. SSotel, Hvl!aj3.l3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
k T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
\ served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
inner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
ere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can ossioly make one
smfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! 3 ira vided. Tabii
l$ B6U at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
••’tore comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony,
Hra. KILHiaSTER, Clarandoai Hotel,
Oppositb OCEAN BEACH. MANLY.
“W-
-COMruLxfof
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling 1 and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co'our.
ROWLANDS’
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints—White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemi ti and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
ODONTO
THE
Plum ”
RAZOR.
Ŕ
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRA’Q & M’KEB, Potosi Hair Catting Saloon
—— Nine Haircutfcers always Employed ! ——
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
LICHTNBR & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic Stock Importers,
Kate Uebtnn A Co., 32 O’Connell Street.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission Into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office —trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage in the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage cf this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavons to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 A GCORSE STREET, STOREY.
Asuaranoa Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chair-
man. ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq., F.1.A.,
Deputy-Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest:
Fr 3 years .. 7 per cant. I Fori year .. 6 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per cent. 1 For 3 months.. 3 per cent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate
seal of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving
a FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc ,'Collected.
Estates Sub divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract,
Head Office— lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
AUSTHALBAN
Mutual Wal litiity.
EJST-A.BIL,ISH:EnD 1849.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Diekctoes :
J, P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR. Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actcaey :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secebtaey :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Offices : JAMES O. COX, M.D»
The Society Is now In Its forty-first year, and la
the only Australian Life Office which gives
A.VMJAI BONUSES.
Policies In Force, over
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over
Accumulated Funds nearly ...
Annual Income
Cash Bonuses Divided
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887
86,000
£33,000,000
£8,000,000
£1,500,000
£3,250,000
£357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value Is sufficient to pay one Premium.
«au»»«m &GiSB»aiciwßMiMenr
K'nq’ 8 V'ews
Or SYDNEY,
JINOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&0., &0.,
316 5E085E ST„ Bitwm Bnter-it,, i 6.P 0.
ffATTBKBALL’B
igillll COISOLTiIIOIi
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
thronghont the Year. For fall particulars sea
"Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, " TattersaU's," ears
of George Adams, TattersaU’s Olnb, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
“Magic Meal,’'
FOJI FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials:—
6. S. Yno, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor J
“ 1 tried the ‘ Magic Meal ’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. II Ludwio, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: “
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oowe, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.”
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “1
tried the • Magic Meal ’ on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... 1 consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 35,, Iftbs. ss. 6d., 56lbs.
18s. 6d., and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561b5,, Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerbaqh Stbeet,
SYDNEY.
Musical.— patent scale indioa*
TOR, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Arcade. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’ll


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony. _______
The eyes of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent rich dlscoveries of GOLD COAU SILVER, TIN, and other minerals and with
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT (a certainty) it may, with truth, be said, “AT LAST SHE MOVES! n WIS vmr M1
secure an allotment in or near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get in ALMOST GIVEN TO YOU.
buyers, SYNDICATES, &o„ from 410 to 420,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
<ar NOW is the time to invest your FEW POUNDS
KT TO EEAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
Call on the W. A. Ascents (G. W. DKWi’ ! “d
Numerous Properties for Sale to suit LAKvjfi and bMALL
119a Bllzatoetti. Street, S3r<a.ra.e3r-
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL
GAMATIN6. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
WdfeßS: CLYDE, NSW.
Sail) Office: 46 CaSTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
Jambs Fletcher, M.P., SjcUey; GeO. R. Dibbs, M P.,
Sydney ; Henry HuiisON (Mtssrs. Hudson Broohen-), Syd-
ney ; T. D Merton, CuoniDgAr Works, Harden; Charles
HardD, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pr •-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W, B. FLETCHER.
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALBA.
The Beat Investment Going I
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth,
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers In
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Wi J. Douglas ... ... Manager.
NERVOUS MEN.
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BEL
H
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion, i ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. <
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 910, G. P. 0., Sydxey.
CONSULT
Moore & H° gg
i 1
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases rff the Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
' and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
1COI8ULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
The Anflo-AiisWian Investment, finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office s ■ 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman —HENßY GORMAN, Esq , J P.
Vice-Chairman — F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office: • 31 Lombard Street E.C.
Chairman— Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
Tae amplest security is offered to Depositor?,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
ci r y rent-producing properties, besides its well
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
AWKESBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr»m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
ARBENZ’S RAZOR,
Ŗ
WITH WARRANTED INTERCHANGE-
ABLE BLADES.
The best, most reliable and easiest Shaver in
the world. Used by Teddy Wick, the Champion
Barber, who, after his recent great feat in London,
wrote: —“Your Razors alwajs kept me to the
front during the competition, and you may be
proud of my well earned victory. They are a
great improvement on the old-fashioned Razors,
and lam delighted with their performances. The
harder the beard the better they shave. I shaved
some nights with them blindfold, and did not cut
one man all the week.
Price, 10s. per set of four 5 14s. per set of seven.
Extra Blades, Is. 4d. each.
.May be had of LIOHTNER & SOLOMON
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
A.OIFIO ISLANDS EXPEDITION.
A first class Fast Sailing Vessel, with good accommoda-
tion, will leave Melbourne on or about the 20th May, under
the command of Capt. Hays, an experienced South Sea
navigator, on a
[PROSPECTING and EXPLORING
EXPEDITION
to the
SOLOMON ISLANDS, SUDEST, NEW GUINEA,
And the-onher unexplored islands in the
WESTERN PACIFIC.
Gold,'niokel> and other minerals, have been found at
many of these places. Extensive deposits exist at some
parts, but no attempt has hitherto been made to work
them. 'The object Of this expedition is to acquire the
tight of working these deposits. There is room for a
limited number of desirable men to join the expedition,
which will be under the joint charge of a geological sur-
veyor and an officer who has had three years’ experie' cs
amongst the islands. The lands acquired, together with
the minerals procured and other profits of the expedition,
will bo for the benefit of the whole party, by deed of
agreement. Apart from the objects of the expedition, an
opportunity is offered of seeing “the beauties if the
South Seas,” without doubt one rf the most interesting
and richest spots of the world. For further particulars
and cost of joining apply to the Solomon Islands Trading
and Planting Co., Ltd., 50 Temple-court, Melbourne, or
to the agents of the company, GREIG and MURRAY,
Ld , Quean street, Melbourne.
The Imperial Land, Building & Deposit Co.
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors:
Albx. Milsop, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
H. L. Summbrfibld, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J.P.
E. V. Manning, Esq. Wm. Byrnbs, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Compuiy undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
ing Society Business on the most favourable Wins.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Int rest allowed
at the following rates;—l2 Months, 7 percent., 6 Months,
6 per cant., B Months, 6 per cent Advances to Muni-
cipalities on the Security of rates on very hberat terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Paoperties at lowest
current rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
shase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
principal, or both. Dividends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
FOR SALE —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera. Apply
Bulletin Office.
.*<««■ ONLy
Morder!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywkll, of (5
Park street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F.W Saywell &. Co.,
6 Park-s'reet, Sydney.
American Jxohango Hotel,
/ Corner of George Street \
\ and Queen's Place, )
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc , etc.
The IHWOIH ventilated, and
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
The DIHINS-ROOM £
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
AND
Reading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, &c.,
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communicatioss
promptly attended 10.
i--* ;
HOT
iSSi
LL
■&*ssr
*-T3 -
1:7
a* .
i ,v -M Kh:,s
ift ' . , ‘ . ,' '
■"...
MHUI
111
Ksfl
EllOTaiC PHOTD-ENO. ,60-. B'BRIDCE-ST., SYDNEY
The Oxford Hole*, King Street, Sydney.
-1:1-
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
LEA & PERRINS'"SAUCE
AUv
hmRIC
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have do request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the, original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine .
[Ask foPLEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
\ iiladrwell, London, frv., drc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.


ows
EMBROCATION
f H\ SOLO
EVERYWHERE'
R
JJIBBLB & COMPANY,
Sl«v WKIT«*»
AND
AR T ++ DECORATOR 8
M Cuttnesili Street,
One Doob fbom King Stbebt.
jgROU’S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J . W E 3 JR R H) .
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Complaints. Sure cure;
14 days. Apply in confidence to “MEDIOUS,”
Box 120, G.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Feee.
iSS
>gg3|C
&
i
BSWOtlls
BOWOt
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOSEPH C BOWDEN • - Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NCORPORATBD UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and' YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 ~
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
And'a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
Robert butcher & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit) Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
limber Merchants, and Iteam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
T ARGEST STOCK of OREGON PINE and
I J Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &0., in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—245 Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried on at our new premises,
245 Castlereagh street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
frineements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited —
F. C. HBDEMANN \
L. C. HENDERSON /
~,
Trustees *
THE FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited,
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200,000.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STREBT.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted- Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit:—3 Years, 10 per
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. : 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
(Lot* of SaywelVs Tobacco OoJ,
Wholesale ansi Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George
(Opposite TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Cbairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cate Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered
Telegraph Address-LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER~& SOUS,
Geneeal Impoetees and House Fubnishebs,
SYDNEY.
Established 18SC.
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
a
PALACE HOTEL
n
3E0
m
I
n
r
J.A.WILSON
i PROPRIETOR
G.W.CLARE
MANAGER
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
cy NOW OPEN.
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
* Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatoet Basin, Hot and Cold Wateh, and Shampoo Spbat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatoexes and Batheooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Eleoteio Light and fitted with Electbio Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in' the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
m TWO PASSENGER OTIS tIFTS Tl
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terms! SINGLE BESEQON, 2s. 6d. w NISSf
Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of
using the Public Booms of the Hotel.
US' MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY B£ OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR- PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
R T H U R D. SPALDING
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
Without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Oubebs, by which so many evils were
caused The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c, .
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY,
Up country resident* treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 Jo 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
ÜBLIO NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel and Sonoral Men Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the tact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


Everybody aaya—and what everybody Bays must be true
—that Pemell’a Snow white Patent Roller Flour la the
beat in the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wllo-
ken’a Beaconsfield House Hotel la equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
■wwrr BORQIfIA, the New Perfume. Mam.
factored from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia" Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., Bast.
■HLBOVRHB.
When next you bake try Pem»U'B Snow white Patkni
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as whue as snow.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cannot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hote
thoroughly oomfortabe
An Old-Time Picture: The Parramatta
“Factory.”
The Factory cannot properly be regarded as a
place of punishment. The females are well fed,
having, in addition to abundance of animal food,
flour, bread, and vegetables, the indulgence of tea
and sugar. They are not put to any labour ; and
though they are certainly and necessarily cut off
from external intercourse, they have the range of
an extensive garden, in which they are permitted
to walk.
There is indeed some trifling difference as to the
food given to the third class. With this exception,
the Factory at Parramatta is by no means an
unpleasant asylum, in which the females pass
their time in sufficient merriment, relating to each
other their former histories—their amours and
debaucheries—and the crimes for which they res-
pectively received sentence of transportation.
So agreeable a retreat, indeed, is the Factory,
that it is quite a common thing for female assigned
servants to demand of their masters and mis-
tresses to send them there, and flatly, and with
fearful oaths, to disobey orders, for the purpose of
securing the accomplishment of their wish.
In the Factory, too, there is a good chance of
getting manned; for the convict swains scattered
amongst the settlers, when they obtain the consent
of their masters, or choo e, when they b3Come free,
to enter into the connubial state, usually apply for
permission to go to the Factory in quest of a fair
helpmate, wi h the full knowledge that it is more
likely to be for worse than for better that they
make their f election.
On the arrival of one of these at the abode of the
recluses, the unmarried frail ones are drawn up in
a line for the inspection of the amorous and ad-
venturous votary, who, fixing his eye on a vestal
to his taste, with his finger beckons her to come
forth from the rank. If, after a short conference,
they are mutually agreeable, the two are married
in due time and form. If, on the contrary, either
the Macheath or the Polly prove distasteful to the
other, the resolute amateur continues his inspec-
tion alorg the line, till he hits upon a Lucy more
complying, or more suitable to his mind.
Not that either party is likely to be too fas-
tidious on such occa- ions.
A young fellow who bas just become free, and
had got himself established on thirty acres of land,
with a few pigs, &c, set off for the Factory In
search of a wife.
On his way, he had to pass the estate of the
writer of this work In conversation with the
wife of the porter at the gate, he mentioned the
object of his journey. The porter’s wife advised
him to pay his addresses to one of her master’s
convict female servants, whom she recommended
as feeing both scbsr and industrious, whereby he
would at once gain a good wife, and spare himself
an additional journey of 140 miles.
At the request of this Celebs of Australia, the
dam-el was sent for, and the bargain struck on
the mutant, provided the necessary consent of the
lady’s asr'guee master cou ! d be obtained, which
she herstlf undertook to solicit.
Entering the breakfast-room of her master with
an unusually engaging aspect, and having made
her obeisance in her best style, the following
dialocue ensued :
Marianne : I wish to ask you a favour, your
Honor.
His Honor : Why, Marianne, you have no
great reason to expect particular indulgence ; but
what is it ?
Marianne (curtsying and looking still more in-
teresting) : I hope your Honor will allow me to
get married.
His Honor : Married ! To whom ?
Marianne (rather embarrassed) : To a yonng
man. your Honor.
His Honor :To a young man 1 What is he ?
Marianne (her embarrassment increasing) : I
really don’t know !
His Honor : What is his name ?
Mtrianne : I can’t tell.
Hi* Honor : Where does he live?
Marianne : I don’t know, your Honor.
His Honor : You don’t know his name, nor
what he is, nor where he lives I Pray how long
have you known him ?
Marianne (her confusion by no means
over) : Really, to tell your Honor the truth, I
never saw him till just now. Mrs. Parsers sent
for me to speak to him ; and so—we agreed to be
married, if your Honor will give us leave. It’s
a good chance for me. Do, your Honor, give me
leave !
His Honor : Love at first sight, eh 7 Send the
young man here.
(Exit Mabiannk.)
Enter Celebs.
His Honor: Well, young man, lam told you
wish to marry Marianne, one of my convict
servants.
Celebs (grinning): That’s as you please, your
Honor.
His Honor : As I please. Why, have you ob-
served the situation the young woman is n?
Celebs (grinning broadly): Why, your Honor,
as to that, you know, in a country like this, where
women are scarce, a man shouldn’t be too
greedy I I’m told the young woman’s very
sober, and that’s the main chance with me. If I
go to the Factory, why your Honor knows I might
get one in the same way without knowing it, and
that, you know, might be the cause of words here-
after—and she might be a drunken vagabond
besides ! As to the pickaniny, if it should happen
to be a boy you know, your Honor, It will soon be
nseful and do to look after the pigs.
The author having afterwards satisfied himself
as to the man’s condition, and as to his being free,
gave bis consent to the match, and the enamoured
pair were, of course, united in the holy bonds of
matrimony.
The object in giving the above sketch is to
convey to the reader at once some idea of the
nature of rustic courtship in New South Wales,
and of the relations towards each other of the two
sexes of the felon population, as well as of the
charming prospect attendant upon a convict
wedding.
Such scenes as the above are of constant occur-
rence ; and the writer has deemed it best to pre-
sent one of them, without embellishment, as It
actually took place.
The sketch is as slight as may be, yet it images
a state of things difficult to be conceived In
England, and certainly unparalleled in any civi-
lised country. - Mudie.
A Last Request.
The following simple but pathetic ballad is said
to have been founded upon an incident in real life
—and real life in New South Wales. If so, it only
serves to demonstrate how the true poet may find
at his very door ( i.e ., the back-door of the public-
house at which he spends his Sundays) material
for immortal verse!
" I am dyinsr, mother, dying,
And my limbs are growing cold,
And soon, alas ! your daughter
Will be sleeping ’neath the mould.
But before I go, dear mother,
Ere I seek eternal rest,
Will you listen, mother darling,
To a daughter’s last request ?
Ere my broken spirit, mother,
Wings its everlasting flight,
My parting soul would fain enjoy
A last mundane delight.
Though I have immortal longings,
I have mortal ones, as well;
Bend o’er me, mother, darling,
And my longings I will tell.
Then gasped the dying maiden
In her mother’s list’ning ear,
That she’d-like-to-take-a-last-last-slp
Of brown colonial beer.
“ You shall, my darling daughter,”
Said her ma, with breaking heart.
Beneath her shawl she hid a jug
That held about a quart,
And started for the public-house
That stood across the way—
’Twas closed; I should have mentioned
That it was the Sabbath-day.
But, all the same, that mother,
She sought the old back dour.
* * “ O, Walker I” said the publican,
“We’ve heard that yarn before I”
“It’s our’us,” he continued,
(For the man would have his joke)
“ It’s our’us, on a Sabbath, mam,
How many people croak !”
“ There’s more croaks on the Sabbath-day
Than any day o’th’ year 1”
But, all the same, he measured out
Sixpennyworth of beer.
(I’ll mention, now, an incident
Ttai should not be forgot.
That policeman X 240
Had his eye upon the lot.
Then the sorrow-stricken mother
Sought her dying daughter’s room }
The patient drained the tankard,
And they laid her in the tomb.
(Don’t fold your kerchief yet awhile,
The pathos comes in here.)
The publican was roundly fined
For selling Sunday beer !
Just for soothing dying pillows,
This occurs to us as “ hot ”
Policeman X 240
Had Informed upon the lot I
Vanities.
From a Bathurst (N.S.W.) paper;—"lt isn't often we
hear of a bridegroom crying at his wedding, but such
was the case at the R.C. Church on Monday week, when
Patsy Hogan, of White Rook, was spliced. He also
howled when leaving by train."
Anxious Mother: ‘‘What? Only a month married ard
unhappy ? " Married Daughter: “ How oould Ibe other-
wise ? My husband does not love me. No matter how
much I pretend to flirt with my old beaux he doesn't
mind it a bit.” “ Hejdoesn’t ? ” “ No, he does not. It
almost breaks my heart to think about it. Why, that
odious Clara Blank, who isn’t half as attractive as I am,
is blessed with a husband who is so madly Jealous of her
that he has shot at her twice."— Exchangb.
The Narrabri (N S W.) Argus man attended a ball re-
cently in that untrodden haunt of primeval man, and
when be got home he composed an account of the proceed-
ings. And now every fashionable inhabitant is sand-
papering his shark's-tootb club and sternly grinding his
stone axe on the broken grindstone of his fathers, and is
varnishing his spear and his boomerang, and mobilising
his bull-dog and scraping the clods cf his war-wheel-
barrow, for this is what that local literary cannibal
wrote;—“Of the gentlemen’s costumes the most worthy
of notice were those of Mr. , who appeared in ‘ cab’
bage-tree hat, green-hide boots, and overcoat ’ to match ;
Mr. evidently considered himself to be in the ‘ pink
of condition’ in ‘bob-nailed boots’ and an elegant
costume of a last year’s aboriginal’s blanket and green-hide
collar and cravat; Messrs. and ran into a first-
class position in costumes made up of dried iguana skins
and castor oil. Mr. showed to advantage in tanned
emu-skin and dirty socks; while I am sure that all the
ladies present were knocked completely ‘flat’ by the
irresistible charms of Mr. in his bang-tailed pants
with hogskin coat, and vest to match. Of the ladies’
costumes worn on the occasion, I noted more particularly
that of Miss , who completely enraptured one-half of
the young gents present, in her admirable costume of
devilled rabbit-skins trimmed with Bathurst burrs ; while
Miss looked the pink of perfection in horse-hide
bodice and canvas skirt trimmed with No. 10 fencing wire.
The dazzling costume comprising overskirt of sugar-bag
with calf-skin bodice worn by Miss was admired by
all, and 1 believe that, by tacit consent, she was acknow-
ledged to be the ‘belle.’ Miss was certainly one of
the moat bewitching, and her costume of dried sheep-
skins, trimmed with emu eggs and mussel shells, was all
that the most fastidious oould desire in the shape of
elegance ; brown paper bodice and gum-leaf skirt adorned
with pumpkin seeds were worn by Miss ; Mrs.
oame as ‘ Autumn.’ I was informed what character the
costume of Miss represented, but it has entirely
slipped my memory. However, the ‘ get-up ’ consisted of
a costly skirt made up of Jew lizards’ hides with pink
blotting-paper bodice trimmed with blue tissues and rifle
cartridges; Miss —, in Turkish towels and mosquito-net
over-skirt, looked very nice; whilst Miss , in second-
hand postage-stamp bodice and quilt skirt trimmed with
sealing-wax, was eagerly sought after in every dance;
Miss had many admirers, in oilcloth bodice and basil
Over-skirt, trimmed with orange-peel and melon vines."
Two English papers, Vanity Fair and Thb World, have
been debating the question—“ls the Prince of Wales a
funky rider ?’ This burning and momentous query has
harrowed up the full strength of both staffs, and every
individual quill-driver, from the editress of the rag depart-
ment to the sucking dude who is laid on to say nice things
about Her Gracious, has wrought tumultuously to main-
tain the Glory of Tummy when he hangs himself over a
horse and goes forth to career madly at a rickety amble in
public phots. However, public feeling seems to go with
the other party, and people who have seen His Highness
olimb on to a trained equine with the assistance of a stair-
case, and hang there like a frog on a clothes-line, whilst
the sombre quadruped picks its way along the road aqd
steps gingerly over small obstacles, and clambers round as
if it were troubled with corns and had boils and other
aches and pains that it bated to tread on, asseverate that
Wales is a funky rider, else why do his eyes stick out and
bis pants creep up above his knees, and why does he sit
like a bunk of dough, and claw at the saddle, and look as
if he ought to have a railing run round him in case cf
accidents 7 Our opinion is that Albert Edward ought to
be a good rider, if he isn’t—his mother has stuck to her
seat like a leech for fifty solid years or more.
The story of a smart woman who reclaimed her drunken
gambler of a husband is going the rounds of the papers:—
“ She was a large, black-eyed woman, and, although just
a trifle masculine in her features, was strikingly hand-
some, and a woman of uncommon business qualifications.
She had studied for the lyric stage, and had sung in
Several public concerts, but, inheriting a fortune, she
abandoned the stage and afterwards married Dobson.
Her story was most peculiar. After coming to Baden-
Baden with her husband he became a slave to liquor, and
being a reckless gambler with plenty of money, was soon
an habituii of the gambling-rooms and losing large sums
nightly. To save her husband and his fortune, Mrs.
Dobson had to resort to a magnificent strategy. She was
a fine card-player herself and s-t out to win her husband’s
money at the gaming-table. She cut off her beautiful
hair to assist her disguise, and arraying herself in the
outfit of a Baden-Badm lounger, she frequented the
gambling-rooms and played against her husband at every
opportunity. D ibson was a ‘ high roller,’ and paid his
losses like a thorouihbrod, atd one night when he was
especially maudlin Mrs. Dobson went home with £5,000
of his money. la three months she won his last cent,
something like £50,000. Poor knew that
he had lost his money, but never suspected that his wife
had won it and had it safe in bink. Hi had become very
brutal to war is her in his drunken frenzy, and once or
twice had threatened her life. But Dobson weaned him-
self from the bottle, and when he was in a proper frame
of mind learned the story cf how bis wife had won his
money. It p.oduced a remarkable change in him. He
went to his wife, who was then ill from over exertion and
anxiety, asked her forgiveness and promised in the most
earnest manner to mika amends for his past short-
comings. They seem now to be the most contented pair
in Baden-Baden.”
Sane men are always in advance of their time. There
is a Melbourne barrister and Journalist, who, for years
past, has worn his trousers turned up at the feet.
And now it’s the correct t nag, don’t you ki.ow 1
It is difficult to believe that the descendants of the men
who fought at Lexinatoa and Bui ker's Hiil, who wintered
at Valley Forge under Washir gcon, and who elepped
England in the zei.ith of her military glory, should have
become absolutely degenerate in one short century, and
yet we read that a very gorgeous nightshirt w s recently
made to order by a New Yoik outfitter for a Boston man,
—of white China silk, with a cardinal collar and cuffs em-
broidered elaborately with white floral effects. The bosom
Is plaited, each plait having an embroidered vine worked
in gold thread its entire length. Nothing more gorgeous
has yet been executed, but the large line of these gar-
ments kept in stock indicates that their sale Is not at all
unusual. Ugh!
A “Oaok and Hen Club” open to both sexes has been
established in London. The women, however, “ must
belong to some profession, theatrical, literary, or artistic,
and a first class artist's model would be eligible. *' Eheu!
A Melbourne pressman used to boast that he had a ring
which was a memento of an intrigue of bis with a
princess 1 On close inquiry it was found that It was a
bone oirolet which a Fijian girl gave him when he was
over at Levuka.
The latest oomlo idea in tableaux-vivants in England is
a representation of the Pear’s Soap advertisement; “ He
won’t be happy till he gets it.” The components are
the biggest obtainable man, the biggest obtainable batn,
and a big bar of yellow soap.
Boulanger would give a vote to every woman In France
—except his own wife.
An English male oddity, who had found marriage a
failure, bequeathed £5O a year to the bellringers cf Bath,
on the understanding that they would always ring a
muffled peal upon the anniversary of his wedding d;y, as
at that date his martyrdom began; and ring » joyful peai.
upon the anniversary of the day when death came to
liberate him from the tyranny cf his wife.
From an English society paper - —"Tbe intended mar-
riage between Mr. Oreenall and Miss Veronica Cunlifla
will not take place. The marriage airanged between Mr,
0. K. Norman and Miss Cazenovs, eldest daughter cf the
late Frederick Oazenove, Esq., will not take place.”
Scratched for their engagements
This is ben trovato : —An Englishman at Boulogne
Studying French without a mast*r, and. the first time re
Summoned up courage to address the waltes in English,
he asked for a bottle of “ embonpoint.” As the waiter
could not understand what be wanted, he looked towards
the end of the table, and asked Madame what was the
French word for stout. “ Embonpoint,” she answered at
once. “ I know it,” said he ; “ yet I can’t make Shis
stupid fellow understand what I mean by a bouteille
d’embonpoint.'
Miss Metoalf, an English Court dressmaker, who at the
Queen’s request designed the new high-necked bodices for
court presentations, was interviewed the other day. She
said:— 1 “ I make a dress for a matron at 28 and up to
150 guineas. A great many ladies select one at 100.
Often I have the trimmings, brocades, &c, made ex-
pressly for only one customer. I never try to overrule
any lady’s wishes with regard to her dress. If a lady puts
herself in my hands, and she generally dees, I think out
her face, figure, and height well befo' e I fix on the colour
or design, I had to send away a French dressmaker
recently because she was too prejudiced, and would only
use the materials and style which she considered (he
Correct thing. French dressmakers have a tremendous
lot of ideas, dasb, and go, but they make a great many
clumsy mistakes, and girls’ presentation dresses are net
in their province A lady should always be careful to
secure a good dressmaker, who will look after the details,
and not go to the uninitiated, who make all their dresses
from one plate. I have seen the trains of court dresses
made of material that I should only think of using as
lining for the trains of my ball dresses.”
There is a Shab spearian boom In Lot den
and New York. The Divine William has plays
running at seven theatres in all.
Mrs. Brown Potter has written to an
American paper to apologise for an accidental
display of bosom she mar e in the suicide scene of
“ Antony and Cleopatra,” on the score of nervous-
ness. Her bosom may have been accidental, but
her cheek isn’t, say the Yankee papers.
A story Is told of a compositor who mvtr
bothered himself about the sense of his “copy,”
which he “set up” mechanically. By way of a
practical joke a slip was put in among his “ copy,”
the matter of which he duly put into type without
In the least comprehending its meaning, and it was
only when attention was specially drawn to the
proof that he found he had set up an account of the
murder by himself, under circumstances of peculiar
atr. city, of his own wife and brats. That story
may or may not be true, but here is as good a one
which is undoubtedl y true. A certain official of
Sydney Suprr me Cour* 1 , it was remarked by his
colleagues, was always ready to sign off hand any
document put before him So, one fine day his
subordinates wrote out tfheir boss’s death-warrant,
and asked in a postcripb that the Lord might have
mercy on his miserable sc ul He signed the
warrant and duly initialled the posted pt, and was
not even cured of his bad habit by being shown
his own authority for breaking his own neck.
Dsar Bulletin — I note (In your Issue cf
this week) a correspondent has briefly alluded to
Duncan Gillies in the fifties. Weil, so far as the
Republic Co. is concerned, he is right, but if he
wishes to suggest that because Duncan used to
step out of the backet with oilers and soa’-wester
wet, dear old Duncan was fond of work; he is
out of it. As one who knows, Duncan never cared
for graft; he generally preferred billiards to the
pick, and the gay but not fascinating Duncan
rather liked a damp spree on top than a
wet shift underground. The miners of Bal-
larat at one period thought the oily Duncan
would be a good representative, but they
soon found out their mistake and properly
shunted him. Maryborough also tried him for a
short time. The gentle Duncan never faced the
music there a second time, but, under the wing of
Simon Fraser, got in for Rodney, just about the
time the selectors’ leases were granted in that
electorate with such surprising piomptitude.
Afterwards Service took the unctuous Duncan in
hand, and the royal groveller who got his first
political lift from the bone and sinew of Ballarat
is now this day (although Premier of Victoria)
the best-hated man politically in that colony, ex-
cepting, of course, the “ upper-crust ” Calico
Jimmies, to whom he has consistently knuckled
all through his career. The wily Duncan has,
however, always supported payment of members,
and is now, I believe, credited as being in favour
of one vote for one man. Well, if he only turns
out trumps In the latter question he can be for-
given his grovelling propensities.—Yours, H B,
March 30.


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Betwaen George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
gpeer is a regular Graduated Physioian, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gaze te, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing hot an inorganic trouble, or,
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous pow r>
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. Peop’e
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treat ment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.no. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
«B IKTAHIS "•INVALIDS
yfftH an ENORMOUS SALE in England, and
is now being introduced into the colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
Dr. EIDG-E’S EOYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Life preservation
F* BY ————
Dr. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
FREE
Ř
Eucalypti. 0
J-
THE TREE OF LIFE
!S&-
Victory Ointments.
The only pnre Eucalypte in the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs ; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware op Imitations.
Medical.
A WONDIRFUL MEDICINE,
Beeciiam’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly, invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
PATENT
PILLS.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEEOHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any pate it
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills;
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbhcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
IT
IRYOUS
DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed id. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W,
rjlO SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Cowan & Anderson,
Eclectic Physicians,
On all Chronic Diseases.
They Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous, and
Special Diseases of both sexes on, the ECLEC-
TIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
N.B. —Medic nes forwarded, fi ee from observation
and securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address:
COWAN & ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
182 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling am
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Byes and Lids. lUmn
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial a d oooliu.
to those who have weak eyes, or whose wrrk compels the;
to strain their eyes._Highly recommended by the leadim
Oculists.
„ f The public are requested to notice tie
UaUtlOn i wor ds, “ ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION,’’ with the Trade Mark (a Rose ) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without vhich it is a forgery.
Ask
BOSE'S CELEBRATED ETE IOIIOK,
Not for Rose Eye lotion,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
S. A. KOBE, Sissensincp SLUmficturinff Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY,
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. 6d,)
nr Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’SJGOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
fUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Niou-
ius and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
e worth its weight in gold. Send your full
dress, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
ven away for the next Six Months Only. Write
Professor R. T. SELBY, Cleveland Street,
irry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
—We Can Recommend—
B. EUGENE’S
(from Paris)
LADIES’ and GENTLEMEN’S
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most Central and Well-Appointed
of any in the City.
BP“ WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK. H
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
Note the Address:
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reser/e Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of • 'redit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all Mnds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Hari-is.
Cop es of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 63 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" For F.aming a Picture Beat an! Well.”
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings, Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &o.
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
AUCH'S
[l
3*
/\UCH
w/
INC
*y
*7
PO
K
MANUFACTURED BY _<>
tJAMCS C/fAN/VOft i9/ar6otsrS f r
iy tv at/, Saoc&\*> 4 Sh'-eXetAeso ,1
am
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST - QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION,
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents:
SA L 0 HIN, JOHNSTON ad Cd„
Commercial Chambers, Bond St., Sydney.
umbri:llas
RE-COVE R£a
C TUDY ECONOMY
k and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Euual to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts..
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
tf-
-0?
WlO
'f'
ft IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS &
438 CEORCE ST
3YDNEYI
ff/yoouCe Lossettetv.
, ■ T. ■—■
6 7 8
GEORGE
STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
OUTCAST li£
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S V D N E.VE
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Hotels.
Comley’s Hotel,
EMU PARK, ROCKHAMPTON.
FRED. COMLEY ... Pbopbtbtob.
ACKNOWLEDGED the Finest Hotel on the
Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with every
Convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
CONVEYANCE MEETS EVERY TRAIN.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting House Is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
FOR SALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 90s. to 21s.
MS PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tattenall’s.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice at Long at
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh (roods Every Fortnight I
xtu»
MASON BROTHERS,
(limitbd,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
- AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
9
tar
XMPOBTEE OF
WINES, SPIRITS, BHBRS SzO m , &00.
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies, Hennessy’s, Kartell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
tS" The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Deorge Street, Sydney,
KS- SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. -Ct
•Is}"
FZEST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedeen & Sons).
I . j-
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Bead.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYAED SQUARE,
Asm
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S :*
OHS
OB
EMBROCATION,
808
18, CATTLE S ODSL
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Sean,
▲warded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1811,
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES. GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANQBj
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Tnpured Only by
J. Behan & Go., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Whomhams
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag 00., S. HoSEun*
and 00., J. Brash, Son and 00., W. H Slmpaoß
and Son, 383 George Street, and Sutler Brae.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Powee,
Eagle Street, Bexbbanb ; E. Fletcher, Junz.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Bedleisu
PBICB ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle,
Sold by all Ohemlsts, Saddlers and Storekeeper.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the oiivlised world when
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not b«ea
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at onoa
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann,
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Uf Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they ars
spurious.
_ INSPECT THE SWEET
G PIANOS
AX THE
SEWIHa MACHINE DEPOTS
or
VIO T O
X A
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Wxndsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
BOHUOA ...
BEECH W ORTH .
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOB.
SALE
if a umnunnaw
Head Oflß.ce ; 44 Lonsdale Street Bast, near Swanaton Street.
New Oofitee Palace, Bonrke street,
59 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
... ... Chapel Street.
... „. Sturt Street.
M Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... / 66 Moorabool Street.
, M ... Main Street, next Aesohimann’s.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
... ... Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
nii>h Hfavaat nnrvuHtn Gnldfltl Am Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTOKALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
A«ENTS:
J. H. -aBD3DSS <55 do,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BVNTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Rough Wear and specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market.
TO BE HAT> FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. *l3l
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydway.
Perdriau «§& CSo®,
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS, WATERPROOF SHEETING, &o.
TENNIS SHOES and BALLS.
AUSTRALIAN RUBBER TOSS, 270 QEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
th
fS»
£
• I.'-' ;
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
: J-
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
the world cam be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch 00. . , _ _
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world-where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.b. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
° £ V Waltham infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Pbesbntation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty or finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Sire ” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. q ~ w , v . , . , q ..
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom,
Waltham Watches, Dtist-proof, Water-proof, . .
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
CHRONOGRAPH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
- Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
