

Ghroeov tow
Fry's Malted Cocoa
J.
S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
«* An ordinary onp contains more active properties of malt than a pint
of the best Ale or Porter. Lange**
h
ĥ
ONLY ADDRESS IN SYDNEY:
Corner of the Sydney Arcade, George Street.
MERCHANT &
HABIT &
MILITARY TAILORS,
ROBE MAKERS.
S’access since Opening' inL tDnls Clt3T-
Jacket Suits to Measure -50 s.
And we Guarantee the Eit or MONEY RETURNED.
ELASTIC PANTS, cut by the best Cutters the World can produce and made to Measure,
f
Special notice.
We wish the public to understand that we are not SLOP MA.NUPAOTURERS-that all our Establishments are con-
ducted and supervised by men of vast experience in all parts of the world. One of our able Directors, Mr. A. W. PBRNB,
is continually visitino- our several Branches in London, America and Australia, bringing with him all the latest ideas so
necessary to conduct°one of the largest and most successful firms in theworld Wealso wish tc
clothing from any of our branches, if our customers are not thoroughly satisfied with the Pit, Style and Make tneir money
5 J will be returned.
Write for our FASHION CHART and SAMPLES. Post Free to all parts.
PLEASE NOTE OUR ADDRESSES:
MELBOURNE.
97 BOURKB STREET;
99 BOURKB STREET, next to the Waxworks;
104 BOURKE STREET, next to the Opera House;
BOURSE STREET, corner of Eastern Market;
310 COLLINS STREET WEST ;
Warehouse —84 LONSDALE STREET WEST.
GERTRUDE STREET, EITZROY.
AMERICA. BROADWAY AND CANAL STREET.
LONDON.
26 GREAT CASTLE STREET ;
REGENT STREET WEST; 428 STB;
Head Office :
29 BASING HALL STREET.
a. W. FJERNE
N. M‘LENNAN
J. H. BAIRS TOW
Managing Directors.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
II
IXSOPSONS
*
*
*
a
o
☆
X
o
<?00\
SIR ROGER
2tr
a
Y
mm
DIXSONS
Bxobesior hotbb, ohabtbbb
TOWERS.
■eaond Brick Hotel Building ereotedlln abore
mnh situated oorner of GUI and Oharch Street!.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
mi m * mm mtm
PAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN
+
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE. TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &c.
and taken internally cures DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all ocher
internal aches and pains.
PRICE, Ss. ... SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. E. MOULTON, Sole Pbopeietok,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
PAINT
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & B. ATKINSON,
24, OLO BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark— “White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,’ ’ with Address in full.
.LIAM A. MARSHALL* GO.,
® Knoineebh, Ooppbbsmiths, Bbabb and Bilk Foundibb,
VnnaHSBB. Pldmbbbb, Gabpittiibs, Ship & Genebal Smiths, Abt ft Medieval Metal
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Ygdty's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In nse.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
Iren or Brass, Ships’ Single and Doable Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
BON ACC6VD WORKS, I Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Atanmore Read, Petersham,
M‘LBAN JBROS., BIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
ħ
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES ;-LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &o„ &o.
TT7-TT ,T ,T A. -N/Tg^’g^
AUSTRALIAN TEAS! POWDEE
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBS ITUTB FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TBA-CASES, PASTRY; Ac.,
au
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Mans’ Australian least Powder.
VOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH. AND THE SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
BOLD IN TINS AT Od. THE HALF POUND.
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
■■VtpiM
sad Accrued OifM
Received
.... Msds
InooNss
Tw ending
OeS.. 1881.
*1*0.426
01,630
98,681
1X3,248
X 06.100
Tour sndlng
Oo*., 1880.
. *860.000
120,000
261,600
247,840
. 461,086
Year ending
Oot„ 1887.
*431,126
206,686
891,356
807,828
797,990
Test ending
Oct.. 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,949
625,826
. 2,048.951
received kt following Rotes:
cent. { 8 months, 6 per cent.
m<: y
—l2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ 1 BANK BRANCH.
JJT INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
Sfe^T&TTBATTHEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
SL T RaINCH offers th» very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
MCalvo FTfTB per oenL per annum upon their Daily Balance.
Atm PBJBS f«r Borrowops- TEEMS lISESAL
8S
m
f U-Tr-l
PREMIER
BUILDIHS ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
BE OBTAINED AT ANT TIME upon Payment of la. pa
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payment* upon these Shares arc Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest
amount to £25, when that sum Is paid over to their holders In Cash
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received In October
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed os%
£l4 65., at the rat aof Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
■on. JSHM ns IS, M.r„ J.P.. - - Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHERTY . A*ttn*-Soor«tary.
>■
i'!i?
■i i! u rr
i~: —r"
1 !•»* . ; V^W 1 W **"
m
THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
qORXKR OF
dz, Collirrs Streets, ■^felTooia.m.©,
Containing 560 ROOMS, 1b now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
| (
PRIVATE SUITES Sif ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and T»Mr
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Men*, presided over by an experienced GMf, Mutated by a civil and obliging staff,
BILLIARD, SMOKING, BEADING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
* ______ HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS. ———
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen ■ Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol.lo No 468
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1889.
ftice, M.
fjlL ffy
Chief Justice Darley, N.S.W.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12" 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—ivhich you may pay by. Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 18£9,
The Non-Existence of Frcetrade.
The cheerful assurances of Mr. Burns, the
retired arch-botcher of the New Sooth Wales
Treasury, that under the late Freetrade
regime the revenue, and particularly the
Customs revenue, showed a gratifying in-
crease and a “ healthful elasticity ” and
other things of a like description, open up a
wide question for the thinking Freetrader,
if, indeed, a Freetrader ever ihioks at all.
The steady increase in the returns from the
Customs-houses of the colony is a subject
on which the defunct Parkes Ministry never
ceased to jubilate, and amid their self-gratu-
latlons on this head neither they nor their
followers apparently ever stopped to inquire
how it was that the receipt! from du’ies
levied on trade should be a subject of joy to
a Government which existed only to make
trade free, or how it came to pass that the
amounts extracted in duties from the nation
were as large when trade was alleged to be
free as when it was “languishing” in the
“shackles ” upon which so much barbarous
sentiment and so many imbecile yet pathetic
metaphors were constantly wasted. The
Freetrade party, in fact, never even dreamt
of demonstrating that such a thing as Free-
trade ever existed at all on earth, and the
voters who put them into power listened in
sodden contentment to the old, old raving
about the necessity of leaving commerce un-
trammelled, and felt glad that they had
struck off the much-advertised “fetters";
and even when they heard that the tariff
returns kept steaddy rising they asked no
questi )es, but merely rejoiced to find that
the abolition of Customs duties brought in
more money from the Customs than the
actual ex’stence of these same duties had
ever done.
• • •
Yet the annual tax of over £2,000,000,
levied through the Customs by the most
rabid Freetrade Ministry which ever afflicted
New South Wales —a tax equivalent to £2
annually exacted from every resident of the
colony and averaging £l2 upon every house-
hold —is sufficient evidence that if Freetrade
ever existed anywhere it never, at all events,
found a home iu New South Wales. In the
matter of duties, in fact, that colony and
Victoria stand on the same level. The
nation which groans under the exactions
of Protection pays the same amount as the
nation which lives In the golden sunshine of
Freetrade, and in the light of these figures
it becomes a question whether the policy
about which so much froth and frenzy have
been wasted is worth even a fraction of the
eloquence and perspiration that have been
expended on its account. While the Foreign-
trade party in New South Wales continue to
obtain as much annual revenue by taxing the
imports of the conntiy as their opponents
ever proposed to do their boasted policy Is a
living lie, and bo long as freedom of trade
leaves trade—so far as the results to the
people are concerned—no freer than before,
it is hardly worth while to raise the old,
meaningless war cry any more.
* * *
Freetrade, in fact, Is a myth and a shadow.
Even In England, the traditional home of
this old political fetich, it has never had any
more material being than have the old
legends of Thor and Woden, cf Freya and
Lok, and of the Asir who reign on the
thrones of Valhalla. The shapeless horrors
of Niflheim or the hazy glories of Prester
John were not more devoid of substance than
the visionary lie which Cobden fondly
fancied might one day become a reality,'and
so far as practical results are concerned it is
a fable as empty as the tales of the great sea-
serpent or the old time stories on which
Bishop Pontoppidan so hopelessly wrecked
his reputation for veracity. Trade has never
been free. During the decade 1871-1880 Bri-
tain obtained, by means of her Cmtoms tariff,
an annual revenue of £20,000,000, and a
further sum of £27,000,000 was raised yearly
by excise exactions upon the internal trade of
the three kingdoms. Franca, the most strongly
Protective country In Europe, and a land'
whose annual revenue is 50 per cent. larger
than that of Britain, collected from her
people in the same decade an annual tax of
£10,000,000 only in Customs, and Germany,
also Protective, levied barely £8,000,000.
Freetrade, therefore, so far as the expense
to the nation is concerned, possesses only one
recomm.ndation—that it costs about twice
as much as Protection and gives absolutely
nothing in return. Freetrade, in short,
does not mean that trade is free, bub rather
that it is twice as heavily handicapped as
under the so-called restrictive policy which
its disciples s fleet to deipise; and as no
living Freetrader has ever yet attempted (o
make his policy what i“s name represents
the banner which Parkes has uplifted can
only be described as the standard of a mori-
bund hypocrisy which has never, since the
day of its birth, afforded any pojsible justi-
fication for its own existence.
• • *
The one difference between the policy
which is upheld by the united Calico- Jemmy-
lem of Sydney and that of its opponents
lies In the fact that the tariff advocated by
the former party serves no purpose except
that of raising the price of the articles taxed,
and cannot by any human possibility
encourage any industry or afford employ-
ment to any single cidzm. The duties
of 41. per lb. on cocoa and chocolate,
of 6i. per lb. on coffee, of 61. per gallon on
all descriptions of oil, of 3 s per cwt. on rice,
of Id. per lb. on sago and tapioca, of 20-'.
per ton on salt, of 3d. per lb, on tea, and
other imposts of the like description have no
result except that of burdening the masses
by increasing the cost of articles o f daily use,
for they are, on principle, levied on goods
which cannot, owing to climatic or other cir-
cumstances be produced In the territories cf
New South Wales. In fact, as Mr. Burns
expressly stated in the early days tf the
Parkes Government, if by any chance any
one of the items In the Freetrade tariff
was Lund to exercise a protecting in-
fluence on any local industry it would be
the duty of the Freetrade Government to
instantly remove the duly in question,
which was equivalent to declaring that if,
under any circumstances, the Freetrade
tariff was found giving employment, directly
or indirectly, to anycitizm, and enab ing
him to live decently and in comfort, every
effort would at once be made to reduce the
price of the Imported article, and to keep it
down until the new industry was crushed
and the founder of it driven into Insolvency.
In other words, the object and the result of
Freetrade, according to this outspoken
apostle, is to keep up prices on the one hand
while annihilating local industries on the
other, and the results of the policy up to the
present date show conclusively that It has
done all in both directions that could pos-
sibly be expected of it.
*• * *
And the public acts of the Parkes Cabinet
early showed that they were prepared to
demonstrate by works their solid adhesion
to the faith which they were paid to have in
them. The Increase of the excise duty upon
Australian grown tobacco was caused, as Mr.
Burns frankly stated, by the fact that the
manufacturers used too much of the native
article and an undidy small proportion of the
imported American leaf; which was simply a
declaration, printed large, that the Govern-
ment, finding that the consumption of the
native product was assuming large propor-
tions', considered It necessary, as an article of
faith, to promptly squash as many as possible
of the Australians who made their living by
the various branches of the tobacco industry,
for the benefit of the far-off American who
stood aghast at the stupendous foolishness of
this incomprehensible customer. Mr. Burns
apparently saw nothing surprising in his own
act, and was considerably confounded at the
outcry raised by sundry citizens who could
not appreciate his unwholesome appetite for
Imports. And about the same time the
Sydney Daily Telegraph also gave away
the whole Freetrade policy, in -one simple-
minded act of morbid candour. In the
course of a lament in its commercial columns
concerning the low prices ruling for candles,
under the Jennings-Dibbs tariff,, it ex-
pressed Itself In words like these :
It is anticipated, however, that the lowering of the
duty, by checking local production, will speedily cause a
revival in prices.
O/, in simpler language, It was hoped, in the
interests of the importing firms of Sydney,
that the policy which called Itself Freetrade
would throw the local candle-maker out of
work at an early date, and at the same time
force the public to pay a higher price
for the article which he had produced
under the semi-Protectlve tariff of the
previous Administration. As a testimonial
to the Telegraph's sagacity it may here be
recorded that both results were speedily
accomplished.
• * •
Bub despite these and other instances of
unintentional candour the Parkes faction
and its organs still dish up daily the old,
worn out, moth-eaten fable about the In-
crease of prices which arises through the
working of Protective tariff-, and meanwhile
New South Wales draws fully half her total
imports from protected countries, for the
sole reason that these countiiea can produce
goods so cheaply and of such gpod quality
that the languishing manufactures of the
Freetrade colony are ruined in the attempt
to compete with those of her vigorous rivals.
But discrepancies like these are more easily
skipped or Ignored than explained, and the
Foreign-trade press judleib'tifeiy passes' them’
by in silence.
• * *
So far there is no visible reason to believe
that genuine Freetrade would be any less
disastrous than the brgas imitation which
haunts New South Wales, and in any case
the point is one not worthy cf discussion.
Genuine Freetrade is non-txlstenb, and there
is no single statesman in the mother-colony
who dreams of attempting to make it a
reality. The old, time-worn arguments and
the old, time-worn bogies are trotted out
over and over again, but the Freetrade which
is preached is always the same hollow,
pinchbeck imitation as cf old. The long
and formidable-looking tariffs of the Protec-
tive colonies are hung up on the wall to
scare the credulous public, and they are re-
minded ( Ihquently of the horrors of a system
which compels a nation to pay imposts
of 25 per cent, on all the necessaries cf life,
but the people are beginning to understand
at last that under Protection these imposts
exist only in the tariff—they are seldom or
never paid. The artisans cf the countries to
which Parkes and his supporters point with
so much elegance cf Billingsgate have long
since learned, to supply their own wants by
local manufactures, and Victoria, with duties
aggregating some 40 times those levied in
New South Wa’es, pays virtually the same
amonnt in Customs charges as her neighbour.
The 25 per cent, levied on Ironware and
cloth and a multitude of other articles
weighs upon the nation no more than would
a similar tax on imported elephants. If the
country Is no longer under the necessity of
importing its elephants, of><if it has no crav-
ing after these cumbersome animals, the
burdcr *!» imfulh
The Hereditary Criminal.
In the police court at Wellington (N Z.), the
other day, Kate Moore, a wild, red-headed
maiden aged 27 years, recorded her 34th infraction
of the statutes of her native land, and for the
hundred thousandth time the representatives of
the law as made and provided by the legal system
of an alleged civilised land acknowledged that
all their elaborate machinery was a failure, and
that they did not know what on earth to do next.
The prisoner, it was stated in evidence, had com-
menced infracting the law at the early age of 17,
and ever since she had only been released from
gaol to break the head of the first available citizen,
or to commit some other act of violence or language,
and then go back to her old familiar quarters.
During her brief career she had concussed against
every prison regulation in the land, and had come
off best, and she had tried every imaginable form
of prison discipline, and had professed to be rather
pleased than otherwise with the experiment. She
had harassed every magistrate with whom she
came in contact, and worried every gaoler, and
broken every bye-law and statute and Act of Par-
liament that had come under her notice, and,
after a ten-years’ contest with this bne red-
headed girl of 27, the whole legal system of the
colony stood an acknowledged failure and a fraud
of the first magnitude.
• * •
It is the old, old problem of hereditary crimin-
ality over again. Sometime, no doubt, in the in-
tervals of her gaol experiences, this particular
prisoner will find time to marry, and a family
will be horn and reared in various prisons and
penitentiaries which will prove a fearfully expen-
sive and disastrous responsibility for their native
country. Mrs. Cooper, a benevolent San Fran-
ciscan, in a paper read before the Prison Conven-
tion of the pacific Coast, gives a few statistics
which serve to foreshadow what that household
will be like
It appears that from a single neglected child in a
wealthy county in New York State there had come a
notorious stock cf criminals, vagabonds, and paupers,
imperilling every dollar’s worth of property in the com-
munity. Net less than 1200 persons have been traced as
the lineage of six children who were born of this one per-
verted apd depraved woman."
The criminal mother’s fate we may make a guess
at, but, judging from the foregoing statement,
what will be the fate of the criminal mother’s
offspring ?
*. • •
Before the hereditary criminal of civilisation
the prison disciplinarian—with his Bumble-like
logic, his sawdust theories of punitive treatment,
his shorter catechism of so much bread and water,
oakum picking, and hard-labour, and his longer
catechism of so much “solitary’’—stands aghast,
knowing, if nob confessing, that his scheme of
treating criminal human nature as if it were a
boil to ba- poulticed intq health by a spoonful
more or less of skilly, is One of the dreariest and
baldest of the myriad bald and dreary fiascoes of
officialdom. That the hereditary criminal should
confound the prison disciplinarian is neither
matber_of wpnder nor importance, for he ,1s nearly
always a hopeless, cut-and dried variety of military
Ass with the largest sorb of A. Neither is it of
much consequence that he or she should baffle the
professional philanthropist—the tame prig with
the traces, the goloshes, and the subscription-list,
who is perpetually organising some new society,
and appointing a secretary and president, and
opening a set of books by double entry in which
to keep an accurate record cf his cut-and dried
Christianity—for no one expects anything at Ms
hands save dull platitudes and a carefully audited
balance-sheet. But when it is necessary to
acknowledge that the hereditary criminal has
baffled the combined forces of law, religion,
science, and book-keeping, the case becomes a
terribly hopeless one, indeed.
* • #
For science, after all, has about as little to sug-
gest as the helpless law and the knock kneed,
broken-down prophets. Some little, indeed, it
knows about the cause, much about the effect of
criminality—but there for the present science
haßs. Tue naturalist affirms that criminality,
like consumption and lunacy, is hereditary, that
in fact it is a species of lunacy ; that the hereditary
criminal is precisely what society has indirectly
made'him by its treatment of his forbears, and
directly, by its treatment^of himself; that he is
merely the apotheosis of centuries of the brutality
of the ruling classes, the natural issue of starva-
tion, filth, the hu'ks, whippings at the cart-tad,
the convict ship bagnio, and the gallows. Had he
an ancestral home and" portrait gallely,' then
among his ancestors, near or remote, we should
descern his archetype. The malefactor germ in
the turbid blood of his race may have lain dor-
mant for generations ; his mother may have been
ear-marked a saint of the first water ; his father
mayfiave■ bee pa* minis ter’s churchward en of such
cast-iron probity as to be safely trusted with un-
told moneys on uncounted collection-plates; his
grandsires may have been decent, but somewhere
in the murky past, shrouded now bv the black
pall of the oblivion that covers the just and the
unjust alike, there drank, lied, stole, and killed
when free, crouched, mouthed, and writhed
beneath the prison whip, or fiercely shook the
prison chains when captive—a something that
might have been a devil or an ape, but was a
felonious man or woman—the ancestor of the
modern criminal, in his or her turn the offshoot of
older criminal stock.
« •
This is what science affirms. What says society ?
Society is loftily indifferent. Hava we not, it
asks in effect, police, judges, prisons ? Are there
not men in high positions who have devoted years
to ascertaining the prec'se weight to a grain of the
meat, fat, burgoo, and potatoes a c iminal may
eat; the size, shape, and hardness of the bed he
should lie on, the work he should do, and the
hours, days, or years he should be caged, masked,
and silent ? What more would you have ?
• * .
Not much, perhaps. Yet, meanwhile, the
hereditary criminal continues to exist, to marry,
or procreate unblessed by priest and uncertificated
by law. And society looks on and concludes that
this part of the question is none of its business.
When the new generation has grown up society
imprisons them and in prison they graduate and
perfect in crime; society teaches them religion
and they add hypocrisy to their vices. Finally,
when society, as often as not, hangs them, it has
proved nothing and rid itself of nothing ; it has
merely branded the children with the stigma of
their parents’ shame and thereby surely perpe-
tuated the criminal class. Our judges, viewing
criminality from a case-hardened professional
standpoint, and through a haze of horsehair and
wool, have one remedy only—penal servitude ;
penal servitude for 10 years, for IFe—more penal
servitude. Oar prison inspectors, even in their
wildest reformatory nightmares, never soar beyond
“diet” and “solitary,” while our prison chap-
lains seek to regenerate human jackals and wolves
by sloshy “ advice ” and tracts at “ 6i. per gross
to the trade.”
• * *
So, year in and year out, the cld farce of brute
force versus vice goes on, and crime, spite of all
the modern tinkering of shiny-headed doctrinaire?,
decreases only in official statistics. It has become
perhaps slightly more intelligent and studies how
to work within the pale of the law, but that is all.
The man whose ancestors were footpads often
substitutes bankruptcy for highway robbery, or
safely thieves from the widow and orphan under
the very aegis of the law, or maybe runs a
swindling syndicate. Yet, despite some changes
in criminal modes there is still a gigantic host of
sworn enemies to decency, sobriety, honesty, and
society, which for them consists of “coppers,”
“ beaks,” judges, and warders. Society, save
when it makes its Jiving by them, ignores its
outcasts. But how much longer, let in ask, can
society afford to ignore the grim and shadowy
multitude of heredmary moral lepers crouching in
corners, courts, and foetid byeways— ready to
spring? Ready ! aye, thirsting to lave its shrunken
limbs in the blood of its enemy, society, even as
the gaunt and terrible viragos of France bathed
in blood nigh a century ago.
* » *
Silently but swiftly the time approaches when
society must think about this problem-must not
only think, but act. Science must leave awhile the
glorious wonders of astronomy, electricity, and the
like, and take a scientific glance at the hereditary
criminal. It must do more. It must bring to the
study of him and bis disease the same
wondrous gifts of patient observation, research,
and logical reasoning, and the same bold precision
in experiment that it brings to the study of the
stars, or the hidden forces of nature, in other
branches science has done wonders, but in this one
direction the world stands very much where it did
in the days when it believed in “ rain-makers ”
and magicians, and beat tem toms and blew
trumpets to scare away comets and other celestial
phenomena. Yet, alter thousands of years of
criminal coercion and repression—what has been
gained ?
* * •
But should science decide at last that there is
no remedy for crime, and that it is impossible to
minister to a mind diseased, then let the law
attack the evil at the root, and let it be logical for
once in its long career of dreary and illogical
Bumbledom and foolishness. For if the heredi-
tary criminal is incurable—if all the resources of
the criminal code, of the Church, and of the col-
leges are of no avail, and if it is bis fate to be a
criminal to the end of his days, and to rear a race
of criminals who, in their turn, will pass the moral
poison on to their descendants—then it were more
merciful to him, to his unborn children, and to
the world to give him a sniff of something so
subtle yet so strong that it would carry him
straight and painlessly to Nirvana, or, it may be,
to some other existence, where “society ” —kinder
because wiser, wiser because more in accord with
Nature’s external laws—knows how to extract
the criminal venom by means other than the
stupid, brutish prison and wasteful gallows-tree.
A correspondent from Queemhnd writes
to tell us that a publican can secure immu-
nity from the consequences of breaches of the
Licensing Act if he can get a magistrate badly
mashed on one of his barmaids.


Amputated limbs are fetching 15s, a piece
in the London market, and ‘'complete corpses:”
sell freely at £1 5s. Hospital sureeons generally
annex the property of their poorest subjects with-
out compunction.
The Bullito* sincerely hopes Protection
will be sure seful if only for the reason that it
will supprees the dcuble-barrelled Smiths who are
as commcn as ticks amongst the Freetrade cindi-
dates. Farcy a division list withBurdeite-Smitb,
Jagc-Smith, and Bruce-Smith, Barrn Bob
hnew what he was about when he un-Smithe’d
himself.
Tfye -Darlicghurtt (Sjdnej) Debiting
have decided, by ten votes bo eight, that
“ the printing-press has done more good than the
steam-engine.” As the modern printing-press Is
driven, as a rule, by, the,steam engine, and as it
never amounted to much when it was dragged
round'by hand, there is room here for some con-
siderable hard thinking.
Eorbign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited, '
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house),
Directors i
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chaibmah. '
B. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq., T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of monc*
of all nations In addition to all nsnal banking
business. r
Intbbest on Deposits:
LI months .* ” ... .„ 7 per sent. '
® II m m h. S „ .
» •.. , ~ ~ ~ 5.. ;;
t i. HichartUsv - . Managing OlrertaV.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Financial Muddle.
The advent) of a general election in New South
Wales has brought once more to the front, but
this time in an aggravated form, the awful and
complex financial problem which has sat for years
like an incubus on the chests of a dreary succession
cf battered and disorganized Foreign-trade ad-
ministrations. When Sir Henry Parkes assumed
office in 1878 he inherited from his predecessors of
the Parnell Cabinet a surplus of some £4,000,000
sterling—the last visible and tangible evidence of
anything even distantly resembling prosperity in
Now South Wales, and with this sum in hand the
old Parliamentary failure boomed along serf n sly
until theawful fall of January, 1883, landed the poli-
tical idol of the day in the mud of public contempt
and derision. He left to his predecessors a reduced
surplus of £2,000,000, the remaining £2,000,000
having been employed in wiping out the annual
cl. ficit which follows the steps of Parkes wherever
he goes, and in addition to this he bequeathed
liabilities 10 the amount of £8,000,000, which were
on the verge of falling due and for which no pro-
vision whatever had been made. That these
tremendous liabilities were carefully incurred fob
the express purpose of serving as a pleasant sur-
prise for the new Ministry is, of course, too pre-
posterous a supposition to be for a moment en-
tertained; the evidence in fact goes rather to
show that they piled themselves up as such
liabilities always have done where Sir Henry
Pakkes has been struggling with the accounts ;
but at all events the net result was that
a deficiency, in fact if not in figures—
figures being altogether apart from facts in
the national ledger of New South Wales—. f
£6 000,000 was handed down to the Stuart
Cabinet, and the public vote, by a blessed dis-
pensation of Providence, snatched the Park? s’
Ministry away from the Treasury in time to
escape the wrath to come. Had Sir Alexander
Stuart possessed tjjie gift of Billingsgate which
distinguished his predecessor this appalling short-
age would have been blazoned in powerful lan-
guage throughout; the world, but he was con-
spicuously lacking in this gift—so essential
in .New South Wales politics —and the
financial incubus which was handed down
to him was proclaimed r chiefly in the
swollen figures of the annual balance sheets'
in which Mr... Dibbs strove to square the impos-
sible citefie of New South Wales finance. Finally
the last and most abused of three short-lived and
much abused Ministries retired from the scene of.
its Ubour, leaving behind it a deficiency of some
£2,400,000 — the last tram of the £8.000,000
worth of liabilities handed down by the
insolvent Parkes regime of 1878 83. Against
this were outstanding assets to the ex-
tent of some £600,000 which have since been care-
fully appropriated as current revenue, and, in
addition to this, the deficit itself by careful
nursing was gradually swelled till it came within ;
measurable distance of £3,-000,000. The last and
worst fall of Parkis alone sufficed to check this
abnormal growth, and now on top of the old
financial heirloom, o! which so much has been
heard of late years, there has been discovered a
n -w and altogether unlooked-for shortage of nearly
£2,000,000 which has been silently accumulated by
the Pakkes Ministry ey.en while, the financial
statements were being illumined by reports of sur-
pluses which were never apparent except upon
paper. After the revelations of the last few days
it would appear as if tlmre is no further depth to
which even New South Wales finance can descend,
and Sir Henry’s record for the accumulation of-
deficits appears to have reached its zenith. Dur-
ing the ten years which have ela'psed since he
assumed office in 1878 he has reduced a surplns of
£4,000,000 by one half, »nd has banded down
miscellaneous unprovided-for liabilities totaling
considerably over £9,000,000 to various unfor-i
innate successors on whom he loud y heaped_ the’
obloquy of his own incompetence. Such achieve-
ments as these stand absolutely alone in Austra- ’
lian history, and half-a century of such adminis-
tration would revolutionise the entire system of;
government by reducing every transaction to an
absolute cash basis. If Pakkes were immortal
the time would yet arrive when Civil servants
would insist on receiving their salaries weekly in
advance, and when even the humble citizen who
supplied the treasury with a sack of coals would
keep the goods in tight till the money was actuary,
forahcoming, and yet, even when that final crisis;
arrived, Treasurer Burns— supposing that he were
also visited by the curse of Immortality—would ‘
still be busy as of old compounding financial state-!
ments which demonstrated in glowing terms the,
enduring prosperity of New South Wales.
♦
The Member for Football
Religion and politics have long been mix'd in
New South Wales, and now football and politics
are beginning to go hand in hand. An advertise-
ment in a Sydney daily calls on all the muscular
crowd who delight in propelling the hollow leather
sphere with tbeir ponderous hoofs to roll up and
secure the return of a brother long-kicker—Mr.
Sydney Bubdekin— to the Legislative Assembly.
To the Sydney footballer it matters nothing that
Mr. Burdekin is a hopeless, unmitigated failure as
a st tutor, that he is dull, pompous, and ponderous,
and utleily unsuited to the position to which he
aspires. They do not so much as ask whether he
has a single qualification to entitle him to public
support : and even if he were, in addition to all
his other failings, lame and blind and deaf and
dumb and imbecile, the result would probably be-
just the same. The men who bawl in the foot-
ball fHd are invited to roll up and support-
. Burdekin. because be also bawls or used to bawl in
football circb s, and if. there are .enough foot-
bdiers in the electorate to secure his return,
the candidate will be sent into Parliament
on the ground that he is a good “ half-
back” or “quarter-back” or “forward,” or
because he “dribbles” with celerity and
despatch. This new football move is merely a
further extension of thealready-established system
by which a member is returned for one electorate
because he ado.ices a Dutch potentate who was
buried about 200 years ago, and another member
is returned for another electorate because he hates
the same dead Dutchman and thinks that he should
have been smothered when very young. At pre-
sent, however, this elaborate policy of selecting
representatives because they believe or dis-
believe in something whicn has no earthly
connection with the welfare of the covntry,
is only beginning to take root; when io is
further advanced, the brawny crowd who pl»y
under the Rigby rules will be found teiling in the
political vineyard to secure the retur-a of the can-
didate who pins his faith to their particular
scheme for smashing human bones, and will issue
addresses calling upon the public-to beware ofi the
heap of muscular humanity who would betray the
, bgst interests of Australia by entering the Ijouse
as the nominee of the football homicides who play
Association rules; and side by side with these,
the entomologists will issue their huge poster to
draw the attention of voters to the claims
of the great man whose success in find-
ing rare caterpillars and unusual grubs has
astonished the whole habitable world; and the
medical profession and all who are interested in
sanitary science will be vociferously urged to vote
for Higgins, the free and independent hygienist
who demonstrated the dangers of having a cold
bath just before going to bed ; and the cricketing
fraternity will form a powerful caucus to propel
into the national councils Smith, the reliable and
patriotic cricketer, who is prepared to shed his
blood in opposition to the suicidal project for
taking three-quarters of an inch off the width of
the bat, by which proposition a base and t:e:cher-
cus clique have sought to undermine the greatness
of the British empire and to deliver the Anglo-
Saxon race into the hands of its enemies.
Orangeism, Congregational! im, teetotalism, and
football are all factors in New Pouth Wafer
politics, and when influences like there have their
share in directing the councils of the nation it
seems hard that so many other interests shou’d he
unrepresented in the Legislative Assembly. There-
fore The Bulletin calls upon the cricketers tnl
s sailers and ye chtsmen and the Hired Boat Sailing
Club to besir thenselves, and see that th* ic
claims are duly repr’sented in the House, and if,
dest i be this stirring appeal, they con' inr e apathet ic
and neglectful, we warn them that their blcol
will be upon their own heads.
14 A Hotter Climate,”
Editor Bulletin,— Sir,— I see by your issue of IfLh inst;
that you invite your readers to give a reason why
“ Nosey Bob’ should not be hanged for having shed the
blood of Louisa Collins supposing tbe Scripture law
was carried out. I beg to suggest what I think a very
potent reason. Njsey Bob did not on this occasion,
“ shed man’s blo:d.” At most he only shed the blood cf
an ‘‘alleged” woman. For. my part I am opposed to
hanging the common'tr garden variety cf murderer, viz.,
one who k’lls in a passion or under great provocation ;
but as regards Louisa'Collins I reckon hanging was too
good for her. Is beats me to understand the logic of all
tbe noise kicked up on acorunt of her being delay ed balf-
a-minute on her departing for a hotter climate. What is
half-a-minute compared to the days of suffering she in-
flicted on her unfortuca'e husbands? ’these jhtiiions for
the reprieve of such cold-blooded vagabonds as Mrs.
Collins only tend to bring mercy into ill-repute, and
spoil the chance of a future orioainal where extenuating
circumstances exist • -Toe-Governor would naturally say :
“ Its the same old yarn ; I ve heard it too often before,”
and he would let the person lung rather than forma
questionable and dangerous prec sdent.-i-Yours, -E_W. _
la one respect we agree with our correspondent—
the Gov-rncr will, in all probability, make jmt
the exact remark which he suggests If his Ex-
cellency Baron OaIuNgton were by any ohsnes to
be haunted by an equally persistent series of agi-
tations for raising his “screw,”however, he would
not offer any such observation ; in fact, he would
probably perceive something freth and interesting
in the subject, even when it was brought under
his notice for the nine hundredth time or more;
and, so far, we note with pleasure that he shows
no signs of collapsing under the dire monotony of
that ceaseless, endless, ever-repeated verdict of
the New South Wales Executive—that “ the law
should take its cause.” When that persistent re-
commendation is brought before him, his Excel-
lency doesn’t observe: ‘ It’s the same old yarn
again”—not much; he is equal to the occasion
every time, and is ready to do his share in de-
spatching the criminal to what the humble though
sinc°re Christian quoted above joyously de-
scribes as “a hotter climate.” And just
here we would pause to remark that
our correspondent has unc.nsciously opened
up a new aspect of , a case which has
already been viewed in aspects almost innumerable.
With a cheerful assurance which is sublime in its
vast comprehensiveness, he assumes that the soul
of Louisa Collins was necessarily bound for the
awful Inferno to which the Church so lavishly
consigns those who do not think as it thinks, and
who fail to split the infinitesimal hairs of its com-
plicated doctrines with the mathematical accuracy
which is necessary to complete salvation. He
resolves, with the serene certainty of one who is
behind the scenes of eternity and who is privileged
to give the tip to the Almighty, that all the
prayers and supplications put up by and for the
unhappy woman were necessarily wasted ; and in
thus deciding that prayer for one particular sinner '
must be valueless he assumes a position which can
only be maintained on the assumption that all
prayer is of no account, and that there is no mercy
wh&te'ver in heaven any more ttan cn earth. And,
therefore, on the basis of his own thee ry the out-
look for his own soul is too small to be worth much
consideration, and prayers off r red up for the salva-
tion of it or of- afly other simiiar'mnitnn- the vast
mass of human consciousness must be regarded as
metely.so much needless waste of brain tissue apd
unnecessary wear and tear of the ordinances of
the church. In suggesting this view to Our corres-
pondent we proceed, of course, on the assumption
that he is a Christian, and his cot filent belief in
the existence of a hell, and his cheerful conviction
that a fellow-creature is going there lend a support
to the theory which renders it well-pigh irresis-
tible. Also, in addition to this, the-gentle for-
bearance which prevents him grudging the doomed
woman that extra half-minute which intervened
between her and eternal fire brands him with the
ear-mark of the apostle and proves him to be one
among the innumerable caravan of the saints, and
the lefty dignity with which he jumps the claim
of the Almighty and presumes to decide not only
upon the guilt but also upon the ultimate destihy
of a fellow-creature stamps him as a Christian of
the,deepest dye. There are many such deputy-
Providences scattered loose about the worlds—
assistant-Deities who cart dirt or dig drains or .
shove wheelbarrow! during the day 7 , and then &o
home and eat a heavy supper and proceed to daipn
a'l creation save themselves oa a dirty sheet of
notepaper, and to consign the rest of the world to
perdition in ill-spelt anathemas by the aid of a
broken pen and a teaspoonful of sludge at the
bottom of an ink-pot, and for their peculiar mental
disease there appears to be no remedy, unless it
be the one which they so lavishly prescribe fer the
benefit of the rest of mankind. i
The Northern Miner sings its little war-song
over the ‘•Palumah” difficulty, and the ,high-
handed cmduc 1 ) of Admiral Fairfax in “orderf-
ing ” the Queensland war-vessel to leave the shores
of the country which owns it, and come to Sydney
there to wait the convenience of the high,British
official in charge cf the naval caravan. After
picturing the racket which might have ensued if
the Queensland Minister had cordially told Fair-
" fS’x to go out and jump at himself —the wrath of
that elevated fund ionary, the frenzy of the rheu-
matic-British lijfl and his desire to'tear Brisbane
up by the roots and sow Bullmha with salt, and
all the restj.of the consequences, the writer-winds
up thus
Let England bethink herself of the pcsifcion in which
she would find hereel', if she dmd to follow up this insult
- -hy- ihe insolent robbery--of -her own
propnt*. Tae tie would, at once, snap ; and then with
a hostile IreUnd at her back with a dagger in her hand
Mr vengeance, a roused"Australia in front eager for’ inde-
pendence ml liberation from a galling state of tutelage,
and the B’g Republic smiling enc.uragement to Ireland
and to Australia it would fare badly with the Imperial
admirals and the roial toadies. We hive confidence in
the Government; they will not allow tne vessel to leave
the colony. The vessel belorgs to Qu eneland, and if
. Ligutera l Richards is fool enough to attempt removing
the “ Baluman " in obedience to Faibfax, and againtt the
orders and wishes cf his paymasters—the Queensland
Goven meat—then we hope AJoreiiead will send anarmed
force of po ice cn hoard and remove him ashore. He is
r,ot so nig a man as Captain R right, and if he were t a ice
the siz3, Morehbad will shift him.
♦
The sapient New South Wales Foreign-lrader has
diicovered what he considers a highly catclus ve
anti-Protectionist argument. He declares that
because the imports and exports of New South
Wales, when bunched together, exceed in value
'i those of Victoria, the former colony must of
necessity be the more prosperous. Concealing the
fact that the exports of the older cdony are much
below the value of its imports, it is not necessary
for him to account for the manner in which the
discrepancy is liquidated, nor to face the fact that
the continuance of such a policy means national
bankruptcy and ruin to all classes. The dullarde,
or would-be misleaders, who argue in this style
• are no doubt prepared to prove that the miseries
of the world’s inhabitants are due to the fact that
we do not trade with other planets. “ Trade ” is
their ope panacea for every ill, and tha preacher
who wishes to arouse the soul of the rich importer
’ misses bis bdstf argument when he forgets to
remind him that there is no commerce in Sheol,
' a r nd that the time which should ba profitably used
in running a large import trade is there needlessly
wasted in an unprofitable gnashing of teeth.
*
Thus brays an asinine Sydney evening paper
Trades unions have as much as th‘y cm do new to
- rgnts of Ubour. By euppo-ting Protection
tkey Strengthen the mastcri—by gi.-ing hm (si<)
profits on nis goods for ati ue ontv. D a-.ng thai lime tne
manufactories willincrease wonderfully, and th.n noth-
ing but cheap, labour and long-hcurs wi 1 Ifetp them geiug.
Now if trades unionism at present has right? to
preserve, a longer reign of Foreign-trade will
' reduce its duties to a minimum by reducing tha
local opportunities for labour. This the Noozb ad-
mits by speaking of a “wonderful increase of manu-
factorif s ” and ‘ ‘ larger profits, ” Why the introduc-
tion of Protection, a system which they admit gives
rnore c pportunities of employment, should weaken
the faculty of the workers for combination is not
made clear! Most trade unionists think, and think
wisely, that it will have the contrary effect. Except
through Protection, the worker can exercise no
control over the importer ; bub, when local manu-
facturers are increased, the demand for labour
must be greater, and if the margin of profit be
increased, then the rewards of labour will be in-
creased in proportion. It will be the duty of
trades unionism then as now to see that “ cheap
labour and long hours” do not keep factories
going and workers down. Manufactories cannot
be kept hard at work where there is no demand
for their commodities ; a demand for commodities
creates a demand for labour, a demand for labour
ensures a higher rate of wages, and the conclusion
to be drawn from a careful study of the Foreign-
trade Press arguments is that they are compiled
by writers who have either not arrived at the age
of reason, or have considerably overshot it. The
writer i», as a rule, apparently either under 16 or
over 70.
+
Canon Taylor, an English ecclesiastic, has
taken to sitting violently on the grand and hoary
theory that all the world, from India’s coral strand
ti the bear-trodden ice-fields of Greenland, is
waiting and pining for the British missionary to
come along and convert them and take their cocoa-
nuts from them to give to Providence. In a recent
tirade he relieved himself of these sentiments
In spite of all Missiorary Societies, there are 10,000 000
more heathen and Mabommedans in the world than there
were a year aero. In China latt year the Church Mission-
ary Society made 1(57 adult converts ; the population
meanwhile increased by four and a-haif millions, ( rl
Coy lon, 424 missionaries spent £ll,OOO in making 190
oonveils, while 143 laok-slided into heather,ism. In
Northern India 700 agents got rid of £B4 000 and
proselytised 173 people. In Egypt, Persia, Palestine and
Arabia £23,000 were laid out with absolutely no results at
all—it is true in Palestine one half-or.zy Moslem girl be-
came a Christian, but she is now a Roman Catholic nun
Heathen and Parsee, Buddbist and Moslem, alike scorn
our missions. Our Christianity is a byword aid a re-
proach among them, Our traders, who cheat and drink
and gamble and quarrel and burn down villages to avenge
insults, preach what looks much more like the rial re-
-ligioaof England abroad far too well for the hired agents
of a dead formalism to make muoh headway. Betttr re-
call them and let them waste their feeble force at heme
against the cruelty in the dark places in Whitechapel—
against the lust and drunkenness that sink us lower than
Jdcm [ill something in Christianity once again inspires
men like 84. Columba and 86. Boniface and St. Francis
Xavier to go forth and conquer.'
This is the language of ermmon-sense— one of the
most uncommon things in the chujch and in many
other places besides— buthf,Canon Taylor doesn’t
want to get into hot water he had belt-r fiuiet
down a little and s und his loud timlreli-r a
softer key. For the missions to the pore heathen
furnish fat billets and lavish pickinfs for the
saints, from the “copra aprstles” o* ilo Pacific
to the btarers of glad tidings who d^l in ivory
and gold-dust in the interior of the D irk Con-
tinent; and if the holy preacher cf the period
finds any obtrusive canon lising to suggest that
he should exchange bis phasant mansion cn some
coral isle, with the large profits and the respect-
able salary thereto attached, in order to labour in
a feverish slum at Whitechapel, where Irish
labourers throw bricks and English costermongers
kick with hobnailed boots—well, there will
speedily arise one of the largest rows which ever
agitated the besom of the Church.
+
The S M. Herald admits with sorrow that Free-
trade is not all its fancy used to paint it
”16 would note crur to many cf ustolok fer political
wisdom under such a newspaper advertisement ti le as
1 Smoked Full," yet Mr. 11. Woodward, a dealer in this
commodity, announcen umurttis attractse le. end in a
Sydney dady that U e duty levied on 9001 b. t f smob d
barracoota just imp! rted by him ard amounting to
£3 15?. (the duty on cried, preservtd, cr fait fish being
Id. per P.) reached about 80 per cent cf the prime
c;sh Mr. Woodward does not say whether he is a
catd'date for any particular electorate ; but he »ives
us his opinion that “it wcu'd be far f ir.r
to ofca-ge an ad xalotem du*y on everything, imported
into the country, and do away with all specific duties.."
It seems to me that the p oteoiionist pirty have somehow
overlooked a very promising supporter in Mr. Woodward.
■Could he tot bunch, even at me eleventh hour with
Messrs. Abbott, O Mara, and Dr. Cox for East Sydney ?
The nomit ation for that electoral district is fixed frr the
31st, fo there is st'll time for the pait* to bring forward
Mr. Woodward, as an indiscriminate Protectionist. Mean-
while, it does seem funny Fret trade (o tax an article if
food costing about per lo.at the port of ship men tada V
of Id. perlb. at tna port of consumption. Aloeough i
have little doubt that Mr. M i.sk and Reid couid show
me in two minutes that there is po anomaly-in tbjs ap*
parently eccentric impost. Possibly the duty is necessary
"ih’the interest of the Local Option party, salt fish and
smoked fish being strong provokers of thirst. Ye>, that
must be H.
As Providence did. nob think fib to make the
• barracouta a local industry the Freetrade systern
taxes it 80 par cent, of its original cost. And in
the face of this, Freetraders boast that their sys-
tem, unlike Protection, tends bo cheap food and
*low prices and o her blessings too numerous to
mention.
“ Australia for the Australians ”
brotherhood, it is hopeless to look for any measure
of genuine Land Reform from a Foreign-trade
administration. Speaking of the old Malthusian
theory—the theory which carries comfort to the
soul of ttc land-grabber all over the earth—that
poverty, and misery, and over-crowding in stifling
dens and hutches and foetid back lanes, and all the
other horrors of the bogus civilisation which drives
men off the land and forces them into unwholesome
cities, arises, nob so much from land monoply as
from the fact that there are not sufficient of Golf’s
mercies bo go round, Mr. Paterson drops into
bitter language as follows
f This over-population theory, curiously enough, is ac-
cepted by a people to whom it certainly does not apply,
and who mv r learnt it fiom Malthus. The bow ing
black savages of the intei ior of this continent are tine
Malthus’ans ; they believe in applying a positive check to
the increase cf population, so tney operate in a crude, bub
effective way, on the female infante, and render them in-
capable of ever bearirg children. They do this to relieve
the pressure of population on subsistence, in a wonder-
fully fertile country where the population is about one
nigger to the square league In their view, the carr, iug
power cf the earth is limited to the numberof wild ducks,
tres grubs, lizrrds, and snakes that it will furnish. Hav-
ing arrived at this conclusion, they lie on their backs in
the sun all day, and our.se Creation for nob having pro-
vided them with more food.
The starving nigger of the interior and the
starving beggar of the streets of Sydney accept
the same fate with the same stupid resignation.
Each apparently believes that he is starving be-
cause there is not sufficient room for him in tha
world, ard forgets, or has neter learned, that the
land which could easily support him, and millions
more of his species, in comfort and happiness, is
locked up in huge estates for the benefit of mono-
polists whose millions keep accumulating while
they neither toil nor spin. Again, getting more
litter as he proceeds, the author fires this argu-
ment at his readers i—
There is another argument sometimes advanced, which
loots well on paper but carries little weight. It is argued
that if a man pays money for land and lets the land lie
id'e, he is entitled to profit by any advance in its value,
because he has lost interest on lh money. This is a
rotten argument, li a man likes to lock up his capital
in unproductive, unused land, it is his own fault. The
land is handed over to him to use, not to look at. If he
uses the hnd he can get a return for it, which will pay his
interest. If a man bought a mare for £100, and never
role her or ured from her, by the time she was 20 years
of age he would, if he calculated up the interest on her
price, expect to get for her saveral t» ousands ot pounds,
where as he would really get nothing for so old an animal,
nor would he expect i*. He would ride her and breed from
her, and bo get a’retmiitof his mOn®y yearl y year. In the
fame way lee the owners use the land it they want interest.
Tois is where we want to make a reform. Our land sys-
tem is bad : it drives the men into the cities ; it causes
good land to be locked up ; it enables some men to live at
the expense of ctiers; it enables a man to say by bis will
that for 21 years after his death no one shall use his land:.
Fancy that; a deal man’s will can override the needs of
the living. We have created a land-grabbing mania—an
earth hunger. Five hundred and fifty-two persons in a
population of over a million own upwards of 17,000,000
aoiesof freehold; they possess in fee simple over one-
half the alienatsd lands of New Sou’h Wales. Squatters
have been forced to buy where they-would rather have
taken a good lease on secure tenure. To buy the land
they have had to borrow largely from English capitalists,
and our lar ds are mortgaged up to the hilt; the purchase
money has been spent in wasteful extravagance in public
buildings, in useless courthouses, &c., in one-horse
country towr s Where we ought to have spent money in irri-
gation we have (pent it in building tramways and bridges,
and suchlike efiy works, which add nothing to the pro-
ductive pawer of the country. This is the thing which
cribs aldud.for a reform.
There is a good deal more reading of this descrip-
tion in Mr. Paterson’s pamphlet—reading which
is a healthy antidote to the morbid policy of such
gatherings as the Australian Natives’ Association,
whose programme consists chiefly in deliverances
about the size and greatness of Australia and the
splendid future which will dawn on these lands if
the Australian, nation will be contented and loyal
and let things slide; and if ttere is any market
for patbiotic literatuie this little work should find
a wide circulation in the colonies of Australasia.
Mr. A. B. Paterson, a Sydney solicitor, wh,o,
in the interval of literary work, wastes tyis
talents in getting up the defence of the local hog
thief and other criminals, has just issued under
the above heading an able pamphlet on Land Re-
form and Protection—the two crying wants pf
New South Wales. Like all young Australians
whoee souls rise above cricket and sculling cham-
pionships. the author of this Utile vork
recognises that Land Nationalisation apd
Freetrade are too hopelessly antagonistic
ever to be united in one programme—that they
are no more akin than the Orange Lodge and the
Fenian Organisation,' and that until the Sheik ul-
Islam holds out the hand of friendship to the
Papacy, or the apostles of Joseph Smith are re-
cognised as shining lights by the Congregational


Hors ford’s Acid Pliospbate*
RECOMMENDED BY PHYSICIANS
of all schools, for the brain, nerves and stomach.
Study your own interest by using Pomell’a Snow-whit*
Patbnt Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality 1* exceptionally good »nrf the price very low.
Saya a Cairns (Q ) paper —“ When Hogan
was arrested after fatally stabbing the other
packer he told the policeman he and Guilfoyle
‘‘were like brothers ! ” Which proves either that
Mr. Hogan has a delicately keen sense of humour,
or that he wouldn t recognise a joke if he saw it
under a powerful microscope. To stab a man in
the stomach with a sharp knife is rather an
?f7 1 £ 1Da * °f displaying a brotherly affection,.
When Artemus Ward was a b y his mother’s
second husband told him one day, after a long
course of bad treatment, to “ never mind, I'll be
a father to you !” And the boy said, “ You have
already been worse to me than three fathers ! 1
lb seems to us that Hogan was a greater calamity
to Guilfoyle than 50 brothers. If we had a nice,
good, kind brother like Hogan, we would furnish,
at our own personal expense, a complete outfit to>
enable him to join the first expedition to the in-
terior of Africa or the South Pole.
From N.Y. Sun of 7th Dec. :—
Republicanism in Australia.—Editor Sun -Sir—As an
Australian and a res dent of the city of Sydney, N S.W.
I should like, through your valuable columns, to em-
phatically contradict the assertion made by Yicar-General
Q Byrne that our country is desirous of becoming repub-
lican, and wishes to become independent of Great Britain.
I presume the Vicar-Gtrneral of Adelaide is an American,
having relatives in this city, and that there are no seeds
of dissatisfaction town in the colonies unless it is by
American Jealousy, which looks with an evil eye at the
immense progress and strides of prosperity made there
daring these last few years. I would wish to further state
that Australia is the most loyal of Great Britain's empire,
as the late Egyptian war showed, when we sent a contin-
gent of men to assist the mother country at the colonial
experse. I don’t think the Americans have much chance
of endangering the loyalty of Australasia, as they did
their own country io 1775. Yours, very respectfully, John-
Jackson. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
As Australia progresses materially, she progresses,
towards Republicanism. The man who dared to-
stand up now, before an Australian crowd and be-
laud the idea of helping England to kill niggera
would be greeted with a shower of dead-cats..
“The greatest appetizer, stomach and liver regulator—
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
Write for Han of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial. Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pbrfujirrt Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
Is on this Scent.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whitb Patbnt Rotj.br Flour is the
best in the market.
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING
AND
OFFICE
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, M. HACIASDT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder.
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., & 0 .
Madardy'i £5 Box qf Stationery a specialty. Send for
Note Address— —__
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goode. Inspection invited.
CORESPONDENCE.
“J. Gordon Lawyer ” (Brisbane): You are
quite in error as to your calculation and do “Mr. Adam
Bede ”an injustice. The amount to be devoted to charity
is 3 per cent, of the gress amount of the sweeps. For in-
stance, if the two £lfi.o(io sweeps now announced fill, the
Charities will benefit to the extent of £fi<lo. The Bul.LK'ltx
is not such a eaphead as you appear to imagine, and it
certainly does riot require a man from Brisbane to tell it
when to oome in out of the wet. Letter for you at P.O ,
Brisbane ...“Tubal Cain” R’haiters Towers): No,
ybu idiot, it is the parents, not the children, who
want smothering, and there is no such law, anyhow....
“M.T.D.” (Melbourne): Your j)ke is ah advertisement
pure and simple, fc r the tonio you mention....“ Pasha
Sorry you are disgusted ; but recollect, please,
that good poetry, like good wine, improves with keeping.
Thinker ” ; Your views on the Governor question are
shared by thousards cf people in Australia “ W.E.l.’’
(Melbourne): Your poem on the Melbourne Fire Brigade
dispute appears to us to have been shot through the
nekzle of a fireman’s branch, and tally shaken up in the
process “J. C." (Ashfleld): You ate right The
writing-master who gets off his little wheezo in the S.M.
HiSrvld' about the penb.iog mightier than the sword is
merely talking shop.... “ W.A.M,” (Darlinghurst): It has
not yet been published, but when it is you will seethe
fact advertised in Ibe papsrs “C H.G.”: Thanks for
cutting “A.A.G.” (Hastings, N.Z): No va:ancy
“ Archie” (Molong).; The name Woolloomooloo is said to
be derived from the attempt of the aborigines to pro-
nounce the word “Windmills.” In the early days there
were several windmills on the heights of Darlinghurst, and
those the natives called W001100m001... “ Mosquito-kider’:
Thanks. Handed to artist “Intending Investor” 1
Adam Bede’s address is Post Office chambers, Pitt street,
Sydney....“ Querous” (Bsrrima): See answer to “In-
tending Investor.” Mr. Abbott is the proprietor of
Abbott’s Opera House, Auckland, New Zealand
“ W.H." (Napier, N.Z): Thanks lor good wishes....
“ W.A J.”: We agree with you that a local corporation
like the Sydney Omnibus Co. should have their tickets
printed in the colony. Under Protection, they will pro-
bably do so and save money by it....“ Compositor”
(Sydney): The Protection party will see that a tax is
placed on the papers produced in foreign countries by
cheap boy and girl labour. For this reason alone every
p; inter in N.S.W. should vote for Protection candidates.
The D.T. and the B'oody Shirt.
Before the first vote was polled in the present
contest the D.T. practically threw up the sponge
on behalf of Freetrade by hoisting the bloody
shirt and howling deliriously for Boyne Water.
This is arrant political cowardice, and however
appropriate it might be on the part of Abigail or
Haynes, ib very ill becomes the “young lion’' of
Sydney journalism. Mr. Dibbs had “ the Catholic
vote in his pocket,” whined the D.T., and for
that reason it suggested a rally of Orangemen to
the rescue of Calico Jemmy ism. We do not deny
that a considerable majority of Catholics are in
favour of festering Australian industries, but why
that fact should render it necessary for the men
who worship at a different church to go in
bald-headed for the employment of foreign as
against local labour we cannot venture a guess.
It is only the old, stale, long played-out game of
the Parkes crew to live and wax fab upon the
blind sectarian hates of the ignorant. The tactics
are as cowardly as they are unfair. Darkly veiled
references are also made to the stability of the
Education Act now that Parkes an l his Calico
contingent are not in power. The D.T. forgets,
or perhaps its imported Victorian editors never
knew, that when the present Premier, Mr. Dibbs,
was, in conjunction with the late Mr. Green-
wood, fighting the then unpopular battle
of non-sectarian education, Sir Henry Parkes
was the chosen candidate of St. Mary’s at
East Sydney, and was sent to the poll ex-
pressly to maintain denominationalism against
the man whom his organ now denounces as the
champion of the exploded system which Parkes
himself defended to the last. While Danomina-
tionalism was the winning ticket, Sir Henry
Parkes used it just as he has since used Freetrade,
and in each instance he was struggling to retard
prosperity and enlightenment, blindly unconscious
that even Parkes could nob wipe out the rising
sun of progress. Does anybody outside the D.T.
office believe that he would neb swim on the top
of the Protection wave now as he did ten years
ago on that of Secular Education, provided he get
the chance? The whole trouble is that Dibbs, in
both cases, had thrown in his lob with the
National cause, while Parkes was still waving the
banner of retrogression. That is why the bloody
shirt is again fluttering in the political breeze, and
the disconsolate Parkes ever frantically calls upon
the people of New South Wa!es to uphold foreign,
and crush local labour, for the sake of a dead
Da "cbm an, whose corpre fed the worms of two
centuries ago.
Nervine did it. Nine elections have gone
to Protectionists without a contest, but the candi-
dates had all been fortified with Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankboa, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in home, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Conductor Co wen says a man is knighted
nowadays if he hands the Prince of Wales a chop.
Probably there ate certain stages of the princely
festivities when very few of his friends can be
tmsied to pass him a chop without dropping the
viand down the back of his neck, and at these
times the man who can reach that savoury victual
without losing his balance becomes valuable.
“Adam Bede’s ” Benevolent Consultations
on the Newmarket Handicap and Australian Cup
continue to find favour with the public. The pro
ject has been well advertised, copies of The Bul-
letin giving the outlines of the proposal hav ng
bean sent amongst other places to Thursday
Island, Cambridge Gulf, New Guinea, and even
to Stewart’s Island, N.Z
Said to be marvellous, certainly malo-
dorous, Melbourne is now immersed in a ten-
de“cy for music. But that subsidy of £3OOO with
which Parliament is to be asked to “assist” the
National Orchestra movement has already com-
menced to breathe a powerful effluvium in the
nostrils of the perennial taxpayer. Footacray, an
ill-smelling borough on the Williamstown Road,
has risen with a loud shriek to protest
against such imposition, but then Footscray has a
national high-class, classical orchestra of its own
in the local councithe members of which meet
once a for ri'ght to screech in unison th* most
bUod-curdling epithets at one another. Wagner,
as interpreted by Cowen’s band, is a child’s even ■
lag hymn compared with the Footscray Council.
But the ihonopdly is threatened, hence the op-
position.
We notice that Mr. W. G. Cameron has
withdrawn his candidature for Canterbury. This
gentleman, who is a convert to Frotection within
the last 13 months, has the courage of his recently-
adopted convictions, which he does not hesitate to
proclaim publicly.
The St. Leonard’s election Is calling forth
the full strength of Freetrade, landgrubhing and
monopolists’ interests. It is supposed that all the
Hornsby electors will go straight for their friend
J. F, Burns, The issue of this election is being
watched for with much interest.
Attorney-General Webster, in his opening
speech against Farnell, stated that the Land
Leaguers had murdered a certain Kerry peasant
named Brown. He even condescended to joke
and said the man had been “done Brown.” Sub-
sequently, in a moment of abstraction, he put
Mr. Brown in the witness-box, rind when he found
that it was the murdered man whom he had sum-
moned a cold perspiration broke out all over him.
The Emperor of China, who is now 17
years old, hss a very large head and a thin,
pointed face, and is, of course, considered de-
cidedly clever. The Emperor’s father is alive, but
in accordance with the cintern of the country,
lives in the strictest retirement and does not take
any high office or interfere in State affairs. How
nice it wcidd be if Sir Henry Bailees would go to
China and become the father of a Chinese Em-
peror
Mr. Stirling, In a paper in The Fort-
nightly on “The Political Outlook in Queens-
CALLED TO THE BAR.
BROKEN DOWN SWELL (to stranger): “MY YOUNGER BROTHAH IS AT THE
BAR.”
STRANGER: “I’VE GOT A SISTER THERE; SHE’S AT THE RAILWAY
HOTEL,”
land,” says that Australia is within measurable
distance of separation from the mother country.
In 1882, says the writer, when I first landed in
Australia, to have suggested eventual separation
would have been almost dangerous in a mixed
assembly ; to-day the majority of the electors —
certainly in Queensland, probably in N.SW.—
regard it as inevitable.
Sir Henry James, one of the leading
counsel for the Times, has the reputation of being
the most incurable snob at the English Bar. Ha
is built that way, and can’t help it. As treasurer
of the society of the Middle Temple, he had the
duty recently of entertaining two distinguished
guests—the Duke of Teck and Mr. Phelps, the
American Minister. The attention of the host
was entirely devoted to the elevated German
nauper, and all through that long and weary feed
he exhausted himself in laborious efforts to find
some topic of conversation suited to the compre-
hension of the poor, tottering Duke, so that he
might be saved the painful necessity of appearing
a greater ass than he really was. Meanwhile the
American ambassador sat apart, utterly neglected
and unnoticed, and smiled grimly at the spectacle
of poor Teck floundering in the bog of British
grammar and drivelling faintly about things of
which he knew as little as a cow does of medicine
and surgery.
Among the prominent signs of the times
in New South Wales is the formation in Sydney
of a new political and social club composed of
gentlemen who are pledged to support the cause
of Protection to National Industries, and to advp-
cate the claims of the masses who want employ-
ment rather than the already too much advocated
claims of the merchants, who merely want cheap
nigger labour to man the vessels which import
their supply of foreign shoddy. A,preliminary
meeting was held on Monday last, when 90 mem-
bers joined in the room. It was resolved that the
newinstitu tion should bear thepame of the National
Club—a title which is well suited to the objects
for which it is formed —and this decision was re-
ceived with ringing cheers. The membership list
already includes the names of a large number of
the leading citizens of Sydney, and considering
the prospects with which its career has opened it
promises soon to be one of the largest and ihost
important organisations of the kind in the colony.
Mr. Edwin J. Welch has been appointed to the
secretaryship of the C.ub.
Mr. O’Mara’s address to the electors of
East Sydney appears in the advertising columns
of this issue Mr. O'Mara is one of the best
speakers, most advanced poll bid ms, and most
solid Protectionists now before the country, and
his return ought to be a certaiaty.
In Melbourne Age of Saturday last, there
are “ wanted ” advertisements representing
situations for nearly 20QO persons. In the lead-
ing daily of Freeerade N S W. on the same date
there were vacancies advertised for not more
than 50 persons. This is a hard nut for the
Foreign-traders to crack.
The dally cost of living in the Unite!
Kingdom, including taxes, rent, etc , is estimated
at 20;8d. as against) 15 4i. in France, 12 Bd. in
Germany, 13.01. in the United States, 13 Bd. in
Belgium and Holland, 8 4d. in Spain, 7 Gd. in
Italy, Ih.ld. in Austria, and ll.ld. in Scandi-
navia. It will thus be seen that the cost of living
is dearest in the Freetrade country—Great
Britain What becomes of the ignorant Foreign-
trade allegation that Protection increases the cost
of living?
Ever since the N.S W. election com-
menced the Foreign-trade Frees has teemed with
huge headings—“ Protectionist Ruffianism,”
“ Organised Protectionist Obstruction,” and the
like, and whenever an individual asked an
awkward question from the back of a crowd the
reporters of the Foreign-trade papers made
a note that the Brutal Gang was Again
Suppressing Free Speech. Yet in its issue
of Tuesday the Evening News observes with
undisguised jubilation that “Mr. Dibbs was
refused a hearing at Narrandera yesterday.” We
presume this must ba true, as it is an aspersion
cast by a Foreign trade paper at its own
parly, and the only possible meaning is that the
Freetrade ruffians howled and sereamed and
shrieked and bellowed and cal chorussed until
they had drowned with their leathern lungs the
arguments which they could not answer. But
where, oh where ! i,i the big heading in capital
letters, “Freetrade Ruffianism,” “ Brutal Rowdy-
ism by the Despicable Hirelings of the Parkes
Faction ” ?
Would Mr. Sheriff Cowper include the
following, taken from the Governor’s orders, April,
18(R, amongst “ faitly successful executions ”
Sydney, Apiil 14, 1801.—The regiment to be under arms
on Monday next, 19th inst, a? half-past nine in the
morning, to attend the execution of John Boatswain,
private soldier of the New South Wales corps, sentenced
to die, by a general court martial, for desertion.
Sydney', April 19.—Raining in torrents. The execution
of the prisoner, as directed by the Orders of the 14th
inst., on account of the inolemenoy of the weather, is de-
ferred till further orders.
April 20.—Still raining in torrents. Execution, still
further deferred.
April 25.—Favourable circumstances having been re-
ported, the Governor of the settlement is pleased to ex-
tend a reprieve, and grant a free pardon to the prisoner,
John Boatswain, sentenced to death for the unsoldierlike
crime of deser.ion, but the Governor trusts, that the .ex-
ample of the awful position in which the wretched man
was placed will deter others from following the example.
Through the courtesy of Messrs. Ingoldby
and Webster, 15 Hunter street, Sydney, we were
favoured last week with an exhibition of what, no
doubt, will cause a revolution in the saddle trade of
these colonies. The new invention, which is entitled
“ Keen’s Unbreakable Saddle,” was explained by x
the inventor, Mr. Keen, who is a practical
saddler, and who described the improvements
in a manner which the most uninitiated
must have thoroughly understood. He produced
samples of his racing, riding, and stock saddles,
the principal innovation on the old style being
the substitution of the fipest Bessemer steel in
place of the old cumbrous wooden and iron com-
bination saddle-tree. The result of this is to make
a saddle practically unbreakable and at less than
half the ordinary weight. These saddles are so
adapted as to admit a current of air between
the horse and its rider, entirely precluding sore
backs, saddle galls, &c. It is intended to form
a company to place them before the public.
Messrs. Ingoldby and Webster are the brokers,
to whom early application should be made for
shares.
“The BULLETIN'S" MANIFESTO
TO THE
ELECTORS
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
tii ie following manifesto was issued as a special
‘•Extraordinary” to The Bulletin last week,
and many thousands of copies ware circulated
throughout the country districts. It is now re*
published for general information.]
Gentlemen, — The Bulletin desires to
draw ycuir attention to the following points
concerning the approaching elections -
(1) That The Bulletin is the foster-
mother of Protection and Nationalism in
Australia.
(2) That The Bulletin has rocked the
cradle of Protection with one bind and that
of Nationalism with the other, and at a
time when the stigma of bastardy was
attached to both Its proteges.
(3) Therefore, that at this critical jar.c l .nra
in the history cf Australia, ThE Bulletin
is entitled, and is competent to give,
sound advice to both Protectionists and
Nationalists.
(4) That Protection is necessarily tbe
first step to Nationalism. A young country
just emerging into national existence would
ba hampered by Freetrade and strangled
commercially, while, on the other hand,
Protection would encourage local industries,
foster the new-born spirit of Independence,
and quicken the life-blood of a new-born
autonomous nation.
(5) That It has come to the knowledge
of The Bulletin that some leading members
of the Foreign-Trade party purpose “dish-
ing the Protectionists” by raising at the
eleventh hour the standard of Australian
Nationalism as a concomitant to the Foreign-
Trade policy.
(6) That no one is prepared to raise the
standard cf Natlor ailism higher or to shout
louder for the Young Kangaroo than The
Bulletin, but that, for the reasons already
stated, it is essential that Protection should
precede Nationalism In the Nationalist pro-
gramme.
(7) The Bulletin, therefore, esks th©
electors cf New South Wales to give their
vote and interest to candidates who will be
prepared to support Protection and pledged
to uphold the policy so long advocated by
The Bulletin.


QOOGBB PALAOH AQUARIUM.
SATURDAY NEXT, 2nd FEBRUARY.
/3T For the Last Time
AGINTON*
Terrilic Flight down the Toboggan 1
and
* J. * T. # WILLIAMS *
The Australian Parachutist, in his
AEBIiI ACT IN THE DOME!
SUNDAY NEXT, 3rd FEBRUARY,
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
Will p:sitively make
HIS LAST APPEARANCE IN SIDNEY
For some Months.
Notice.—Mr. Rickards on this occasion will recite ‘‘THE
CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE,"
A *. STOrrOKD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
TrkaTßß Royal.— “ Dora and “The Bar-
rister” P- 15
Hbb Majesty’s.—** Youth”
Obitbbion.—“ Hans the Boatman ” „
Haymabkkt Mdsio Hall.— Harry Rickards „
“ Dora,” a pretty little idyll by Tenny-
son rescued out of poetry and put into prose by
Charles Reade, was offered to the public compre-
hension at Sydney Royal on Saturday, with re-
sults that were hardly so good as they ought to
have been, considering the expensive nature of
the poet concerned. As far as can be made out
by the undressed optic an idyll is a small drama
with cows in it and corn in the distance, and an
unnatural old farmer doing inhuman acts in a
long:tailed coat ; and it seems to be an idyll sim-
ply because the corn is understood to lend an air
of innocence and rural simplicity to the proceed-
ings. The characters are simple and honest in
their tendencies and filled with the milk of
human kindness, barring the inhuman farmer in
the coat-tail, and they commune with nature a good
deal and chase bulls the rest of the time. But it
is necessary to leave cut a lot of things in order
to make this sort of idyll really attractive. The
British rustic maiden, as a rule, lives too ex-
clusively on pork pies to be romantic, and when
that greasy edible is omitted the author has
sacrificed truth to effect. Also she has a wide
mouth, and a great wooden smile, and her feet
are solid and come down with a thud, and without
these features she is a delusion and a snare.
Further, the British peasant is not the touchingly
devoted creature that Tennyson paints him;
when alive he is generally a rheumatic person
who can’t read, and his chief occupation appears
to consist in hauling a stunned donkey past a
haystack ; and when he isn’t alive it is safe to bet
that he died in the workhouse, and be didn’t
spend his last moments musing about a dicky-bird
that was singing outside either—his last words
were a just and well-grounded complaint that he
didn’t get his vittles reg’lar, and when he said it
the parish beadle or tome corresponding func-
tionary told him to shut up. Then he asked for a
drop o’ beer, and his spirit passed away. We do
not, of course, insinuate that “Dora ” would have
looked better if these facts had been put in—we
only say that it would have been more truthful.
In its present unnatural state, however, it is
reasonably pretty, and it affords Mr. Warner an
opportunity to do some of the best actirg he has
yet perpetrated in Sydney, while Miss Grade
Warner gets a show in a pathetic little part which
suits her all to rags. “The Barrister,” which
follows, does not pretend to be an idyll, and even
if it did it wouldn't impose cn anybody. There
are no cows in it, and no corn, but in plsca of these
simple joys there is a lawyer who has had the only
brief he ever got in his life embezzled by a lady
whom he tock heme in a cab late at night; and by
way of heaping up the indignity and accumulating
the woe that siren has left behind her in its stead
an article cf feminine underclothing, the sight of
which makes the'paralysed advocate gibher aim-
lessly at his breakfast table and hoot with
a melancholy caderce in the dining-room.
Then he gets his wife thrown out of the
house under a mistaken impression that she
is another woman, and inspires another lady
to write him a frantic letter under the conviction
that he is another man, while a different person
attempts to strangle him cn the ground that he
ought to be somebody else, and a passionate major
threatens his life on the assumption that he
should be elsewhere. Also, there is a house which
belongs to two men, and there are two women in
the house who can’t understand what it is all
about, and a new and fresh individual who is in a
position to explain the difficulty, but dare not for
fear his brains may b? knocked out, and who is
clutching a sofa in a hotel, and on top of these
there are 700 other complications and a distant
view of a bathing machine from the window.
These clear and well defined circumstances are
mainly supported by Messrs. Warner, Herbert
Flemming, Vincent, and Alfred Phillips, Mr.
Warner being the gentleman who perspires and
tears his hair mest, and throws his limbs about
with the greatest amount of recklessness, and
wishes he were dead more than all the rest put
together. Miss Ada Ward, as the lady who took
the brief and left the article which needn’t be
further referred to, doesn’t tear her hair, but is
quietly and attractively aggravating, and Miss
Grade Warner is a pretty and loveable maiden,
and the only one in the piece who doesn’t want to
perish in consequence of the lost brief and the
specimen of underclothing which was left in its
stead. The said specimen of underclothing will
ba on view at the Royal every night till further
notice.
* # # #
“ Gaylord and Sllbon’s Great Troupe of
American and European Sensation Novelties and
Humpty Dumpty Pantcmimists,” a company
which will require eight muscular attendants to
carry even its initials down-stairs when it leaves,
and whose full name will probably have to be left
behind in a durable iron store, has taken possession
of Sydney Giiety, and is doing its best to act up
to a designation which would make a camel feel
tired. The great feature of the programme, and
the one in which this troupe wipes out all com-
petitors who have hitherto thrown themselves at
this patient land, is the final trapeze act of the
Silbons, in which these gentlemen get the bulge
on Providence, and make the celestial spheres
sit up. This act may possibly be easfir than it
looks, but we don’t think so. It consists in a pro-
foundly simple scheme by which one gentlerr an
leaps from the rcof above the circle, and after
threatening to rake the heads off the occupants of
the stalls with his feet, and turning two somer-
saults in the air with nothing but the oxygen to
clutch at and keep him up, is caught alive and
undamaged by his brother, who is hanging head
downwards from some unutterable height above
the stage. This item is wisely reserved for the
close of the first part, and when it is over the
audience totter faintly out to drink and inquire if
the universe is still going round. Sundry other
acrobatic items, which look large by them-
selves, look very small alongside this artis-
tic craving to fall from a great height and
be gathered up in a jug. Moulton and
Dashway, a pair of muscular gentlemen who
measure several and a half feet across the chest,
make two human wheels of themselves on the
horizontal bars ; the Dale Brothers have invented
a striking act with a ladder and six old hats ; and
a young lady with a vegetable on her chest —Miss
Tilly Salinger by name —warbles sweetly. The
one really hopeless fall of the show is the
“Humpty Dumpty Pantomime” itself, which
doesn’t pant worth a cent. This new and fatal
blow to human intelligence consists partly of
dumb show on the part of a soldier, and the rest
of dumb show on the part of two pirates, three
old women, a whitewashed boy, and three cats ;
and the smaller details depend mostly on the dumb
soldier and the silent, whitewashed boy crowding
the old women through a wall and then crowding
them back again. Possibly there is some hidden
meaning concealed in the “ Humpty Dumpby
Pantomime,” bat if there is it would have to be
fished for with a long line, and even after 12
hours’ endeavour the chances are against the
patient searcher obtaining a bite. The man who
goes out with a bloodhound to look for humour in
a volume of sermons has a better contract on
hand than the person who is resolved not to go to
bed until he discovers what the “Humpty
Dumpty Pantomime ” is driving at.
# * # *
Offing to what may be euphoniously
described as friction in the interior parts of the
company the season of the half-dressed musical
drama in a foreign tongue has come to an abrupt
conclusion at Sydney Opera House. On Satur-
day night the difficulties culminated in the
orchestra throwing things at the company, after
which the company rose to explain to the audience
what it was all about, and held forth in various
different languages and smote its chest, while the
orchestra also rose and explained in several more
languages all equally incomprehensible, and smote
the front part of itself likewise, and each sec-
tion bowed and jumped and tore the thatch
off its dome of thought. Farther they stamped in
various vocabularies, and galloped round in dif-
ferent parts of speech, and felt bad in several
dialects, and each attempted to point out that the
other was ver’ bad man, Corpo di Bacco ! also
Sacramento ! and that he vash Z 3 eon of von gun,
par bleu ! Oarrambo ! Hi-Yah ! As far as could
be made out from the front the orchestra wanted
the company to come down and be jumped into
the earth, and the company wanted the orchestra
to come up and be battered into hash, and each
side was under the impression that it could speak
Erglish, and that it was explaining matters in a
way that would carry conviction to anything
short of a cow. Mr. Simonsen has since en-
deavoured to clear up this aggregate inoompre-
hensibleness in the press, and by dint of the
Archimedean lever he explains that his horses —
the company—are. in a general sort of way, off
their heads. The Italian members of the orchestra
blow in all sorts of keys unless they are conducted
by a certain gentleman ; and if he c nducts, the
two leading members ot the show refuse to sing.
Also if they do sing while he bits the air
with the club of office the chances are
that he will throw something at them when
they are half through, and sweep them eff
their legs. In certain operas nob id y will sing atrll
because everybody wants one part; and in others
everybody issues his imperial ukase that he won’t
appear unless about 11 other artistes, whom he
objects to, are thrown out. As this involves an
all-round throwing out of about 110 persons,
and there isn’t anything like that number there
to be thrown out, the impressario accordingly
gives up in despair. Excepting for the loss of
Mdlle Lablache, who 1 as developed new and un-
expected genius at every successive appearance,
and who deserved to be associated with a better
company and an crchestra which was not so prone
to throw its implements of labour at the tenor’s
ear, they will not be much misled.
* * * *
The sacred lamp of Pantomime burns
with undiminished splendour at Melbourne Royal,
and several of the best features of this richly
endowed institution appear to be growing on ’em.
New verses of a cold, flabby nature, however, have
been added to certain alleged comic ditties which
were thi re before, so’the hour has arrived for The
Bulletin to darkly insinuate that the Triumvirate
employ Chinese cheap labour in the building up of
these ballads, instead of giving the ccntract to
seme respectable undertaker or sexton if Anglo-
Saxon descent. Therefore the patriotism of this
journal is wounded to the quick, became if the
character of a people is formed by their topical
songs, the future Australian must be born with a
vacant stare and die in a padded cell, unless some-
thing is done in this matter Stveral dirges sung
in the Royal pant, contain the germs of national
insanity, and require to be reported upon at
length by the Commissioners in Lunacy with a
view to checking mental decay.
♦ # * *
At the Alexardta, there Is more joy over
“Marvellous Melbourne” than was ever aroused
by the spectacle of 99 just men, presuming such a
large quantity was ever masse d together at one
fell swcop. About 30 minutes’ of discursive re-
marks have been wiped clean out of this appalling
narrative, and it probably hangs tighter together
than it did of yore, thus permitting the hard-
headed observer to pick his way through a crowd
of thrilling circumstances until he drops ex-
hausted upon a beautiful climax before the hotels
put up their shutters against a thirsty world.
“ Marvellous Melbourne ” starts at Spencer-
street station, rushes past the Falls Bridge
by night, stops at Toorak fir refreshments,
intersects Little Bauike-street at points well
known to the police, and terminates at a suburban
land sale with free luncheon on the ground. It is
embellished with pleasing touches of nature, in-
cluding a horde of Chows, many wharf labourers,
a real horse from Carton’s, and a battered
welsher. It is steeped in conflicting passions and
opium, besides containing a practical lesson on the
dangers of fan-tan. Other reasons why Mr.
Dampier has followed up his turn of luck with
another howling success are crowded out for want
of being mentioned.
* * * *
The Victoria Hall “push ” progress much
as usual, and the Ooghills enjiy the confidence of
a nice circle of friends at St, George’s, where the
sudden arrival of something resembling a new
joke is quite a common event. Pain’s firework
festivals are paralysing thousands of artless pil-
grims from the interior, and the Waxworks
attracts a giddy throng of abnormal size.
* * * *
The massive and travel stained mind of
Mr. Smythe was the first to conceive a scheme of
slinging the Centennial orchestra at Sydney, on
the terms since arranged by Messrs. Rignold and
Allison. Smythe, in fact, had an agreement
drafted, but after surveying the great Cowen
question from sundry points of view, he decided
to let that eminent conductor fall into the clutches
of some other famous manager.
♦ * * *
Some other Melbourne shows are now
spending their remnant of a green old age under
prosperous conditions. “ Dorothy ” dies hard at
the Princess s on Friday (Feb. Ist), after which
the venerable “Mikado” will waddle around in
all his barbaric pomp for six nights “ Private
Secretary ” is also due for dissolution on the date
above-mentioned, and Saturday next is to witness
a very interesting event at the beautiful Bijou
residence of Brough and Boucicault. Briefly,
Pinero’s three-act drama, “Sweet Lavender,”
will be presented on that occasion, and gigantic
results are anticipated from such an association of
high-class etcetera. A “Big Black Boom,” promoted
by Mr. Fred. Hiscocks, is to eventuate at the
Opera House about the same time- The Vivians
retain their awful hold of the establishment until
Friday with a tender little dramatic poem called
“ Neck for Neck.” This work will be affectionately
remembered in Sydney. The gallows mark is on
its brow, and proceedings open with an execution,
which only stops short at the dull, sickening thud.
The Vivian system of hanging entails two ropes,
one of which catches the culprit round the
stomach and asphyxiates his innards.
* * * *
The Brough-Bonclcanlt Comedy Company
have finished their season at the Adelaide Royal,
where they did not meet with the reception which
the excellence of their performances deserved.
The high temperature has been advanced as an
excuse for this want of attention. The finishing
piece was “ Bachelors,” in which Messrs. Anson
and Titheradge ecored heavily. The doors of the
Adelaide Royal are now closed for an indefinite
period. The festive spider will in the interim
cultivate his web. acre ss the footlights, and the
rats will revel undisturbed by the oath of the
scene shifter, or the din of a bloated orchestra.
Nothing now remains to cheer the inhabitants of
the peaceful city, but the switchback railway, a
toboggan rink, and the Sbrasburg Clock. Con-
sequently a silent, deserted look is creeping
over the city, and the residents are begin-
ning to reflect sorrowfully that flesh is mostly
grass and the rest of it is hay.
* * * *
An Amarican entrepreneur once started
for Australia with an “Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” com-
pany, and his sorrowing friends, never expecting
to see him back again from the land of snakes
and alligators and blacks, bade him farewell with
tearful eyes, and gave his wife a life insurance
policy. When he was heppinar on board the
Mariposa at ’Frisco one said, “ Have you an
‘ understudy ’ for Eva ? ” “Yes,” said the adven-
turer, “ if anything happens I’ll play it myself.”
“And tie donkey.” “Yes, I’m up in all the
parts. I’ll play it myself if the worst comes to
the worst.” “And—and—my dear friend, s’pose
anything happens to yourself.” “Well, I’m
taking my pickle-trough along, and if I go under
they can bill me as a real corpse introduced in
the death scene 1 ’
« * * *
A German translation of “My Sweet-
heart ” has just been produced at Berlin. We
don’o yearn to see it. The little fairy-like Tina
was never built to heave the awful complications
of the German verb at her lovers, and she is not
strong enough to wrestle with the eighteen ver-
tebras of a short exclamation in the language of
the Fatherland.
♦ ♦ * *
Mr. Corbyn, of San Francisco, rose to fire
off some Australian reminiscences at a recent
meeting of the Chin-Chin Club. He said : “I
once took a minstrel party to Australia, as some
of you are aware. It was a Georgia troupe, of
course —a long way from Georgia—but I will say
that as performers they were quite fair, and as
waiters and barbers most excellent’.” “What
kind of a reception did you meet with ?” put in a
member. “Well, they were the lions of the day,
and they were carriaged and feted and called the
coloured American gentlemen.” “What did they
call you then ?’’ said the inquiring member again,
and at the question Mr. Corbyn lit out at the
empty air and smothered a curse. “What did
they call me ? ’ he screamed ; “ well, I was known
all ov p r Australia as the dashed Yankee who was
along with the coloured American gentlemen. £?o
help me Julius Caesar, that was what they called
me.”
* * * *
The artistic sensibilities of the bosses of
the Melbourne Exhibition appear to be of a mixed
order. For an hour and a-half every afternoon
the concert-hall is devoted to the performance of
the greatest works of art, but immediately on the
last chord having sounded the attendants clear for
action, and Mdlie. Franzini on her bicycle comes
dashing on to the platf- rm at lightning speed,
through maz s of pot plants, bottles, and othfr
confused herbage. Franzini is a massive and pon-
derous creature in tights and spangles, and when
she vaults on to her bicycle the backbone of that
fiery and untamed article of commerce deflects in
a manner horrible to witness. She doesn’t ride a
bicycle in the ordinary male fashion, but even in
the side-saddle attitude there appears so much
more lady to be seated than there is seating ac-
commodation for—so much more than enough and
to spare, that it is as uncomfortable an exhibition
as one can well witness.
* * * ♦
A London actor is stated bo have caught
inflammation of the lungs through playing farcical
comedy in a kilt. This looks as though actors
breathed through the calves of their legs.
♦ * * #
Sarah Bernhardt denies the report that
she is growing fleshy. The mistake arose through
an interview by a green reporter who saw her
with her sawdust on.
• * * *
Messrs. R'gnold and Allison, not content
to struggle along with “Youth,” have engaged
the expensive Cowan to give a series of 12 great,
classical, elevated, and incomprehensible concerts
at Sydney Exhibition Building. The advertise-
ment states that this undertaking would have
been too gigantic to grapple with and too insur-
mountable altogether had it not been for the
assistance of the Victorian and New South Wales
Governments, the Railway Commissioners of both
colonies, the Mayor and Corporation of Sydney,
the two Lied ertafels, and about 100 other people,
from which it would seem that a dignioary of
Cowan’s tonnage is not captured without diffi-
culty. It is also worth noting that the concerts
will be under the patronage of “ Lord Baron
Carington, P C., K.C.M.G.,” and in this connec-
tion we would merely remark that we hope the
Lord Baron will enjoy himself, for if he doesn’t
it will be rough on the Lord Baron.
# * * *
Little May Hannan takes a matinee
benefit at Sydney Criterion to-day (Thursday)
“on the occasion of her fifth birthday.” We
candidly confess that we took her to be older than
that. On Saturday the Brough and Boucicault
Comedy Company returns in force to play the
“ Magistrate,” the old favourite “Hans the Boat-
man ” winding up on Friday, when Mr. Arnold
and his dog also have a benefit.
* * # *
Mr. Aglnton, the skating champion, did
his first flight through space at Ooogee Aquarium
with no further damage than one slight concussion
which failed to knock the earth’s surface out from
under the mortgage which rests on top of it. Now
that the skater has got away alive, however, we
would urge him not to let the perilous habit grow
upon him, for if he ultimately becomes addicted
to skating down toboggan slides three times a day
he will run a serious risk of shortening his
life, especially if the habit settles on bis chest.
To the casual observer, roller skating down a
toboggan seems about as dangerous as falling out
of a balloon with three tons of c:al, and even if
we have slightly over estimated the coal, it is im-
possible to disguise the fact that it is just a little
less unsafe than feeling for a spring-gun with one’s
feet in a dark room. These remarks are offered
in a brotherly spirit, and we trust they will be ac-
cepted in the same frame of mind, or if Mr.
Aginton’s mind is not framed— but we have no
wish to diverge into psychological research at such
a solemn moment as this.
#* # *
“She," as a play, says the World of 12bh
September, is a clumsy effort to achieve the im-
possible. We smile at the idea of this Ayesha
(Miss Sophie Eyre) with a tawny wig, a diamond
tiara, and a metallic make-up going about veiled
lest she should scorch and shrivel us with the
glory of her beauty . . . the Aiuahagger look
like a squad of hop-pickers . . . the yawning
chasm . . . arouses sympathetic yawns . . ,
the pillar of fire is . . . the veriest fizzle.
The caves of Kor, the ruined city, “ Ustane,"
and “ Billali," are praised, however.
«* * *
The female members of a burlesque show
generally appear in summer attire. That is, some
are attired and some are not.
♦# * *
London Referee states that fights occurred
in Australia over a question as to the respective
terpsichorean merits of Sylvia Grey and Letty
Lind. Dew tell !
#* * #
Santley, the singer, talks of visiting the
colonies.
** * *
A big band-contest with prizes aggregating
£lOOO will be one of the features of the Dunedin
(N.Z.) Exhibition.
#* * #
An actor named Fuller Mellish is reported
to be a suitor for the fair hand of Marv Anderson.
It is rumoured that Mr. G. C. Miln played
“Hamlet 1 ’ with real skulls, supplied by a
certain N.S. Welsh Im Pay. One of the latest
forms of advertisement in the London streets is a
hansom with a flag attached to it. Inside is the
figure of a corpse dressed in evening clothes. The
show—and a very ghastly one it is—is intended to
advertise a book and a play. It is said that Mrs.
Langtry puts on the gloves with her lusty
Irish waiting-maid every morning before break-
fast, and nearly pounds the life out of her.
An American giant feet high has just married
a girl not quite a yard in length. The bride
stood on a chair during the ceremony. An Eng-
lish paper alludes to Minnie Palmer as “ a skittish,
short-skirted songstress,” which we regard as
mean, not to say low and degrading. Lena Mer-
ville, an American actress, says that “ some
women are born to tights, some achieve tights,
and some have tights thrust on them. ’ Another
lady, on the same subject, remarks that “ managers
of burlesque and comic opera, who have no opinions
except those based on box-office receipts, believe
the most appropriate stage dressing is that which
reveals as much of the female form as an audience
will stand without expostulating—which is a good
deal. I would not, however, have tights and a
decollete dress in the same costume.”
“ Tiger” Inglia doubtless feels his “Tenfc-
life ” experiences of service to him now that he is
out in the cold.
“ Where will there bs an outlet for our
surplus population ?” shrieked the wild-eyed can-
didate. “In the Domain,” answered a still,
small voice at the rear of the crowd.
The Bulletin’s manifesto to the electors
of N.S.W., which has had such a potent effect in
consolidating the Protectionist party throughout
N.S.W., is republished in this issue. The mani-
festo was read at Mr. Traill’s meeting on Tuesday
night, and was received with unanimous expres-
sions of approval by a large audience.
At the County Councils elections that
have just taken place under the new Local
Government Bill, for the County of Middlesex, the
candidates raturnel for the City Division were
Lord Roseberrv and Lady Sandhurst, Sir John
Lubbock and Miss Cobden. The legality of the
ladies’ elections is questioned but it is a sign that
lovely woman is coming to the front when we find
her cutis shining at the top o! the polls.
It is an ominous ugn for the Foreign-
traders that their organ, the Even Noose, had
nothing to tay, editorially, last Tuesday about the
nine Protectionist victories with which the
flections opened. Its leading article was headed
“ Prospect Dam.” Probably the unhappy editor
had orders not to write about politics until fome-
thing happened which could be distorted into »
Freetrade success, and so he selected his subject
because he must treat of something with a dam in
it to give vent to his feelings.
Way out on the back blocks the other day
a jaynil ctaythur was discoorsin on Home Rule,
and in a burst of wild whirling iloquince that)
even the only Dan m'ght envy, he roared :
“ Pwhat Use could th’ poor immigrant do?
Torrund frum his howldin’, berift av his farrum,
he was forced to schrape a few pounds togithir
an’ quit culd Oireland fur ivir ; for indade
Othello’s oockypaiion thin was gone.” And then
from the crowd came a wail of woe, while high
above all a voice called fiercely for “ Tree groans,
fur OTheller's dhurty blaggard av a landlord, an’
t’hdl wid ’em all.” And right lustily were the
groans given by the intelligent audience, who had
not the slightest doubt but that Othello was a
first cousin, or the like, to the foine owld families
of the O Ragans, O'Fiaherties, and O’Tooles.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
la more Wholesoms than
BBANDY or WHISKY,
And la n
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Ce Careful foo obtain Wotta’a.
Citizm : No, 1 can gire you no money.
1 don’t like to enconrage idleness. Why don’t
you go to work?” Tramp: “lb’s very easy to
say that, but it isn’t so easy to get a job, IVe
been trying to get work all the Tear.” “What
kind of job have you looked for ? ” “ Winding an
eight-day clock.”
Growing small by degrees and beautifully
less. The close of the year ’BB saw £9992 paid away
as salaries to clergymen in N S.W under the old
State A'd regulations—33 Church of England
clergymen getting £5790; 15 R C.*, £2600; (! Wes
leyans, £900; and 5 Presbyterians, £702. Oae
Church of England clergyman has drawn Sate
sid tor fifty years, while another has been looting
the Treasury since 184 G. Of the Roman Catholic \
a respected priest has been drawing coin since 1852,
and one Presbyterian has been after his money
with great success ever tito 1847. How long,
O Lord ? &c &o.
Mbssrs. Mobt & Chandon are now shipping to the
Colonies their 1884 Vintage “ Dry-Imp6rial ” Cham-
pagne. This is the produce of their own vineyards of
1500 aores of the choicest growths around Epernay. The
■ Dry-Imperial ” has never been shipped to the colonies
tefore. It Is very dry. Ask for Host’s " Dry Imperial "
»t all Wins Merchant*
Baron Yon Mueller has Issued a book
entitled: “A Key to the System of Victorian
Plants.” It does not profess to reveal the system
of Parliamentary plants.
A work on “ The Lve-Letters of Cele-
Vri lies” has jast been issued in London, and the
letters of William Hszlitt to a little tailor's
daughter are the fiaest in the collection.
The police force at Hongkong la composed
almost exclusively of Scotchmen and dainese.
The lion and the lamb lie down together; the
Caledonian and the Chow are brothers, and there is
peace on earth, ard everything is “ allee li,”
An American gentleman of great political
sagacity has given himself in custody on a charge
of murder. He says he did the crime just to see
if the local damphool of a Sheriff could find out
anything at AH, and as that intelligent officer has
nsver even got on his track, he now owns up to
blight the chances of the hopelessly unintelligent
aniifial when he stands for re election.
The decadence of the Order of the Knights
of Labour in America affords a useful lesson to
working-class organisations everywhere. The
Lights of Labour, like certain kinds cf vege-
tables, went too much to head. Salaried officers
were multiplied, and these voted themselves
palatial buildings in which to carry on the busi-
ness of the order. Hence it is 1 hat members fall
off the rolls at the rate of per year. Those
who fall cff are, however, being absorbed by at
younger and healthier b.dy called the Federation
of Labour. In a labour organisation there should
be neither high salaries nor ornamental board-
rooms. The day these appear among its current
expenses the fate of the organisation is. sealed.
A few months ago the shortest tram-ride
in Wellington (N.Z- ) cost 3d. The trams had a
monopoly- Ttien Cobb $ Co. started running
’busses. Fares fell to 2d. - to Ijd —to Jd. Now a
ride cl miles costs -|d. Or the aristocrat who
loathes walking can ride 42 miles for G J ; 2IOmiles
for 2». GJ ; or 16$0 miles for a one pound-note.
Families take their lunch and spend eight hours
on board the trams and travel a distance of 50
miles for an unworkable fraction over 7d. per
head, babies thrown in. And the company is net
losing money. Two-thirds of the entire popula-
tion (much under 40,000) of the Empire (Jioy of
rs.Z. ride by tram or ’ous daily, or the whole
population in a day and a bit. The upper ten
generally walk, but as they are only ten- they
never will ba missed.
Some very cheerful theories aloit hyp-
notism are beginning to take root in Europe, and
modern scientific men are building up a doctrine
which is unpleasant enough to make the human
hair stand up. It is now a well-ascertained fact
that under certain circumstances one man may so
completely dominate another as to make him per-
form all kinds of ridiculous actions without the
slightest consciousness of what he is doing, and it
is suggested that the magicians who compel
their victims to eat raw vegetables, candles,
bad eggs, and the like on a public stage
have other amusing little ways about them
which are destructive to the peace of a
sober community. Hypnotised Christians, it is
asserted, go round unconsciously forging cheques
and handing over (ho prccaedi to the individuals
who have reduced them to tuoh base purposes;
hypnotised Quakers and members of the Peace
Society commit murders became they can’t help
it, and because the other fellow wants' tbmebody
put out of the way; hypnotised editors make
fools of themselves in print, and unlets they are
discovered and chained up in time they will even
go so far as to publish letters demanding that
people should be hanged because the Lqard decrees
it; and hypnotised politicians have latge sums of
money offered them by hypnotised business men,
and don’t recover sufficiently to Qcpose the
attempted corruption till three months after-
wards. In short, it is contended that a time may
come when the whole world will be run by hyp-
notism ; and meanwhile a few advanced exponents
of the art are having a high old time, and chuckle
with fiendish merriment when they send out hyp-
notised bishops to commit petty larceny and make
them get drunk on bad spirits and disgrace their
episcopal dignity by wallowing helplessly on the
public pavements.
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The : Intercolonial Investment Co.
Bathurst-street, Sydney. 1
The following holy whine la from a North
Queensland journal
If this should meet the eye of a Christian merchant who
wants a clerk, or can use his iDfl$ecG3 to get a young
man into a situation, he will be doing a favour to the
advertiser and will win the reward—“ Ye have done it
i n to me." Ad dreg s, & 3.
There is an odour of wild, grotesque blasphemy
about this little address. According to the writer,
if anyone will find him a situation as clerk or
otherwise it will be entered in the record of the
great Hereafter that he exerted himself to get
Providence a billet in an office, and in securing
the advertiser a job at 3&j. a week or thereabout’,
it will be mentioned that “ Ye have done it unto
me. Compared to this the Salvationist who
talks of the life and works of “ Jack the Baptist ”
sinks into placid insignificar ce,
- The noble “ Baritish ’ warrior has been
covering himself with gore and glory again at the
expense of a wretched band of skinny Arabs.
“The late battls at Suakim—Brilliant action of
the British Troops,” is how the Australian dailies
disced up the cheerful pastime. Here is a slab
from the Age’s description “Half the Arabs
lay dead or wounded upon the field, and the rest
at top speed galloped away to Handoub, the
Hussars closely in pursuit. The Egyptian Cavalry
joined in following the enemy, no quarter being
asked on cither side ” The italics are ours.
Perhaps it was as a consequence of the Arabs’
foolish neglect in not arranging for quarter that
400 of their number were killed as against four
hussars and three Soudanese on the side of the
British. And this was a “brilliant action”?
Bah ! it was not even a brilliant butchery, seeing
that most of the killing was done by machinery.
High Abt Photogeaphy.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLB MONT
« 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high t
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarlnffton
'" By Appointment.”
Aboriginalities.
Up on the Warrego, a false, perjured cor-
respondent informs us, the drought was so severe
that at ore station an intelligent kangaroo, who
was athirst, came up to the iron tank and
levanted with a bucket of water round his neck.
ojr correspondent wants us to request that kan-
garoo, if he happens to be a renter of Tub BuI-
(.KT(N, to return the bucket, and no questions will
be asked, a -."" 1 _j ' "'ll*.. "
• • *
Mosquitoes are said to ba so large in parts
01 the Northern Territory that an endeavour is
being made to establish markets for them in Syd-
ney, Brisbane,' and Melbourne. They are ito ad-
mirable substitute for leeches,
* • •
Daring the hearing of a Police Court case
in the Grafton district, the other day, a heathen
Chinee elected to be sworn by the tomfoolery of
blowing out one of Bryant and May’s hlffe-headed
matches. Tae bowld mimber av the foorce en-
trusted with the duty of administering the oath
improved the occasion by improvising a little
thing of his own, which he dashed eff as follows :
‘’“The ividince you are about to giv« in the case
befoore the Court shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help yer Josq
an’ if you don’t tell the truth, AS you blow out
that match, so will yer sowl be blown to hell.
D’ye moind that, now ?” And the Chinkie was
so impressed with the solemnity of the affair that
he annually told as much of the truffi as it was
possible for a Chinaman to tell.
« * •
A great and promising industry has been
founded during the lasi few years in New South
Wales, and though it is still, comparatively
speaking, in its infancy it is already paying
dividends on a scale of lavishnesp which is calcu-
lated to eclipse all the old record r of land
swindles, mining syndicates, and the like, in one
act. Let the public graciously remove the wool
from its ear and listen to the two following ad-
vertisements, and then it will stagger for awhile
on its hind legs and fallconfpsedly in a trap with
visions of El Dorado and Golconda drifting before
its affrighted vision
T\7ANTED, a Kind Person to adopt an Infant from
v ' Hrtb. Premium, £5. Address Post-
office, Gaorge-street West.
LADY will Adopt for life Baby, boy or girl, prem.,
£2. , William-st. Post office.
That’s all. The “ kind person ” who takes the
baby and the £5 from the post office in George-
street West has only to leave the same squalling
infant and £2 at the other post-office in William-
street, and allowing 31. for carriage on the
offspring, he will be £2 19 j. 9J. to the good.
The whole job could be accomplished in
half a day, and by thus working on a
solid average of three days out of seven an
enterprising and sober person could easily realise
£l7 ISS. 6i. weekly. The work is of a kind which
requires no business experience, and the only risk
worth mentioning is the chance of being taken in
at times with damaged or unsaleable infants
which would require to be traded off at reduc'd
prices. But even after allowing 30 per c-nt.
for depreciation of stock during the hoi weather,
and making all reasonable deductions for periods
of depression when the baby crop fell short
or was late in coming into the market,
there remains the certainty that £5OO per annum
could be readily realised by any pushing man of
good address, and in these days of financial ruin,
when the British peerage is reduced to selling
specked apples on wheelbarrows, and men of
learning and ability are humping bags of bran on
the public wharves, such a prospect is too good to
be despised.
• * *
The chief Paora Tahaera, of Orakei, near
Auckland, paid a state visit to H.M.S Orlando,
while lying in Auckland Harbour, the other day.
The chief came off in his ancestral grand canoe
manned by 00 paddlers, and having delivered an
address which perfumed the atmosphere with the
odour of dried shark he rubbsd noses with the
admiral with due solemnity, after which he was
shown over the big man-o’-war, and was allowed
to explode a sma l ! submarine mine which the
natives pronounced was Taipo.
m m
When the American baseballers were In
New Zealand they distinguished themselves by
talking loudly and often in nasal tones of the
natural features of Murker—of the falls of Niagara
and the big trees of California. On one occasion
when in a particularly boastful mood they were
driven out to the prettv little village of Ofcahuhu
and taken in to see “ Kelly the Barge,” a burly
Hibernian who presides over the village pub.
“The Barge” is impressed with the idea that
Ireland and New Zealand are the best countries
in the world, “the ould sod ” indeed being but a
neck ahead of the land of his adoption. So when
the Yanks began to draw Kelly out about his
experiences as a bushman, and when he had
romanced to them of kauri tress that had “ a
girth of 50 feet with four tons of gum hanging out
of the main fork,’’the baseballers pooh-poohed these
circumstances as items of small moment alongside
the giants of the forest in the Yoremite Valley.
They told him of stumps on which 50 couples
could waltz, and of a hollow tree through which a
roadway wended. The Bar ge we nt outside, had a
little “ special reserve ” out of his private cup-
board, and having composed himself, returned to
the attack. “Luck here, gintlemen,” said he,
“whin Oi was wurrukin for Pierce Lmigan, him
ai built the big dockh in Auckland beyant. he
kem to me and, ssz he, Kelly, me bhoy, Jack
Gibbons, of Kihowhakarirei, has bet me a hmi-
thred that he’d foind a bigger kauri thin Oi can.
It’s to be decoided be the number of fate cf
thimber in it. Now, Oi’ve a bit of a kauri riba in
mebushforninst Maurice Kelly s place at the Wade
and I want yez to take the g c ng down an’ scarf it.
Well, gintlemen, we thravelled to th’ Wade an’
found th’ three, and a divil of a shtick it was, too.
Be th’ holy Moses, it tuk yez half a day to walk
round one side of it. Well, Oi stharted th’ bhoys,
and we wur three wakes puttin’ in th’ scarf, and
p-.e Sunday Oi walked down to a crik that th’
kauri grew on, and bedad Oi met some of Jack
t»ibbons men. ‘ Phwat are yez doin’ here ?' says
j J-’ , 11 s a saycret, Misther Kelly,’ sez they,
but Phwat are yez doin’ here yerself, Misther
Kelly/ Its a saycret. too,’ sez Oi. ‘Hava
some whisky, Misther Kelly,’ sez their gaffer.
. . .*> sez Oi. an’ we got cozy and comfortable.
1 riaintly the gaffer sez, ‘That’s a good bit of a
v i «fk- aui d on the gul’y beyant ’ ‘lt is,’sez
‘J 1 Whisper,’sez he, ‘ Oi’m scarfin’ is for Jack
Oibbors to bate a tree that ould Lrnigan is
backm.’ ‘Whurroo,’ sez Oi, ‘it’s Lanigan’s
three. An’, be the mother av , gintlemen, if
1 wuz sthruck down thin minnit, it turned
out that Gibbons' min and my push
had been scarfin' th’ same kauri for three
wakes unbeknownst to ache other.” The
Yanks, of course, admitted that this knocked
the stuffing out of any other tree that grew, lout
Trolly.^ av i n £ S’ o * l fairly on the job, continued:
Whin you go to MauriCe Kelly’s he’ll show yez
ihe hofier sthump. He uses.it fur a stbockyard.
and Ox’ve seen wid me own blessed eyes 3ft tames
of bullocks yarded in it. Ould Maurice just druv
’em through a bit av a knot hole and put a ahiipr
rail acrost it.”
» * •
A policeman lately chased a criminal into
the West Queensland bush, and, losing his way,
died for want of water. He was a new chum.
Had he been a man of experience his line of pur-
suit would have teen a straight track from pub. to
pub.
* *. *.
A Bourke (N.S.W.) pei jury :—There’s
lots of snakes about the lagoon, hundreds of ’em.
They live round the banks. The lagoon has nearly
dried up, now, you know, after this, blessed
drought. These hundreds and hundreds cf t snakes
were in a long single fje between the lagoon ard
the river, SCO or 400, yards off ; down the bank
goes the leader, and when he gets to the edge of
the water, evidently cried halt ! for the line of
vipers stopped at once. Kach stake now pro-
ceeded lo swallow his predecessor’s tail, and the
shortening in the line was filLd up by the spare
snakes. When ali had their mouths filled with tail
THE ALLIGATOR’S NEW TAIL.
the order 'was given, and, like winking, eac
snake shed his skin and crawled out, the she
skms forming a long line cf hose which, actin
like a syphon, drew the water from the river t
the lagoon and filled it up again, and has kept
full to date, and that’s a fact.
* • *
Up at Cairns (Q ) a white woman has
started in the laundry-business, and a local paper
nails her advent with a delighted feeling of ex-
bi a ration engendered, no doubt, by the fact that
ib ptrikes a Hjw at the Mongolian washee-washee
monopoly, and also that the boss of the new local
industry ‘ formerly washed for the Earl of Bel-
more at ( Uitle Code, Enniskillen.” The Bulle-
tin does not exactly see any cause for rejoicing in
the latter fact. It would not allow its shirts to
go into the washtub with the linen of some Earls
it u ed to know in its youth.
Brief Mention.
The Pope Is going to start a paper. Whom
will he gel) to lie about the circulation ?
A child was choked with a piece of money
at Hobart, the oth°r day. Cn 1 ) off with a shilling,
so to speak.
A lady dropped dead in a Melbourne
church last week, but the parson will not be pro-
ceeded against.
The circulation cf London Times is going
down—which is more than its Parnell forgeries do
with the public.
Very suggestive ! Out of a published list
of 20 subscribers to the Sydney Wharf Labourers’
picnic IB are publicans !
Yet another. The 16.275 oh old veteran
who charged with the Six Hundred has died for
the 11,013th time or thereabouts in London, aged
vaguely about 546 years.
The Sydney Echo says o “An Infernal
machine exploded in Dublin in the shop of a boy- 1
cotted tradesman in Ivihush.” Remarkably wide-
spread sort of a calamity apparently.
After reading the sensational account o
Louisa Collins’ send-off, a small boy, named
Dogharty, hanged himself at Jamberoo. Poor
boy ! he was anxious to appear in the Noose.
It is said that leading counsel in the
TiMES-Parnell case receive fees amounting to £500'
Dev dievi. In 1170, the fee for “counsel learned
in the law ’ was 3s, 8d. with 4d. for his dinner.
Things have changed since then.
A young man attempted to stop a Gripps-
land (.Vic,) tram by butting at it with his head,
the other day. He succeeded, It does not
necessarily follow that he was thick-headed. We
have travelled in a Gippsland train.
A drunk and disorderly, before the Mel-
bourne City Court the other day, pleaded in ex>
tenuation that he had signed'the pledge 32 times.
He got seven days. What’s the use of a man'
persevering if he’s discouraged like this?'
The advisability of preventing the pro-
prietors of hotels and boarding houses from keep-
ing “Rough on Rats” about their premises has
been ditcussed in Melbourne. Humph! hypo-
chondriacal boarders will still have the pastry to
fall back upon.
On one of the Melbourne dailies there
toils a i mall man who appears before the world in
the polyglot capacity of dramatic critic, composer,,
musical conductor, and husband of a pianiste.
The advantages of this combination are obvious to
the meanest organ of comprehension.
The Czar has issued a public expression oft
his.thankfulness to the Russian people for their
devotion to the throne. Which means, we pre-
sume, that so far they have always hit him with
the soft end of,the bomb-shell and have invariably
wrecked the wrong train by mistake.
An American Republican newspaper says
that the most remarkable thing about the famous
letter on which the unlucky British Ambassador
got so badly wrecked was that it reached its
destination, instead of being stolen by some
Democrat in the post-office while en route.
The following, in eccentric epigraphy, is
posted on a tank in an inland village in Vic-
toria
“N OIICE —Aijey parson requireine watter from this
tank have to ap’y to Mr. Shutter, who have the
rented of the tank from me.—B. O. Waolis.
Advertisers crowded in with notices for
the issues of the Sydney papeis containing the'
recount cf the execution of the woman Louisa
Colins, Spaces near the “hanging” columns
were charged half rates extra. An execution is
reckoned to be worth between £80 and £140 to
each Sydney daily.
Some citizens have presented the Corpora-
tion of Sydney with a portrait of Sir Alfred
Stephen. At the same time there should have
been “hung” on the Town Hall walls a repre-
sentation of that Goulburn execution which Sir
Henry Parkes so graphically described in the
Assembly before the “bust up,” and which, he
said, a certain gentleman, held in high esteem,
quite approyed of.
The London Methodic Times plaintively'
apologises to its readers for an insufficient report
of a teachersim.eetin g, on the gioand that the re-
porter sent to attend the proceedings was twice
arrested as the Whitechapel murderer, and did
not get there. If we had been running that paper
we would have endeavoured to figure out the
reason why a Methodist pressman should thus be
chastened by the,mysterious visitations of an urn-
searchable Providence, but the Times editor
merely mentions the bald, unwholesome fact and
passes on.


JOHN RfI'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS.
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
16 page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
85-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List if Businesses fir Rale issued Bails.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Mndl-
man. "Ut T*ii.ob." 184 Kit>ar-»tr««.t Nowiown
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
ktttw T ATTTF —TONTINE POLICIES iWITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THE
PpStUMS A PAID beina RET IJRNET ) as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Kvent of Siurvxval. FULL PAK riCIl ATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. ur Pranoho* in all bb*> Oolontkr arid in thn Unitbp Kmq/iOM.
Personal Items.
The leader of the 8. A. Bar mikes £8)00
ia-year.
Cleveland saved £12,000 from his Presi-
dential salary.
'the Nun of Kenmare denies that she has
left the Catholic Church.
John M‘Eihone Is in Melbourne, buyiog
tallow and other fancy gccds.
Tim Croke eiplred. a victim of opium-
smoking, at Adelaide. Tim croked.
The heir-presumptive to the new Earl of
Devon is ah out-at-elbows parson 70 years of age.
Patti cheers herself with a glass of hot
water sind lemons every morning, and drinks
whisky in the evening. She always feels better
in the evening.
Princess Midas Cornwell has withdrawn
the light of her countenance from Phil Robinsm,
late Literary Adviser and Grand Vizier to Her
Royal Highness.
Sic Julias Ycgel returns to N.Z, next
month to lend his m’ghty intellect once more to
the land for which he borrowed so much in the
pleasant days cf old.
While Sir Henry Tichborne fs having a
fine time shootirg on his ancestral ground?, the
real “Sir Roger ” is lecturing on his grief to de-
creasing audience?.
A Melbourne paper discusses “ Nosey
Bob” under the heading, “People we Know.”
We will not further enlarge on this painful and
suspicious acquaintanceship.
A new temperance journal has broken out
in Adelaide with the suggestive title of the
Weekly, The preaching and pasting are performed
by the Rev. M. Wood-Green.
Mr. C. W. Crawshaw, an aged publican
■of Cooma (N.S.W ), has just closed his bar at the
age of 98. He was a worthy pioneer, widely
known ard unanimously respected.
Simon Fraser, late Chairman of Commit-
tees in the Queensland Assembly, has adjourned
•his earthly debate for ever. Before Simon re
lapsed into politics he was an influential auc-
tioneer.
Emin Pasha was, 25 years ago, a young
‘German surgeon of delicate physique and shy
manners, named Edward Schnitzer. What he is
mow no one knows for certain, but as likely as not
ihe is an unpleasant c irpse in Central Africa.
The editor of a certain Melbourne publi-
cation has been known to consume 14 dezen
■oysters and 14 stouts at one sitting, the per-
formance concluding with 2 Scotch whiskeys and
■a cigar. As a sustained literary effort this re-
-quires a lot of wiping out.
Mr. W. S. Targett, formerly member for
the Nepean (N.S W ), is now editing the Port
Pirie <S A ,) Standard, a new publication. Mr,
Targets has, since his abandonment of politics,
drifted into j oumalism, and for a time brightened
up the sorrowful pages of the Broken Hill Argus,
It is understood that Mr. G. H. Reid will
not use his eye-glass at the coming election. When
G. H, R left the Civil Service and put up for
East Sydney, a friend took him aside one day, and
told him that if he used his eye-glass on the day of
nomination it would cost him 500 votes. Mr.
Reid did not use the glass, and was put in at the
top of the poll.
U.S. Secretary Bayard, who snubbed the
British ambassador at Washington, is said to be
■ descended from Chevalier Bayard sans peur et
sans reproche. It is also rumoured that Sir
Saul Samuel traces his origin in a straight line
from the prophet Samuel, whose son William
Samuel married Saul’s aunt, and having thus
combined these two ancient Israelibith families
emigrated to New Zealand on a patent raft.
Dr. M‘Gregor, the Governor cf New
'Guinea, is not afraid to rough it. When travel-
ling about the country he swags his own blankets
, a nd camps on the grass with the sang /raid of an
old b ashman. And, speaking of New Guinea, we
are reminded that, as there are no land-sharks
there, when the dark island gets important enough
to have a bi cameral Parliament, it will be neces-
sary to have an Upper House composed of alli-
. gators.
“ Tom ” Slattery, the new Minister for
Justice in the Dibhs Cabinet, commenced
life in the Civil Service of N.S.W. as a
clerk in the Supreme Court. He gained, by pro-
motion, the post of prothonotary, which office he
surrendered because the Government of the day
r Sir Henry Parkes being Colonial Secretary and
Mr. F. B. Suttor, Minister for Justice—wished to
exercise control over him and his office as against
the claims of Sir James Martin and his brother
• Judges of the.-Supreme Court.
Doctor Harman Tarrant, the active head of
■ the Masonic order in New South Wales, has just
gone on a trip to (Europe. The first effort to
establish a Masonic lodge in Sydney is thus
alluded to in the Sydney Gazette newspaper,
May, 1803 Henry Brown Hi yes, described as
a convict, having applied to the Governor (Philip
1 Gidley King) for permission to hold a Freemasons’
lodge in Sydney, and being refused held one not-
■ withstanding, and for this offence was sentenced
to hard labour at the new settlement of Van
Dieman’s land.”
“Toby ” Barton, the .AttQpneyrGeneral of
the Dibbs’ Cabinet, was called to the Bar of
N S.W. in 1871, and made bis first appearance in
“criminal" business in 1872, when .Mr. Justice
Hargrave assigned him to as fist the present Act-
ing Judge Fitziardioge in defending George
Robert Nicholls for what are kqown as the Parra-
matta River murders. Nichols and Lester de-
coyed men by means of advertisements up the
Parramatta on pretence of taking them tot itera-
tions, and ou reaching that part of the river
known as Hen and Chickens Bay the victims were
murdered, robbed, and the bodies weighted and
thrown overboard. Two murders were accom-
plished in this way before the corpses came to the
surface to declare the foul deeds. The evidence
against the prisoners was conclusive, and Mr.
Barton’s first client was duly hanged along with
the partner of his unprofitable speculation in
human lives.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Only three N.S.W. country papers
lamented the “ Collapse of Parkes.”
Mr. Ball, the barbar of Argyle, is going to
the poll. He exchanges lather for blather.
Parkes wisely declined to meet Dlbbs on
the Murrumbidgee. Parkes as a “ whaler ”is not
sufficiently novel to take well.
Sir Henry Parkes says that the quality
which ranks next to honesty and valour is fidelity.
To which we reply that he ought to know, for he
has received a lot of fidelity at various times in
THE ILLEGITIMATE DEFICIT.
MISS COCKY BURNS: “PLEASE, SIR, FORGIVE ME! MINE IS SUCH A
LITTLE ONE.”
the course of his career, and as he has returned
very little of it he must have the rest still in hand.
“ Cocky ” Burns says that a railway cannot
be built anywhere at North Shore without hitting
his property. It depends, perhaps, on who aims
the railway.
Daniel O’Connor Bays he has no sympathy
■with shutting up young men in factories. The
grief cf the poor youths is that they can’t get any
to be shut up in.
A Freetrade candidate says the Protec-
tionists are the gorillas of politics. Just so—jus
in the same way as the Freetrade orators are
the harangue outangs.
D. O'Connor alleges that “ the only reason
why Protectionists have any followers at all is
because people have got sick of bad Government.”
D'ye hear that, Parkes ?
It is said that, bub for the frantic per-
tinacity of Sir Saul Samuel, Agent-General for
N.S.W., the offer of the Soudan Contingent would
have been refused with derision.
The Jaynial Dan says that If West Sydney
does not like him it can “condemn him to a life
of private obscurity.” That would be better for
Daniel than his present public obscurity.
Certain fossils rejoicing in the names of
Smith, Henson, Ives, Wilkinson, Kethel, Chap-
man, &c., who graced the last Exhibition of
National Curiosities in Macquarie street, Sydney,
have decided this year to ?eek the obscurity from
which ttuy were dragged by the misguided zeal of
connoisseurs in antediluvian relics
In Freetrade N.S.W. ctffee is taxed at
GI. per lb., while in Protectionist Victoria the
impost is 31. per lb. Protection, at any rate,
means a cheapening of the breakfast-table.
The footballers plajing Australian rules
are supporting Mr. S. Burdekin for East Sydney.
Who the United Bottle Gatherers and the Rag
and Bone Club are going for has nob yet been
announced.
A Melbourne boy, 11 years of age, ran
away from home, one day last week, to be a mem-
ber of Parliament. Now that piracy is out of
practice the enterprising small boy could discover
no better field for his incipient villainy.
James M Keirow, for many years Sur-
veyor-General of N.Z., has been appointed Chief
Commissioner of Railways of that colony. The
other Commissioners are Messrs. Maxwell and
Hannay, the heads of the railways under the old
regime.
Dr. William Maloney, a bright, “white”
brainy gentleman, will stand as a candidate for
West Melbourne at the approaching Victorian
general election. Unless somebody greases the
poll there is every probability that the literary
doctor will land on top and bring an im-
proved tone into the next Assembly.
Mr. Ivea haa given an undertaking that
he will not seek re-election for Si. Leonards. And
St. Leonards has given an undertaking that it
isn’t any use for Mr Ives to come there again
whether he gives an undertaking or not. Between
the two, matters have, consequently, been under-
taken in a way that should satisfy both parties.
Sir Henry Atklnaon haa ever been good to
his political fiiends, and in giving the vacant
judges lap of New Zealand to Mr. Denniston, he
has simply proved his consistency. The choice
was, however, very rough on Judge Ward, who
had performed the duties of the position for several
years, and was considered to be the only probable
nominee.
When Eingnoae Wise aald in the N.S.W T .
Assembly, the other night, that his party had not
only to consider the interests of the commercial
crowd but also the interests of the working
classes, the House guffawed again. Pastor
Madgwick rising to consider the interests of the
Pope would have been tame and commonplace by
comparison.
The team now handled by Mr. Dlbbs la
the twenty-fifth Ministry N.S W. has seen since
the introduction of Responsible Government in
1856, and except for the debts they left behind
them the other 24 are only a memory. They lived
their lives, and then they went bung and died and
were buried and went to—ahem —oblivion, and
were forgotten.
The coming N.S.W. Parliament will be
the fourteenth since Responsible Government
was obtained in 1856, And when we consider
that Parkes has been on hand through most of the
other 13 we are almost tempted to atk if freedom
is all that it is cracked up to be after all, and if
an intelligent despotism hasn’t got certain points
to recommend it,
Ex Premier Parkes hoo's from bis cold
Opposit’on perch that the party which the Free-
traders have to fight is, at all times, noted for
libelling the fair name of the country by inventing
foul charges against honourable men . Even if
this w j re true, we don’t see that he has anything
to get very mad about. Time enough for him to
talk when he is attacked
According to Mr. Ewing, M.P., the list of
N.S. Wales manufactured articles on view at the
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition runs as fol-
lows : —Broom?, babies’ baths, barrow?, boome-
rangs, bu fleets, braces, perambulators, palings,
candy, cornshellers, cart wheels, feeding-bottles,
gates, honey, necklaces, nulla nuilas, screw-
wrenches, sausages, spears, spokes, straps, stamp-
ex tractors, fquashes, and statistics.
Whit has become of the Parkes Fund '!
A faint rumour is tottering about that cut cf
£lO,OOO advertised as collected only £6OOO are
e,dually available, and it is whispered that
clerks’ salaries, collectors, commission, cab hire,
postage stamps, printing, advertising, touting,
liquoring-up, stationery, and expenses generally
haya swallowed up the other two-fifths of the
amount handed in for the relief of the alleged
Grand Old Man. The Bulletin did not, from
motives of delicacy, subscribe, and may have no
right to cmi plain, but the subscribers have, and
an explanation ought to be given.
Dr. Oortis having “Innked ” over Bathurst,
the Foreign-traders are bringing cut as their re-
presentative, a local saddler, Mr. William Henry
Paul, who has been for ages their underground
engineer in election matters. For years he was a
supporter of Frank Suttor, until the latter joined
the Ministry headed by that arch-holy-Romar,
Sir Patrick Jennings, when Mr, Paul, being the
head (and tai 1 ) of the Orangemen of the West,
fait it necessary to wash his hands cf the unclean
thing. He has kept himself pure yellow and un-
defiled ever sines, and the vote of the Orange Pup
will probably go solid at Bathurst.
N.S.W. Parliamentary amenities. Mr.
Haynes; “ After the vote of Friday morning a
member said tj me, ‘Did you see how uho
Mickle? were on our side.’” Mr. Slattery ; ‘’ You
were a Micky yourself only you changed your
coat.” Just here Mr. M'Elhone, as the custodian
of the dignity of the House, rises to order, and in-
dignantly asks : “ What is the meaning of this
word ‘ Micky ’ just used by that mean, cowardly
skunk ? I’m a ‘ Micky ’ myself, and by th’ holy
.” Mr. Speaker : “Order! These references
to religion must not go on, I name the hon.
member, Mr. M'Elhone, member for the Upper
Hunter, as interfering with the conduct of this
House.” Mr. M‘Bihone :“ I apologise, Mr.
Speaker, I apologise ; hut 111 spit in his eye when
I get him outside.”
Mr. Jacob Garrard says he is a Freetrader
who wants all the Government money spent in
the colony—if P«rkes will allow it—and another
Freetrader named Clubb planks his sentiment that
not even a rivet for a N.S.W. locomotive must be
made in a foreign-country- Somehow the ques-
tion seems to arise here—if the Freetraders are
forced to accept Protectionist views to save their
seats what does it profit a man to be a Freetrader
anyhow, and if the men who call themselves Free-
traders try to get in by promising to vote the
Protectionist ticket, and it thus appears that the
Protectionist ticket is to be voted in the House,
no matter which side gets in, would it not be as
well to have the said ticket voted by Protectionists
who believe in it, instead of by bogus Freetraders
who say they don’t ?
This la how “Tay Pay ” O'Connor tells off
the Times Commission in an American paper
‘ The careful packing of the Court becomes more
evident every day. Justice Day’s bitter Toryism
occasionally flashes forth in spite of his
laborious training for impassivity. Justice Smith
is a gool-natured and well-intentioned man,
the embodiment of well-fed and narrow minded
Jdritish Bourgebis. His utter ignorance concern-
ing Ireland constituted the chief cause of reliance
upon the impartiality of the president, Sir J ames
Hannen. But he is also a week reed. He is a
strong Unionist personally, and, indeed, all three
judges are credited as having expressed opinions
bitterly unjust to the Irish members within a very
short period of their appointment as Commis-
sioners. All these facts make Mr. Parnell’s
counsel apprehend an unfavourable judgment."
SONG OF THE POLITICIAN.
Oh, the streams will flow with honey,
If our side wins,
And the trees will sprout with money,
If our eide wins,
And a gay, full-dressed millennium
Will come on the proscenium,
And fate ring up the curtain,
If our side wins !
Ob, we’ll live on luscious manna,
If our side wing,
While the angels sing hosanna,
If our side wins,
And a reign of general charity
And uncontrolled hilarity
Shall dominate the planet
If our side wins.


THE POLITICAL SITUATIO


IN NEW SOUTH WALES.


SWEET BOROMIA, the New Perfume. Mann
factored from th West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold Everywhere. Price, Ba. 6d.,
53, and 10s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS liONQMOR®, 188 Bourkest., Bast,
—BltW,
Th* 1884 Vintage is one of the best of this century
Moet and Chandon are now shipping their “ Finest Extre
Quality ” Champagne of that year (with 1884 branded on
oork and label), styled “ Dry—lmperial." It is very drv
and is the produce of their own vineyard of 2600 acres of
the beet growths Id France Of all Wine Merchant*
The grandeur of ssenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’a Beaoonafield House Hotel la equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea level
N B —On’f two horn** (»<i* Mnlton’M
Secured
Hooking's,
PERFECT HEALTH!
y drinking reliable Old Wines from
10 (ieorsffl Street, near King Street.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1858.
THE LEADING HOUSE
. TOB
Pianos. Organs, ■uslo,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS,
Special attention Is called to the
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS!
UEBBL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Oar Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
°”«Wg. PIANO - wl “ oh , “ mo ' b »«
BSTEY ORGANS. BSTEY ORGANS,
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Ester
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that m
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-calledf
cheap ) Organs now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone wort
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF*
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
W. N. PAUNC ft GO-, U
856 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.OV
Society
Tiie basted insolvent who now files his
schedule on a thousand hills in Otago (N.Z ) has
a rough time of it and is treated like one of the
lower animals. For instancs, a few days ago Mr.
Stout, of Dunedin, clerk, lodged a document
stating that he had gone where the woodbine
twineth, at tha meeting of creditors which
ensued Mr. Kimbell, a gentleman who wanted his
money, rose and used metaphors and figures of
speech and hyperbole and other things, with
great fluency. Then Mr. Stout called him a
skunk, and Mr. Kimbell’s fiat was stopped by
Mr. Stout’s noee Kimbsll afterwards explained
that he knew it was impossible to get blood out of
a stone, and that having realised this fact, he had
resolved to see if he could get it out of Stout’s
nasal organ instead. Tae result, he argued,
proved that he was correct in assuming that the
human organ of scent was the correct place to go
for gore, and that any man who preferred to look
for that fluid in a boulder was on the wrong track
and was taking flight into the features of Provi-
dence. The meeting then passed a resolution to
the effect that they had had a high old time and
wouldn’t have missed it for a dividend of 15s. in
the £, and this public act being accomplished,
the creditors separated and the insolvent was left
in a pensive attitude with his proboscis in a sling.
* * *
“Zidkiel,” the British prophetic lunatic
who publishes annually a wonderful almanac
filled with events that never happen and circum-
stances that don’t arise, announces, in his un-
bosoming for 1889, that the Prince of Wales “had
better keep out of dangerous places in July.” We
consider this good advice, and we would also urge
the heir-apparent not to fall downstairs in August,
or to be overtaken by an alligator in the middle of
the first week in September, these being
especially dangerous months to fall downstairs and
to be overtaken by an alligator respectively.
Among “ Zadkiel’s ” other predictions it is notified
that unless King Humbert of Italy keeps his
weather eye lifting he may be wounded in the
neck during the year, and we trust that his
Majesty will attend to this warning. At the
same time we would point out that Humbert had
better direct an occasional glance at the rest of his
anatomy lest while watching his neck he should
fa'l down on a broken bottle, in which case morti-
fication might set in. European monarchs can
hardly be too careful in this weather.
* * *
F “ Tummy ” ia no shot though he is very
fond of shooting. During his recent bear-hunting
expedition in Hungary he did not bag a single
bear; consequently toe universal nontenant for
British royalty has extended even to the Hunga-
rian bruin. The Prince, however, is, we learn, a
dab hand at skittles, and when he can lure an
astonished potentate on to that game ha always
beats him easily.
* * *
Every precedent has been up ended by a
young man at St. Kilda, Melbourne, who has got
into trouble through kicking his sweetheart’s
father. We suppose the old man sat up when he
ought to have been in bed.
- • •
A tailor committed suicide at Geelong
(Vic ), about a fortnight ago, under peculiar cir-
cumstances. His body was found in the river,
his arms were tied, and his throat was cut from
ear to ear. Tae police have found a pool of blood
at some distance from the shore, and, after view-
ing this in all its aspects, they are inclined to be-
lieve that the deceased first cut his throat, and
then lay out all night weighing the situation;
after which he walked to' the water’s edge, tied
his hands, cut his throat again, and threw himself
into the river. It does not seem to have occurred
to the zealous and efficient officer in change that
the deceased may first have got into the river and
drowned himself, and then crawled out and cut
his throat, and finally jumped into the water
again, and tied his hands in case he might want to
swim out, and cut his throat some more. It is
also confidently stated that nobody could possibly
have had any interest in putting the victim away
—a theory which seems to be glaringly impro-
bable when we remember that he was a tailor.
• • •
The Sydney Echo has published a yarn
written for the New York Graphic, which
severely criticises the reigning Queens of Yurrup.
Her “grayshoes” Majesty is alluded to in the
following delicate and pathetic manner : “If one
did not know that the Queen of England was
Queen, one might be excused for taking her for the
landlady of one of the old fashioned hostelries who
samples her drinks often, for her face is sodden
and almost purple, her eyes bleary, and her hands
red and bloated. She always wears black mourn-
ing garments, and shoes of enormous size, and has
an unpleasant moping voice.” This is a blow to
our “loyalty *’ from an unexpected quarter. The
Herald's censor must have gone on a holiday and
left an Anarchist in charge.
* * «
The gentleman named Walpole who ia
alleged to have relieved his unwholesome soul by
abducting a German governess from Constanti-
nople, and then leaving the unhappy girl in the
lurch, according to the traditional fashion of the
old nobility, appears to be a genuine son of one of
the good old families of England. The present
Earl of Orford, to whose hereditary glories Mr.
Walpole will succeed if he lives long enough, also
amused himself in the same harmless way in the
days of his giddy youth :
That ill-regulated nobleman carried off the wife of the
last Duke of Newcastle but one, when his Grace was Earl
of Lincoln Mr. G.adstone was the colleague, friend, and
trustee of the injured lord, and he took upon himself to
follow the guilty oouplsover Europe with a view of ob-
taining evidence which would enable his friend to obtain
a divorce. la one of the smaller German principalities
Lord Orford, finding Mr. Gladstone's attentions rather
troublesome, consulted a local lawyer as to how he could
get rid of them, and the local lawyer advised him that if
he would prefer a claim for debt against Mr. Gladstone,
the latter would be at once locked up until he paid or
proved conclusively to the highest Court in the princi-
pality that he did not owe the money. Lord Orford was
much pleased with the idea, which he at once adopted—
poor Mr. Gladstone lying in durance vile for two or three
days until the lovers were well out of kea, when orders
were sent by Lord Orford to withdraw the charge against
him. The part which Mr. Gladstone took in the Lincoln
Orford divorce case was often thrown in his teeth, when,
in 1857, he was opposing, tooth and nail, Lord Westbury’s
bill for cheapening and popularising the process of
divoros.
* * #
Tima the Hawk :
A correspondent, who was with the Princs of Wales
at Homburg, tells ms that the waters had very Untie
effaot Indeed upon the corpulency of the Rsyal patient.
Who ever thought thsy would when the Prince continues
to eot so recklessly and so mueh 1 Night, too, seems to
bring with it no palliative for the Royal appetite, for at
Cowes, this summer, two chefs, a Frenchman and an
Italian, were specialty attached to the Prince’s yacht for
the sole purpose of providing heavy meals for the Heir
Apparent and his friends at two o'clock in the morning.
A Mr. Spring and a Mias Gnnyon were
married in Richmond, Melbourne, one day last
week. Spring-Gunyon ! Humph ! Onion is
strength,
* * *
According to a New York journalist, there
is a certain amount of the bogus element about
the alleged craving for American heiresses in
Riirope _ Now and then, it is true, a genuine de-
mand arises, but there are dull seasons in between
when the Russian princs with his palace in the
Caucasus doesn't come along to lay his iceberg at
the feet of the pork-millioaaire’s daughter, and
the Italian Duke hangs back in the porphyry and
malachite balls of his ancestors, and the small
German monarch maintains a reticent attitude on
the three-legged wooden throne of his fathers, and
then little notices like this are inserted in the
press in order to prod the old nobility into re-
newed activity :
“Miss Parnellina M. Macdynamite, of 999 East 555 h-
street, presents her compliments to the editor of the New
York Stabbsr, and authorises him to contradict the
current rumours that she has condescended to accept the
A MORAL THAT DIDN’T “COME OFF.”
ANXIOUSMAMMA (with a view to impressing her son with the dangers of harbour
bathing): "SEE HERE, TOMMY, I HAVE JUST BEEN READING AN
ACCOUNT OF A BIG SHARK CAUGHT YESTERDAY, AND ON
OPENING IT THEY FOUND A WATCH, A HAT, AND A PAIT OF
BOOTS THAT HAD BELONGED TO A MAN."
TOM: "WELL, MAMMA, BUT HOW DID THE MAN ESCAPE?"
Duke of Portland. She will have nothing to do with the
man, and has told him so repeatedly. This amounts to
persecution." Or in the agony column of a dany—“lf
the Duke cf Norfolk continues to assert that he is engaged
• Bister Seraphita, I shall be unwi.lingly compelled to
institute legal proceedings. Quantum sufl. (Signed)
Peleg. Q. Depew.” ' 6 '
* * #
No picture In all Melbourne Exhibition
appears to please the general uncultivated push
better than “Comrades in Adversity” an un-
pretentious item of the Victorian Loan Collection,
There isn t much loftiness of conception about G.
K, Ashton’s picture. The colouring* is not
gracious ” —[Good Gracious! Ed. Bulletin]— and
the technque (the blessed technique) is not marked
by a certain sustained something with a foreign
name. But the picture gets there all the same
because it represents a human loafer leaning
against a lamp-past, with a possible dawg waiting
patiently for its master’s k : ck. So it happens that
the goddesses of a bygone age are passed without
a word of recognition by people who can judge the
points of a dead-beat and find a real touch of
nature in his hungry pup. Such things are for all
time and everybody has seem ’em. Classic
subjects, on the other hand, subject the popular
imagination to a strain which it can’t stand.
• • •
Somebody Is saying that Mr. Fred Cowen
will be given in marriage to Miss Benjamin,
daughter of the Mayor of Melbourne, in which
case the genius ought to revert to the original
family name of Cohen upon his nuptial day.
Cohen ! Cowen ! Goae !
“ * *
The piety of Holy Adelaide has discovered
a solemn warning in the conflagration of Miss
M Shane, a barmaid. This unhappy nymph was
heating her curling tongs at a spirit lamp, when
the lamp fell down and the blazing oil, &c.,
brought about results as usual. The accident is
generally regarded (in redeemed circles) as a judg-
ment upon poor Miss M‘Shane for endeavouring
to make her head look more beautiful than ever,
with a view to luring young men on to destruc-
tion, both of the liver and the soul.
Something must be done to the atone steps
of Parliament House, Melbourne, otherwise the
good old school of Victorian senators will soon be
violently wiped out of the existing social system,
to the deep regret of all who do not know them.
The designer of those steps seems to have set ’en
up on strict temperance principles, without a
thought for late sittings or the perils attendant
upon nightly chases of the old White Hart. Even
the landing stages en route are too narrow to give
the rolling carcase of an excited politician half a
chance to be arrested in its mad career downstairs.
One false move and the toiling ML A, will
probably topple into the Better Land groan-
ing “ God save the Queen ” with his last
breath. It was but the other day that Tom Bent
came to considerable grief because he forgot to
mind the step, as a man in his position always
should. Yet nothing has been done to ameliorate
the conditions under which a member enters or
leaves the huge political club, and The Bulletin
begs to predict a gory catastrophe at no distant
date. As matters stand the Victorian M.L.A.
may be said to carry his life in his legs.
. * *
la connection with the proposed “Govern-
ment orchestra,” in Melbourne, an indignant
taxpayer writes to tne Age protesting against
“ classic d” fiddling being charged on the Esti-
mates. Taxpayer feelingly points out that it will
be time enough for the Government to ask him to
support symphonies when he asks the Government
to subsidise the Gaiety crowd. Quite so. If the
State is to foster and support any form of popular
amusement, then let it, 0 ! let it be legs.
• * *
She was a stranger In Melbourne, and had
the misfortune to lose the run of her husband in
the Exhibition hurly-burly. Perhaps she put him
down somewhere and another lady snatched him
up in mistake for her own ; anyhow, when she
wanted some money the wretched man had dis-
appeared, and was no longer there. So she
wandered forth into the cold world to find a
policeman who would direct her to the Grand
Hotel. Past London experience pointed to a
policeman as the safest male creature to trust
under such distressing circumstances, and she ap-
plied to a member of the foorce for the informa-
tion required. Her sweet London smile went
straight to Robert’s heart. He looked at the fair
stranger, and made answer : “Well, the place
yez looking for is just up the strate and ye can’t
miss it at all. But shure if I was a plain clothes
constable I’d conduct ye every stip o’ the way
meeself.” She was extremely angry for the
moment. As she walked along her anger mel-
lowed into mere vexation. She reached the hotel
feeling almost sorry that the ridiculous creature
was not in plain clothes. And she now considers
that Melbourne policemen are rather forward
perhaps but very intelligent and good hearted.
• • •
It la said that a certain would-ba toney
club in Sydney is worked somewhat on the co-
operative principle. One member supplies the
vegetables and fruit, another the poultry and pigs,
another the beef and mutton, another the flowers
and honey, another the butter and milk, while the
egg and chicken member carts away all the
kitchen refuse. Certain members, not yet profes-
sionally connected with the institution, are study-
ing hard in order to qualify themselves for the
offices of cook, steward, boots, and barman. Oae
marked benefit attends this system, in that the
members, as a rule, are too ‘ 1 cultchawed ” to
growl at the “ tucker ” whilst its purveyors are
sitting cheek by jowl with them,
* * •
The veracious cable mentions that the
Russians have founded a colony on the Red Sea.
Let us see—childhood’s years—at our mother’s
knee—Joseph and his brethren—ah. yes, we re-
member now, a gentleman named Pharaoh once
started a colony in the Red Sea, and too much
Preetrade or too much irrigation or something of
the sort boosted his colony cub of existence and
cau ed a big wave of depression. We remember it
all now —Moses of the firm of Moses, Aaron and
Co , was the official liquidator.
* • •
Here he ia again, as hunky as ever. Wil-
liam Hutton, a rather elderly man —he confessed
to being 103 years of age—died a few days ago in the
George-street Asvlum, Parramatta. He struck
Sydney soil in 1821, and in 1837 he received an
old soldier’s grant of land, consisting of the whole
°f Hyde Park, but having a horror of the woes of
wealth he never troubled to take his grant up.
There is a fine “old soldier” ring about that
story which gives an air of truth to the assertion
that William once belonged to the 3rd Buffs, and
we need scarcely add that he fought at Waterlod
with Wellington, We can even believe that he
was with Nelson aLo at the Nile, but there is
some uncertainty about the story of his having
also served with Joshua at Jericho. Such heroes
are immortal.
♦ • •
First Swell : “Where are you going?”
Second Swell: “To the funeral of my tailor. He
died yesterday.” First Swell: “Of what?”
Second Swell: “I paid him my bill in full.”
First Swell : “ You are a murderer ! ”
’• * •
Young wife : “Before we were married,
Oeorge, you never smoked in my presence.”
i ouag husband : “ I know it, my dear, and you
never wore curl-papers in mine,”
John Craupand's Little Game.
The French papers report that a poor fellow has
been living comfortably in one c f the asylums for
i j 6ars ’ that he has bean turned out on the
cold world to begin afresh. He says to bystanders
who ask the cause of his tears, “Mon Dieu, I
never heard of such a thing,” and passes on with a
groan. He had pretended all that time to be deaf
and dumb
John looked abroad in early youth
And saw a world of strife,
And asked : Am I this way to spend
This precious gift of life ?
Am I to sling the cumbrous sledge
From dawn to evening shade,
Or crumple up these tender hands
With mattock and with spade ?
Shall I for blouse and hob-nailed boo 1 : 0 ,
Soup maigre and black bread,
Or per hap 3 a German bullet, toil?
I might as well be dead.
Ah ! no, farewell, beloved speech,
Tongue of my sires, farewell
larewell all sounds, from whispered Lva
To clangorous fire-bell,
Tha priest was called and neighbeu s flecked
To view the wretched youth,
He only shook his deafened ears
And pointed to his meuth.
To many a holy shrine his friends
From Calais shrine to Nismes,
Conducted him and to the sunts,
Shelled out their last centime.
In vain St. Bridget, St. Cecile,
And Saint Bartholomew
They subsidised; they only found
The saints no cure could do.
For twelve long years this crafty youth
I ree board and lodging got,
And though the doctors bored his ears,
A single sound heard not.
But now, alas ! his time was come,
And he fell into love’s snare;
The matron’s daughter, Madeline,
For him seemed all too fair.
And by dumb signs, not of the thumbs,
Bat of her radiant eyes,
She ogled back the sweet assent
And had the sweet surprise
To find him hear and speak as well
As any other man.
And they resolved to wed—each strove
To hit upon a plan
J°hn, the foolish man
Who ne’er confessed at all,
Forgot there still was such a thing
Asa confessional,
Forjrot, ako, that holy priests,
Who save this sinful race,
Like Abelard with Eloise
Might like a pretty faca.
’Twas never known how the trustees
i he little game found out;
But he was scruffed when Father Ab.
Cried, “ That’s him j fir© him out.’*


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-wiiith
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age,
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence Intended
lor this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co ,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, Jan. 30 th, 1880.
Dear Moorabinda,—
A lady—or something that writes a wild angular fist—
sends me three huge pages of foolscap about the wedding
of an ex-tailor and a rustic maiden at Qerringong(N.S.W.),
but as she puts in everything except the names of the
parties chit fly concerned the account assumes a distress-
ingly vague and unsatisfactory character. The one fact
at which it is possible to clutah with any certainty is that
an itnmenss crowd was admitted to the church, and when
everybody bad got there the ceremony was peiformed in
the vestry and noboly saw it. The bridegroom, it is also
reported, presented the male guests with a pair of No. 9
white kid glove s apiece, which reads like a low, mean,
underhand way of suggesting that their paws re-embled
a row of hams. A bottle of oysters was conspicuous
among the preeents which graced the occasion.
The Lochs are going. Dear old Sir Henry has bowed to
the dictates of an inscrutable Providence and packed his
trunk with an air of subdued resignation, and Lady Loch
has got the customary 11 trunks and 17 carpet-bags which
constitute the regulation impedimenta of a travelling
female, and they are both about to b'd the colony a long,
gad, tearful farewell, and take a hcliday. And, oh ! how
Melbourne will miss the dusty, smond-band, third-rate
garden parties, and the thin lemonade, and the old, saw-
dusty, gritty sandwiches, and the dismal Bath-buns of
the pleasant days of old.
- Strenuous efforts—which only halt at putting their
hands in their own pockets—have been mads by the local
tuft hunters to arouse Wellington (N.Z ) enthusiasm re-
garding the reception of Admiral Fairfax aid his squad-
ron in Wellirgton water?. The oitizsns do not, however,
to quote one of Tern’s honid Muikin vulgarisms, “ eu-
thooss worth a cuss,’' At a spars fly attended public
meeting, the Mayor, a Caledonian gentleman in the
fender and fire-iron business, deplored the fact that there
would be no ball owing t s the extraordinary apathy mani-
fested. Truth is, though the Wellington girls are fond
enough of the cloth, they find ths uniform of the Unioij
S.S. Co. sati fi-:s their yearnings for blue and gold, whill
the effisers of that mereauti'e marine carry less side than
ths gaudy, high-toned young stokers of H.M. fleet.
I have been looking over some old_ letters and cannot
resist giving this extract: —“ Sydney, December 2nd,
£874—’We had the pleasure last Sunday afternoon of
teeing Thakombau, ex-King of Fiji, arrive. He is such a
c;mical-looking old fellow, and his costume would excite
imrth in the breast of a Wesleyan minister even. Try to
imagine one of the Emerson micstrels dressed in a white
shirt and a brownish-coloured skirt, looking more like a
sheepskin than anything else. This was kept on by
numerous folds of some yellow material bound round the
waist. 11 3 is perfectly black, but has an abundant head
of hair perfectly white. On his feet he wore his own
skin, nothing more, and in his hand he held an epara-
glass. You can imagine the ludicrous effect to see him
viewing the scenery through the glass, with Lis bare,
black extremities perched on a chair in front of him. I
couldn’t help thinking of old Bob Ridley every time I
looked at his Majesty. You could not get along at the
- Post-effioe on Monday on account of the crowd waiting
for a glimpse of him coming out.”
Lord Carington, the Hoo. Rupert, and “ E.W.” at-
tended a performance of “ Lost in L-nfon ” at the Royal
Standard on Tuesday last. The Rough Diamond Amateur
Dramatic Company was I'. sponeib’e for the production,
which, as an unintentional comic effort, was far ahead of
anything I have yet witnessed. Toe make up of the
amateurs beggars description and their acting was
beyond burlesque In the final scene the yourg lady who
played Nellie (who dies ii Job Armroyd’s arms) made
such a desperate rush at her husband that both of them
came down with a crash, Nellie showing rather more of
her—ahem—shoes than was necessary, at which the vice-
regal party blushed cor siderably. A fussy little indivi-
dual who bad eometliug to do with the performance
came and ordered me (!) before I had been two minutes
In my seat (in the stalls) to remove my mi oh adored hat,
which, reluc'antly, I did.
There was a quite stylish wedding at Wellington (N Z.)
recently and the local papers devoted much spice tc the
affair, describing the wedding presents, the dresses of the!
bridesmaids, and really gushing over the elegant manner
In which those young ladies’ hair was dressed. THs,
though net intentional, was tad - form, for the brolher ic-
law of the bride is a—ahem I—a tensorial hartist and tobac-
conist, and the blushing bride herself had been in the
habit of selling the festive plug and receiving the moneys
la payment for shaves and haircuts. Cons;quentiy it
seemed as if the wedding had been organised as a puff for
the hairdressing business, anl tauu s.rt of thing is de-
pressing to a refined stub
I saw a feather fan the other eveiing with the owner’s
initials formed with green-gold beetles.
This is the very lataat in the way of homa decorat’on.
The other day Mary put a gin-bottle in the dust-bin, and
a little later her mistress saw it and fished it out, and it
now figures in the drawing room painted with gold paint,
and a pretty group of flowers on each side, finished off
with several loops of ruby satin ribbon at ihe neck. Is
there anything under tte sun right down to a pair of
crutches and a shoe worn cut at the bed that won’t be
used for decoration before the present orazs dies out ?
At an insurant clerks’ picnic in Auckland, ihe other
day, a tug-of-war between married and unmarried women
was arranged. Some wag is believed to have done some-
thing to the rope in the centre, for when the strain was
applied the rope broke and such a display of well,
shoes, has not been seen since the last salvage sa’e. *
Those pretty, full sleeves, plaited in at the shoulder,
are still very fashionable. - -
Lfiy of the valley is thejavourite flower lor hats just
row.
“My dea’r Miss Saaitb, —I have read, in the rounds of
various papers, ‘ CuriouS Wedding Customs in Brittany,’
‘ old Matrimonial Ceremonies,’ etc. Now, I have come
across a nr. dern anti- matrimonial action. About the time
that you and I plighted our troth (mine to whisky and
yours to the world of fashion) a young lady in Glasgow
gave her Jersey lover his conge in a cup of coff re, arid is
now ‘dreeing her weary weird’ under the ban of ‘net
proven.’ This was, (o my mind, a strong (too strong)
measure, even when the old love was a dry-goods clerk
and the new one a baronet. She has now got neither,
but, on the contrary, an Anglican parson and a big family.
Near Howlong (O Lord 1 how long ?) when a girl wishes to
signify that her engagement is at an end she throws her
tea in her chaps face and tells the horse and jewellery
he has given her. I don’t deem it a polite way, but it is
emphatic, and does not entail Louise Collinting. How
c ifferent in Andalusia, or even in hybrid Gibraltar, where
a motion of tbe fan means “Go to —my word, how hot it
is al Howlcng!’ —Yours bacly fly-bitten, Scotty the
Wrinklbr.”
I know, dear, that women as a rule don't take much
notice of what that horrid old frump “Oaida” says
about them—though she does write such delightfully
naughty books, but I cannot forbear quoting seme re-
marks she recently made on the subject of dress. They
are, I think, chock-full of wisdom: —“However frivolous
it may sound, I would sooner have women develop
their physical than their mental attractions. -An ill-
drested woman, be she learned as all the ologics and all
the tciejces can make her, is an unsexed and unlovely
thing. No w Oman can have herself born beautiful, but
every weman may attain a certain beauty if she knows
how to move and how to dross. Beyond all, fitness is the
supreme necessity in all good clothes. The fisherwoman
of the Sables d’Olonne, or the peasant woman of a Norman
market-place, is well dressed because she has studied
suitability as well as colouring ; ths London slattern, with
her fl»untiag bonnet and slippe;s down at heel, or the
Sheffield factory girl, with her dingy artificial flowers
and draggled ostrich feathers, is a blot on civilisation and
a caricature of her sex.”
Auckland possesses a lady whose career affords a re-
markable examplifleation of colonial ups and downs.
tf*** Q
THE COLOURED LABOUR QUESTION.
AMERICAN SEAMAN No. 1 (Negro): “AFTER DE CHINEMEN, I GUESS DEM BLACK-
FELLOWS HAS TO GO OFF DE SHIPS.”
A. S. No. 2: “AND A VERY GOOD DING TOO, WE EUROPEANS A INT GOT NO
SHOW AT ALL.”
Twenty years ago she was an hotel slavey; 10 years later she
was spending at the rate of £5OOO a year, and entertain*
ing vioe-rcyalty to boot; and to day she finds employment
as a nee lie- woman. Such is life.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The English footballers, durirg their late
colonial tour, travelled 90,000 mile?*
The Orange Pap seems to be in a bad way
just now in Sydney. Lecturers Tessie Chapman
had to make her nasty remarks about the poor
Pope to a beggarly array of empty benches. '
The Qaeenslard Government geologist
says that the Mount Morgan Company’s stone is
said to yield about 7oz per ton. With the pre-
sent plant 1500 tons are manipulated weekly.
Fielding, the novelist, author of “Tom
Jones ” and other tales characteristic of the man-
ners of the last century, left it as his own deliber-;
ate opinion that a libeller should lose both his
ears.
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos of the ‘ Panama
Canal difficulty ” the following extract may be
worthy of notice. It is taken from “ Tom
Cringle’s Log,” a novel written by Michael Scott,
a sailor, in the year 1830. The novel is regarded as
(to a great extent) the author’s personal history—
and the portion from which it is taken describes a
journey to Panama. It is, I think, rendered more
interesting by having been written 50 years
before the canal was projected. He speaks as
follows i
I should think, judging from my barometer—but I may
have made an inaccurate calculation, and 1 have not
Humboldt by me—that the ridge of the highest pari of
the road is 1500 feet above the level of the ocean, so that
it would be next to Impossible to join the two seas at this
point by a canal with water in it.f However, I expect to
see a Joint Stock Company eetagoing some fine day yet,
for the purpose of cutting it—that is, when the national
Capital next accumulates (and Lord knows when that will
ba) to a plethora, and people’s purses bee :me so distended
that they require bleeding.
The Queensland police are agitating to
have the cadet system ended and the offices of
sub-inspector and inspector filled from the ranks.
The Queensland police are right. The constable
who has no hope of promotion and therefore no
means of making money save out of his “ bate ” is
more dangerous than a grizzly bear.
Captions from the N.Y. Herald :
LOVELY LIZZIE S HUGS.
They Weaned H*r Brother-
in-Law from the Path of
Duty.
SHE SAT ON HIS LAP—
YUM 1 YUM 1
LOVELY LENA'S LUCK.
A Timi ly Draught of Wind
Through Her Father’s
Whiskers.
SHE WOULD ELOPE—HA!
HA!
“Go from home to hear news.” Saya a
London paper:
Mr. Froude shares with Captain Boycott the distinc-
tion of having added another word to the English voca-
bulary. Oar Australian brethren have the word “ Ftouda
cious ” circulating amongst them. It is employed to
characterise a statement which is not altogether in con-
sonance with hard facts. So thoroughly has it passed
into common use that now it is spelt with a small “ f.”
“A froudacious lie” is excellent, but we have
never heard of it before. “ O wdacious ”is the
usual Australian adjective.
Quite lately Salisbury ennobled a faithful
Tory named Sir James M'Garel Hogg, the title of
the new peer being Lord Magheramorne. Shortly
after his creation he went to dine at the house of
an old friend, where he was very well known
under his old name, but he announced himself to
Jeames as “ Lord Magheramorne.” “ Lord
what?” said the startled domestic. “Lord
Magheramorne,” raid he, with emphasis. Jeames
shook his head. He did not venture to make a
second inquiry, but despaired of attempting to
render the uncouth collection of gutturals. What
was he to do ? The visitor was advancing to the
drawing-room. Jeames hentated a moment, then
boldly flung open the do:r and proclaimed, to the
consternation of every one, “ The late Sir James
Hogg I”
An article on “ Child Torfure ” in “ Gool
Words ” from the penof the Rev Ben. Waugh com-
piled from the records of the Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Children, contains some
sickening disclosures. In many cases the lives of
children are insured by the fairly well to-do, tone-
times church-going parents, and then the helpless
unfortunates are simply done to death for the sake
of the blood-money—inmost cases a very paltry
amount. Starvation coupled with exposure to in-
clement weather without clothing, overwork and
severe beating, are among the methods used. The
records of infanticide from “heathen” India con-
tain nothing so blood*curdling as this fearful
indictment of Christian England-
The parsons prayed so hard for rain,
They caused a flood at Castlemaine.
And now that town, there’s little doubt,
Would rather it had kept the drought.
Next time the parsons pray for rain
Our wants exact they must explain ;
And (this, we think, the matter clinches)
Send orders for the stuff —in inches.
Cathartics.
Many people, and rightly too in many instance,
believe that the use of cathartics is harmful, and
that if once commenced they must always be
continued. Such are not the facts however, so
far as Warner’s safe pills are concerned. They
are very gentle in action, do not gripe, are entirely
vegetable, and can be taken without discomfort,
being sugar-coated. These pills are especially
prepared to act in conjunction with Warner’s sa f e
cure and other safe remedies, and other pills will
not answer as well. In r cathartics might
entirely neutralize the good effects of the liquid
safe remedies. , As toon as Warner’s safe cure and
safe pills have removed the waste matter from the
blood, and restored the kidneys and liver to
natural action, nature will supply the needed
cathartic, bile, in sufficient snd the use
of the pills can be discon tinned. Unless the
bowels move at least once a day nature should he
aided by the safe pills, as without the constant
action of the liver in a hot climate ill health must
soon result. Many evil effects fcl’ow constipat on,
such as piles, headache, giddiness, rush of blood
to the head, ete , all indicating that the blo'd is
being poisoned with waste matter. Messrs. War-
ner & Co. have thousands of testimonies from
ladies and gentlemen stating the great good they
have derived from the use of Warner’s safe pills.
They are especially adapted to women, and
universally used by them. Be sure and get the
genuine which always bear a picture of an iron
safe on the outside of the wrapper. ■ This caution
is not amiss when purchasing any of Warner’s
safe remedies—always look for the trade-mark, a
picture of an iron safe on the wrapper.
G ENERAL ELECTIONS,
W. G. CAMERONS ADDRESS
to the
ELECTORS OF CANTERBURY.
Gentlemen, —In response to many kin I and
generous entreaties made on behalf of the electors
of Canterbury to allow myself to be nominated as
a candidate for cne of the vacant stats in your
important electorate, it is with regret that I have
to decline your spontaneous offers of assistance
and support.
I am thoroughly convinced that my entrance
into Parliament as one of your representatives
could be secured, provided I were to continue on
the same lines which I advocated with so much
success at the last general election, when I was
honoured with the confidence of between two and
three thousand electors. I now refuse to sail under
false colours. I decline to betray the principles
which I now hold to be tine fcr the sake of
obtaining a seat in Parliament.
I began life as a Freetrader, but my views are
slightly modified in regard to our fiscal system,
and have undergone a charge in the direction of
a judicious encouragement to local industries as
against the unrestricted flooding of our market
with the surplus productions of other countries.
Holding these views, I cannot consistently
follow the same course which I did at the last
election.
Oar tariff presents many anomalies ; although
ostensibly a FrCetrade tariff it cannot fail to pre-
sent umurmountable difficulties to consistent
Freetraders—and the policy put in practice in re-
gard to the manufacture of 50 locomotives shows
clearly that Freetrade pnnciples are cither im-
perfectly understood, o. 1 are of secondary con-
sideration, and expediency takes the place of prin-
cip’e where the cost of the colonial made article
exceeded the cost of the imported article by the
com i ierahle sum of about £50,000, this amount
thus paid for the colonial-made article in strict
Freetrade principles would have been saved, and
rendered available for o.her reproductive employ-
ment.
What I desire to briefly point out is this —If it
is a wise policy to encourage the Iccal manufac-
) ture of locomotives to the tune of over twenty per
r centum, it cannot, I affirm, be shown to be an un-
f wise policy to likewise protect other local manu-
factures to aiimilar extent—industries which at
the present time are languishing and stagnant.
Why retain the duties on ham, cheese, butter,
biscuits, rice, oils, varnish, and many other com-
modities upon which duties are still collected, in
some instances to the detriment of the local manu-
facturer, and still claim to have adopted a Free-
trade policy ? Why, it may be asked in all fair-
ness, exclude o; her agricultural products and
manufactures from the protection thus afforded by
the Freetraders’tariff ?
“ Commercial Freedom,” as expounded by Mr.
Henry George on the one hand, and a host of
political economists, does not exist, and, as far as
I know, never has existed ; and yet their teaching
is appealed to and accepted, but, so far, has never
been acted upon in any country in the world.
My belief is that it never can be, yet Mr Henry
George asserts, with powers peculiarly his own,
that his principles are not only practicable, but
will accomplish the emancipation of the labouring
class from the many economic wrongs which afflict
society by a system cf land nationalisation. He
is a corfsistent Freetrader, and a man of broad
sympathies extending to all people.
My views in regard to other questions remain
unaloered. lam opposed on principle to Payment
of Members of Parliament I have a small esti-
mate of the patriotism which requires this incen-
tive to serve the people in the Parliament of the
country.
I am still a believer in the urgent necessity
which exists for the immediate construction of the
city railway.
i am convinced that the Federation of the Aus-
tralian colonies can never be accomplished without
a uniform Castoms union, and intercolonial Free-
trade.
I am in favour of an Elective Upper House,
and am opposed to the scandalous proposal to
grant ex-members of Parliament free passes on
our railways.
I consider it highly desirable to establish a
National Bank Such an institution would, I feel
sure, prove of lasting benefit to the country.
The conditions of the country demand an Act
for the better protection of builders and contrac-
tors against unscrupulous and dishonest specula-
tors, providing sufficient security, and affording
legal redress against the evils which at present
exist, and the liability to wholesale fraud to which
they are at present exposed.
I am of opinion that at general elections all
elections should take place on one day, and that
day be proclaimed a public holiday. I look upon
the present system of nominations as a farce, which
ought to be abolished. Nominations could be
made without the loss of time attendant at nomi-
nations, and thereby avoid much inconvenience.
No advantage can be obtained by a continuance
of the present system.
Local Option should have my warm support,
believing that much good will result from the
adoption of the principle.
Boards of conciliation for the settlement of dis-
putes between employer and employed—between
the opposing forces of labour and capital, in the
form of strikes and lock outs, with all their atten-
dant losses, misery, and suffering.
Severe censure is due to the unwise and futile
endeavours of a sreiion in Parliament who
wantonly and wilfully took action and opposed
the granting of necessary Supply, thereby entail-
ing great hardship and suffering upon thousands
of families, whose salaries will be due, but with-
held, who are rendered unable to meet the every-
day requirements of life, witheui the means of
redress.
Many other important matters have engaged
my attention in regard to public affairs which it
will be unnecessary for me to refer to, among
others the L'cil Government Bill.
In conclusion, gentlemen, I feel I ccu’d not
follow Mr. G. R. Dibbs as a leader of the people.
The blunders of his public career are still fresh in
my memory—the mysterious cloud which still
shrouds and precludes the light as to who was
guilty of the heinous crime of manipulating our
public accounts, and other matters too well known
to require recapitulation. I have no confidence in
the man, therefore, I decline to follow as one of his
party. Good prirciples, without good men. to my
mind, are like unto good carts without good horses.
I cannot say that the Parkes Ministry is free
from the stigma of grave suspicion without de-
scending to particulars.—The Mountain Maid epi-
sode by the Warbler. Burns’ taxation proposals,
Hornsby business, Circular Quay resumptions ;
still, Sir Henry Parkes, as a public man, has clean
hands, a glorious record of great measures for the
benefit of this country. He appears to have been
cast iu a larger mould. He is indeed one of the
sons of Anak—being unquestionably head and
shoulders above all his compeers.—l have the
honour to be, your obedient servant,
W. G. CAMERON.
171 Pitt-streefr, January 22, 1889.


A RADICAL REFORM.
! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
V-J housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong tbe agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where "washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “rocking machines” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt tbe task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
The two above-described “Steaming” and
“.Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process* the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
bas noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform!
A customer of onra calls the change, " Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full Instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken In transit.
Beale & Company,
488, 484, kVD 486 Gboboi Sxbmt,
9TDNVTI
JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT.
Bt Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
9 WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well t~> let them know that there is such
an artu le as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product on of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else,
the principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS,
now so famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
olants, which dt fy imitation.
WH • SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves.
M< ssrs. E. Row and Co.
Pear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and 1 ave found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed-
I remain, vourg, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEAN".’S BITTBBS.
The great denial d throughout the colony for
hes i pure Bitt' rs shows they are superior to all
■thers and eq"all> d by none.
Speak Louder than Words.
Read t .is sw rn testimony from a v ell-knowo
jitizen:
Statutory Declarations.
“I, Gr rge HewiiTT, do here'll solemnly and
<mornly d> as follows
“'ib.’t i fe 1 it) a duty I owe to the publio be
nate tba* I have been i uttering for many year?
rr>m wfskoess of the stomach, so called INDI
IE TIuN or D SPFPSIA, and have been cured
V u y t ki”sr two or three glasses of ROW’S 5
3TEA N E S BITTER d a day in a little watc r, and
t hope others st fft ring from tbe same complaint
will be as a t v eddy cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
ROWS STEANE’S wine
Cs a safe and sure sbimu’ant for the female sex or
:hi dien, for it r ises and strengthens depressed
ystems without producing a temporary excite
nent no be followed by great* r depression
Persons suffdiing from loss of appetite and
<en*ral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW S STJUNE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to al)
ie’icate persons. Young Ladies can take tbit
vhen iutterine from general debility. It’s only r
>ure tonic. Try it.
Teito”allfrs will find this newly-invented
’ONI * answer all the purposes of a stimulant
vit out i s infc xicaOng quality. It will satisfj
he c avirgs t,f nature and c.ra e a d* she for food
is e d of drink. As an antifebrile is unsur-
assed.
liters.
We recommend these BITTERS bo be takei
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for ac
»dult, s n Her quantity for children.
For genera! Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
md Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
.he liver and kidneys, is more rel'able for remov
ng all impure secretions than any other medic'nal
ilant known
Pc-rsons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
htse Bitters iavaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with a*me quantify of water. Fo*
young p nple about half the quantity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Uo.
With thanks for forwardirg me a bottle of yom
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and supexi >r to many others that I havt
previously tried. You-s faithfully. HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Read an expr ssion of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
‘•I have for many years been obliged to take
medicim s of different kinds for affections of th*
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
deprission of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recon mended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BiTIERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make kn*>wn
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yrurs,
“MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage. Leichhardt.
"Bleanra. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
i Soli Pbopbietobs,
Edward Row & Company,
a, 46, 47 QBORGI STREET,
•TDVIT,
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers mnd Manufacturers,
Mi's Baking Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&Oti &0.
Steam Wobks and Bkewebt:
mm STAEET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
" MAG 10” MEAL.
THE BEST COMPOUND EVER INVENTED
FOR FATTTENING STOCK AND
POULTRY.
Its effects on Horses and Cattle are astonishing.
When one dose has been administered to the
drought-stricken Bullock of the Western Plains
his delighted owner can stand by and hear him
grow, and Cows, when treated with this com-
pound, become enormous milkers. Its effect
on Horses is no less marvellous. The at-
tenuated Gee-Gee with as many points as a
hat-rack, after taking one bag is transformed
into a magnificent animal 18 hands high, and even
the sight of the wrapper has been known to pro-
duce remarkable results. Hens and all descrip-
tions of Poultry also derive great benefit from it.
The supposed recent eclipse of the sun in Cali-
fornia was an optical illusion arising solely from
the stupendous shadow cast by a Fowl which had
been taking the MAGIC MEAL, and many
other equally marvellous results can be quoted
and substantiated on first-class authority.
A. H. PHILLIPS, Proprietor.
17 V iotoria Ohambees,
Castlereagh-street.
BAD, MARK, LEARN.
Far-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Western Australia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO BACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARE SELLING
RAPIDLY.
They Cannot be Replaced at the Price.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in. and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &c., posted to any
address on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. jTdOUGLAS, Manager.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 76 6, Sydney.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 50a., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLEß, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER & SONS,
General Importers and House Furnishers,
SYDNEY.
Established 1860.
Jj'BWTON AND LAMP.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory j
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS']
Full suites tor dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple yet Ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s.; without Stand, 2Ss.
Packing In canvas, If required, Bs. 6d. extra.
Drawingroom suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
g
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
oub sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Rnler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided Into compart*
meats by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
E 2
s '.TP
D
RAWING! ROOM «Am
NBTSt
imi uiun
OnirniDAii Diiuii,
Niwton ft Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
ĝ
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE,
A Ybbt Oomflbti
Assobtment.
Many qnlle new designs,
Newton ft Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
KLF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
m
all Blues.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All description!
at lowest rates.
Nbwton fc Lamb,
ğ
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring,
Price, from 11s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.l
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
- WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Room and Mahuvaosobv i
•PBTVO ft OOOBEMLP STREETS;


Henceforth and forever the Melbourne
Age will charge for advfcs. by the line and publish
them in type of reduced dimensions, so that an
advertiser who has devoted the best part of his
working day to discovering if his advt. is “ in,”
will want a magnifying glass to expose printer’s
errors. The Age has issued a bloated edict re-
specting this new arrangement with a view to
ecocping » n extra million sterling when the next
land boom rises l>om the ashes of that which is no
more. Blessed boom ! It has burst. The eharh s
a re tearing each other at the threat. Fortune's
which were on the point of be ing made have been
lost, and nobody has found them. All the paper
profits have disappeared, save only the neivspaper
profit, and the Age and Akg us are in the position
of billiard room proprietors, who reckc n up the
money taken by the “table,” after the pool-
players have departed—losers every one.
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the pnblic
has ever met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
It stands to-day the best known curative
article in the world. It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues. It does all that is
claimed for it."
“ Gentleman,—No medicine has one-half
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re-
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for your medi-
cine.”
“I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of in-
digestion, debility, weakness, and in all
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and loss
of appetite, with the most perfect success.”
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
gtrengthener, and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters."
“ For all cases of diseases of the liver,
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, I daily recom-
mend the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters."
“ In my practice I am constantly prescribe
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found every
case relieved by their use.”
“ I can heartily recommend the use of Dr,
Soule's American Hop Bitters."
“Gentlemen. —Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail."
CAUTION.—See that each bottle
has genui~ e label, bunch of green
hops on white paper.
# Adam Bede's *
Benevolent fjONsvexations.
“ All the Yeab Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
Bee Sydney Bullrtin, January 19,1889.
No. 1 on the
Newmarket Handicap
Run at Melbourne, March 2,1889.
10,000 Subscribers at £l Each. 10 1 OOC
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
AUSTRALIAN CUP,
Run at Melbourne, March 6, 1889.
10)000 Bllb9CrlUeril at £1 Each. 1 OjOOO
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse ... ... ... £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1600; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Adam Bede’s is the only fair method of drawing.
On both these events, 3 per cent, of the gross amount _
of the sweep will be devoted to charitable objects.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by AdaJi
Bros until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event (£10,000)—8Y iJXEY GOLD CUP,
Run on APRIL 22, 1889.
iU 0 81Y—i
Sufferers from Nervous Com-
"plaints, Sure Cure, 14 days.
Apply in confidence to MEDICUS, Box 120 G.P.0.,
Sydney. Personal advioe by appointment, Free.
£20- £40
GOOD BUSINESS OFFER.
per month Beady Money.
No capital required. Special
inducements. Pleasant and healthy occupation.
LOCAL AGENTS WANTED.
Full particulars,
R. B. JONES,
0 Bbidge Street, SYDNEY.
qaibty theatre.
THE MOST STIRRING DEMONSTRA-
TIONS EVER WITNESSED within a Sydney
theatre have signalised the advent to Australia
of the VERY MOST REMARKABLE
COMPANY that has ever entered this hemis-
phere. Messrs. Hiscocks and MacMahon promised
the Sydney public a surprise in the appearance of
THE GAYLORD SILBON TROUPE.
How that promise has been fulfilled the Sydney
public are now aware Each night a crowded
audience has witnessed this extraordinary per-
formance. THE SUCCESS OF THE SILBONS
IS COMPLETE, revolutionary of all pre con-
ceived ideas, and sensational.
PRICES—4s , 35., 2s , and Is.
Joe F. MacMabon, Business Manager.
gONDI AQUAK 1 U M.
The moat popular plenle and pleasure grounds ol
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from 011 S to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to visitors.
Open dally from II a.m. to I p.m. Admission,
Is.) Children, Id. Trams run to Oates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE
Bole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
A HAPPY NEW YEAR 1
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
Mr. CHAS. ARNOLD
IN HANS THE BOATMAN.
GRAND MATINEE PERFORMANCE,
SATURDAY, 26 JANUARY 1889.
ADMISSION—6s., Ss„ f«. and is.
Box Office open dally at Nicholson's Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
A L.
Theatre, r o y
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee. Mr. 3. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Immense Success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by
A MOST POWERFUL
Dramatic and Comedy Organisation in
“DORA,” and “THE BARRISTER.”
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts'at Maokay's.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
Tremendous Success of
Thi Gband Chbistmas Pboduotion,
YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH.
PRICSS , Ss., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
•• My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don't forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s
THE CLYDE ORE CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
WORKS, CLYDE, NSW,
ttbaD OFFICE: 46 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
directors :
JaUbs Flbtchkr, M.P., Sydney; Gbo. R. Dims, M P.,
Sidney; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ■ T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works linden ; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hans, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon thares with owners
of gold-bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give freih impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies. . , . ,
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated. . ,
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold-saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will ba under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
The works will be in full operation during the
month of February.
For turSher
“AUSTRALIA FOB TDK AUSTRALIANS,”
By
A. B. PATERSON.
EVERY Australian should read the new
Pamphlet just published under the above
title. Land Reform and Protection. Read it
before recording your vote.
Price, 6d. All News Agents.
£20
£20
BVCKBOAKD BlfidlES
Regular shipments ol the Best Buokboard
Bugles in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&o., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and moat completely equipped Coach Works In
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash: or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road. Brisbane (South).
B.
BITTENBBEQ ft 0 0.,
IMPORTERS.
81 Oiabbnoe Street, Wynyabd Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleoprraphs and Monldlngi.
When next you bake try Pemell’e Snow-whitb Patkxt
Rollbb Flour, and your bread will be as white as enow.
i
AO
sniioaasoad:
To BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT.
Capital, <£17,500 in 35,000 Shares of 10s each.
15 000 Paid-up Shares and £2500 each are accepted by the Proprietors of the Patent as payment foi- the New South Wales
right. 20,000 Shares at 2s. 6d. per Share on Application and 2s. 6d. on Allotment are offered to the Public
Calls will not exceed 6d. per Share each, but it is anticipated that no chlls wi l ! require to be made, as the returns
from the Patent ought to commence immediately the Company is formed.
Provisional Directors:
F. C. HEDEMANN, Esq. I* J* JOSEPHSON, EsQ.
EKED. W. DAY, Esq , M.R.C.V.S.
A. H. COLLIER, Esq. c * HENDERSON, Esq.
Bankers t
CITY BANK, SYDNEY.
Solicitors t
Messrs. LAURENCE and McLACHLAN, 12 Spring Street, STHnet.
Brokers :
Messrs. WEBSTER and INGOLDBY, 15 Hunter Street, Stdnet.
Secretary (pro tern.) s
L. H. NELSON.
rrillS Company is being formed for the pur-
“*■ pose of acquiring from the present proprie-
tors all their interest in the New South Wales
Patent for an improvement in Saddles, recently
Invented and patented under the name of “ Keen’s
Unbreakable and L’ght Metallic Racing and
Riding Saddle-tree and Improved Panel.” The
especial advantages claimed for saddles manufac-
tured under this patent are ; —l. The construction
of the saddle-tree of metal only, by which means
it is rendered more pliable in character and con-
siderably lighter in weight than the tree at
present in use, and is yet practically unbreakable,
and —2. The construction of the Panel or inner
covering of the Tree, by a method which will
ihevitably supersede the present system of raanu-
facture. These advantages combined insure the
production of a saddle of a stronger and lighter,
and at the same time unbreakable character.
The present proprietors of the New South
Wales Patent rights have manufactured a number
of saddles of all the descriptions must commonly
in use in the colony (Stock, Racing, Riding, and
others), embodying the improvements effected by
this invention, samples of all of which are now to
be seen at the office of the brokers. The saddles
have been inspected by a number of experts and
unanimously pronounced far in advance of any-
thing of the kind that has hitherto been produced,
and there can be no doubt but thai they will in a
short time entirely supersede the saddle at present
in use.
The prospect of Increased demand is day by
becoming more apparent, agencies being sought
for by the leading storekeepers in most of the
principal towns of the colonies, and the present
Company is being formed in order that the neces-
sary capital may be obtained for the purpose of
extending and enlarging the manufacture to meet
such increase.
Even now the present proprietors can supply
saddles of. the best quality, with all the patent
improvements, for less than is paid for the old-
fashioned saddles, and ih is obvious that the ex
pense of production will decrease as the manu-
facture becomes larger. All the improvements
being strictly protected by latent, the Company
will manufacture the only unbreakable saddle
produced in the bolony, and, the old style being
superseded, it must eventually become the only
Saddle manufactured in New South Waled.
trading Veterinary Surgeons, who have seed
the Patent Saddle, say "Sore backs and saddle-
galls being the bane of horse flesh in every hot
climate, your Patent Saddles are, from a surgical
point of view, admirably adapted for the preven-
tion of pain and cruelty arising from these sores.
Great advantage is derived from having no acute
angles and sharp edges as in the old tree, and
owing to your patent tree being of rounded steel,
it is pliable, stronger, and more evenly padded, in
which a more even pressure is brought to bear on
the horse’s bade, and the chance of sores being re-
duced to a minimum.”
One of the strongest recommendations is that
this Saddle gives the greatest ease and comfort tb
both rider and horse.


.Business imnouiicemerilß,
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
40T EVEKY KEQOSITI H
AT 0
MSS WHICH DEFY COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated .
‘PLUM’
BRAND Of
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
~~~ -"rs —~
FROM
£lO UPWARDS.
i f \ . . “M
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
’FO*"
Town and Country Customers.
Not* Address—
Craig & Men,
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street, |-
SYDNEY. ' I
Pkice List Posted on AppiiwmoN,'
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use ■Rowlands’
Maocassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20. Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Pom, Olaret. Hook, Sherry, Ronslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, ho. Unequalled Hlgh-olaes Wlnee are
only to be had from Bookings of 410 Georr e-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
William’* Australian Inseotlold Is death to all (meets.
Simple In application—sure In efleot. This Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while it Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist. 867 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Klllett Bros.,
and K. Prosser & Co.* ~ '
E. C. ELEY
<*•
sS
s
&
9?
A
9?
&
&
<b
v
$
v\
&
v°
»g)
o
o'
o
s
s?
# v
fC
.0
0
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY
N
rt
o
f
rt
o
JL<
Trents
DELISSAI PHILLIPS
‘■l 3*. <5 Stkeet.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
«<ti; « ~ .
It
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce
AND PAY *
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
•I*
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Jc:n.©s’ Se-wiaa.gr
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. •
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & Co„ Tanners and
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland. _
Also Importers of Requls
Imported Leathers. &o. t
NUBIAN BLACKING
DR. RICHARDS,
MS Ui?T I NGVB O 0
CO
D* RICH ARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Ohlsl
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading collegei
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invest!-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, ho has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practise
embraces diseases which probably pause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MIN r
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, Irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
dlscontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and bead, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is- about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. la
stamps he will send secure from observation In a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH - BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private oe
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its genera! informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the- cure 6f NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to. sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
rn receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of whichls but sixpence; enclosed
!a the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
giroumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 26,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from -at least 10,000. persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
at Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing, .
A HARSH ACCENT.
MISS FLOE TRAP PE (whose mouth is undeniably large): “Nelly, Will Dow said last
night that my mouth had a sweet expression. Do you suppose that he meant
that for sarcasm?”
MISS PRUNELLA : “I am afraid so, dear; with the accent on the chasm."


Business Announcements.
BRUNTO ITS
koyal patent steel roller
FLOUR
6m be obtained throughout New Booth Wales,
Queensland, and VUtovla.
SYDNEY M m 84 Fin BIIIH.
BRISBANE... M w Edwasd Bhih.
MELBOURNE . Bvncm Bnm.
EPPS'S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Medical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured !
fbe Greatest Success V
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Hr, B. E. BUBEHUIIi Consulting Eclectic,
ffgir.T.im Spboialist for all Chronic Dishasis,
II WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (fr?s) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Bead the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenbope, 19th July 1880]
|e H. K. KnaiLMANN, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank B. E. Knight,
Of Qlenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
lake any notice of it lor about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for lour months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the "time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie dowiT in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood And "matter-from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased When you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
■kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very test.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
hwe not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. G. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
AST All Consultation* Free, H
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Ohm
MOT BRING BFFROTRD.
T
0
SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OR BY LBTTKR
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
THEY Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on- the
ECLECTIC MANCIPLE,
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases,
x :X
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely yacked, to aU parts of the Colonies,
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herral Dispensary,
IS2 Elisabeth Street, Brde Park, Sydney.
MATRIMONY.— A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, good-looking, wishes to correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
offer on first-class station in North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X.Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens-
land.
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patintns Art
■ioal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all Us stages. The
moat astonishing cares have been effected. Bend for 18S
Paged Illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,’
Illustrations of the Drams, copies of patent papers, letters
Isom Doctors, Lawyers, Kdltoss, etc., who have been
snssd'by these Drnmi, ahd ‘whe'reihnlmead the*.—Her
■IQHOUOV, ri Wins tN Sneer, ■ilfeeeset.
Cl-12 DTID t HOTEL,
oobnkb ov
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Oulinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
toscuovt
50 V
lu.au
■nr
-t
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel)
Pkopkiiteiss.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
ġ
THE
“ Plum ”
R A Z 0 R.
FOR PRIVATE USB la Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & All KEN, Potosl Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed! ——
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNE Y,
IPstrsoxa-’s i G-iape J Igstllaa.©.
TRADS MARK—“THB GRBBNWICH OBSKRVATOET."
Specially prepared from BIPE FBUIT , and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Peofeibtoe ]
.. tTM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
<— ■ -"■■‘■‘■'W'"- Agents:
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON'S GRAPE SALINE.
LEA &PERRINSSAUCE
AUC
In consequence of Imitations of THE'WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the r Label jmjevery _ botils'
bears their Signature thus--- ' , 1
I ! •r » '* «
without which no bottle p/ the original WOR CESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine .
Askfac LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ,* Crosse * and
mackwell, London , &c., 6rc.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World ,
"Wlxsit is 3ro*u.r pEHoToToy
&
®e
/"is.
Most people have one o
some sorb. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
be withoub than keep a
bad one. If you have a
taste for Art ; if you
want a remunerative
hobby—try
Photography!
g
Instruments and Materials are nob the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it—every-
one can profit by It. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low It will surprise you
x—
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE PHOTOORAPHIC * WAREHOUSES'
1
LICHTITEB cte CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, BRISBANE.
g* . » ' ** ’„ . * • ' ~
end 2d. Stamp for our new Illustrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, “ THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER.’.
Assurance Companies.
TUS AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAOB>
MINT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY. Limited.
(Inu&pFsaled by Act of Parliament, II Tie,,
No. IB.)
Registered Capital 51,111,H1
Paid-up and Subscribed m M MI, III
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKBT. Esq., T.1.A., Deputy
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 yean _ 7 per cent.
For 6 month! 4 per oenl.
ref 1 yew e per cent.
For 8 monthi_ | per oenl.
DEBENTURE BONDS, nnder the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards,
Loans granted on Mortgage tor fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED" FOR BUILDING)
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hiad Offish—l 6, kIS HUNTER STREET
INoToT NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated nnder Companies Aet, llfl.
CAPITAL, ASM, Ml n
Sydney Office,
Oorner of MARKET and YORK STREETS.
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices—2B3 Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia)
Newcastle Offices —Hunter-Sjtaeet. ’
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay,
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted dally.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS i
8 months, 5 pet lent.
* ii 6 „
II ii 7 ii
And a Bonna declared to Deposits of II month
per cent. 6 months per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per oent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
BUSSELL MARSHALL. Manager.
Issiisu Aunstoststi.
Kofi’s V ( EWs
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c, &c.,
.315 EEORSE ST., Eitweea luter-st,, 1- U.P 0,
TATTBBSALL’B
1013111 COISULTiTIDVI
Are open upon all the Principal Racing. Event!
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ TattersaU's," care
of George Adams, TattersaU’s Club, Sydney. Per.
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
tor reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlkmkn's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
- WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.-
NOTH THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(*lew doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank)
’ MELBOURNE.
FOR BALE.— Two grand Wales Fronlagei
Parramatta and Lane Cove Riven, Appli
Slums Office.


Grosvenor Hotel,
Oroßvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH Hill, STDNEf,
overlooking the Harbonr.
mHIS Magnificent Hothl Is now open,
and will be conducted on the beet
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, 1s built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Tblkoraph and Tblbphonb Offiobb
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended In
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smokk Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvbnor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. KOWAJf, Manager,
f-J
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
DOWS
1a EMBROCATION
/ vSOLD
EVERYWHERE^
m
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, be is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
Tha Bast In tha World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mi! GiMaiil S Hi.,
231 CLARENCE STREET
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthub Gath.
I
BT
Tbb Boimtih’h well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Fbioi - ONE SHILLING,
rei Pott, Is. Bd. (except Queensland).
AH. AGENTS.
TTIBBLE & COMPANY,
SIGN WRITERS
AND
—ART ++ DECOR AT ORB-
-941 Castlereagh Street.
On® Doob fbom Kino Stbbkt.
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intebcolonial Investment Co ,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Kussell-street Melbourne.
TO THE ELECTORS OF WEST
SYDNEY.
Gentlemen,—! beg to announce that I am a
candidate for your suffrages at the ensuing
election.
In regard to the great fiscal question, I am of
opinion that the adoption of a system of Protec-
tion is essential to the prosperity and happiness
of the people of New South Wales.
I consider that a system of local Self-Govern-
ment should be established without delay.
I am in favour of Payment of Members, but
maintain that the number should be considerably
reduced, and that the members of the Legislative
Council should be elected by the people.
The extension of the Railway to the deep waters
of Port Jackson will have my earnest support.
I shall have the privilege of addressing you and
fully explaining my views prior to the polling day,
and venture to hopa that you will deem me not
unworthy to represent my native city in Parlia-
ment.
1 have the honor to be,
Gentlemen,
■four obedient servant
F. B. FREEHILL.
k SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To bII Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolobeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2j. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George Street, Only „
QA S. GA S. [G AB.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to 6, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
"Mi lailob," 164 Klnc itnet. Nnwlnwa Don't forftl
Sin. Colt* t« nimii In* Ml U
INDIA RUBBER IN ANUFACT U R E R 8,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bobber Valves, Washers, Gaskets &o„ &o. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods tor all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
CJl©,r©n.d.on iZotel, a.aa.l'jr.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
C. Il served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
tinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
tore also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can )ch <hbly make one
lomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti 3>r* a vided. Table
U H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
Halters comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTERp Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
r*n
LAURCEBTOI. TASMANIA
m
OlOtt
a mu
m
Horfl
mittst
Wff
Yf*'-
ntqrun
aunm-tm aft. I mimmi- WMUlft*
ZTXKST-CL.A-SS EICTCTSB,
Wines, tali Liquors & Batumi Cigars a Soecialitt »' Boost, Coiiiio Frucaiss,
A. DEiiiiUSifi .. . ... .. .. ... Proprietor.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
g
new billiard table show rooms & factors
BI3LMAKD CUSHIONS, &o. s MADE ON THE PREMISES.
®M Sables re-fitted by our own mesa.
®MEIi o etriS,lAMiS iffi stock, alse GEICKET S LAWN TENSIi & SOWS®,
BURROGGHES & WATTS
TEETH LIKE *• PEARLS,
allit find found teeth, perfect freedom from dec*/, fi hemlthy fiction of the guns, find deUgUh
y®LLy fragrant breath oen beet be obtained, by dleoinMaf pitsy Sooth ifoww arf oriA wailAC
;»£ mlng dally
ftowlancte’
Odonto
' on? yefirl Dentifrice, a white powder compoeed of the moet recherche Ingredients of the Oriental
Iterbel, end warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and prsssrvas
tjlhe teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurry, strengthens the gums, and gives a
fjsasinr fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise L
itlghly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All ’Dentists allow that neither washes w
ideates can poeaibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay m Ss >c.>
ison-gritty tooth powder: such BOWJUANDB’ ODONTOJkM tSwsyß iJjsoyefi IM.
Ho o4h®r“Odonto to ®»®®3aa,
Rowlands* macassah h liu a»w qcW % 0 goM!« Mm? as
(Mr and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS KALYDOR tewoitMes the complexion, eradicates all emtowsm
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth cel SWfkeato, Ask anywhert for TOWiyMSK/!
tftirles o»m n.*tm Osoidlsm, lUswiton svw* AvmWl nnmjnV.JOJ cmil rCTI i »H)i«W I(KiBM*VSF i a,
Wholesale and Retail Agent*— Elliott Beob., and B. Fbobsib A Go., Sydney.


Hotels.
HOTEL,
MiLBOURB.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spenoeb Stbeet.
•Wf ISITORS patronising the above hotel, whiflh
f has lately had an addition of over 19# rooms,
will find u rodent improvements, snob as light,
lofty, and bedrooms, largo public-
room, ifeiog-room, hot and ocfld baths, shower
and needle «lhs passenger elevator, eleotrlo bells,
telephone, »nd all other hotel requisites, not to be
surpassed a Australia. Visitors can rely upon
being oalad for early morning trains, tetters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prises very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medioal.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREETJ
(Between George wad York Streets.) F.O. Box 980. Dij
Bpeer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, J.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January list, 1886} alec New South Wales
Gazette, April iTtta, 1868). The doctor has devoted IS
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his, honest opinion of their complaints.
Ho experimenting; no Mercury need. He will guarantee
a positive oure In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. JUs reason for doing so Is this—when there Is no
organic disease, and nothing but an Inorganic trouble, or.
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
• certain result, there is no reason why it oannot be re-
moved dlh the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he olai os only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed In hie speciality — CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail >e treated at home. The course of treatment will
■ot in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Chargee moderate. H. J.
Spsk*, M.D., 48 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets. Sydney. Poet Office Box, No. 020. Office heats,
10 a as. to IS a.m. | Bto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to II a.m. only.
FREE
pmaaoiuPTiowa ue to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
MFB,” for the Speedy Gore of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, fco. A copy of
this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Sis Fenny
Stamps. Address—
8. WARD ft GO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
78 Hnnter Street Sydney.
A JTESMBRIO, MAGNETIC, and ELECTRIC
ByL INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
of Ob. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
Amarlra, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
American Remedy Company. All Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only, his motto being “ Nature cures Nature’s
decay." Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
lour days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self In being the only person known in the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Tongue without Surgical Operations of any kind;
In fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
Incidental to suffering humanity, even fcwhen all
other treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B. —
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a _ surety that you get
nothing but the genuine article. A Fact. —This
Is the only Institution of its kind In the World
where all Kinds of Cures are Effected [with little
or no medicine. - !
"“Please Copy the Address—l
DR. ST. VINCENT,
177 Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
EuCALVPTE OIL 'i
COLEMANE&SOHS
HE TREE OF LIFE
mi iS&tcm
Victory Ointment^
MT The Only Pure Enealypte in the World.
*' ■
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Brize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney, 'the only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds’, Goughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gmt, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Enealypte Soap, and our world-
lamed Eucalypte H >ney is the best preparation
before the public for young children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
lor the Voice. Manufactory— Oootamundka.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabeth street.
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Business Announcements.
SKATE BOLTERS.
mURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the beet In the Amerl-
■*- can market, at the following low prices
13 In. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots ... 915 per let
2 In. „ „ 10,000 917 „
1J In, „ „ 50,000 „ ~ 912 „
2 In. „ 50,000 „ .. 914 „
Through rate to Australia about 91 50c. per 1000 roller*.
Address—
JfOHX T. lOKO,
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicaso, 111., U.B.A.
u
(I-
auMwmcTuftCßS
*IMfO*TCRS of
HAtSCAPSi
4MCE7RCE ST
SYDNEY 1
dfamasitk JLajutfCtrs
■$1
678 GEORGE STREET,
BKICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitkens.)
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFZELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, N Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED.
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
gold. Send your full address, and we will se
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six
Only. Write to PROFESSOR B. T.
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
C 4 FECIAL NOTICE.—The Stdnbt Bulletin,
U Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Found per annum.
Thi Bulletin will be on sa<e every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners In
the street.
MANUFACTURING HATTEfiS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
PORTERS Or AU THE
NEWESTSHAPES
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
THEORICINAL
m,NG Poifo
uMllftU'c
ANo W™”s0N ly '
O BTAtN E D A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST IMTHE WORLD!
WAUGH’S
RECEIVED THE INTERNATIONAL
'PR tZ E MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannqn
Harbour 5 t Sydnev
Sold by All Grocers and SlorcReejjew
Medical,
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECH AM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
hnrrepsally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea Box for
Bilious and Borroa*
Disorders such as
Wind anti Pain in the
Stomach, flick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Pul-
nea* and SwftSiing
after j Mails, Diairi-
nees and Drowsiness,
( old dulls,FXnshiiurS
of Heatj Loss of Apr
petite,' Shortness of
Breath; ' Oostiveness,
Scurfy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Kerrous and Tremb-
Eteg tejM.ti.ons, 4c. The first dose will girt relief •
la Scanty njinutee. ■ i •
Rvery sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
itm af thaw Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
ffex feensJ.es of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
39 a few doses of them carry off all humour*, and
tedsag about all that is required. No female should
bo vdfeont them. There is no Medicine to be found
to Beecham’s Pills for removing any' obstruc-
ts® gse irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
fe® ts the directions given with each box, they
v.L boor restore females of all ages to sound and
m'/nsm health. This has been proved, by thousands
wko have tried them, and found the benefits which
a-yj assured by their use.
ysx a Weax Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
OteKders.of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restora the
ioagioat complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
beat guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEBOHAM’S PILLS have the Largeri Sal* »f any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
An a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeamg, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
an the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
fataeat of rest. Let any person give B EEC HAM'S
COUGH FILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will is a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helene, Lan-
eeehire, England, in boxes Is. and 2c. ML each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent MediciM
Stealers everywhere.
SJJB.—l’nll directions are given with each bos.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-np Capital ... ...
Reserve Fond ... 606,000
The Bank haa Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers* Letters of Credit. ZZZ2
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. _ _
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
SCIENCE OONQUERSHmSKASI!
Otl-
The Successful Treatment of
SfBRVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the 03
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY or other Nohow
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner: advertising In Australia whe
holds, the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,* 5
IS, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases ot Nsr>
vans Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nsrvons,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity tor Study
ar Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Afleo-
llans, Oenito Urinary .Disorders,, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
tronblee may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and gel his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, hi
will tell yOn so i if hot, be wilf tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
sure. It will dost yon nothing, (or Consultation, so satisfy
yean * that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE,
offerers can be treated equally well at a distance
N. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that Ido not claim
i perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
claim only to be a skilled and snooesstnl Physiola*
mronghly Informed In my speciality.
Note Addrea
06SCSSITS XIDiCAI lISTITUTI,
gg, Flinders Street W., Melbourne,
Mo connection with any other Medical h utttwta in
A ticiralim Box «8- O P.O.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Gove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
Galness's Extra Stoat.
■’IRS') m A.UTT,
Lftaoi:
Bass’s Fale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.,
Commercial Chanters, Bond-Street, Sydney
Robert butcher a 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Easiness to
093 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES,
D" - RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS*
LONDON, ENGLAND.
C. STEPHENSON
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS.
RUM, SHERRY, fc WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS. fcO.
COOPERAGE.
IST KENT STREET, and ITi SUSSEX STREET
fl Be tween King and Market Streets.
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmKL.
*nu wwi MmatMin ml Widitwi. mwm «w«
<*rvrtghtHL
E" d : a Heard Eitair did thie,,
vMI do it on either balt
ior bare foot foreet
heavy Uonetaehe in from 9 to
■ 4 teeekt and never fade. 30,000*
yonng men already wear fuU
QSc
JESS'
toardo, having used lie 3 phta. Wo injur?, oaoily applied, oortmk
in effort. Paehoto, It. 3d. roteh i for S t.Sd., port paid, ami nodes
rover, fno from oboorvatton iddrooo, IFVwA BamgbWg BoU Jlp SBfti
BonHO. 0-P,O,., Byrnet. » e v .
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makcv,
fm 296 PITT STREET.
MARQUEES ON HIRE.
UMBRELLAS
re-cove nea
STUDY mo
•fed
H»»o row STmbrell*
eOTcred. anAyi
iVlinod wad i
to New. *4
J. SX7LLIVA^%
Ml Gtorp Stswad
. BrtcWSoW HilL ba**M»
lirerpooi utd B>than»lp>g|
tUDW
made to
Bepain aooffr <
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAI
AND WELL ."
D BERNARD’S Piotubh nod MotrtDWflj
• SIOBB, 899 George street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest In the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
Ac., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to nett. Mounts ant with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plash
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
I F B PRESERVATION
Db. 7. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
IB Losbdaib Btbbbs Bab*, Mbbbovbh
This work is a medical treatise describing at?
ourately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in*
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with ad vita
on health, and replete with raluable and tangible
information that Is of Incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con*
fidentlal Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid ol
quacks. |_ ■ A I w.mv *j
* Price per mall Bs. Bd. (any colonial stamps). Ta
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne. .... __ j


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADH
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30b. to 21s.
849 PITT ST., BVBXEY (Near TattersaH’s.)
-!:}■—
Porpoise Side Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight 1
ft *1
MASON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GKNBBAIi
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
tar wines,
IMPOBTJEB OF
SPIRITS, BEERS &:C., &jO.
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
K3T The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes, S3T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hefei, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
W SEND FOR A PRICE LIST-
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' BftUHKSXT BOOM and LA7ATOBT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdeen & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
TIE AD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prmce ol Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND *
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST. FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Ble.c3s Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
mERTUIML
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1881*
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGHj
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & 00., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S. HoSoang
and 00., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bro*.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Kedleral
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle .
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeeper*.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENI.
There is not a country in the ciivlised world whet 9
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have uot bean
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at ono*
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their UM
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY TEEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nuw Oxford-st„ London. SST Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and POM.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they art
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANO
▲X IHI
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IK
vIO T O I
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT .
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUOA ...
BEEOHW ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
BALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bontke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Fall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aesohlmann’a.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PABTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season,
AGENTS*
J. SL G-EDDES <55 Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market. r
KT TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. *^||
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABcL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
“ N ervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Hbrb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervons Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Sawr-CuBB fob Nbbvoos Dibimty ABO
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES
de
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
O' Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
-Is-
The American Waxtham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watoh is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
nrevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for sdme being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. ~, , , ,
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass.. U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Gases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. . . , . . . . „ , ,
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size" just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. a w , -.t. . . . q
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and Mouth
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
V.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
