

Aak you*
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J.
S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties
of malt than a pint of the beat Ale or Porter.”—Lakoi*.
c&rrrrj.
M
STEVENSON Baca. 1
Shop, 20 Randle St.,
Adelaide, pronounced
one of the most Ele-
gant Jewellery Shops
in Australia,
STEVENSON BROS
v-LL
STEVENSON Bros-
SHOP,
404 George St., opposite
A..J.S. E*nk
Sydney
BROS
stevenso?
BROS
tMSOrt
STEVKNSON Bros
Branch Shop.
& 6 Rotrout Street
Adelaide
STEVENSON BROS.’ WORKSHOP,
Where many skilful Jewellers, Watchmakers
Silversmiths, Goldsmiths, Diamond Setters, and
©old Chaiu Makers are engaged. The Queen »
Jubilee Casket, The One Hundred Guinea Ade
hfide Gold Cups, The Wentworth Jockey, The
South Australian Grand Cricketing Challenge
Cup. and numerous other Trophies have been
designed and manufactured by Stevenson Broe
The South Australian
Grand Cricketing Chal-
?nge Cup, designed and
made by Stbvbnboh
Bros.
7 *lue. 70 Guineas.
One of the many
Adelaide Gold Cups,
designed and made by
STBTtNSOH Bros, to the
order of Sir Thos. Elder
Value. 100 Guineas.
H'&cm*
STEVENSON BROS.
manufacturers and importers of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery and Silwplate,
352 GEORGE STREET,
(4 Doors below the POST OPFTC*)
Alao. 404 GEORGE STREET, opposite A.J.S. B*nk.
-|- ——SYDNEY. —* S*
—A.LBO—
20 SWbk Sited.,
WILLIAM E STEVENSON,
WATCH, CLOCK.
-aHD—
Practical Worolan.
WALTER B. STEVEN SOB,
i BaCTICaX/
A !f D
sott>
Practical Workman
Watches, Jewellery, and all Scientific Instruments
prices, sad to any part of Australia.
A <uA, <™/An
/W
&ZA,
A/t*
j£
l^f
/rrvcx-s <?a*
tTt
'AAA^ ASs'^'y
S< AAe/Ary^ f ***yA"
JLa 4AA£&eAL^ f
%I^CAA^a/a / stsrjzcAy-
■£rt£t
#W&- A*fc,/wy^
’ xx/f farm
S\s x A AAAvAA / / /
'*/*
AJuJ-
eAAzyfrt ct^a^^f.
&
coc
The Bulletin


TO BA
CO
K
SOPSONS
'P
m
a
so
x
o
yoo\
ISIR ROGER
o
a
ID*
/S.
XOILBIOR HOTEL, OHABTIBB
TOWERS.
Brisk Hotel Building netted In sbove
diluted corner o Gill »nd Ohntoh Blreeta.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indigestion
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
AND
AM,
(STATE
▼ ,
SPRINGS .)
GRANDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIVE. —An excellent T able Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Kenowned
English Lavender later
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
-A-Ticxisrsoisr’s
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivtflled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose”on“Goiden
Lyre,” with Address iii full.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL A CO.,
Bnoinkebs, Oopphesmiths, Bbabb and Bui Foundibs,
munna, Plumb ebb, Gabfittbbb, Ship & Gbnhbal Smiths, Abt ft Mediaeval Metal Workers
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Tarity’i Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prloes—ll,ooo Fires already In use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Taoht and Boat Work of every description in
Ins or Brass, Ships’ Single and Donble Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Ml ACCOM WORKS, 9 Eusurii Place, Sydney, aadStanmere Road, Petersham.
M JLJiAJN BKOS., KH*U, & (JU.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
(U GEORGE STREET, SVD.NET.
0
m
-
Q
CO
m
T
LJ
&
o
CM
O
<>>
<v
cc
V
0^
H'EG?
esmsASsmtth
Awft Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Atbo Carton Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
v\AB COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS k WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES. &o„ ko.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT. #
WAHTBD Ilf BYBRT HOUSE.
s
P5f»j
m
Pill
: /vU K iOIJS INSECT!
I hi nn
FLEAS FLIES R- . : - MU-. WtTOES.
COCKROACHES * * <.MD IS
AT THE. SAM i-
harmless* 0 6:;' 05
COWLS OROTHi
ANIMALS 'Mi
!»
t
ţ
FUTON-C RIM WA DLU C c
-MELBOURNE-
WAITED nr BTBBT HOTTCT.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations. ' ?
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received .. ™
Advances Made ™
Petal Income _
Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. Oct., 1880.
£180,425 .. £350,000 _
61,630 .. 120,000 _
93,581 .. 261,500 _
123,248 .. 247,840 _
200,100 .. 451,085 „
<:)■
Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1887. Oct., 1888.
£431,125 ... £580,000
206,685 251,013
391,356 ... 1,123,940
307,828 „ 625,826
797,990 ... 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Ratesl2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 8 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance,
m FUNDS f o r Borrowers. THUS LIBESAL
Bf
-
iT
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. p®
Share Entrance Eee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest*
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders In Cash.
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received In October*
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rata of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN HM 10, H.P., J.P., _ _ Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHERTY _ Acting-Secretary.
ť
THE
Federal coffee Palace,
CORNER OF
3SZiaa.gr cSc- Collirrs Streets, MeHoonan®,
Containing 560 ROOMS, Is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES off ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Tabl®
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menit, presided over by an experienced Chtf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS-
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
Georae Cohen - - - - - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 1C —No 470.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 1889.
Price, Bd.
fft- If Ay
Dr. Neild.


The Bulletin
Tlie National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly .. 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse ; Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Netcspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The- Bulletin ” xcill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But vie
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tins Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney, hi that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 1889.
Concerning Pictures and Statues.
When a great Australian dies the first Im-
pulse of his admiring countrymen is-to arise
In hasti and build a statue, and it is a cold
day when the dead patriot does not get his
Image. On every prominent site in our
great cities there loom up solemn outrages
In stone and bronze and marble to testify to
the lavishness with which Australia honours
the memory of every gilded plutocrat who
has escaped being hanged, and as the live
citlzan barks his shins at night over the cold
feet of the defunct their presence awakes
recollections of deeds which might other-
wise pass away into oblivion. Wherever a
conspicuous eminence affords a point of
vantage a ponderous slab stares up to heaven
to commemorate the life and labours of
soma Ignoble Smith or Tomkinson, who
plodded along for 50 years la a dusty office
and then died ; or to keep fresh the memory
of some unhonoured Billings, who dealt In
whale-oil for 30 years and then died ; or to
hand down to a thousand generations the
name of a dull and greasy Thompson, who
left behind him an unspotted name as a
short, fat clblzm who dumped wool for two-
thirds of a century, and then died and was
burled, and bsqaeathed to the world a
descendant who now dumps wool in his
stead. They are all de»d —the brass Fer-
gusons, and Biggses, aid Jobsons who
stare in solemn metal at a world which
didn’t know them when they were alive,
and which doesn’t care for them now that they
are alive no longer ; and except where an
occasional frowsy loafer props himself up
against the graven figure, and reads the In-
scription which reminds the world that each
ordinary clod was once an existent being and
much respected in the street he lived in they
are no longer of any interest to the human
race. But public prejudice keeps their
statues from being hauled down and con-
signed to the dust-heap ; and public lunacy
keeps on erecting more images as one fat,
respectable citizen after another wheezss
into his mausoleum ; and the history of
Australia is written on the busts of its em-
balmed tallow-boilers and the cenotaphs of
its stuffed pawnbrokers ; and everywhere
petrified butchers and politicians stand up
on pedestals pointing with their dead fingers
the road which young Australia la to follow,
so that it may be ordinary and corpulent and
stupidly respectable on a high stool for fifty
years, and then die.
Bronze and marble are practically im-
perishable. For 5000 years and more the
stone Sphinx has lifted Its tad, majestic
countenance over the Egyptian sands, and
5000 years more—lf the Iconoclasts spare it
so long—will see Its solemn grandeur still
rising between the morning sun and the
Pyramids. It stood there when Cheops
and Cbphren were young : It outlived Moses
and Cambyses ; It watched h pries and his
successors in their last struggles for Egyp-
tian Independence ; It saw Amrou and his
Mahommedans come and go ; and it smiled
In its silent immortality alike on Napoleon
and on Caesar and a hundred other con-
querors besides. And, until dynamite
Intervenes', the same immortality will attach
to the stony horrors of our Australian cities,
and the brazen Jinkses and Robinsons who
drivelled at aldermanlc banquets will glare
ont In their dismal, ordinary meanness on
centuries of history to celebrate the fact that
they were plain and narrow-minded and
commonplace while they were alive, and
paid their rates regularly, and came down to
their offices in the omnibus every morning,
and gradually became old and gouty and
apoplectic and irascible and particular about
their food, and finally got to be too apoplec-
tic to live, and perished in consequence.
Then the antiquarians of the remote future
will grope among the ash-heaps Into which
these ancient monuments have been thrown,
and laboriously piece together the fragments
of old Australian dynasties of Jinkses and
Robinsons, and out of the fif ch-rate stupidity
of these plodding grocers and candlestick-
makers it Is Intended that the early history
of Australia shall be constructed.
• * •
It Is too soon for this continent to begin to
rear monuments. The oldest name in Aus-
tralian history has only lasted a hundred
years, and five centuries of wear and tear
are not more than sufficient to serve as a
crucial teat of real greatness. The name
which cannot stand such a trial is not worth
perpetuating. Governor Phillip, the com-
monplace old naval captain to whom Parkes
proposes to raise a costly memorial out of
the public funds, was a great man a
hundred years ago ; to-day he ranks
as the shadow of a miserable medio-
crity ; to-morrow he will be a blank.
To the convicts whom he flogged and
starved and hanged in the days of his
supremacy he probably appeared a loftier
and more potent figure than Tamer-
lane, Hannibal, Pompey, and Attila all
put together, simply because he was there
looking after the flogging and greasing the
gallows, while the other six conquerors had
resigned their earthly cat, and handed in their
gallows, and quitted the scene of their ancient
glories ; and had the question been raised
at that early period, Phillip would probably
have been voted a statue which would have
overshadowed the earth. Yet In the year
1889 an appeal for public subscriptions to
raise a memorial to the unintelligent boss-
turnkey of Botany Bay would hardly bring
n the price of the wooden nigger who serves
as a tobacconist’s sign, and in the course of
another generation a scheme for perpetuat-
ing the memory of Governor Phillip would re-
ceive about as much support as a proposal to
build a monument to soma mute, Inglorious
Sladen of the days of Henoist. ' No man
can be accurately measured by his own
generation. His contemporaries view him
at too close a range, and think him vast and
imposing merely because he is near at hand.
An Abigail or a Haynes on earth looks
larger than Jupiter blazing in the recesses
of the heavens ; the bulk of Henderson
African us can blot out the view of half the
solar system when the dark ambassador
rears his mound of flesh and his white
belltopper against the evening sky ; and
Daniel O’Connor, standing between the eye
and the fixed stars, obscures a dozen con-
stellat ions with his individual anatomy. And
therefore the parochial generation of the
Abigails and the O’Connors conclude that
these dismally ordinary men are giants of
stupendous proportions, and rear statues
and carve monuments to their memories,
and spread themselves In vain efforts to hand
down their names to a future nation, to
whom the parish beadles of the present day
are of no more account than the “oldest
Inhabitant ” who pottered about on the
shores of the Euphrates the day before the
Deluge.
• • •
Australia has not yet began to produce great
men. It has hardly even produced a great
mediocrity, and its eminent statesmen, its
brilliant litterateurs , Its poets and scientists
are all unborn. Sooner or later, however,
they will appear, and meanwhile, for want
of heroes to worship, the men of a common
place era seek to cast a spurious halo round
the grindery importer who screams at Orange
banquets, and the tenth-rate Oassar who
despatched a clumsy band of apprentice
butchers to chase goats in the Soudan. The
country strives hard to believe in the gran-
deur of these gods of clay, and tries In vain
to cover their meanness with gilt and tinsel.
Only a few months ago Parkes’ project
for the erection of a gigantic mausoleum
In which to lay the ignoble bones of a band
of unhoncured politicians narrowly escaped
realisation, and out of Its dust has arisen
another scheme for the formatlonof aNatlonal
Portrait Gallery of New South Wales, on
whose walls the smudged presentments of the
usurers and butchers of the colony are to
glare out upon a land which was weary of
them when alive and which would gladly
forget them when dead. There the great
men of the age are to live in the memories
of future generations, and to make their
calling and election sure the great men will
have their portraits painted while they are
alive, and will scramble for the front seats
in the temple of Immortality. Parkes’
portrait hung by Abigail; Abigail’s por-
trait hung by Parkes ; the painted physiog-
nomy of Haynes, rescued from obscurity
when Haynes’ vote was wanted at a des-
perate emergency ; Speaker Y oung, elevetad
to eternal glory because It was feared by his
party that the man of onions and hen-feed
was wavering in his allegiance ; Deniehy,
raised to enduring fame because O’Connor
dug him out of his sepulchre, and along with
him O’Connor himself, because he dug up
Deniehy ; Smith, enshrined in the nation’s
Pantheon for the reason that he wouldn’t
lend money to Jones without it; Higgins
because he was solid at Government House,
and all of them because they voted as one
man that the world demanded their
memories should be preserved to all
eternity—of these and similar materials
will the New South Wales National Por-
trait Gallery be composed. Like a priceless
inheritance the vacuous face s of the plain
auctioneers and drapers and ham-and-bacon
dealers of the Nineteenth Century are to be
handed down to the coming ages, and a
thousand years hence the faded canvases, It
1s fondly hoped, will still endure to tell a
listening world the unvarnished tale of some
podgy citizen who imported pigs and beans
for a number of years—and then died.
* * *
“ Let us account no man happy until his
death,” said the ancient sage, and greatness
1s even more precarious than happiness. But
unluckily for public decency, the statesmen
and heroes who build their own dead-houses
have to hustle for the possession of a niche
in the temple of fame while they are yet
alive, and when the country sees the por-
trait of some new great man hung In its
gallery it can only pray that the original
may not also be hung as the last act of his
career, and thereby cast a slur on the Aus-
tralian Pantheon. Many of them, no doubt,
will get Into gaol, or skip to Valparaiso In a
coal-ship ; a few will drift Into benevolent
asylums and inebriate homes ; here and
there a member of the band of immortals,
after proudly hanging up the plan and ele-
vation of his own countenance to be revered
so long as paint and canvas will last, will
become a broken-down vagrant camping on
the damp grass of the public parks, or a
sneak-thief hovering round back-doors and
murky alleys ; but the country expects
nothing better, and so long as its great men
are not hanged the National Portrait Gal-
lery will probably answer all reasonable ex-
pectations. And at the worst it is consoling
to reflect that canvas is a perishable thing,
and that young Australia will one day rise
In disgust and drive Its foot through the pic-
tured heads of the Sunday-school bun-
struggle statesmen who refuse to recognise
the fact that they are dead, and thus the
problem will be settled, and the bogus Im-
mortals wiped out for ever.
* * ft
Statues and pictures, monuments and
brazen columns—all are equally powerless to
rescue from oblivion the fame of men who
were built on the parish-beadle plan, and
who never did one act which was worthy of
remembrance. Even the bronze figure of
royalty which was recently erected in Sydney
with so much pomp and ceremony will some
day be dragged downbyanation of Iconoclasts
who rememberViCTOßiA only as the daughter
of her father, the richest and meanest woman
on earth, the friend and patron of the asth-
matic Brown, and the authoress of that
hearse-like catalogue of small beer, “ Leaves
from my Journal In the Highlands.” The
martial figure of General Gordon, built in a
bunt of bjsteilcs by old women of loth
sexes in Melbourne, will be sold for old
metal when the raving crank of Khartou m I
estimated at his true value as a bkodthir fc 8
fanatic who gained his laurels by butcher? *
thousands of patriots in support of a ba
barous Chinese Emperor and a murderous
Egyptian Viceroy ; and along with the
the images of a hundred
dotards will be disposed of by the pound
melted down to be made into naila and
forks and agricultural implements. t ron
and brass, marble, canvas and paint will
crumble into equally Impalpable dust be
neath the withering breath of public con'
tempt. The lost arts of the Egyptian
embalmers may be resurrected to preserve
and hand down to posterity the remains of
the dry-goods statesman and the pnbllc-house
senator ; the blatant calf-butcher may b e
stuffed and smoked, and the usurious boot-
maker pickled and hung up to dry l n the
wind, and, by dint of mysterious arts, the
outer husk of the loud-mouthed tea-merchant
may be secured for ten centuries against the
corroding Influences of decay, but posterity
will tread on their ashes and dig up their
monuments all the same. The names that
are worth preserving will live In history and
in the memory of the human race. Coiujr-
bus wants no monument; Moses will scram-
ble along without a dead-house as the old
Jewish law-giver has already done for thirty
centuries ; the great Redeemer’s story will
endure while the earth continues to revolve
though no one raises slabs of may or eques-
trian figures on i s account; and for the rest
—for Parkes and Abigail and Gillies and
all the crowd of one horse drivellers whose
names are written large In the columns of
the daily press—all the granite on earth
cannot build a monument large enough to
save them from utter extinction.
A Trap for the Single Tax Vole.
Eveb since the last general election in New South
Wales proved that the cause of Foreign-trade was
tottering on its last legs beside an eternal grave
a tremendous effort has been made by the Foreign-
trade Press to borrow the Single Tax vote in order
to shore up the dying superstition by which they
live and move and have their government-adver-
tising. Freetrade and Land Nationalisation, we are
told, are one; Socialism and Chinese cheap slops
go together; universal freedom and the right of
the white Australian to starve in order to afford
employment to the low-priced Kanaka and Hindoo
are practically the same; and the surest way to
gain Protection against the evils of landlordism is
to vote for the crowd of landholders and capita'
lists and pawnbrokers who follow Henry Pakkbs
This zeal for Land Nationalisation is a new feature
in the Foreign-trade programme. Years ago, when
The Bulletin, standing absolutely alone among
Australian journals, first demanded the nationa-
lisation of the lands of this continent as a neces-
sary concomitant to Protection for Native
Industry, it was supported by not one single
voice in the Freetrade Press—and in these days
the Australian Press, outside of Victoria, was
I reetrade almost to the last rag; the idea was
hooted and jeered on every hand, and it was only
when it became evident that Protection was at
hand and that Land Nationalisation was coming
that the organs of Oobden’s superstition resolved
to fraternise with the devil that was far off and
use him to defeat the devil that was close at
hand. Then a great effort wss made to borrow
the Single Tax vote in support of the crumbling
fetich of Foreign-trade, in order to divide
the Protectionist party against itself and to
separate the men of progress into two hostile
sects which, it was hoped, would gradually
destroy each other. There is hardly any attempt
to disguise the nature of this mercenary scheme.
The Sydney Telegraph, even while abjectly
begging for the support of the Land Nationalisa-
tion section, frankly states that it wants their
suffrages to prop up its own cause and to stave off
the ruin which hangs over the great importing
monopoly, and with unobtrusive frankness it
admits that when this end is achieved the party
must hustle for its own interests without any
support from the men who have used it for their
own miserable purposes and then thrown It away.
It has so low an opinion of the intellect of what
it considers a band of simple-minded visionaries
that it does not even attempt to convey its mean-
ing in equivocal phrases, but seta it forth with
brutal directness in these words :
Moderate thinkers, however, will hold that this single
tax agitation may have a good and beneficial efi'ect on
our politics, even though its principles are in their full
extent never carried out. Many of us strongly hold by
the principle of a land tax, and stand on the side of John
Stuart Mill in believing that the community is entitled
to share by means of taxation in the unearned increment
in land values without being able to see our way to doing
without _ any other kind of taxation. If the land
nationalisers help us to secure a land tax as a means of
equalizing taxation they will do the State good service.
If they help to stave off that system of taxation which
desires in the interests of selfish monopolists to impose
crushing duties on every consumer, and especially on the
great masses of the people, their labours will be productive
of great and general benefit. And as for their own more
especial doctrines, they must wait for the realisation of
these till they can bring the people round to their way
of thinking.
• •
There is some valuable information for the Land
Nationalisation party in these lines. They are to
be used in the first place to “stave off” Protec-
tion, and to support the self-interests of the im-
porting monopolists who deny the right of
Australians to manufacture their own goods lest
they should interfere with the 25 per cent, tax
which the importer levies on the consumer in the
name of “commission;” and having done this,
“they must_ wait till they can bring the people
round to their own way of thinking ” without any
assistance from the Foreign-trade organisation,
which has used them for its own miserable ends.
They must wait till they have persuaded Bukdekin
to surrender his vested millions, and Burns to
nationalise his Hornsby estate, and Pabkes to
acknowledge the nation's right to the nexo North
Shore property which comes into his hands, and
when the Land Nationalisers are old and grey, and
their theories and their treatises are cmsted
over with the accumulated barnacles of cen-
turies they will still be waiting for the party
of landlordism and conservatism to recognise


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
Directors :
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chaikman.
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Intebest on Deposits :
12 Months ... per cent.
3
T. S. RICHARDSON Managing Director,
6
the firtitiis that they teach. The proposed alliance
hetwefin Land Nationalisation and Foreign-trade is
an uimatural uiiion between the Nineteenth Cen-
tury and the FiTst. Foreign trade and stagnation
go hand-in-hand in Australia, and wherever Cob
denism is rampant there the nation lags behind in
the march of progress. Victoria has enjoyed the
blessings of Local Saif-government for 25 years ;
New South Wales has enjoyed 25 years of Parkes,
and when a culvert or a plank bridge is wanted in
the country districts it can only be obtained
through the intercession of a politician who votes
the Foreign-trade ticket. Victoria has driven in
the thin end of the wedge of Lard Nationalisation
by imposing a tax on land —a measure which was
carried by the Protectionist party after a frenzied
struggle on the part of Freetrade and landlordism
to avert the innovation; New Saith Wales was
promised a land-tax at the general election of 1887,
as on innumerable occasions before, and a verdant
country fondly hoped that Treasurer Burns was
going to levy an impost on his own properties
with Burdekin to back him up in his self-sacrifice;
but the land-tax never came, and instead an in-
creased duty on Australian tobacco, imposed for
the avowed purpose of encouraging the consump-
tion of the imported American leaf, made things
square on a Freetrade basis and deprived hundreds
tif Australians of their means of livelihood. The
programme put forward by GilLiEs, the avowed
Conservative of Victoria, is ten times more ad-
vanced than any yet issued by any Ftee-
traae politician in New South Wales, and even
ihe men of stagnation in the Protectionist
colony have advanced so far ahead of the so-
called men of progress and Freetrade that
a hundred years will hardly serve to lessen
the gap. The party with whom the if if ant
Socialistic organisation is called upon to ally itself
is the party which, under the leadership of Parkes,
fought to the last gasp for sectarian schools and
against free public education, the party which has
refused over and over again to impose a land-tax
even of the smallest dimensions, and which is now
bidding for the pastoral vote by promising to hand
over to the squatters, on almost any terms, all the
vast interior of the countiy, and thus to make
Land Nationalisation impossible for generations.
It is the same party which, in the United States,
waged four years of dreadful warfare to uphold
negro slavery, with all its attendant horrors, and
which in France was headed by the sham Cesar
who ruined his country at Sedan. It is the dying
faction of foreign capital and stupidity and retro-
gression which seeks to shore up its falling
woodeuness by involving the cause of Socialism in
its ruin. Land Nationalisation will never receive
any genuine support from the Foreign-traders of
New South Wales. In a half-hearted way they
lend it countenance in the hope of thereby staving
off Protection, and they take this course only
because Protection is very near, and Land
Nationalisation very far off. If the positions
were reversed, then Parkes would call on Dibbs
to sit beside him and be his brother, and Burns
would weep on the bosom of Melville and implore
him to sink all past differences and aid him in
swamping the band of fanatics who wanted to
tax his Hornsby estate, and there would be a
fresh shuffle of the political cards and a change of
front which would make the disciples of Henry
George sit up in amazement to inquire if things
were really what they seemed or if life was only
a vision. When the Land Nationalisation party
has “staved off” Protection or has proved its
inability to galvaniz 5 the interests of the foreign
aoftgocds trade into new life—when it has been
used or has proved its uselessness for the unclean
purpose to which it is to be applied—then Land
reformers, Socialists, Single Tax apostles and all
the rest may go out and hang themselves in a
waste place by the sea.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Vole of Bridget Muldoon.
Feminine suffrage is to come some day in New
South Wales. Premier Parkes is going to per-
form this great work before he dies, 50 years
hence, at the age of 120 ; and along with this
reform he promises to establish genuine manhood
suffrage by abolishing the ten and twenty-fold
votes of capital which saved his demoralised cause
from utter wreck at the election of 1889, But he
is careful to state that the question of electoral
law will have to be dealt with “as a whole,”
which means that all urgent reforms must wait
while an elephantine literary effort of some 200
or 300 clauses is being prepared, and urged on its
toilsome way through the Legislature, Compre-
hensive measures are Parkes’ strong point.
When an urgent question is waiting to be dealt
with he loves to draft a gigantic Act of Parlia-
ment in 900 joints and fragments, which deals not
only with the matter at issue, but with everything
that is remotaly connected with it, and with
everything that has ever been seen or heard or
dreamt of that can by any human possibility be
tacked on to the original question right back to
the 40th generation. Womanhood suffrage, under
this elaborate system of legislation, is a long way
off, and manhood suffrage—so far as Parkes is
concerned —is still more remote. For Parkes’
real object, in bringing the enfranchisement of
woman so prominently to the front, is to postpone
the day when he or someone else will have to en-
franchise man on the only equitable basis of one
vote to every citizen. The enfranchisement of
woman will come first, and then, on the ground that
the female voter cannot be placed on a higher
level than the male elector, her suffrage will be
based on the old property qualification, so that the
wives and daughters of the millionaires who
holler for Foreign-trade may roll up along with
their husbands and fathers, and deposit their half-
dozen votes apiece for the good cause. Mrs. Pon-
sonby Smyth, the genteel landowner, will count
as eight or ten separate women at the poll, while
her servant Bridget Muldoon, the gur-r-rl who
washes the dishes and sweeps up, will only reckon
as one—or possibly will not reckon at all. Mrs.
Snip, the wife of the rich haberdasher, will have
an appreciable voice in the government of the
country, but the vuiia of Mary Jane Robinson,
the young woman who works for Snip at 255. a
week, will not ba loud enough to be worth listen-
ing to. The rich woman who runs the fashionable
restaurant will be enfranchised as a matter of
course, but what are the chances of the poor little
waitress who earns £1 a week by 13 hours daily
toil, and for whom no eight-hours movement has
yet been inaugurated ? Considering the miserable
wages paid to women in moat branches of in-
dustry, and the tremendous amount of work ex-
acted in return, it is evident that it is not the
jewelled lady of Potts Point who is most in want
of a voice in the making of laws, yet, so far,
almost all proposals for feminine suffrage have
concerned the female “ householder ” and the
female “ratepayer;” and among the ladies
who are leading the movement the name
of Mart Jane Robinson is never visible.
“ One man one vote ” is the electoral refoira which
is most wanted in New South Wales, and follow-
ing the clause in which this is made law, there is
room for another, providing that every woman
shall also have one vote, and one only, and that
Mrs Ponsonby de Smith and Bridget Muldoon
—having each a soul to be saved and a golden harp
to gain in the Hereafter —shall stand on an equal
level. A bill of a dozen lines would cover both
these changes, and after they have been enacted
the other items of the proposed electoral amend-
ment could be dealt with in the customary huge,
floundering Act of Parliament, on whose dis-
tracted pages 350 clauses are at perpetual variance
with the other 400, while the whole 750 only
serve to contradict everything else in the New
South Wales Statute Book. The hideous uncer-
tainty of the “great” measures drafted by the
Parkes Administration would be fatal to the plain
and simple principle which we have foreshadowed ;
clause 276, which provided that every man should
have one vote, would be muddled into hopeless
derangehiient by clause 422, setting forth that no
man should vote unless he was a woman, and
finally the vast measure, w&en inspected by the
judicial eye of the law courts, would probably be
found to abolish human suffrage altogether and
transfer it to cows and other inferior animals.
For which reasons we ask Parkes to spare us that
comprehensive Act which nobody will ever compre-
hend, and supply in its stead something short and
plain with sense in it instead of literary trimmings,
and brains in lieu of the ruins of dictionaries and
the tatters of encyclopaedias.
♦
Ntvv Clauses lor tire Creed-
Labouchebe drops down heavily in Troth upon
those colonial bishops who “ hear the voice of the
Loro cdling them home to England ” whenever
there is a chance of a fatter billet than they hold
in Australia, but he is just a little bit out of bis
reckoning when he advises the “ colonial ” clergy
to choose their bishops from their own ranks.
Surely he knows that Australian clergymen are
themselves Imported by their bishops from the
mother-country. The bishops are not such
Jugginses as to import fellows who would be
capable of any such trick as that. lade id, the
average “colonial ” clergyman could not say booh
to a bishop, far less elect or contradict one. When
soapy Samuel Thornton, now Bishop of Ballarat,
came out from Birmingham 14 years ago, he
decided to import 15 new gospel-shtrps and set
about getting them from England. His clergy,
who had lived long under a Protectionist regime,
implored mercy and begged him to promote those
he had at hand. He mildly and lovingly told the
memorialists to mind their own hmitcie, and said
he should do as he pleased, which he did. There
are several articles of faidh accepted by the Aus-
tralian branch of the Church of England which,
though not down in the prayer-book, are well
defined and obeyed. Here are two or three of
them : —
I. There is not a colonial clergyman fit to be a colonial
bishop.
II. There is not a colonial student fit to be a colonial
clergyman.
HI. There is not a colonial bishop who would not drop
the colonies like a hot potato if he could get an extra
hundred or two yearly for the job.
IV. There’s hardly one colonial clerical dignitary who
cares one snap for anything but the loaves and fishes.
V. The Australian Episcopal clergy are, on the whole, so
dull a lot that there are but few amongthem whose society
any sensible man would willingly endure for five minutes.
♦
Two Illustrations.
This deep political and economic joke is taken
from a Sydney Foreign trade paper
At Dunedin (N.Z.), a donkey kicked a child, last month,
killing it instantly, and thus giving employ ment to a lan-
guishing undertaker and imparting sudden briskness to
the grave-digging, shroud-sewing, and tin
cherub industries. The secretary of the Protection
League has written a fraternal letter to the animal eulo-
gising its intelligent efforts at fiscal reform, and making
it a life-member ol the central branch.
We note with regret that the Dunedin donkey
didn’t kick that child in New South Wales, so
that the little corpse might have had an imported
coffin, and an epitaph setting forth that its tomb-
stone was “made in Germany,” and that no
dashed Australian made a cent out of the funeral.
But the above is only half the joke, anyhow.
Here is the other half :—
In Sydney, yesterday, John Smith, a fat man with a
white waistcoat and a double chin, ejected from his f flioe
his old father who had been employed there as a clerk at
30s. a week. As he shot the aged man into the gutter
and fired his hat after him he was heard to remark that it
was the duty of all true citizens to pay proper respect to
the doctrines of politic al economy, atd that it was a crime
for any man in business not to buy Ms labour in the
cheapest market. He also pointed out to old Smith in the
gutter that Free Competition in all branches of labour
meant cheap food, and that he would be able to buy his
victuals at a low rate in consequence cf the ports be'ng
open to foreign labour and the products of foreign in-
dustry. Old Smith now dosses with the vagrants in the
Domain, and his chair in the office is filled by a half-bred
black at 25s. a week, whose father wasimpoited by a man
named Parkks with a view to putting a head on the
cheeky white printers of New South Wales.
♦
London Standard has the dull, Tory impudence
to consider that Mr. Parnell should explain why
he was so reticent with regard to those forged
“letters,” and thus compelled Parliament to
creatre a special tribunal for the purpose of burst-
ing up the Times’ case. Parnell’s explanation
on this matter may be taken as read. If he had
written to the Times, stating that the letters were
manufactured to the order of a syndicate of
nobility and gentry, the editor would have pub-
lished the letter with a sarcastic foot-note to the
effect that Parnell was a liar. If the “un-
crowned King” had stumped the country, de-
claring his innocence to the four winds of heaven,
the Press of England (with a few honourable ex-
ceptions) would have cut dreary little jokes at his
expense, while the add'e-pated “patriotic” party
expressed their hereditary belief in the blessed
Times, asking “if he didn’t write the letters, who
did?” So long as the Iimes refused to give the
name of the man who was hoaxing the silly old
organ, Parnell had no chance to crush an iavis
ble foe. He held his tongue, therefore, and by eo
doing lured Parliament into taking action that
resulted in the unwilling production of Pigott
by the journal that would otherwise have con-
tinued to trade upon his anonymous villainy.
»
From the news summary of that respectable white
man’s paper, the S.M. Herald •
The knives which were used to assassinate Lord Frede-
rick Cavendish and Mr. Burke in Phoenix Park, Dublin,
were, previous to the murders, exhibited in the offices of
the National League, Westminster, London.
This reads like absolutely damning proof that the
Irish National League is an association of mur-
derers —and also of asses of the first water. But
on referring to the cablegrams in another column
the matter is explained :
At the sitting of the Timbs- Parnell Commission to-day,
George Mulquebny deposed that the knives used by the
assassins of Lord Fredbsick Cavendish and Mr. Burke,
in the Phcgnix Park, Dublin, were exhibited previously to
the offence in the offices of the National League at West-
minster.
Nobody in Australia ever heard of Mr. Mul-
quebny before. He may be an assassin himself,
or a hired perjurer just cat of gaol, or a spy and
informer, or a guttersnipe picked up in White-
chapel to swear for eighteenpence, or a lunatic,
for all the Herald knows to the contrary, but
because he says that the National League organised
wholesale murder and that it was so hopelessly
besotted in its idiocy as to advertise the murder
beforehand the Herald accepts the statement as
proved, and publishes it as ascertained fact.
Probably the majority of the Herald’s readers
will fail to notice the discrepancy, however; a
long continued study of the Herald unfits most
men for noticing anything; but by way of illustra-
tion we would ask Editor Curnow to put the two
following statements in print and then stand out-
side and look at himself.
There is no such thing as a God.
This would probably stagger the Herald sub-
scribers a little, but when they turned to the
column o'! cable-lies and saw the following they
would doubtless feel better :
William Sloggins, of Millbank Penitentiary, swore at
the chaplain this morning and said there isn’t any such
thing as a God.
Possibly the public might want to know who Mr.
Sloggins was, but that doesn’t signify. We
want to know who Mr Mulqukeny is, for that
matter, but no information seems to be forth-
coming. Sloggins on theology would probably
be as good an authority as Mulqueent on politics
and assassination—in fact he might easily be
better, for as Slogging' would doubtless get a few
days “solitary” for his outburst of opinion he
would be a martyr suffering for the faith that was
in him, while MuLQBENr doesn’t suffer at all-
most likely he gets paid in some form or other for
his evidence, Consequently, Mr. Sloggins has
the balance of probabilities on his side, and yet his
impious assertion would make the hair of the
entire Herald staff stand up on end like the
fre ful po cupine, and the sub editor who at-
tempted to put it in piiub would be fired out into
the street. Uf such materials is logic constructed.
+
Among the Parliamentary “ electors” of Balmain,
Sydney, are agents for pills and soap who have
leased prominent recks on which they advertise
their wares, and as the rocks pay rates, the recks
have votes. This is the result of “my electoral
law,” that “ inestimable blessing ” which Parkes
has bestowed upon his country. Thus a pill ad. is
as important a factor in determining the political
policy of the country as the brawny-handed iron-
worker ; and the man who is out of work as the
result ot Freetrade is mocked at by an imported-
soap placard which takes the suffrage of its flaring
print to the poll and votes to keep him un-
employed. When the residential electors awaken
to a sense of their duty they will squash the
pill-box flat, and wash the soap-man out of the
electorate.
♦
The Argus is reiterating its ridiculous arguments
in defence of absentee landlordism and endeavour-
ing to demonstrate that the “ Home ’’-established
owners of Australian land differ in no way from
English investors in Australian securities —whereas
the ones are wringing money from the soil, while
the others are pouring money upon it. This is a
shallow old trick peculiar to the Aegus, and it
pretty clearly shows that the editor has a grand
faith in the woodenheaded ness of the class he
caters for. To expose the utter fallacy of such
reasoning we will assume that Sir Samuel Wilson
draws £lOO,OOO a year from his Victorian land,
and advances all that sum of money {as he might
do if he chose) to Canada. The Argus would
make out that Victoria, which gives Sir Salmon
his gold, is no worse off than Canada, which
pays only a medest interest for the free use of it.
Supposing that English investors in Australian
Government securities were advancing money
upon our lands, even in that case they would not
reap the crops, nor rob the country of a solitaiy
sheep. As it is, we are supplied with millions
upon no more tangible security than Government
promises to repay ; we put those millions into
various branches of the business cf the country,
and the concern goes ahead steadily. But the
English investors —absentee owners, as the Argus
affects to consider them—have no share in the
business. They don’t participate in the annual
profits. They star d to lose everything by a suc-
cessful German invasion or a violent upheaval of
the continent, and never stand to gain anything but
the natural increment of the cash supplied to us.
They are more desirable creditors than our lecal
capital!ss would be, because the countiy can’t yet
afford to sink its own little bit of “ ready ” (and it
is but a very little b t) in per cent. loans to
Government. Real absentee owners, on the other
band, are mere drain-pipes through whom wealth
trickles away from the soil, or from the industries
supported by it. In very few instances did they
ever bring anything into the country they are now
impoverishing. Many of them haven’t contributed
one fair day’s work to that general prosperity
upon which they are waxing fat afar off. And
the Argus is so alarmed at the mention of a tax
upon these bloodsuckers that it tries to strangle
the proposal in a web of impudent sophistry.
Dear Bulletin, —A good deal of talk, ink and
paper have been expended re the bogus cry about
the New South Wales Education Act, But it
strikes me that what we want is an alteration of
the present educational system so as to bring it
more in consonance with purely Australian senti-
ment. We servilely follow English systems of
education which m any able crioics nave condemned
even there, but how much greater h the necessity
for condemnation in Australia I We live in houses
built on English pa'terns, wish high pitched roofs
and windo v-mouldings to throw eff snow which
never falls; we u»e English clothes —English every-
thing in tact. In the public schools I believe
English history is taught, the usual olla podrida
written by literary camp-followers. As to cur own
history, the children know not a single word of it
a hen they leave school. I should imagine that
for instance a condensed edition cf The Bulle-
tin's “ History of Botany Bay ” would be just
about the thing the advanced classes of the school
should study. Not only that, but children are
crammed right up to the eyes with facts and!
figures as to the heights of Centra! Asian or Cen-
tral African mountains or plateaux, where probably
they will never have the misfortune to go, and if
they did the said facts and figures wouldn’t be erf
any use to them. If it is necessary to know these
things, I submit that they could easily be learnt
in after years with a much less expenditure
of brain power. At the same time the chil-
dren who cm reel off figures about Popoca-
tepetl. Kilminaj arc, &c., cannot tell a weary
traveller the shortest! way to Dubbo. Cur educa-
tional system is defective, too, inasmuch as it ex-
pects the school-teacher to be a man of as many
gifts as the admirable Crichton; the natural
consequence is that the teaching has become a
veneer, a pretence. One other thing that should
be stopped is the practice of politicians going
round to school exhibitions and advertising their
own virtues, and sometimes the works they have
written. It is essentially wrong that members- of
Parliament or other persons at these celebrations
should trot out the ancient gag about “ Sir
Henry Parkes, the great and glorious founder
of the Public School system.” “ Sir Henry
Parkes, who gave your children all the bless-
ings you now enjoy.” This sort of thing was
lately done at Waterloo (Sydney) Public School,
and the children were ordered to give three
cheers for Parkes, but a slight gloom fell on
the company when one of the boys called for
three cheers for the Nationalist party—and got
them Sir Henry Parkes’ friends had better say
as little as possible about his connection with the
Public Schools. The teachers don't want to see
him or hear about him any more, I can assure you.
lam one of them, and I’ll take care that, should
anyone ever attempt to publicly extol such a man
on the premises I control, I’ll administer a strong
antidote. —Z.
“In He A Gentleman, One.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
When an attorney is called before the Pull Court to
answer for any alleged misconduct it is not usual to pub-
lish his name until he is found guilty; until then the
matter appears in the papers as “ In re a Gentleman, Oae
of the Attorneys of the Supreme Court,” or, more shortly,
t ‘ In re a Gentleman, Oae.”
We see it each day in the paper,
And knew that there’s mischief in store
That some unprofessional caper
Has landed a shark on the shore.
We know there’ll be plenty of trouble
Before they get through with the fun,
Because he’s been coming the double
On clients, has “ Gentleman, One.”
Alas! for the gallant attorney,
Intent upon cutting a dash,
Sets out on life’s perilous journey
With rather more cunning than cash.
And fortune at first is inviting—
He struts his brief hour in the sun—
But lo ! on the wall is the writing
Of Nemesis, “ Gentleman, One,”
For soon he runs short of the dollars,
He fears he must go to the wall;
So Peter’s trust-money he collars
To pay off his creditor, Paul;
Then robs right and left—for he goes it
In earnest when once he’s begun.
Descensus Averni —he knows it;
It’s easy for “ Gentleman, One.”
The crash comes as sure as the seasons ;
He loses his coin in a mine,
Or booming in land, or for reasons
Connected with women and wine.
Or maybe the cards or the horses
A share of the damage have done.
No matter ; the end of the course is
The same ; “ i?e a Gantleman, One.”
He struggles a while to keep going,
To stave off detection and shame ;
Bat creditors clamorous growing
Ere long put an end to the game.
At length the poor soldier of Satan
His course to a finish has run—
And just think of Windeyer waiting
To deal with “ a Gentleman, One!”
And some face it boldly, and brazen
The shame and the utter disgrace ;
While others, more sensitive, hasten
Their names and their deeds to efface.
They snap the frail thread which the Euries
And Fates have so cruelly spun.
May the Great Final Judge and His juries
Have mercy on “ Gentleman, One!"
BANJO.
Charlc s Lott was admitted Into the Mel-
bourne Hospital the other day, suffering from a
savere wound in the head sustain'd by some heavy
weight falling upcn h ! m at a local newspaper
office. He must have been a new employe at the
Daily Telegraph office, or he'd have known
enough to stand from under manuscript leaders.
Dear Bulletin, — Duacan Gillies did nob
arriva in Ballarat till after the Eureka fight. I
believe that his first and last claim was the “ Great
Republic ” (Sturt-atreet, Inkerman Lead.) I knew
him for several years. We used to meet at the
North Grant Hotel at billiards. I have often
seen him come out of the shaft dripping with
water and with a sou’-wester hanging to his
shoulders.—R.L


Everybody says—and what everybody says mast be Irne
—ttial Pemeil’e Snow-whiti Pi tint Bolmi Flooi It tht
blit In the market.
“Mt Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Soite to mewrare for £8 Be
A coi(g)n of vantage—a Sovereign.
“ More Pappery than Fiscal ” —Abigail.
A Melbourne burglar has robbed the Bev.
Dr. Strong of a considerable amount of silver-
ware. “ Lay not up to yourselves treasures on
earth , . . where thieves break in and steal.”
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. H. HACLABDI,
Stationer, Engraver, General Ueroantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, Ac., Ac.
Madardy't M Boa of Stationery a tpeeieUty. Sent for
Lift 0/ Contentt.
Meta Address— ——
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of XmaaOardi
•nd Panov Goode. Inspection Invited
When next yon bake try Pemell’e Sjkow-wditi Paim*
Rollh fu>Uß, end year breed will be ec white m enew.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Suspense” : Sketch received....“ George R ” :
Aren't you having’ a dig at a business rival ? Nothing
humorous in the incident, anyway..." J.J.D.”: Nothing
in the item “ J.S.L.”: Hal Hal “ 5.0. C.” : Can-
not well insert local reports of the kind you send. ..
“0.P.5.” (Parkes): We cannot inform you “ A.T.”
(Omeo); Much obliged... .“W.D.W.”: It is due to the
neglect of the proper official to purge the roll
“ M.M.” : Anyhow, a " business ” man has never yet suc-
ceeded as Chancellor of the Exchequer in England
“ John Dixon ” (Wagga): No : he has never had to do so.
Bibo ”; It is Australian Mutual Provident
“F.H.” (Towers): Many thanks "P.T.” (Melb.):
Many thanks “ T.S.M.” (Constant S.): 1. No; notun-
less records have been kept by the family. 2. We have
never heard of such oases occurring under modern
civilisation. As a matter of fact, few persons now die of
the disease named, which is a very tractable one. 3. Yes ;
not actually inferior animals, but having resemblance to
inferior animals “Timothy Shanahan”: Egan’s ap-
pointment to a Ministership by the U.S. Government goes
to disprove the allegation that be is “ a dynamiter and
assassin.” The high diplomatic representatives of the
U.S. are at least as dean and cultivated as those of Great
Britain. We don’t wonder at your being sore over The
Times fiasco and Parnell’s triumph. The abstract justice
of the Irish claim for Home Rule would not be affected
one whit, even were it proved that all the Irish members
are scoundrels and murderers “Flap Jack”: Many
thanks. Will use presently “ E.P.S ” : The Protec-
tionist colonies, we beg leave to remark, are the only ones
which tax the land “Bricktop” : (1.) They couldn’t
get his portrait. (2.) You will never regret learning Pit-
man’s shorthand—unless you become a reporter on a
“ respectable ” daily paper and ate compelled to appear at
a suburban police-court at 10 a.m. after working in Parlia-
ment until 4 a.m..." F.K.”: Results, we are assured, all
posted. If you have not received one it is the fault of
the Post office...." E.N.D,” (Oondobolin): Protection
and the Single Tax can go together. Freetrade—at least
the only kind of Freetrade practised in England and New
South Wales—cannot, and a thousand Henry Georges
cannot alter this fact. When the Single Tax system is
adopted in Victoria or New Zealand it will be necessary
—not to take the duties off those articles which are
capable of manufacture in the country and to open the
ports to a flood of Chinese and Indian shoddy, bat to in-
crease those duties to such an extent that the importation
of the articles in question will altogether cease, and then,
despite the existecoa of the tariff, the returns from the
customs will be nil. At the same time the duties cn
articles which cannot ba produced in the country will be
altogether abolished, and the tax on land will then be-
come practically the sole sourca of revenue. Freetrade,
as practised in England and New South Wales, is fatal to
the Single Tax idea At present England, the one Free-
trade country of Europe, levies annually £20,000,000 in
customs duties, all of which only tend to raise prices, be-
ing charged on articles which the country cannot pro-
duce; while Franc?, the most heavily protected country
in the suns continent, raises only £12,000,000 in customs
and is consequently £8,000,000 a year nearer to George’s
ileal than her neighbour. Freetrade New South Wales
raises £2,000,000 in customs, and her Freetraders are
mostly men like Street who las his kerosene industry
protected by a 33 per cent, duty, and being thus rate
himself demands Freetrade for everybody else’s industry.
When the Streets and their (riends are prepared to let
their own pariioular industries go broke for the sake of Land
Nationalisation then—and not till then—will it be possible
lor Freetrs de of their brand and the Singl e Tax to go tegeth er
..." J.M.W.”(Redfarn): Thanks “ W.T.” (Corrijong):
Letter to hand. Speech apparently nowhere “A
Constant Reader We must again inspect the picture.
“Billy the Native”: Many thanks for the informa-
tion. So far as memory serves, however, the new version
is pretty much like the old one “ C.A.T.”: Not up to
the mark...W.H.K. ’ (Melb.): Many thanks....
“ Mao” (Bundaberg): Rather good yarn. When we have
inserted a few more oaths and strong language will do
admirably. If you didn’t stick so closely to the truth
you might do some good in literature “Y.Y.”; If the
Americans tad only extended Protection to Labour they
would have had no great Labour problem to face. The
Congress Emigration Committee reports that the cause
of the degradation cf the lower branches of American-
labour is the deluge of Italians, Russians, Poles, Duto\
Hungarians, and Bohemians. They recommend that the
same rules that apply to the Chinese should apply to all
forms of imported pauper labour. What the States are cry-
ing for is not less Protection, but more Protection—not
abrogation but the extension of it to its logical outcome
the protection of labour as well as of the products cf labour.
“Lanty ” : The pugilisis you mention find it easier to
fight in a 500-mile ring with soft newspapers than to come
to close quarters with their fists “ Corry ” (Enmore):
Sydney dailies support Foreign-trade because Foreign-
trade ads. support the Sydney dailies. When Foreign-
trade is squelched for ever you will see these great
Foreign-trade dailies down on their knees licking the
blacking off the boots of the manufacturing magnates.
"Australian”: Many thanks ‘ Subscriber”: Re-
ceived ..." Omega ”: The Queen's U rally name is Guelph,
that of Prince Consort was Wettin. So that if royalty and
titular distinction are abolished in Her Graci ms’ time she
will be entitled to the name of the Frau Wettin “A
Miner ” (Eidsvol J): The mining laws of Queensland grossly
prejudice the interests cf the working miner in his re-
lations with the squatter and the syndicate-man. It is
monstrous that a man who pays a pepp;rcorn rental for
the grazing righls to a large tract cf Crown lands should
be admitted to have acl rim to the minerals. He morally
has no more right to a royalty from the minerals than he has
to stop his employes from breathing the air over his holding.
“ W.W.”; Thanks. The most that can be said is that
Harrison was in the position where he had nothing either
to hope or to fear. He was hanged for muidtr, but said
he was innooent. If he lied about himself he may also
have lied about Cordini, so his statements out two ways.
It is possible, but surely it is not very probable, that both
be and Cordini were guiltless...." J.F.H.” (Gresford):
It is an old anecdote adapted from London Punch
"Carton C.” : Yes, £350 a year is here and there charged
for an eight-roomed house in Sydney—in Maoquarie-
street, for insfcancs, but then only as a professional ad-
dress for a doctor or something of that s'rb...,
"John Black"; Hope soon to print “Hudson
C. Shaw”: Received “J. T. O’D " (Silverton):
Still hard at work. Thanks “J J M.” : Thanks
“ A.E ” : Cremation is legal in N.Z “Lord Tenny-
son”: Ingenious, yet unsuitable “Peeping Tom”:
We don’t care whether he returns or not “A.W.W.”:
Solomon was the first great advocate of corporal punish-
ment, and, to judge from his son Rehoboam, it proved a
dismal failure— “A.A ”: Sir Henry has burnt his fingers
over that Walker-phosphorousepistle. Much capital cannot
be made out of any subject which Editor Winter, of
Melbourne Herald, has threshed out “ Nationalist":
You will find an account of the voyage of “The First
Fleet” in The Bulletins “ H’sbory of Botany Bay,”
price Is “H. Bros ” : Next week. Too late for this
isiue..T. Pearson’’(Bay of Islands, N.Z ); Thanhs
for your suggestion whion shall not be lost sight cf
“ K 0.G.”: Not bad, but rot good enough “N.MO”
(Melbourne): Thanks. Will notice “A Constant
Reader” (Adelaide): Your letter only shows that the
Cowan concerts in Adelaide were about as miserable as
the Cowan concerts everywhere else, and were run on
strictly money-making lines without regard to the com-
fort of anybody. Do you really expect to enjoy yourself
at a fashionable concert ?
EPITAPH SUGGESTED FOR CORDINI.
Here lieth one Cordial, who
Was hanged for what he didn’t do ;
Remembered be he by this token —
Hia neck and English both were broken ;
A stranger in a stranger land
He stood, yet could not understand
Much of his trial, save a sentence.
So, when exhorted to repentance,
Cordini shook his head and waited
Until his spirit was translated
To Heaven, where they made it plain
The wrong one had been hanged again.
One, Treasure, has just gone to Darling-
hurst Gaol for two years. Treasure is now where
moths and rust cannot corrupt, and thieves will
not break in and steal.
Young Kerry, the New Guinea explorer,
has not yet been successful in finding a publisher
for his book of adventure. His stories are re-
garded in Loudon as about 75 per cent, overproof.
Frank Lincoln, the humourist, says that
Melbourne is the New York of Australia. It is
also in many respects like Cologne on the Rhine.
The only difference is that it is Melbourne on the
Yarra, and it is a toss-up which is most pro-
nounced.
Alexander Bigg, of 5 Lordship Mews,
Green Lanes, Stoke Newington, London, writes
to The Bulletin, asking our aid in discovering
the whereab mis of his brother, William Seabrook
Bigg, from whom his English relatives have not
heard for 29 years. Further information on
application at Bulletin Office.
We read that an hotel-keeper up Rock-
hampton (Q.) way owns an educated frog, which
takes the money for the drinks, hops into the till
and out again with the change, and croaks a
“ good morning ” to the customers with the graco
THE FORBIDDEN FRUIT.
Simply because one woman a year or two ago dropped grapes Into the
mouth of Dr. Rose, M.P., all the other women are now howling at him.
and finish of a 17th century courtier. From which
it doth appear that the N.S.W. Freetrade Asso-
ciation does not monopolise the collective wisdom
of the continent.
Sydney D.T, warns Parke s not to be led
away by the wiles of the Impel idistic carpet-
bagger, Sir Somers Vine, who has just arrived in
Australia to drum for Tummy and the Himperial
Hinstitoot. The world moves. Only the other
day the D.T. put its hat on top of its bayonet and
h:orayed and howled like anything for the gloiies
of the Soudan, and only the other day it was one
of the stoutest advocates of the “grape-shot”
policy in relation to Ihe disgraceful conduct of
those low people the Australian Nationalists, who
by their truculence at certain Jubilee meetings in
Sydney forced the respectable part of the com-
munity to pack the biggest city hall with prize-
fighters and footballers and artillerymen in mufti
for the purpose of putting down “ disloyalty.” It
is quite wonderful how fast we are progressing.
Nof very long since it wasn’t considered by the
first families that Lady Carington could safely
attend a political public meeting unless she was
escorted thereto by a set of hulking prize-fighters
with 18-inch jaws, and now the penny dailies
are actually warning people against having any-
thing to do with Imperialism.
Dingman’a electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de laines, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease-stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers,
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
[?]
846 Macquarle-street North, Sydney, March 27, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Sydney sassiety has a strange habit of periodically
inquiring, with suppressed ferocity, into the absurdity of
following foggy London “styles” in a land where the
meroury is nearly always hanging outside the thermome-
ter with a fan. Of course it is foolish to see our “ protec-
tors ” going round in Scotch tweed and “ nail kegs ’’ when
a veil and a palm-leaf seem to be the only things a
melting community could stagger under; and the idea of
our being encompassed about by whalebone from morn
till morn again—not to mention that deadly bag filled
with lead and wool (apparently) which our unhygienic
frock-builder calls an “improver,” and places in the small
of our back all seasons alike, where it rests like a dab of
fire upon our very spinal cord —instead of our adopting
loose, night-dressy sort of robes without corset or
fiery pad or anything uncomfortable or English—
simply points the moral that we don’t know enough to
come in out of the wet when our eyes are fixed on the
fashion plates of the “ Big Smoke.” And, moreover, I feel
convinced that no undress reformation will ever eventuate
while the temporary tenants of Government House walk
abroad in tweed and whalebone respectively. Sassiety
fo'lows them like sheep. Therefore, if Baron Bob stepped
gladly out tome warm day simply and thrlllingly attired
in his—ahem !—pyjamas, and if “Her Excellency” re-
ceived Sydney publicaneses and their companions in a
sort of glorified robe de nuit, the bond of Pall Mall would
fall eff from our spindle-shanked dudes and hour-glass-
waisted damsels, and everybody would come flopping out
in whatever seemed to them most adapted to a region
where occasionally there seemeth only to be a layer of
tissue paper between it and a place which would make
Darling Point swoon if I only mentioned it.
The furore at present raging in Sydney over the
governess question reminds one of an anecdote about a
squatter's lady who, far in the wild, wild bush, found
that she wanted a housemaid. Hearing that a suitable
girl was out of a place in the local township she wrote to
offer her the situation, and received the following
Chesterfleldian flourish“ Miss Bridget O'Toole pre-
sents her compliments to Mrs. Jumback, and regrets to
have to inform her that she is at present engaged in
taking musio-lessons, and fears that she cannot there
comply with Mrs, Jumback's request. But, as she under-
stands that Miss Jumbaok is an accomplished musician'
if she will undertake to continue the course of tuition*
Miss O’Toole will ba happy to aooept the appoint*
ment.” “ Miss O’Toole ” did not get the appo’ai,'
ment, of course, and I expect she kept on “ taking leg!
sons ” until she (bought herself qualified as a governess'
when she probably got a billet where ehe bad to work (or
16 hours and get lower wages than the cook. Such is fif e j
Girls prefer to serve ss governesses than to rule as cocks
and the consequence is that they have become so numer*
ous that a home must be erected for them, where thev
will sit, half-starved, and pray lor situations, while the
registry-office over the way is besieged by prostrate
matrons offering untold wealth to awful creatures, i n
wonderful attire, who go condescendingly andpatronis
ingly to rule with a rod cf iron and gel eighteen shillings
a week lor doing it. Yet, for a false idea of the “ disgrace”
of doing another person’s housework, women grow thin
and grey on the pittance of a teacher, instead of fat and
flourishing on a royal “screw." Why, it almost makes me
shed tears sometimes to think how many bad governfWßto
are erood oooks spoiled.
When I humbly desire to stand aghast in the presence
cf a truly great mind I turn to the “ Women’s Talk to
Women ”in the S.M.H. [Recently one of the many gages
who screech at stated intervals in that interesting column
delivered itself (one oan’t be sure of the sex) of a mile or
bo of effete maunderings on that interesting creature, the
“ Modern Woman.” It says:—
The modern woman is a little hard. She has thrown off
the soft veil of femininity which once enwrapped her like
a mist, and caused her sweetness to be felt the more
because the sense of it stole upon one gradually and
stands out now, brilliant and olear-out as a cameo. She
makes you feel her influence. True ; but in a manter as
soothing as that of an electric shock.
This is true. The Modern Female is a kind of eleotrio
shook—especially in evening dress, and she does indeed
make you feel her influence when she is letting her angry
passions rise, but she is not “ brilliant ” as a rule, and as
to her being “ clear out ” I don’t see who can tell that
unless it be her husband I This apostle of the woman of
to-day then goes on to point out that :
She Is fond of her children, tut never for one moment
will she allow them to interfere with her pleasure or
amusement. They are generally artificially nourished as
infants, and handed over to the care of nurse or governess
until brought out into the world to live its life in their
turn. For the woman of to-day is very young. To be
young is the fashion.
And here, dear, I think we’d better let the apostle go in
and win, don’t you ? If it can dip its pen into the ink
andjoalmly state, without the semb’anoe of a blush, that
the society woman is young, then it is either subsidised
by Potts Point or else it has never been to a Government
'Ouse ball or looked round a theatre on a “ command ”
night and counted the crow’s feet only half hidden by
the pearl-powder.
At the Waikato (N.Z.) arohidiaconal talkee-talkee an
unfeeling pillar of the Church rcss in his might to squelch
those romantic young persons whose speciality is becora-
ing engaged just for the “ perks ” of the thing as it
were, and then breaking it off when the spirit moves
them. And Willis (the pillar’s name was Willis) carried
the day, for “ it was ultimately decided that more public
notice should be given of intended marriages than the
present law provides,” and that “ the names of persons
intending marriage should be published in the news-
papers 1” Henceforth the land of the Maori and the Moa
will be but as an abomination of desolation to those whose
fancies lightly turn, &o. For though Waikato Romeos
and Juliets might fully intend to wbistie the arohidiaconal
ukase down the wind, still do I see a vision of a cold
hearted parent catching one fleeting glimpse of a golden
head on a gleaming paper shirt-front and then fleeing
noiselessly up the street in felt-slippers to insert a harrow-
ing statement in the local paper and nail that yourg man
for ever.
Mrs. Mala prop, discoursing recently on her adventures
abroad, remarked that when in Italy they visited Vesuvius
but “ there wasn't much to see, my dear,” she said, “ for
poor, dear Vesuviau wasn't erupting that day,” Being
asked how she liked foreigners generally, she replied—
“ Pretty well, but I’d not like a gal cf mine to have one cf
’em. I think it's alwaj s better for a gal to marry one of
her own sex.”
In his review of “ The Last Voyage cf Lady Brassey,”
the dissolving S.M. Herald wipes away a tear on a
rejected MS., and sobs out that “a pathetic interest
attaches to these pages, in at much as their unfinished
story is the last the reading world will get from the same
hand.” This is too, too barrowing ! How on earth will
we be able to get along without further minute partiou-
ars as to the 'ength “ Tom ” wore his hair, or when he cut
his coma ?
I see, by a Canadian paper, that the people out there sa
long and banker ar d pine after a nobility of their own
to adore and grovel before and pay for, that they have at
last hit upon the desperate expedient of christening their
plebian oflepiirg “Lord’’—Tompkins or “Lady”—
Snooks ! This idea, besides being calculated to make the
reader turn yellow, is playing it awfully low down on fhe
innocent babes, isn’t it? And yet, there’s a grain of com-
fort in the idea. Modern mammas "dearly love a lord. ’
If their children are to he dubbed and treated as “ slch,”
they may not be quite so neglected as they would be if
they went puling along as plain William G. or Mary Anne.
A smart Sydney woman, lately from Auckland, says
you can always defect the try-to-te-fine [society women
by a sniff at their dresses. “How sol” asked an un-
initiated male. “ Oh,” said Madame, “ last season's
dresses, no matter how fresh they look, always smell of
camphor.”
Normanby’s long aide-de-camp, Le Patourel, has, I see,
married a handsome American heiress named Blanche
Eokley. It could not have been the gallant captain’s
personal attractions or his wealth that fetched the fair
Yankee, so it must have been the cunning little “ Le" in
front cf his name.
Yours, affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


High Abt Photogkaphy.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Hord uarington
" By Appointment.”
In Herrons Depression
tiSE hoesford’s Acid phosphate.
Df. D. W. Gw yen, M.R C.S., and L.S.A , Neuadd yaoh,
Pontardulais, South Wales, says: “I have found it an
excellent medicine in d pressed conditions of the nervom
gyscern.”
“Kidney and urinary trouble is universal, and the only
sate and sure remedy is T)r. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
—rely o.i it."
d»
el
i fj
IT
n
to
s
T
o
5TT
<o e
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and comfort. Mudl-
man. “My Tailor. ” 164 King-street, Newtown.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
Patsvt ROLLS* Floo* It If the tnooeu el tbs
tn
Sundry Shows.
Thkate® Royal.—" Streets of London ”... p. 14.
«bb Majhsty’s.— " Madame Midas ” ...... „
Obitbbion. — 11 The Glass of Fashion” „ „
Phillip Paek.—Pain’s Fireworks
Except for the awfal profanity of a man
w ith one unusual wooden leg and one ordinary
limb made of animal food the impression left by
‘•Madame Midas,” the new show at Her
Majesty’s, is rather favourable than otherwise.
The story is built on the enormous, overgrown,
inflated villainousness of a bland and smiling
Frenchman— not the ordinary stage monster who
is half devil and half man, but a joyous, happy,
innocent-looking young stranger who is all fiend
incarnate with only a small frill of man round the
edge. The sex, age, profession or occupation,
name, birthplace, sanity and fighting weight of
this gentleman are obscure, but his path in life is
marked by the remains of cibiz ana deceased, and
hia ordinary visiting-card is a quart-bottle of
poison which is strong enough to kill six elephants
and a fighting tiger. In his early life the sheriff
called on him, and finding him at home removed
him to New Caledonia, but he escapes from that
unpleasant isle and goes gaily sailing over a
aummer sea with his bottle of poison in his tail
pocket and assassination ia his heart, until at last
he lands in Australia and obtains a situation in a
mine. He fascinates a hoary, gashing child of
jkDout 460 years, who keeps a public-house, and
then scorns the love of this shrivelled Jonah and
blights her virgin soul; he urges on a dumb man to
lie in wait for a drunken man who, under the
malign influence of a man with a wooden leg, is
attempting to plunder and massacre his own wife,
and he kills the dumb man, and swindles the
drunken man, and throws overboard the fondest
hopes of the man with the wooden leg. He elopes
with the gushing, girly maiden on whom Dr. Noel
Yorke has fixed his heart, and turns her adrift in
Melbourne, and goes on his smiling way, quite
ignorant of the fact that the doctor is rolling after
him and testifying [that if he has to follow the
Frenchman to the icy peaks of Spitzbergen
and over the Antarctic pole he will still come
up with him some day and hang a stuffed foreign
perjurer across a fence to dry. He pours his
poison into the coffee of the best society; he
buttonholes a pale, fat man on a balcony, and
tells him a gruesome tale of how he floated, wish-
out food, on the surface of a slimy sea, and makes
the fat man invite him to dinner and pant audibly
and give him a cheque for £600; he jeers at the
misery of the drunken man who was urged on to
sin by the man with the wooden leg, and lays
plans for wiping him out and stealing his wife;
and, finally, he drinks about a pint of liquid
death, and, after wallowing all over the stage, he
passes away by inches like a serpent, his tail-end
perishing first and his head dying just as the sun
goes down over the ancient smells of Melbourne.
In his last moments he laughs derisively at the
thought of his past sins. He jeers at the girl whom
he stole away from Ballarat; he asks his intended
wife if she has any message tor any blue-moulded
skeleton in perdition ; he oasts reflections on the
police, on the dumb man whom he killed in the
second act, on the drunken man, and on the man
with the wooden-leg ; and then, in a metaphorical
sort of way he draws a 121 b. iron key from bis
pocket, unlocks the door of eternity, and eaters in.
• * •
The wild, opprobrious cursing of the man with the
posb-and-rail leg hangs like a pall over “ Madame
Midas,’ and we trust that measures will shortly
be taken to tone down the richness of expression
and potent command of language which marks
that bitter though incomplete pirate. With re-
gard to the characters who have all their limbs
about them, Mr. Philip Bmk has the most con-
spicuous place as the man of slaughter from New
Caledonia, and in the height and breadth and
depth and profundity of his smiling and gentle-
manly malevolence he is pretty nearly perfect.
Mr. Beck has improved since we saw him
last, and in cultured wickedness especially he
has made great advances. Mr. H. 0. Sidney as
Df. Yorke is, in some sort, the hero of a piece
which has less hero in it than usual, and his ren-
dering of the character—like everything else
which he attempts —is admirable in every detail.
Mr. Jewett is good in a miserably thankless part.
Miss Fitzroy is pretty and statuesque and not
much else; Mrs. Melville is luridly comic;
and Miss Roland Watts • Phillips ia good
where she does not degenerate into _ melo-
drama, but strikes a paralytic attitude in the
third act with a bottle of poison in her hand,
which same attitude ought to be toned down a
good deal. The scenery is lavish and plays its
part conscientiously, and Mr. Rignold stays away
in a talented manner owing to the fact that he is
having a rest with his accustomed ability.
#* # *
« The Glass of Fashion a new comedy
which has lately started on a triumphant career at
Sydney Criterion—takes its name from a society
journal which was sold to a brewer for the ruin
and deep demoralisation of that father of beer.
Any person who thinks of starting a Journal of
the kind should observe the fate of this battered
tradesman and be warned in time. _ The " Glass ”
is run by an editor who gets his libels from Mr.
Dion Boucicault in his capacity as a Polish exile
in a studio, and whatever that Polish exile tells
him to put in is inserted, and then people come
round and want to flay the proprietor alive. _ The
"Glass ” is the organ of the upper classes ; it con-
tains valuable facts about dukes, and dogs belong-
ing to dukes, and it keeps an eye on the shirts and
coughs of the aristocracy. It gives affectionate
paragraphs to marquises who have been found
going off with the spoons; it alludes to
countesses who are suspected of bigamy;
it reflects on the morals of the proprietor’s
wife, on account of the Polish exile having
stuffed the editor to that effect, and it mentions
that the proprietor’s ward gambles and has been
cleaned out at cards because the unwholesome
patriot who was thrown out of Warsaw took the
editor aside and breathed the statement into the
listening appendage at the side of his head, and
told him to write it out and print it. When these
facts come home to roost, however, softly and
gently the Pole stands from under ; he is too im-
palpable to be caned, too slippery to be kicked,
and too judicious to be there when he is wanted.
He wanders about like a morbid fiend with a pup
in his arms, sowing dissension and remov-
ing portable property; he collects damaging
family secrets and fades away; he gathers
1.0.U.5, and, like last year’s dog on the
surface of a muddy stream, he drifts into dim
distance and takes them along with him;
and he laughs sepulchral laughs at the grief of
the brewer and the anguish of his other victims.
At last in the fourth act it becomes absolutely
necessary to remove him off the scene, and he is
called for by two French detectives ; and then he
suddenly rises in a ferocity which is taller than
Chimborazo and broader than an immoral poem,
and with his hair standing up like a dark pine
wood, and his eyes glaring like a locomotive fur-
nace shining out on the iron track of an unpay-
able railroad, and his very ears flapping with
smothered indignation, he points a lean, ominous
finger at the lady who was cleaned out at cards
and asks her a dire conundrum about the reasons
which led to her being born before her father
was married to her mother. She replies that
it doesn’t matter much, and the Pole stalks
disgustedly away to lift heavy stones for
a thankless Government. Apart from Mr.
Dion Boucioault, whose Pole has filled most of
our space, the “Glass of Fashion” is supported
by a potent combination including Messrs.
Brough, Titheradge, Cecil Ward, and Hans
Phillips—the latter gentleman, as the most shift-
less editor yet published, making the best record
he has scored at the Criterion, Mrs. Brough, Miss
E. Homer, and that charming little actress who
shakes her flowing trasses at the public under the
designation of Pattie Browne. The comedy
opens with a conservatory scene which, in the
elaborate lavishness of its vegetation and the
great array of its pot-plants and rum-shrubs and
other works of nature, lays over any mortal con-
servatory we know of.
** * *
“ Drink,” for three nights only, dating
from Saturday, and “ Captain Swift,” for Mr. H.
H. Vincent’s benefit, on Thursday next, are about
the last features of Mr. Warner’s season at Sydney
Royal. A few other amusements remain in a
limp condition in the venerable city. The " Last
Days of Pompeii ” are still alive, and the
cyclorama of the carnage of blue and grey lunatics
at Gettysburg prospers. A few broken-backed
and dispirited land-sales appear in the papers,
and a “grand national orchestra,” a series of
promenade concerts at Ashfield, an iron-framed
piano to be disposed of cheap by a be-
reaved and penniless widow with twenty-
six small children, tenders for 12,000 yards
of road metal, houses to let, lost dogs, brick cot-
tages for sale in a reliable typhoid locality, one-
eyed female missing and anyone harbouring her
after this date will be shot, special sermon by a
drought-stricken pastor on the horrors of having
anything to eat, bay horse gone astray marked X
sideways on off stomach, cow struck by lightning,
and sundry men who have married two wives form
the most important items in the world of fashion-
able amusement.
*# # *
Sundry small personal difficulties have
lately obscured the popular theatrical firm of Rig-
nold and Allison, and the two partners have been
throwing unkind affidavits at each other in the
Equity Court. As far as it is possible to sort out
the allegations, it would appear as if Mr. Rignold
and Mr. Allison had always been in the habit of
leaving their money around loose, and each had
got the other’s coin. Mr, Rignold had played
leading parts gratis ever since the theatre opened,
and Mr. Allison had given a mortgage for money
which he didn’t owe, perhaps in order to square
the obligation. Each appeared to owe the other
more than he was worth in all the world, and Mr.
Allison in particular seemed to testify in his affida-
vits that he ought to have the earth. He also prayed
that Mr. Rignold might be restrained from having
the earth, or, if he had it, that he might be re-
quired to pay the whole habitable globe into court
and leave it there until the suit was decided.
Finally, it was arranged that the partnership
should go into liquidation, and should divide the
solar system between them, and now the old firm
of Rignold and Allison, which promised at one
time to become a fixed and immovable institution,
and one of the landmarks of the age, is practically
a thing of the past.
** * ♦
Tha Fisk Jubilee Singers opened their
Auckland season on 19th March, and at its close
return to Australia, finishing up in Queensland.
After “ doing ” India, China, and Japan, they
return to their old log cabins by way of ’Frisco,
and we don’t expect they’ll “cotton” to them
when they get “ thar.” Who frowed dat brick ?
## * #
Mr. George Darrell writes in a powerful
flow of language, complaining of a Bulletin para
graph in which it was stated that the N Z public
were tired of him and all his house, also his ox
and his ass, and everything that is his, and that
the country is getting very much exhausted Pos-
sibly Mr. Darrell is right, and The Bulletin
wrong. Judging from the newspaper reports to
hand ne has been prospering and waxing fat; he
has even led the people of N.Z. to dissipate their
coin on a lavish scale to see “ East Lynne,” and
the man who can play “East Lynne’ profitably
and get away alive has still a great future before
him.
#* # *
« Richard the Third ” haa settled down
into a solid success at Melbourne Opera House, a
fact which the management is recording with Un-
affected Pleasure instead of shaking its fist at
prosperity and feeling very cross indeed. Gener-
ally speaking, the fossils whose forefathers heard
Garrick offer his Kingdom for a horse (when he
hadn’t any Kingdom left) are satisfied with Mr.
Miln in the same character, while the fellows who
never had ancestors at all are receiving Richard
with the enthusiasm usually reserved for leg
pieces. As showing that even a Melbourne
gallery maintains certain rules of etiquette with
regard to the Shakespearian drama, it is worth
noticing that the boys never groan at the gory
Dook after he has rammed his sword under King
Henry’s armpit, or told his wife how sick she
makes him by being alive. But when Simms and
Pettitt’s villains do these things they provoke an
uproar which is described as “a high compli-
ment to the actor’s ability,” whereas it
is merely a mark of irreverence for the
character represented. There's something for the
Shakespeare Society to sit upon at their next
inquest. Mr. Miln’s playing ot Richard 111. was
held up to reasonable admiration last week Since
the first night he seems to be putting rather more
force and rather lees lung power into several
speeches, and in particular he gives portions of the
tent scene with splendid effect. Mr, Miln, already
a great actor in flashes, is almost certain to
achieve fame when he has acquired more stage
experience and finally renounced the vocal pomps
and vanities of the pulpit. His two chief faults
area tendency to lecture and a distinct amateurish
habit of working towards the wings as he con-
cludes a soliloquy—to hurry off the stage when
there’s nothing more to say. It is a fault with
experienced bad actors that they stick on the
centre of the stage long after everybody wants
them to clear out of it. But Miln is just the man
to make a lingering exit picturesque. Apart from
the well-seasoned work of Mr. Cathcart and
an attractive performance of Lady Anne by
Miss Isabel Morris, the company shaps very well.
Mr. Greenaway is a Buckingham who looks nice
enough to eat, and another young man in long
boots is also pleasing to the eye. Mr. Henry
Hodson, although a bit heavy and monotonous of
speech, manages to convey the idea that Lord
Stanley intends to be Judas Iscariot when oppor-
tunity offers. Mr. H. N. Douglas is unwontedly
at ease as Richmond, and he speaks his lines like
an artist. But if Richard wasn’t doomed to die
before their fight begins it would be bad business
to back the other man. Miss Kate Douglas is a
weak Duchess of York, two old established chil-
dren are not nearly such effective princes as the
multitude seem to consider them, and Miss Eloise
Juno is only remarkable for a historical get-up.
The tout ensemble is strong in this respect. It
wears a medseval aspect and reflects a lot of credit
upon the people that set it up,
** * *
All the other Melbourne shows are on
their last legs. “ Union Jack,” at the Royal,
totters into the yawning sepulchre of oblivion
after Friday, and the old, exhausted “World”
will be Bland Holt’s refuge in this time of
trouble. Whoever bought the Australian rights of
“Union Jack” deserves to be folded up in that
emblem of alleged Freedom and dropped into the
silent sea along with the man that wrote it.
“Mamma’’and Frank Thornton are about leav-
ing the Bijou, where St. Maur carries “ Bootle’s
Baby ”on Saturday. The same night “ Pirates
of Penzance” replaces “Erminie” at the
Princess’s, and Miss May Holt breaks out in
another of her own dramas at the Alexandra.
Hicks’ Minstrels are also withdrawing the dark-
ness of their countenances this week; the Fire-
works have made a gorgeous ending under vice-
regal patronage, and sundry surviving entertain-
ments look pale and thin for lack of proper
nourishment. The great bulk of Melbourne play-
goers have lately devoted their hours of leisure to
howling at paunchy candidates for places in a
degraded Parliament.
** ♦ *
Frank Lincoln will (D.Y.) return to Mel-
bourne Athenaeum on Saturday, with the wildly
impossible purpose of being funnier than ever, to
which end F,L. is rehearsing several little things
he used to let off at “ Tummy ” until he removed
all his hair and left his royal head a gleaming
wilderness. It appears that Mr. Lincoln nearly
became a seraphim owing to his maternal aunt,
who fell sick of the palsy at the time that her
nervy was under treatment for spavin, or some
other complaint pecular to the stage. Each
ordered a 5-gallon cask of physic identical in
colour and malodour, and as both tasted equally
beastly the patients somehow swilled the wrong
lotion and developed new diseases day by day.
The mi etake was happily revealed by a post
mortem examination of the paternal aunt, after
which Mr. Lincoln drank 10 gallons of antidote
at one sitting and the spavin left him. The
knowledge that his .constitution is forever proof
against palsy enables him to bear up under the
loss of bis respected relative who didn’t—as a
matter of fact—die at all—otherwise this story
is tolerably true.
** * *
The twin Melbourne benefits to Mr. Hen-
nings last Saturday afternoon were a joint and
several success of the deepast dye. A big crowd
almost filled the PrincessV, while the Royal
couldn’t have held another boy in any part of the
house. The Trial scene, from Pickwick, gave the
Royal a slight pull over the opposition show,
partly because Mr. Wil'iamson was to make one
of his fugitive appearances as the Judge and more
partly bvc uise such popular idols as L. L. Smith,
Zox, and J. S. Batters desired to cintillate
among the jury.
The Adelaida Royal has been filled to
cverfliwing for a week, while “Hans the Boat-
man ” has been pulling his lucky craft along. The
eagerness with which the dwellers of the peaceful
city rushed to see this taking show has been po.i-
tively alarming, and the management are jubilant,
especially as the attractive Shbon troupe were ap-
pearing at the same time Arnold is fol-
lowed by the veteran Wybert Reeve, who starts
a season with a new piece bearing the suspicious
title of “ The Game of Speculation,” and will be
upheld in his endeavours to speculate by a good
e impany.
** * *
In the dress-circle of the Alexandra
Theatre, Melbourne, the other night, sat a young
man who, being so placed that he could hardly
see the performance at all, naturally enough con-
soled himself by reading The Bulletin. Mr.
Fairburn, husband of the star, MLs May Holt,
seeing this, came up and tapped him (the reader)
on the shoulder. “Don’t you know better, sir,
than to read a newspaper in a theatre 1 Where
are your manners ? flow can you read The Bul-
letin here without displaying such emotion as to
seriously interfere with the performance ?” At
this the poor fellow was utterly taken back. He
gasped, made one or two ineffectual efforts to
swallow, and utterly failed in his attempt to reply.
After being brought round with brandy-and-water
and ammonia and burnt feathers and a vigorous
fanning, he asked the attendant “ who the gen-
tleman was who had forbidden newspaper read-
ing.” “ Oh, sir,” said the attendant, “ that is
Mr. Fairburn, son of a baronet, sir—a man of
very good family, sir.” At which the newspaper-
reader was so overcome that he got up and tot-
tered out of the theatre. We wonder what Mr.
Fairburn would do to the man who took the
liberty of hissing ?
** * *
Mary Anderson, it is now cabled, has be-
come insane, and her company has been disbanded
In consequence. The Bulletin predicts that
when details come to hand, it will be found that
the poor lady is either suffering from religious
mania, or Is making a desperate advertising bid.
The nature of Mrs. Langtry’s reported illness has
not transpired, but it is pretty certain that what-
ever may be the cause of the trouble, there is
nothing the matter with the Jersey Lily’s head,
which is level with a big big L. The oddest thing
in the whole business is the tawdry sentiment in
which the Sydney D.T. indulges over the matter.
It finds out that Mary “ had wealth, social posi-
tion, general homage,” and “ the feeling
of intellectual achievement and artistic
triumph, compared with which the lofty
state of a princess seems poor and vulgar,”
and then it trots out the stale old paragraph of
what Burke said about Marie Antoinette. Now,
Mary Anderson is essentially a woman of busi-
ness, and she never pretended to be anything else.
Her high artistic feeling was chiefly shown in her
readiness to pay famous artists to associate their
names with her show. When she paid Alma
Tadema to mould the wet folds of her dress as
Galatea it was not because no inferior artist could
do the job, but because the public would pay to
see his work. Poor Mary I She is, after all, less
to blame than her flatterers. Let us hope she will
get well before the height of the season brings
her harvest time, and that she may be ready for
the Lyceum when Irving’s Macbeth has ceased
to draw the crowd. Meanwhile, a madhouse will
be just as comfortable for the horrible month of
March as any other place in the Northern Hemis-
phere.
#* * *
Selina Dolaro, who was dying for several
years, ceased to live about two months ago. As a
London memory, Selina will be associated with
Emily Soldene (of the cavernous tea-taster) be-
cause they sparkled in unison for a season. A
while back The Bulletin was speaking about
Fred. Leslie, G. W. Anson, and Marie de Grey
appearing at the Royalty Theatre in a travestie of
the then new drama “ Drink.” Dolaro managed
that show, and she played Coupeau’s wife, a cir-
cumstance which possesses some Australian inter-
est of a second-hand character.
** * *
Bananalandera (especially those with a
scriptural leaning) will be rejoiced to hear that
Miss Lydia Von Finkelstein, the Oriental lec
turess, has left Sydney by the “ Quetta ” for
Brisbane, where she commences a lecturing
“tower.” During her stay in Jerusalem the
Dirty, Miss V. F. picked up many startling
eastern novelties, amongst which, we are told, are
a jar containing specimens of some of the leading
odours of the street that is called straight, and the
jawbone of an Arab who refused to cheat his
blind brother out of a camel.
** * *
It Is reported that Mary Anderson has
been put into a lunatic asylum.
Poor Mr. Wool is already paying the
penalty of greatness. The P M. Gazette says
of “our Essie’s” marriage:— “l hear that Miss
Essie Jenyns, the charming young actress who has
turned the heads of half Australia, is engaged to
be married to a gentleman with £30,000 a year.
The lucky man, who is a native of Australia, is
said to be somewhat cf a rough diamond ; but a
little roughness is, I suppose, tolerable when the
diamonds are so undoubtedly genuine.” This is
the sort of thing which generally happens to a
young man with money and muscle who gets
married to the pretty girl without any money.
Sandall, the boxer, has returned from
N.Z thoroughly invigorated by his trip and a
judicious course of Marshall's Tonic Nervine.
An agency of Messrs. Cock and S n», the
famous tourist agents, has been opened at Hunter-
street. Sydney, under the management cf Mr.
Cunningham. It was inaugurated last Wednes-
day week, a number of representative citizens
being present.
Every Nationalist—every lover of his
country—should read The Bulletin’s ‘'History
of Botany Bay,” profusely illustrated by L Hop-
kins and Phil May. It is the first eff jrt ever made
to tell the true story of Australian political de-
velopment from a Democratic standpoint.
Why this farce of Commander Hixson, of
the N.S.W. Naval Brigade, firing many guns
because of the arrival on board his rotten old hulk
of General Richardson? Why can’t Richardson
take the guns as read—we mean fired —and thus
save a few pounds for his poor, miserable, bleed-
ing, plundered country ? Out upon this old-world
thunder!
Smith, Batters, and Zox
Sat in that jury-box ;
Maybe the reader mutters—
“ Who the d 1 is Butters ?”
And follows this question with
“ Who the dickens is Smith ?”
And “Who the sheol is Zox?”
Well, they sat in the jury-box.
Our wretched head Is in a whirl,
We’re sick at heart and faint—
Ye gods! and has that lovely girl
Been placed beneath restraint !
No words our bitter grief can tell
Were dainty Mary forced to dwell
Henceforward in a padded cell
No pen our sorrow paint.
Ah ! No, ’tis but a cable lie
They’ll contradict next week j
All glassy may be Mary’s eye
And pallid be her cheek ;
But while ten million women plain
Their feeble faculties retain,
Our Mary must not go insane
At Nature’s sudden freak.
For, ere catastrophe so dread
This world with woe could fill,
We’d rather see her lying dead,
An image white and chill.
Must beauty that has made us glad
Be nothing but a mem’ry sad ?
If Mary Anderson is mad
Then we are madder still.


Wolfe's Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Para Rafraahlng Bavaraga.
Bp Careful ynn nbb.ln White’s
Most and Chandon’s Ohampaonk.— Messrs. Meet and
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
ohampagne-produoers in the world. Their “ Dry*
Imperial ” 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 aores In the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia. The Imperial
Orown Is In each ™in«> of lohol IBfM hr»rifprf rg
onrV »nd loV>p'.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
BWEiST BOROMIA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d,,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORF, 138 B uike st, East,
Aboriginalities.
The meteor flag of England divides with a
shadeless sun the honour of terrific illy burning
the brand-new dependency (f New Guinea, and
the other symbol of the authority of the dear old
mother land, in the shape of a four-holed gallows,
fias also put in au appearance, the latter emblem
of British greatness having been created for the
purpess of “dispoging ” of the four benighted
nigger s who killed and ate the succulent Captain
Anoell. While Governor Macgregor, M D., with
his aide-deoamp and the Government printer,
were putting the finishing touches on the gallows
aforesaid. Bill, a seaman of H.M.S. Albatross,
sauntered up to the vics-regal party, and with the
how and scrape which inconiestibly proves that a
British tar is any man’s equal, said : “ Your
Hexpellency, beg pwding for hinterruptm’ yer
pn this solemn occasion, but I wants to harst yer
about m 0 gebtin* this ere job.** “What job,
William ? ” asked the Deputy-Anointed Mac, re-
moving a handful of nails from his vice-regal
mouth “ Why, the swingin’ heff of them nif gars.
I’ll ’ang ’em real well and I’ll take my affidavy
that wen its finished you’ll say they couldn’t do it
better in Sydney.” “Well, William, said tie
Governor, “the Government of New Guinea will
accept your offer, and as I do not suppose you
wish to do it for the honour and glory of oc nduct-
ing the first execution here, I will allow I o } l £3
a head—the Fiji price, my man, the liji price.
“Honner and glory be jiggered! responded
Bill, a good deal startled and a little vexed
at the gubernatoiial niggardliness, “I wants
£4O for the job.” Why, yer Hexceflency,
in Sydney. Nosey Bob gets £l5O a year and some-
times doesn’t swing hoff more’n three m a twelve-
month.” “ Four pounds a head then, Wiliam,'
put in the Governor, spurting eome oil into one of
the hinges of a drop. “ And, William, remember
that the Sydney man is a past master of his art, and
you, I presume, are a novice. ” With this Bill
scratched his head and growled, but after a few
moments’ deliberation, having, no doubt, patriotic
consideration for the fact that New Guinea is a
new colony with a slender revenue, informed the
Governor that he’d do the hanging for £2O, add-
ing : “ Mind, if there’s any of yer bloomm re-
prievin’ at the last moment I gets my money all
the same. I ’angs one or the lot for 20 quid.
The Governor made the deal, promised Bill that
there wouldn’t be any “bloomin’ reprievin’ ” and
go the nautical hangman turned eff the four can-
pibals ip a manner that would have done credit to
the most cherished traditions of Botany Bay. Bill
subsequently melted his cheque at Cooktown with
a readiness “tp EQb ’em up” that won for him
warm encomiums from the licensed victualling
confraternity of that fjheol-like seaport.
* • *
Hera is a hunk out of the annual report
of the Wollongong (N S.W.) Agricultural, Horti-
cultural and Industrial Association. Attune your
minds to breathe the higher atmosphere
Gentlemen.—As each restless of the mighty Pacific
(the eastern sentinel of our highly-favoured I la warn dis-
tinct) rises, and, towering its head above its fellows, issues
forth to leave its mark upon the sandy shore, so each new
year of your Agricultural Association, gaining strength,
unfolds itself from the record sheet of Time ; and, full of
vitality, full of new-born hope, full c£ prospective success,
arises from the ashes of its predecessor, rolls along on the
wings of space, outahaiing its forerunner, and adding a
higher degree of standard annually to the Wollongong
AH and I Association. Your retiring committee, in
presenting this report, feel a glow of gladness, a bright
gleam of satisfaction, an the progress of the institution to
which through your kindness they belong. Success has
paused awhile during each year to shed around the
doings of your committee scintillating rats of good
fortune, hops hovering around has devoted some of its
bright nature, anjtna'ing your committeemen s actions,
whilst good nature has reigned paramount among all,
making your c3inmittee meetings pleasant, while at the
samfe time they were practical and earnest.
All this fine writing is unnecessary. If the literary
artist had simply stated that milk had kept up to
4d. a quart, and that the hens considerately went
on strike when the eggs threatened to go below Bd.
per dozen, it would have been a more complete and
simple record of the kind of progress that Wollon-
gong requires. What joy is brought to the heart of
the farmer by the presence of the Pacific Ocean as his
eastern sentinel, when his best dairy cow is stuck
In the swamp and his working bullocks are down
with Cumberland disease ?
• * •
When haranguing the yokels at Werrlbee
(Vic.) the other day on the liberal and patriotic
offer of his pa to raise a half-battery of horse
artillery, provided the Government finds the
horses and pays the men, young Ohirneide worked
himself into a heroic state of froth, and broke into
Macaulay as follows
<■ Then out) spoke brave Iloratius,
Tne captain of the gate:
1 To every man upon this earth
Death oometh soon or lata;
And how can man die better
Than facing fearful odds,
For the ashes of his fathers
And the temples of his gods ?’ ”
In view of the fact that very few of the colonials
have got any of their fathers’ ashes invested in the
country, also ia view of the fact that a sight less
of them have got any of the country to put their
fathers’ ashes jnto when the old men go bung, we
beg to offer a revised vertim, more suitable to the
occasion :
At BenalU (Vic.) the other day, an aged
man, bowed with the weight of years, and bald
from rereated marryings, was hauled into the
local police court and shored up in a ia f e place,
whilst a bow-legged constable who had grown
hoar, and asihncatical, and ugly in the servic’,
proceeded, with measured speech and slow, to
charge him with stealing an eighteen-shilling
saddle in some far-off time when Moses was
young, and the Depridoton Loniceps skipped
airily across the face of the continent, and the
junk of the awed Mongol came up from the sea in
solitary majesty. The constable could call no
wbneses, because everybody who knew anything
about the saddle was dead, and wouldn’t come if
hi called till his teeth ached, being beyond the
judsdiction of the court, and no) caring a cuss if
they were convicted of contempt. The man who
owned the saddle was dead, and his posterity had
gone out of history and left no documentary evi-
dence regarding the saddle and no legitimate
issue to inherit the law suit. The saddle itself
had been worn out, riding from Dan to Beersheba
with Her Majesty’s mails before Cobb’s
coaches took up the route, and the man who
made it was drowned chasing Moses across the
Bed Sea on a bicycle; consequently there was no
proof beyond the word of the prosecuting Con-
stable that there had ever been any saddle in the
case at all; ard that it should not be merely a
common charge of insulting behaviour “ah’fearin’
me uniform,” and he was not so sure after all that
he had not dreamed about the affair, but seemed
to incline to the belief that the Bench should
make it a caution to prisoner, anyhow. After
mature deliberation the Bench solemnly decided
that the man who 10 - t the saddle ought to have
been embalmed in order to enable him to appear
in evidence, afio that Moses should have been
subpoenaed and the saddle-maker bound over to
appear, and a copy of Josephus’works retained
for the Crown; but, as these things had been
neglected, Ihey had no option but to discharge
the prisoner without a stain on his character,
whilst complimenting the constable on his intelli-
gence and zeal.
• • *
The Chinese of Ballarat met together the
other day to participate in a highly-impressive
religious ceremony, and the pale-faced unbelievers
who went to scoff remained to bray. There was
more pomp and circumstance lavished over the
performance than is always noticeable at an
alderman’s funeral. The devotees were arrayed
in their best imported garments, decorated with
gold-leaf, tinsel, red paint, and the caudal ap-
paratus of the departed horse, and they were
armed with loud timbrels, cymbals, dinner-goags,
milk pans, waddiea, and other musical instruments.
Stringing themselves together in a line, and
ltd on by a fearlesi archbishop with a beard
like a goat, and a fan that appeared to
have been moulded in the footprint of a camel
and kicked before it cooled, the tons of the Holy
Confucius began to scramble over the face of
nature, and run riot through the district, singing
psalms and vamning on the sounding cylinders of
brass with all the fire and fury of fanaticism,
whilst a cardinal with false eyebrows, mounted on
a woolly horse and surrounded by the common
clergy, ambled ia the rear, and howled dismal in-
cantations. Tnis solemn and sublime ritual was
ctlied “chasing the devil,” and the pursuit con-
continued for two hours, during which time
Mephistopheles was hunted fourteen miles
in a circle, followed by a stream of pestilent
heathens and a horrific clam ur that must
have appalled a less stoical official and driven
him to demand an increased salary and an experi-
enced assistant. The homely and vociferous
pagans coursed his Highness over hills and muddy
places, up and down, aid in and out, never ceasing
to bellow or sound the timbre’s for one moment,
till the bswhiskered high priest with the mis-
shapen face, who had torn ahead more furiously
than the laymen and ferociously reached out after
the King of Darkness with a three-pronged fork,
suddenly collapsed, and was towed into the
synagogue by bis devoted flock, where ample
justice was done to an elegant spread provided by
Sin Low, a hi<hly respected elder; This impres-
sive service will be repeated, but the hunt is con-
sidered hopeless ; the Ballarat Chow only catches
the Devil when he least wants him, and then old
Nick is ushered in and dispensed by the local
Lrrikin.
Out spake the lordly squatter
And mouthed this fairy tale :
“You know, dear friends, that every man
Has got to kick the pail:
And how can he croak better
Ttau facing foreign mobs,
For the acres of the squatters
And the lucre of the nobs ?”
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT.”]
As far aa can be gathered from an occa-
sional cablegram which comes this way, the
London press still feels hurt at the sight of the
wild, ungainly fowl which camps on the two-
penny stamp of N. S. Wales, and the tramp of
that misshapen rooster across their com spondetce
sounds ominous in their esrs. The European
Mail has been interviewing the “representative
Australian” with a view tj having the biid
shovelled a way, but it has gained acer aiu amount
of comfort out of the assurance, freely given on
all sides, that the animal with the gum on the
back of him is not significant of any desire to up-
heave the British throne ; and Truth has “com-
mented severely ” on the presence of the unclean
thing, price tuppence. In high military circles
there seems to be a growing tendency to object to
the hump backed songster of the brown Australian
plains, and the loyal population of the British isles
wants to know why New South Wales can t lick
the same old stamp which has so long braved the
tat bin and the bieeze. “Take this here long-
necked bug away ” is the mental altitude of the
upper classes in the mother land, and already
there is a hum of renewed industry‘,’in the naval
dockyards of England, and the old, brass plated
dredges are mustering at Portsmouth, and orders
are being issued for the supply of murderous
armaments, and the army is being recruited and
furnished with fresh relays of broken-backed
bayonets, and in all probability a new Armada
will shortly loom up on the Australian shore to
demand the annihilation of that shapeless beast
on the stamp. The “unsettled s'ate of Europe ”
is the ostensible reason of the movement, but this
pretence is too thin. There is going to be gore all
along of that blue emu, and the bird that Parkes
WHAT HE THOUGHT.
Bank Clerk (who smells strongly of limejuice and burgoo, to station hand):
“What’s the difference between a store bullock and a fat bullock? The
store bullocks are quoted at £3, and fat bullocks at £5.”
Station Hand : “ A store bullock is a bullock in low condition that has to be
fattened before he can be sold as fat.”
B. C.: “Oh! I thought a store bullock was a bullock you put in your store for
your own use.”
drew for use in the Post office is tending towards
the edge of a precipice which will swallow him up.
o • *
The language recently used by Miss Ahern
of Sandhurst (Vic.) towards Mrs. Cundill of the
same city, and the expressions hove back by Mrs.
Cundill at the head of Miss Alum, have caused
a serious breach between these two ladies, and
they have now a muffled teaiency to throw dirty
water over each other and to shy bones and
scrapings into each other’s yards, which prevents
the white-winged bird of peace roosting where
that gladsome fowl used to roost of old. Miss
Ahern is the daughter of a milkman, and she made
a white dress for Mrs. Cundill which that lady is
alleged to have worn for some time —at least she
wore the skirt of it with another “ body.” Later
on she got Miss Ahern to make some alterations
in the dress, and about this time a coolness super-
vened. Mrs. Cundill ceased to take her milk from
old Ahern ; she began to patronise the aged brown
cow of another artist and drank the ointment of
Ahern’s crumpled heifer nomore, and Ahern didn’t
stamp on her flower-beds while carrying the fruit
of his insect to Mrs. Cundill’s back-door, as he
used ti do. Finally, Mrs. Cundill came and
dashed the white dress down in Miss Ahern’s
premises, and Miss Ahern dished it back again.
Mrs. Cundill found it lying in the mud heap in
her back yard and shot it on to the Ahern free-
hold and the Ahern family fired it over oace more.
Then the two ladies gave up all other worldly
occupations and spent their time shying the gar-
ment back and forward, till at last Mrs. Cundill
dropped from sheer exhaustion with the frock still
reposing in her back-yard. It lay there exposed
like Nebuchadnezzar, to the rain, and dust, and
shine, trodden upon by human feet, walked over
by cats and dogs, stamped on by goats, and used
as a thing to throw bones and grease at, until
Miss Ahern issued a summons for 36?. expenses •
and then the magistrate ruled than it must be
produced in court, and despatched Mrs. Cundill
and a policeman to umarth the robe from its
repose among the ashes and the mud. They
brought it in, a woefully unsavoury clout with an
diluvium on it, an object which would make even
the scaly crcc.dile hold his nose with his tail and
his hind leg, and flopped it down before the
throne Then the two ladies began to take oaths.
Miss Ahern said the old mashed garment fitted
Mrs. Cundill to perfection, and Mrs. Cundill
testified that the incarnate stench with buttons
on it now before the court had been Out to fit Miss
Ahern herself, and wart no good to anybody else.
Just here the bench ruled that Miss Ahern must
put it on to settle the point, and that lady, with a
great shudder, crawled into it with her own dress
underneath, aiid panted audibly under the strain,
The bench ruled some more to the effect that Miss
Ahern must first take off her own dress so as to give
the heap of tailor-made dirt a fair chance, and Mrs.
Cundill insisted on going into the ante-room to see
her do it. The two females struggled a good deal
in the doorway ; but at last they got in, and Mies
Ahern made her toilet, and came back with a
large amount of her underclothing bulging
through the places where the dress wouldn’t meet.
The defendant viewed her with an angry eye and
offered to crowd her into the garment without
killing her, but when she had driven Miss Ahern’s
generous figure about half way in. she had to give
up for fear of slaughtering that young lady, and
the bench hsued its imperial ukase that the bsg
didn't fit the plaintiff as alleged; and that the
defendant should now shove her angular form into
its recesses that the court might view the other
side of the case without bias. The ladies retired
once more to undress, and presen'ly the plaintiff’s
sister burst into the court and entreated that the
defendant should be restrained from dragging
Miss Ahern about by the hair while in a partially
clothed state ; and asked that measures should be
taken if necessary to prevent her wiping the floor
with M iss, Ahern’s bust; and urge d that Mrs.
Cundill should be moored to the earth’s crust by
way of damming the rising tide of rapine and
slaughter which was visible in her eye through the
keyhole, and that her attenticn should be dis-
tracted by a new bonnet or sonasbhing in order
that she should be rushed from behind by the
ironc'ad squadron and the Naval Brigade, and
the Orange Lodge, and the mounted horse-cavalry,
and the fortification-? at the Heads; and disarmed
before she had time to turn hersOf into an urn
wholesome outlaw and warm Miss Ahern’s
generous ear with, her rapacious paw. The bench
was so much movtd, by this appeal that it ordered
Sergeant Fahey to burst in and disarm the rival
bests, and that officer, blushing visibly, scrambled
to the door and spoke through the keyhole *
“Have yez gob yer things on, yez twofamahs?”
he inquired ; “ F’r I’m goin’ to rush in. Have yez
got yer boots fastened now, an’ yer hair dene up.
I’m cornin’.” Then he braced his feet firmly on
the floor and prepared to charge, but at that
moment the door opened and the two ladies came
out uninjured. The plaintiff had her own dress
on, and the defendant was attired in a baggy
structure like a maze of dishcloths hung together.
Plaintiff's lawyer, however, pointed out that the
dress would have fitted all light if it hadn’t been
bulged out by the violent and unjustifiable efforts
used to force his client into it, are! after 9-J minutes
hard deliberation Miss Ahern won her case. Then
the defendant paid up with grief, and took the
garment eff and threw it at a policeman with
directions to give these leavings to some charitable
institution that he had a murderous giudge
against, and X COO 7 promised that it would be
despatched accordingly with a boiling curse and
an expression of undying animosity attached.
There is a boom in Transvaal gold-mining
shares in London just now. Last year’s output
from the goldfields was 250,000 ounces.
The other day a Melbourne paper con-
tained the following : “Just »s we were going to
press, news reached us of the death of Sir William
Foster Stawell; this intelligence comes as a
calamity in the colony. In our next issue will
appear a full-page portrait of the deceased gentle-
man.” When a man with a large pension and no
work, and who isn’t of any use to anybody, dies
it is somehow always called a “ calamioy.”
Saturday last marked the advent of a dis-
tinct gain to the hotel accommodation of Syd-
ney. An enterprising American citizen, Mr.
Benjamin, has opened the American Exchange
Hotel, corner of Q xeen’s-place, George-street,
which, we have no doubt, will be the favourite
resort of the elite of the commercial and sporting
fraternity. Mr. Benjamin is the champion
amateur wrestler of America which will in itself
be sufficient to attract numbers.
Count Nlsaim de Catnondo, the Jewish
Parisian financier, as a young man, was, says
Loo don Figaro, one of the most disgracefu
roues in Paris At one of his bachelor dinners
the services of a number of picked women were
secured to act as the holders of the torches which
lighted the feast; and it was the host's whim for
these lorchbearers to be posed as nearly as might
be in the attitudes of the most famous specimens
of classic sculpture extant.
Labouchere is instituting a crusade against
corporal punishment in schools. He relates that
when he was at Ebon, the headmaster. Dr. Haw-
trey, an amiable, kindly man, flogged about 20
boys every day on an average He did it with
exquisite politeness, and, except on rare occasions,
the whole thing was a farce. Four cuts were the
ordinary application, and ten cuts were never
exceeded. The proceedings book place in public,
and any boy who had a taste for the thing might
be a spectator. If the victim flinched there was a
howl of execration. Far from objecting bo this,
the doctor approved of it. Once a boy fell on his
knees and implored him to spare him, “I shall
not condescend to flog you. but I leave you to
your young friends,” said the doctor. Labouchere
happened to be one of the young friends, and
aided in kicking the boy round the quadrangle
fer about half an-hour.


Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9fi Bathurst street, Sydney.
That famous old Sydney hostelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
bands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
•lhhr hotel.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
Horses and bnsrfiries for hire.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers db Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
18-pagS
Oonntry Properties, Pam*, Grasing
Properties, &0., ha.
18-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties. Villar.
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, Ao.
related list si Bsitsum fair «nlo issisl Malls,
All Lists posted Fv»« oa application.
Personal Items.
Haddon Chambers Is on the track of
another play.
Sir Julius Yogel has dedicated his novel to
Lord Carnarvon.
A daughter of Napoleon’s general, Murat,
is still alive, aged 92,
Boulanger Idolises his mother and spends
every Sunday with her.
Gavan-tinffy Is now 71. His third wife
died in childbirth, the other day.
Mr. “ Ginx’s Baby ” Jenkins proposes td
make a descent on Australia as a lecturer.
The name of Malletoa, the deposed King
of Samoa, means “Well done, fighting-ccck.”
England’s Commander-in-chief, the Duke
of Cambridge, still epeaks with a German accent.
Archdeacon Julius, of Ballarat (Vic,), Is
likely to be the next Bishop of Christchurch, N, Z.
We have had Governor Smith and Go-
vernor Robinson. Give us, oh give us Governor
Jones !
Mr. Edmund Barton, ex-Attorney-General,
has taken “ silk.” He first took “ stuff ”on 21at
December, 1871.
Chlniquy, the priestly showman, Is still
saying nasty things about the Pope in the fertile
regions of Quebec.
There are fully a dozen barristers on the
N.S.W. roll who never receive a brief from one
year’s end to another.
An English paper calls Graham Berry
“ the Victorian Demosthenes.” Then old Demos-
thenes dropped his aitches!
Mr. Deasy, M.P., sajs that “ Parnell is
the flower of Irish chivalry.” Mr, D. is a bit of a
flower himself—a perfect Deasy.
Pigott, the forger, was a son of John
Pigott, a worthy and patriotic Irishman, an em-
ploye and associate of Sir Charles Gavan-Duffy
and Thomas Davis, the founders of the old Dublin
Nation.
Labouchere, who gave Pellegrini, the
Vanity Fair caricaturist, his first start, says
that the artist first sketched the subject without
any clothes, then exaggerated all imperfections,
and finally clothed him.
The people of Denillquln have, in public
meeting, condemned Mr. Justice Windeyer for
alleged judicial misconduct. The judge is patient.
He has already helped to hang four or five persons
from that town and there is rope enough for tte
rest.
Rev. Walter Fellowes, the massive and
cheery Melbourne parson, is going “ home ”on 12
months’ sick leave. Those who can remember
this jolly good Fellowes as a leading English
cricketer will feel sad when they hear that he has
been presiding over a Toorak tabernacle for 20
years.
The Spectator says that Tasma’a lately-
published story, “Uncle Piper,” is “only the
third work of fiction possessing remarkable merit
that has come to England from the Antipodes, the
other two being “ His Natural Life,” by Marcus
Clark, and “ Robbery under Arms, by Rolf
Boldrewood.
At one time the Kintorea could journey
from Berwick to John o’ Groats and eat every
meal in and sleep every night at one of their
many family seats. Now, these properties are
heavily mortgaged and a scion of the once mighty
race has to debase himself by accepting a colonial
Governorship.
According to a French paper, this is how
“Wales” summed up President Carnot, of
France : “ Oh, M. Carnot will do; he wears very
well-built overcoats- very well built, indeed!
And then, you know, he does something else
which always causes one much pleasure—he wears
varnished boots !”
“ Dickie M‘Donald,’’ the ancient native
King of the Bogan River (N.S.W.), has quitted
his dominions after a reign extending over a
jubilee and a half. His parched-up dominion
reverts to the dowager Queen Biddy —his
mother—who still battles with infirmity at the
mature age of 95.
Colonel North, “the Nitrate King we
prefer to call him the “ Manure Monarch ” as it
sounds more realistic —is reputedly worth
£8,000,000. Spiteful people say that at the big
fancy-dress ball given by him lately, in London,
he permeated the crowd, disguised variously, to
hear what was said about him.
General Blyth, who died at Jersey,
Channel Islands, lately, was present at tte des-
perate battle of Racgiriri (N.Z,), m 18G3, and
subsequently commanded a regiment at the
equally bloody assault on Orakau Fab, where the
Maori Chief, Rewi, sent out the memorable de-
fiance ; “We will fight for ever and ever and
ever.”
Bismarck, like Parkes, never listens to
the speech of his opponent in reply. This was
also the way a celebrated Australian acvocate
treated his “learned friend.” When he had con-
cluded his address to the jury he invariably re-
tired into a parlour and drank whisky while the
other party tried to rub out the effect of his argu-
ments.
The late Dean Leonard, of Sydney, was
one of the foremost of the Catholic clerics who
kicked most emphatically against Cardinal
Moran’s command to send in their bank pass-
books, wills, and the like for his perusal. This
was a grave offence against discipline, of course,
but that £7OOO legacy ought to just about balance
the recording angel’s ledger.
“Tom” Russell, the N.Z. financial mag-
nate in London, who some years ago made three-
quarters of a million by speculation in Turkish
bonds, has rented Lord Knutsford’s country house
for three months at the insignificant rental of ICO
guineas a month. And yet the other day it was
reported that through the shrinkage in value of
B. N.Z, shares he had “ come a cropper.
Pellegrini (“Ape,” of Vanity Fair),
when first in London had an interview with
Mark Lemon, editor of Punch, with a view to an
engagement. Lemon desired to see a specimen of
the artist’s ability. Pellegrini begged to be ex-
cused for a few moments, and retiring to another
room returned with a howling caricature of
Lemon himself. He was not engaged.
Nopera Tiki, a Maori chief, who died
lately, belonged to a secret society whose creed
was that they were to enter no European domicile
and have nothing to say to European “ invaders ”
in any shape or form. Members of this sect, if
they entered a store, were in the habit of pointing
out what they wanted and putting down the
money, all tlieir transactions with the contemptible
Pakeha being carried out with dumb signs.
Coroner You l , of Melbourne, at an inquest
the other day, was doubtful as to whether the
evidence of a smaPbcy witness would be admis-
sible, various leading questions having elicited
from the youngster no knowledge of the awful
consequences of tellin? a lie under oath. “Do
you know where you’ll go if you tell an untruth ?”
was the last recourse. “ Yes, sir ;” answered the
boy, promptly, “to Hell, sir!” “Swear himj”
said the coroner, “ he knows more than We do!”
Carter, the great English authority on dogs
and editor of Kennel Notes, _ borrowed some
money from a “Financial Society” at 60_ per
cent, and when he failed to pay up and the bailiffs
put in an appearance he looked the doors cf his
cottage and turned loose his tykes (a collection
of a dozen or more, mostly bull-pups) and shot
one of the bailiffs in the eye. He refused to com-
promise, wrote ribald pamphlets about the Finan-
cial Society, and is now serving a sentence of
five years’ penal servitude.
Lord William Neville, fourth eon of the
Marquis of Abergavenny, who was married in
England lately, was “verted” to the Catholic
Church three years ago while on a visit to Governor
Loch at Melbourne. “The Governor’s aide de-
camp, Lord Castlerosse, was a Roman Catholic,
and Lord William accompanied him to mass on
Sundays, The sermons he heard,” says the Pall
Mall Gazette, “ led him into a course of inquiry
which terminated in his reception at the Mel-
bourne Church of the Jesuit Fathers.”
The new Primate of N.Z , Bishop Hadfield,
has been 51 years in Maoriland, haying come out
to the colony apparently in a dying condition.
On one occasion, 45 years ago, Bishop Selwyn and
others assembled round what they believed to be
Hadfield’s death-bed, and with great emotion bade
him farewell. In one of Selwyn’s letters he
remarks that he must get back “ in time for poor
Hadfield’s funeral ’’—and yet the man who has
been dying for half a century survives the robust
Selwyn. and after a lapse of years succeeds him in
the N.Z. Primacy !
A Melbourne paper s'zej upPurves, Q C. :
In make-up he is loose-jointed, and a little gone in the
knees. The head-piece is cf solid stuff and not cut to
waste anywhere ; well rounded off, with no projecting
angles. The general type is Gothic, with a touch of early
renaissance about the cheek-bones. Mouth severe, with
hirsute drapery of the Vandyke order, from which springs
a fine dilated nostril, which the knowing ones say denotes
genius, but which is all the same well adapted to the
smelling out of a suit. The whole presents a “ never-say
die "aspect of durability and resistance. He can be
suave and considerate on occasions (if the money is
promptly planked), but when any man treads on the tail
of his native land he becomes ferocious, and would wipe
out that man and his sons, and his daughters, and his ox,
and his ass, and everything that is his, unto the third ard
fourth generation.
Jack Monahan, a N.Q pioneer, la dead.
He began life as a squatter and watched his flocks
and herds perish on his barren runs with unsatis-
factory regularity. Tiring of this business he
turned his versatile mind to the absorbing occu-
pation of a vendor of beer. The supply of alcohol
running out he be same a broker, and soon suc-
ceeded in becoming dead-broke. Then his guardian
angel built him a butcher’s shop, but he so bungled
matters that he slaughtered his banking account.
He next set up as a baker and kneaded dough,
but needing cash still more his earthly prospects
again collapsed. Then did the gallant and un-
daunted Monahan become a journalist. In this
pursuit he worked well and piled up “ copy ”
instead of cash, and being weary of subscribers
and people who wouldn’t be subscribers, he rolled
up the wora-out fragments of his former self and
sent the parcel on to glory,
POLITICAL POINTS
“ The “ member for Australia ” —Robert
Dennis.
“If one man lives In laziness another will
die of hunger.”—Confucius.
A N.S.W. country paper describes Bruce
Smith as “ a masher of an advanced type.”
We read that “ large shaggy muffs will be
fashionable this winter,” Parke 3 is right for a
time.
la N.S.W. Freetrade still holds sway.
Where ignorance is bliss it’s folly for a man to
have a head for business.
Jos. Symes, the doughty atheist, is
standing for Colling wood (Melb.) to-day, and has
a chance of pulling through.
Admiral Fairfax says that the removal of
the naval headquarters from Sydney would mean
a loss of £BO,OOO a year to the city.
In Great Britain the balance of power now
rests in the hands of seven per cent of the electors.
The recent by-elections have been greatly in Glad-
stone’s favour.
Jullns Vogel, having decided to go Into
the book-fiend line or the second-hand cocked-hat
industry in Holywell-street, Strand, London, has
resigned his Christchurch seat, and Robert Stout
D-T
MMcjufl
PRINCE-WORSHIP. UK
A heavy blow has been dealt at
prinee-worship in monarchical .countries
by the revelations concerning the self-
inflicted death of the late Crown Prince
of Austria
Here are some samples of the
eulogies which filled the columns of
the Continental press:—. '/* ’■ -~
In monarchical countries, however,
it U the established habit to seize every
opportunity to flatter members of the
Royal, Most of these unfortu-
nate persons are burdened with the most
unreal of reputations—reputation**
wlpch they can neither Jive nor die up
to. ,In the case under notice th i -
inability is extremely marked, and ve
may expect that in future the pane-
gyrists will be'much more restrained m
their flights. And in the long run it
may be- fotmd that the Moverling
tragedy has done much to destroy the
superstitious reverence iu heritage of
ages of ignorance) for the institution of j
monarchy. i(
A COMING ON ANARCHIST.
You would almost pay The Bulletin the compliment of imagining that the
above is a cutting from its colums. But no, it is an extract from a recent sub-leader
in one of the papers which sooled our brigands on when they set out for the Soudan
The world moves.
has been invited to contest it, but has declined, as
he is laying for his old seat at Dunedin.
The N.S.W. Orangemen have elected Mr.
William Robson as their Deputy Grand Master.
Mr. Robson is a man of education and is a red-hot
Protectionist.
Count Cavour, the greatest of modern
diplomatists, has predicted that the R.C. Church,
the most powerful of political bodies, will yet be
converted to Socialism.
Duncan Gillies professes to be in favour of
abolishing plural voting—a singularly radical senti-
ment to come from such a quarter. It means that
Duncan believes in a perpetual Coalition Parlia-
ment.
A human ass lately suicided at Castle-
maine “ because the candidate he voted for did
not secure a seaton the local Mining Board.” Not
the first man who has blown his brains out with
his own vote.
John Williamson, of Liverpool, the ship-
ping expert, declares he “ feels absolutely hope-
less as to the immediate future of ship-owning in
England.” Freetrade has glutted the market
beyond recovaty.
The only Chinese tax Is a land-tax, and
amounts to three shillings per head of the total
population. In Australia the average taxation is
£2 16s lOd. We tax energy and industry, and let
ha idle rich go free,
Hurley and Garland each expected to be
placed at the head of the N.S.W. Mines Depart-
ment. But Sydney Smith, M.L. A. for East
Macquarie, got the portfolio through the pressure
brought to bear on Parkes by the wealthy Sydney
Burdekin.
Yankee Graydon guarantees with his new
dynamite-shell to destroy a target of steel six feet
thick in four or five shots from an ordinary eight-
inch canuon. If that is so the game is up with
the jubilated ironclad, and the British fleet is not
what it used to seem,
Pall Mall Gazette saya that ‘ • Governor
Robinson gave Australia “ the only national song
she possesses ” The Gazette alludes to Wobin-
son’s “ Unfurl the Blag,” a ditty which Young
Australia doesn’t know, and which, if it did, it
would utterly and indignantly disown.
A Bill on the lines of Lord Carnarvon’s
attempt to reform the House of Lords by the ex-
clusion of * ‘ unworthy members ” is being pre-
pared for introduction in the N.S.W. Legislative
Council. A clause will be inserted in the Bill
providing that three members shall constitute a
quorum.
Mr. Paul, the saddler who represents
Bathurst in the N.S.W. Assembly, declined, “ on
conscientious ” grounds, to ask the Government
to proclaim a public holiday for Bathurst on St.
Patrick’s Day. The “conscientious ” grounds are
probably that the rock upon which Senator Paul
is built is the red-hot Orange vote.
A young Victorian writes to a friend in
Queensland : “As for Victorian politics, they’re
enough to make one become an Anarchist. The
soul of the laud seems dead, with the Age and
Australasian laid over it for a shroud.” But
the elections may show a resurrection, the
“glorious phantom” of Nationalism,
Labouchere says: “I am myself some-
times surprised at the effusive gratitude of the
Australians at being allowed to provide money
for some outat-elbows peer, who is made a
colonial Governor because he wants a salary and
is too great a fool to be decently given a large one
at home.” Kintore and Onslow to wit.
During the discussion of the British Ex-
portation Treaty for political offenders in the
U.S.A. Senate, Senator Stewart rose to remark
that “ he would not surrender a dog, much less a
man, for trial in Great Britain under Acts that
have been created for the extermination cf the
Irish people.” And Stewart, like M‘llwraith, is
a Scotchman.
Poor old London Times is now endeavour-
ing to elevate poor old John Bright into the posi
tion of a demigod. It is not so very long since it
spoke of him as a “capering mercenary who goes
frisking about the country; as an “ author of
incendiary claptrap”; as a “peripatetic orator
puffing himself into an easy popularity by second-
hand arguments.”
The receipts of the British and Foreign
Bible Society have dropped £35,000 this year.
The outside contributions dropped £llOO, and the
sales of holy works have fallen £4700
(Bible-selling used to pay well) in nine months
The immense success among the masses of the
English Socialistic Federations is rapidly ruining
the sanctified market.
During the throes of a resent N.S.W.
election a certain candidate, who was promising
more in one hour than he could perform in ICO
years, was hauled up short by an elector who
asked if he was in favour of taxing cereals?
“Certainly I am,” replied the patriot; “I’d tax
the whole bloomin’ lot—Caryils, Chineymin,
Jurmins, and Kanakers.”
The art-critic of the Illustrated London
News, March 2. speaking of Frank Holl’s portrait
of an ex-Chief Secretary of Ireland, says “He
(F, H.) painted with characteristic insight Sir
George Trevelyan, in which a certain weakness of
character is seized with almott prophetic touch.”
This “ certain weakness ” (or any other) of char-
acter would never have been noticed if he hadn’t
adopted Home Rule for Ireland.
Marchant Williams, Inspector of Schools
for the London School Beard, reports that “88
per cent, of the poor population pay more than
one-fifth their income in rent : 40 per cent, pay
from one-quarter to one-half; 42 per cent, pay
from one-quarter to one-fifth; and only 12 per
cent, pay less than one-fifth of their weekly wages
in rent.” “ The earth is the Lord’s.” Yes ; but
the earth’s wages, or most of them, are the land-
lords !
The Queensland Working Men’s Parlia-
mentary Representation Association, which has
banked over £6OO in a few months in half-crown
subscriptions, is founded on “all elections to
take place in one day ; one man to have one vote,
which may be recorded in any electoral district in
the colony; a land-tax, and the repeal of the six
months’ residence clause.” Christy Clarke is the
president, and Hewley the Shearers’ Union secre-
tary, the hon. secretary. Queensland advances,
whatever N.S.W. does.
Oat North, when Brown, Jobson, and
Robinson were standing on the Democratic ticket,
Jobson was introduced to a bucolic elector as
Robin-• on. “I’m going to plump for you,” said
the elector. Jobson here saw a golden oppor-
tunity of improving the shining hour in his tem-
porary character of Robinson, so he replied,
“ Don’t plump for me, old man ; give Jobson one.
too.” “ What! vote for that damned, old cattle-
stealer?—not me!” rejoined the elector, indig-
nantly—and he didn’t. Jobson tells this yarn now
in the smoking-room of the House, and enjoys the
joke immensely.
An Armidale (N.S.W.) elector, whose head
had never ached with the dull precepts of the
Education Act, wanted to record a vote but was
too ashamed of his ignorance to invoke the aid of
the presiding officer of the poll. So he determined
to undertake the task without human aid. He
had been told by his friends that all he bad to do
was to strike out the last three names, so he con-
cluded he knew all about it. On receiving his
ballot-paper he retired behind the screen, turned
his paper upside down, and promptly struck out
what thus appeared to him to be the last three
names, He ran his pencil through the words
“Ballot paper, Electoral district of ,” and
“The day of February, 1889,” then put his
paper in the box and marched proudly forth,
thinking he had done his duty to himself and his
bleeding country.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY MARCH 30, 1889.
Justice Mercy.
"Mr. Blank, Stipendiary Magistrate, this morning disposed of 84 cases at[?] Central Police Court, Sydney, in 47 minutes.’-Daily
JUSTICE (to Mercy): “LIVEN UP, OLD [?]Y, I CAN'T WAIT FOR YOU.”


t
Mercy.
Central Police Court, Sydney, in 47 minutes.’-Daily
[?]Y, I CAN'T WAIT FOR YOU.”


£JRESCENT BREWING CO.’S
“AURORA”
PILBENBR BHEB
E. B WHBELBE & CO,
265 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cannot be surpassed. It
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented by
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. The
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hotel
thoroughly comfortabe.
W. H. PALING & Co., Lid., 356 George Street, Sydney
H
AVE iuib opened a magnlfictnt lob of NEW PIA.NOS from the Celebrated Makers, STEINWAY, ERiRD, U&BEL, FENRICH, LEPP, RONIiCH, BLUTHNER,
OOLLARD and others ; a’aD of the wonderful VICTOR pianos at £45, and ESTEY ORGANS. No such variety or value elsewhere for cash or terms.
Society
Melbourne Herald informs a ita readers
that patient and laborious research has revealed
the fact that the human breath contains an
alkaloid poison more deadly than “ Rough on
Rats,” or new Queensland rum, and by bottling
up the air exhaled by our Sunday girl with the
coral lips and pearly teeth, subjecting it to pres-
sure, boiling it down, keeping it in a cool place,
and then distilling it through a gin-mill, a
valuable insect-destroyer and soothing draught for
the howling yellow dog next door can be obtained
at a very small cost. Music, please, we will state
the case in song
“ Hans the Boatman ” Arnold tells na a
most gruesome story about a voyage he had with
a theatrical troupe in the West Indies. A newly-
married couple were on board the steamer, aad
before they were many days at sea the young bride
was suddenly taken ill and died. Out of respect
to the sorrowing young husband’s feelings a pine
coffin, to take the place of the customary canvas
was made by the ship's carpenter, but the iron-
weights to sink it were placed inside the coffin
instead of outside When it was slid off the plank
the weights knocked the end of the coffin out, and
as it struck the water the body floated away and
was immediately seized by a huge shark, which
disappeared with its ghastly prize before the eyas
of the horrified husband. The latter was with diffi-
culty prevented from jumping overboard after all
that remained of his hapless bride Now, Rignold!
The Sydney Articled Clerks Association
held a mock breach of promise trial last week.
The affair, which was conducted according to the
rules and procedure of the Supreme Court, was in
many respects a great success, and should these
concerned take it into their heads to repeat the
performance in a large hall for the benefit of
charity they could easily raise a considerable sum,
as there is hardly a woman in the community who
would not hypothecate her lovely new set of teeth
to see so instructive a show.
* • *
An Adelaide coffee-palace haa been burnt
down and a parson consumed in the flames. It is
difficult to strike a lucifer in Adelaide without
setting fire to a clergyman.
An outgoing Colonial Governor is heroi-
cally eating his way through a series of more
or less frightful farewell feeds. He is
shortly to be banqueted (tickets, 7s. 6d
for males, si. 3d. for females, and 3s. 9d.
for children under 12; family tickets at re-
duced rates) in a public manner by as many
of the citizens as can rescue the necessary coin
from the clutches of the Official Assignee in Bank-
ruptcy. The Club, which sustains a decent
cook and some undeniable Chateau Margeaux,
dined His Ex. a few nights since and dined
him effectively. Afterwards the Gov. and bis
A D.O. strutted homewards in the soft moonlight
—the former vnibly affected by the hospitality
he had endured. Arrived at Government House
gate, the guard of four Permanent Artillerymen
and a red-nosed bombardier turned out with a
bang. Perhaps the Gov. was startled by the glitter
of the old bombardier’s nasal organ ; perhaps the
club soup disagreed with him. Anyway, while
returning with frigid military dignity the guard’s
salute, he stumbled and nearly fell on the neck of
the bombardier aforesaid. Then the of
the Governor was merged ia the sorrow at parting
of the man, and he said, “All ri’, Guard! All
rl , Goiblesabyer, Guard ! Good-bye, Guard !”
“Godblesshyer, old rooster! Good-bye!” hic-
coughed the old bomb , who had, evidently, also
been dining. The Governor kindly overlooked the
indiscretion of the ancient soldier.
* •
Governors beware ! An American man
recently ruptured some of the cords of bis ver-
tebrae while yawning.
■ * «
Joe Thompson, a lean, insanitary dead-
beat, who appeared to have been drunk all the
days of his life and to have passed all the nights
under a bridge, and who was famiehsd and pal-
sied and had his clothes tied up with string, and
looked poorer than an agUed Chinaman on a
played-out lead, was stood before Melbourne City
Court the other day charged with having b=en
foand in a gutter, drunk When broughtto the bar
prisoner betrayed great anxiety and shoflled about
in his boots and seemed hungry to di■(burden him-
self of an awful suspicion that weighed him down
and made his back ache, and he gaz»d eagerly
round the court seeking a sympathetic soul upon
whom he could rely to set him right in the eyes of
the world ; but he had to fall back on a police-
man. Presently he signalled to the constable in
waiting, and, drawing that dignitary up close by
the collar of his coat, he bent down and said with
solemn earnestness: “Corstable! I am not Joe
Thompson, the great bookmaker, and, let God’s
sake, let their worships know !"’
* - •
It jmb occurs to us that the American
paper which described the Duke of Sutherland as
“ short ” and a fit companion for his concubine,
“ a foot taller and as vulgar-looking as himself
well, it strikes us that somebody was making a
mistake. The Dook is generally understood to
stand over Gft, 2in. in his socks, and it would take
a pretty large concubine to top that record by 12
THE MOTHER OE NECESSITY.
Q.: "NOW, BOYS, WHAT IS THE MOTHER OF INVENTION?”
A.: “NECESSITY.”
Q.: “AND WHAT IS THE MOTHER OF NECESSITY?’
A.: “FREETHADE."
inches. This American paper evidently got hold
of the real Sutherland’s character, but fitted it to
the wrong man. In a general way the right dock
gets a beautiful character which doesn’t belong to
him.
• * *
“Mr. Dawson, editor of the Charleston
News, South Carolina, has been murdered by a
doctor.”
Mr. Hayter estimates the total wealth of
the populations of Victoria and N.S.W. upon a
system which is too funny entirely. He takes the
total account of real and personal estate be-
queathed by dead people to live people during one
year, divides that amount by the number of
deaths, and multiplies the dividend by the number
of survivor?. Unfortunately for Mr._ Hayter’s
figures it happens that there are more births than
deaths every year and that whereas men and
women are api to be at their richest when they
die, they are always in an impecunious state
when born. Mr. Hayter has forgotten to calculate
the average age at which all these people die. Let
him do that and he can fonh soma idea of what
the average live ’un is worth at the same age. A
small minoiity of the population would be older
and worth rather more per head, but the large
majority would be younger and worth very little,
or nothin? at aU. Mr. Hayter has the popular
craze for endeavouriog to magnify the wealth of
Australia, and his figures need a terrible lot of
boiling down.
» • *
A Fifzroy (Melb.) landlady had an old fel-
low aged 72 up the other day for kissing her on
the cheek. The scriptures are never regarded
now - she should have turned the other chee k.
» ♦
The wire announces the death of old
Chris. Green way, reputedly the richest man in
Auckland, NZ. He was a little shrivelled old
man, who wore clothes of mediaeval cut and a
shocking bad hat, and had the reputation of being
a mcst miserly person. His wealth has been
estimated at various sums from a quarter up to
half-a million, and the bulk (f his huge property,
it is believer 1 , will go to his daughter, who some
years ago married a half-pay British Colcnel
named Charlton Dawson. Greenway and Costley,
another famous Auckland miser, were great
cronies and frequently exchanged confidences with
the object of ascertaining if further economies
in their way of living were possible. Costley died
some four or five years ago, and a few hours before
his death it was found that he had made no will,
His tolicitor was brought to his bedside, and
almost in extremis, he willed £lOO,OOO to the
charities of Auckland, the residue of his property
going in small legacies t a bis personal friends, the
magnificent Jim Coates, of the National Bank,
amongst others, coming in for £5OO.
Oae hundred and ninety- three persons at-
tended lectures on cooking in the Sydney Technical
College during last year. This is an increase on pre-
ceding year?. There was a proportional increase
in the death-rate of city residents,
9 • •
Dr. M‘Laurin, M.L.C., will visit England
shortly, and when there will try to obtain for
medical graduates of Sydney University the same
British rights in respect to registration as are
enjoyed by the medical practitioners of the United
Kingdom.
* ♦ •
“ It Is a great mistake, ’ ’ said a vei y old reald ent
of Sydney lately, “ to suppose that there are many
representatives of the convicts amongst our ‘ first
families.’ I can only count the families of 21 con-
victs who acquired affluence.”
• • •
After their return : English Baronet: “I
see there hasbeenagreat fire in Sydney,” The Lady
Frances : “In Sydney ? Fancy ! We saw Syd-
ney, didn’t we ? ” Baronet: “ Why, of course,
my dear. We weio there a week. Don’t you re-
member an enormous town wi'h ash-barrels and
garbage in front of the houses ?”— Adapted.
• •
The FoßhEsand Parke, sGazetie, Laohlai*
and Bogan Advebtisbk, a paper whose natr e is
longer than its brains, gets its foreign items mixed
a good deal at times. When poor Milan slid eft
the greasy eminence of the Servian throne, the
other day. it rose and flapped its wings and stated
that “King Minto had drafted an act of abduc-
tion”; and then it retired leaving this fact standing
up in good order without offering any explanation.
If the Forbes and Parses Gazette had a large
circulation among the crowned heads df Europe
some dreadful international complications would
ensue to a dead certainty.
* • «
This la about a bishop 1 People who are
particular whom they read about can skip it. He
was Bishop of Melanesia, Like Manchester,
William Melanesia gazes on the tobacco when it is
red and lendeth its colour to the bowl. During
his trip from Sydney to Auckland, this great and
good man one afternoon we nt down into the engine-
room of the Ricgarcoma to consume the noxious
vegetable and blow the smoke through his nose-«-
an accomplishment of which he is particularly
proud. But when he had primed his clay, he
found himself bankrupt in the matter of matches,
and hailed a ship’s boy to pass some down and
look smart. A few seconds later the cleric
was gratified to bear that juvenile but promising
salt calling: “Hi! Bill Rowe; hev yer got a
light in yer pants ? There’s old Melanesia down
in the engine-room, a cursin’ and sweatin’, and
sayin’ there ain’t a hadjectiva match in the whole
flamin’ ship ! ”
» • *
A writer to an English paper wants the
British taxpayer to provide a special endowment
to accompany title s of honour so that bankrupt
peers will always have the price of a tripe supper
and a glass cf beer about ’em. He says if some
such special provision had b.en made in times
past, the Earl of Perth and Melfort— now re-
siding in a little house at Kew —would enjoy a
portion, at least, of the historic inheritance of the
Drummonds ; the late Lord Kingsland, who was
at one time a waiter at the Dawson-street Hotel,
would not have died a pauper wholly dependent
on the Crown’s bounty; and Lord Aylmer of
Balrath would not have been driven to fight the
battle of life in the distant colony of Canada;
the heir cf the Castletons would not have sunk to
the trade of pants making; a remnant of the
extensive Garbery possessions of the Moores
would have saved their representative, the late
Sir Richard Emanuel Moore, Bart., from the
necessity of holding the situation of third-class
turnkey at Spike Island; and the baronetcy of
D’Oyly of Chiselhampton, in Oxfordshire, would
not have been lost to sight, and be now supposed
to exist in a labourer at Banbury. Lord Kirk-
cudbright need not hav* stood behind the counter
of his glove-shop in Edinburgh ; and that noble-
hearted gentleman Mr. Surtees, the historian of
Durham, would have lost the opportunity of
taking from the workhouse of Chester-D-Street,
old Sir Thomas Conyers, the last baronet of
Hordern. Sir Anthony Mayney, Bart, the male
heir of the most eminent Royalist families in
Kent, ruined by the Civil War, would not have
perished of actual want, nor his brother have
committed suicide for the same cause ; nor would
Lord Seafield have resigned a bum-bailiffship in
New Zealand to assume an earldom for the short
space of a few months ere he toppled into the
grave. God bless our bust-up nebility !
* * -
Poor little Milan of Servii—a equat ard
awkward monarch with a countenance which
would have adorned the hot pie industry —has
retired from the king business. Ho was the sixth
sovereign since Sorvia was re established as a
Principality in 1804 andtheotherfivewerealleibher
deposed or assassinated. Milan ended, as he
began, without a cent, having regularly “ blewed ”
bis kingly income at sundry games of chance
where he was always taken in. For many years
he was accustomed to take an annual holiday at
Monta Carlo or some similar pleasant den of
infamy, and after a wild orgia, lasting two or
three weeks, he generally had to walk back. In
his earlier life Milan, Henry of Batbenberg, and a
poor little battered Russian, Amadeus of Mingrc-
lia, used to hang out together in Paris, and they
were all skirmishing after wives with money.
They offered a handsome commission to a Hebrew
lady who ran a matrimonial agency, and she
arranged to trade off Milan’s nork-butcher-like
countenance on a widow with £200,000 who drank
like a fish, but the widow got violent one day
when she was very tipsy, and Milan fled bo avoid
being caned by his betrothed. Batbenberg and
his squint were offered to the daughter of a
foreign ambassador—a young lady who had eloped
a good deal and been brought back by the ear
much the worse for wear, but she said scornfully,
“ Take the animal away!” He was trotted out
for the inspection of an American heiress and
trotted back again, and after many other adven-
tures he was looked at and declined by an aged
ballet-dancer with bed post legs who had come in
for £BO,OOO, and then he gave up in despair.
Amadeus of Mingrelia only got one show, and that
was with a lady who owned a profitable furniture-
emporium ; and about this time the man who gave
the three princes tick for vittles came down on
them with his bill, and they broke up in disorder
and fled. Amadeus of Mingralia disappeared
long ago. Milan has borrowed an annuity off the
long-suffering Austrian Emperer, and has started
a frantic career of dice, actresses, and liquor which
will probably leave him in his old age an unshod
monarch with a barrel-organ and a monkey ; and
Battenberg is married to a lady more ponder-
ous in the limbs even than his aged elephantine
ballet-girl, and rum odd errands in a kilt for his
gracious ma.
* * •
Though the subjoined la to an extent stale
news it must nevertheless be printed. “The non-
arrival of Governor Loch’s luggage delayed the
We often meet the masher who,
With soft emotion seethes,
To crown his lady love ia verse,
Poetic garlands wreathes.
And madly sings of drinking in
The very air she breathes.
Poor, silly fool! for his behoof
These verses are compiled.
We sing of one devoted man
Whose passions drove him wild ;
Yet, ere he loved, he was a chap
Of manners meek and mild.
The girl he loved, she coldly spurned
His very humble hand ;
Her eyes were “ cross,” which made the cut
More difficult to stand.
Most beautiful she was, but proud ;
Her father led a band.
The young man rose in dark despair,
And sadly her he eyed ;
“Farewell, cold Sarah Jane !” he said.
“ Adjew, me love !” he cried.
Then, drinking in her breath, he fell,
And curled him up and died.
Why kick up a fuss
’Cos Dawson died thus—
Egad ! we know nothing absurder ;
One can’t put his hand
On a leech in the land
Who hasn’t been guilty of murder.
Men are licensed to kill
With a powder or pill,
And patients are not to be pitied;
Their own is the fault
If they lie in a vault
The victims of crimes so committed.
The smi.ing M.D.
Couldn’t live, do-yer-see,
The luxurious life that he oughter,
If ailing mankind
Didn’t make up its mind
To go like a lamb to the slaughter.
And, as for this Ed.,
We are sorry he’s dead,
Bat his body we’ll not nog a dirge on.
’Twas a pill, we suppose,
Put an end to his woes,
Or else he was slain by a surgeon.


The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
“If typhoid is not soon arrested at Bal-
ranald the electorate will only be entitled to one
member, which would not be the most disastrous
effect of supineness.— Sydney D.T. And that one
member will be the politically square Lakeman,
not the trimmer Wilkinson. — Bulletin.
Bona fide announcement. Highest Oash Price
Sven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing,
ress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Bn ssell-street Melbour
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.-TONTINB POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED «.s an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
departure of the mail steamer, and during this
interim Mr. Joe Thompson, bookmaker, stepped
up to his Excellency and announced that the
steamer need not wait as he, Mr. Thompson,
would be delighted to take the Governor’s bag-
gage to Adelaide by h’s special train on Saturday
evening. Sir Henry thanked Mr. Thompson, but
added that he could not accept his kind offer as
he was without a change of under wear ; to which
the latter rejoined, ‘ Well, don’t let that trouble
your Excellency ; you are most welcome to the
stock in my cabin.’ ” Undue familiarity breeds
contempt. Once upon a time we used to worship
Imperial Governors from afar off ; now we mani-
fest our veneration for them by calmly offering
them, in an off hand way, the loan of socks and
things. However, the steamship companies who
are the connecting-link between ourselves and the
dear old mother country still have a full and
proper respect for the Downing-street pro-consuls.
The passengers of the mail-boat aforesaid
waited for two solid hours pending the arrival of
Loch’s “ tailed shirts.”
• * •
The Hawk states that Letty Lind and
Sylvia Grey intend settling down in Australia
after their respective marriages. Sylvia Grey be-
came engaged on her voyage out.
• • *
In the Darling Downs (Q.) district a
society is about to be formed for the purpose of
raising funds “ to grant a dowry to every bride, a
bonus for every child, and something special for
twins.”
* •
*
A sad story from Castlemalne (Yic )
seems to show how necessary it is to clutch a
pretty girl with both hands. John Bollard, a
farmer of that district, was engaged to a sweet,
blue-eyed young thing who loved him with all the
unselfish devotion of a virgin heart until he ac-
cidentally shot off the paw that used to pinch her
pink shell-like ear as she nestled to his bosom.
From that time forward the maiden’s passion
began to cool down, and when John Bollard,
taking her trembling fingers in those which hadn't
been blown into space, asked her what had come
between them, Phyllis explained that she wanted
the touch of his vanished hand, but was still pre-
Eared to love him as a mutilated brother. Nothing
ad come between them —something was blown
away instead. Then poor John Bolger returned
to his farm and wrote a letter to the girl, men-
tioning that he wished to die on the gallows for
her sake, and was about to empty his revolver into
the revered form he was no longer able to hug
with the vigour of days gone by. B Jlard is now
bound over to abstain from assassination.
The Queen’s visit to Biarritz has enabled
an admiring Frenchman to strike a bona-fide
novelty in grovel. A certain M. le Comte de la
Rochefoucauld enjoyed the blessed privilege of
getting Her Gracious to fix herself up in his
furnished villa, and his arrangements for keeping
the outside world at bay, “in the interest of
Royal seclusion,” touched the Queen’s heart until
she couldn’t sleep for wanting to brand her land-
lord with some fitting mark of her august grati-
tude. Accordingly. Sir Henry Ponsonby was de-
puted to wait upon M le Comte, and explain to
that good man that if he wanted anything inex-
pensive, he had only to nut a name to it and his
prayer would be heard. Then the Comte rasked
his brain to discover what was the greatest joy
which earth could afford him He wrestled with
the problem for some days, and at last the Comte
decided that if one of his own servants, wearing
the La Rochefoucauld uniform, might be allowed
to sit in the hall among the Queen’s servants while
she remained at the villa, then he, M. le Comte,
would have nothing else left to live for. Her
Majesty graciously assented to the proposal. The
Rochefoucauld flunkey just sat in the hall des-
pised and scorned by the other flunkeys, while his
homeless master dodged aimlessly about Biarritz,
crying 0 ! What joy to be Jeames !
• * *
London Hawk has been sharply criticising
the balance-sheet of the Salvation Army, and
amongst other nasty things, says that the general
balance-sheet is so called because it is intended to
maintain the General, and it pokes fun at Booth’s
pious addendum to his financial statement, ‘ 1 To
God be all the glory,” the irreverent Hawk
adding, “And to Booth be all the cash.” A
financial journal taking up the cudgels for the
Army, says it has gone through the figures, which
are all correct, and winds up with the assertion
that the proper addendum should be, “ To God be
all the glory, and to Booth be all the credit.”
The other day a Melbourne policeman
discovered a placid and venerable old gentleman
perched in an attitude of ecstatic frenzy, energeti-
cally munching a cork, and drinking imaginary
bumpers of champagne, on the steps of the local
Town Hall. When interviewed, the antiquated
gourmet struck an oratorical pose, and informed
the surrounding policeman that he was attending
a banquet to Sir Henry Loch by special invitation,
and couldn’t think of leaving till the National
Anthem bad been sung by the brilliant assemblage
he saw before him. He furthermore remarked
that he was laid on to respond to the toast of the
ladies, and the banquet relied upon him as its
main stay, and it would fall into an idiotic state
of collapse and inanity if he were pulled from
under. Then the doddering old visionary bowed
to the East and West, and went on worrying his
cork and tossing off spectral bumpers of fizz Tae
helmeted myrmidon of the law tried to persuade
the old party that the banquet was waiting for him
up the street and round the corner, and said that
he was wanted to hurry up and take the chair,
but he failed in his insidious intent. After a time,
however, the lone banqueter up-ended himself and
spoke a lot of unctuous loyalty to the desert air and
t ne unappreciative policeman, and revie wed woman,
her rise and progress, in a laudatory tone and sub-
sided. An itinerant musician with a hand-power
organ was hired to grind out a feline call upon
Providence to “ send her victorious,” &o, &c.,
with a view to soothing the lunatic, and then the
rickety dead-beat dusted the crumbs out of his
fags and accompanied the constable, who rewarded
his confidence by agitating to get him six months
for being a drivelling Jingo run mad and at large
near a Town Hall without visible means of sup-
port or negotiable credit at a bash-mill. This little
incident has awakened great interest amongst the
Melbourne ratepayers who were billed to Rive
Governor Loch a banquet on that day and date
at their own expense. These malcontents consider
the aged stranger was very fortunat i in getting a
cork to chew - it was more than they got although
they had to provide all the money.
« •
There is an awful lack of humour In the
solemn Englishman who wails became the solemn
Scotch can’t see a joke. A few months ago the
Cornhill published a wild skit on Ignatius Don-
nelly’s Shakesbaoon cryptogram, and proved by
an elaborate scheme of addition, multiplication,
subtraction, and derision that Dickens’ novels
were written by Gladstone; and ever since the
editor has been drifting into lunacy owing to the
hundreds of readers who write to ask if any
further evidence has turned up. This British
thick-headednesj is of long standing: When
London was first divided into postal districts the
authorities issued a circular showing how letters
should be addressed, as, for example, to “ John
Smith, Strand, W. 0.,” and for months after-
wards thousands of letters drifted through the
post-office to this imaginary Smith The London
’Arry, even when ha was sending an impassioned
epistle to his Mary Hann, addressed it to Smith,
under a fixed impression that Smith was a pre-
liminary ordeal through which all letters had to
go, and it took years to wipe out this delusion.
Even the Chinaman is less dense than this.
Nob many months ago a “distinguished
Australian,” whose expansive and well-fed front-
A HOLY FREAME.
CRITIC (to artist absorbed in contemplating the great work of his life): “WHAT TRUTH-
FUL COLOURING! WHAT SWEETLY CALM REPOSE! I CAN SEE YOU
PAINTED THAT IN A HOLY FRAME OF MIND !”
ARTISTIC PERSON: "UNFORTUNATELY, OLD FELLER, A PICTURE WONT
SELL IN A HOLY FRAME, THE PUBLIC EXPECT GILT!”
piece was decorated with all the splendour of a
barren British title, determined to visit Eagland
and paralyse bis kith and kin with the glory and
riches he had won in Australia. Dim recollections
of the younger brothers who had made mud-pies
with him in the gutter, and of the small unshod
sisters who had chased the old brown cow in the
family paddock, still lurked in his capacious soul,
but 30 years had elapsed since he had received
any tidings from the old country, and he had
almost forgotten even their names On arriving
in London he began to roll the golden ball along
by inviting a brilliant army of free feeders—re
presentative Australians, everyone —to have
dinner with him at his hotel. He hired a cold
mechanical-looking man as secretary, and gave
him general directions to hunt up all his relatives
in a lavish sort of way, and invite them to the
spread. The secretary found their addresses, and
wrote the invitations—and then forgot all about
it. He took it for granted that it was all right,
and the distinguished Australian took it for
granted also The dinner-night came. The gay
banqueters had taken their seats at the festive
spread, and the bulky form of a duke had fallen
lopsidedly into a chair at the head of the table—
when suddenly a vision darkened the doorway,
and the host felt that chaos had come back to
earth, and that all the solid facts of two
hemispheres had been seized upon and shook.
A costermonger with an empty fruit-basket
in one hand and a rent and flabby slouch
hat in the other was plodding in at the open
portal ; by bis side was a stout, middle-aged
woman with an immense infant in her arms, and
behind there loomed up a chimney-sweep stained
with soot. A fat girl of 16 with short petticoats
which refused to disguise her knees, and sleeves
that had shrunk to her weather-beaten elbows
was giggling alongside the sweep, and crowding
her pinafore into her mouth to prevent her shriek-
ing outright. A tinker and a cobbler, both in
aprons, were hovering undecidedly in the rear,
bub they w ere shoved on from behind by a mis-
cellaneous crow d of women and bootless children
who blocked the'r retreat, and they all wanted
the host. The shattered Australian toiled feebly
to the front and clutched something to keep him
from sinking Tile tinker introduced himself as
his brother Jim, and presented the long row of
his kindred, who extended hands of various de-
grees of cleanliness, and the sweep, who was the
most cordial of the crowd, left the print of his oc-
cupation on the long-lost relative’s shirt-front.
The duke loomed up in Gorgon-like amazement
and breathed heavily, and then there was a
scramble for seats on the part of the family, and
a frantic hustling for food. The returned Aus-
tralian clutched his secretary by the ear, and in a
hoarse whisper sacked him without a character and
told him he would see him blazing in the bottom-
less pit before he gave him any salary, and having
performed this sacred function he took his place
with grief written on his features. The tinker
and the sweep and the rest of the relatives
wolfed the victuals for an hour or more,
and then leaned over the table and listened to the
speeches. When the fat duke made an oration
and extolled the virtues of the outraged colonist
they glared at the newly-found one in open-
mouthed admiration, and when the representative
one made a few uncertain remarks in reply they
said “ ’Ear, ’ear 1” Then the tinker, who was
floating in champagne, and had hitherto restrained
himself with difficulty, lifted up bis voice and
announced his relationship, and the pleasure it
gave him to see a brother so /tonoured, and he
added that he believed in relatives sticking to-
gether, and so long as there was a hard wooden
chair or a baked potato in his ’umble ’ome the
man from Australia was welcome to a share. The
costermonger dragged him down and made a
speech, and the chimney sweep stood up with two
murky hands resting on the table and chimed in.
The tinker’s missus lurched heavily and said them
were her sentiments, and the 1 inker apologised on
the ground that the “hold ’ooman was a bit
squiffy.” Hera the “distinguished Australian”
fled and those who were sober disappeared, but
those who were drunk remained joyous till the
grog was no more and the last turkey-bones were
eaten bare. By the next boat bound for the
colonies the wanderer returned to remain for ever
in the land which alone brought him comfort,
where his kin ceased from troubling and he was at
rest.
Vanity Items.
Extract from evidence given by the (female) defendant
in a bigamy case at Sydney police-court, last week ;
“ The object of her visit to Sydney was to ascertain
whether her husband was alive or not. She had not then
heard of him for nearly 12 months On reach-
ing Sydney with the money remitted to her, she had not
the slightest intention of marrying any person, much less
Hiblle, because she always disliked him. ills persistent
representation of affluence, however, impressed her mind
and had a decided effect upon her lines of action. [Never
was the idea put more neatly. —Ed. B.j For instance, he
had led Her to believe that he could procure for her un-
married daughter an introduction at Government Hous
and also that he could find a pay able civil service b'l
for her son.” In the face of this, who dares say that
Government House has lost its influence ?
Editor Bulletin.— Sir, — On page 38 of a book called
“Dead Men’s Dollars,” by Crommelin, there is a kiss
spoken of, given by a woman to a man, which is supposed
to work a charm upon the man who receives it. This
particular kiss is thus described: — 11 That nameless power
which but few women ever have among thousands—a
mesmerism that maddens and is more than beauty.” Can
you, sir, tell me, through the medium of your paper, how
this kiss is given. Hoping you will satisfy my curiosity,
if it lies in your power,—Believe me, yours faithfully,
May Crommelin. North Adelaide, 18th March, 1889.”
[We must refer our correspondent to the editors of the
religious Press.—Ed. B ]
A London dandy recently appeared on the street in a
pair of lavender trousers, patent-leather shoes, and a
short j acket made wholly of seal-skin.
Hon. John Colbotne was a military swell who was a
prominent figure in London society some years ago.
When he was stationed at Dover—a young man then and
a captain—a military ball was given, and the good man
was “all there.” His equanimity, which was rarely dis-
turbed, was upset on that occasion, for the Colonel’s wife,
approaching him, said in her suavest tones: “ Glad to see
you, Captain Colborne. You will be pleased to know that
the lady you are engaged to at Canterbury and the lady
you are engaged to at Dover are both here.”
A bteach-of-promise case, which would form the ground-
work of a most amusing comedy, is shortly to be threshed
out in the English law-courts. A landed proprietor be-
came engaged to the daughter of a ohuroh dignitary, and
soon after received an injury to the head in the hunting-
field, which necessitated a sea-voyage. Soon his letters
became decidedly queer, and retained, during the two
years he was away, a character which led his correspon-
dents to doubt his sanity. Upon returning to England his
conduct was no lees extraordinary, and at length the
parents of his intended, after having their suspicions
confirmed by a medical man, wrote to him breaking off
the match. Not long afterwards he introduced to local
society a lady whom he had married during his absence
abroad, and now the other girl s relatives, feeling that
they have been tricked, are about to sue him on the
ground that the release was obtained under false pre-
tences.
The American lady who has introduced digitated shoes
has had three pairs made for herself. For the house is one
made of tan-coloured undressed kid and lined throughout
except in the toes and over the instep, with rose-pink
satin. They button tightly to the knee. Another pair,,
for evening wear, is made of pick-white kid, almost the
colour of Her complexion, and are fastened with pearl l
buttons. They cost ISlols, For outdoor she has a pair'
made of dark-brown dogskin, with soles of pliable leather,
and lacing above the knee. Speaking of them lately she
said: “ It seems to me heathenish to crowd the toes alto-
gether in tight shoes. Why should we crowd our toes all
together and let our fingers go free ? Each toe should be
as separate as each finger. You have no idea with what
comfort and ease I walk, now that I have adopted these
shoes. Of course I cannot wear them in the city at pre-
sent, but I hope soon to be able to do so, for I am sure
many women of sense will adopt them." This all sounds
very well, but what is she going to do about her corns ?
Mrs. Langtry has introduced a new fashion in evening
dress which is creating a woeful scare among American
girls who seek to follow in her footsteps. One of them
publishes her agony in this fashion“ As an anatomical
fact, the average English young woman is flat and smooth
of breast. Take Mrs. Langtry as an example of what I
mean. She is broad of shoulders and hips and her phy-
sique is luxurious except in the upper frontage of the
body, which is so built that she can wear a corsage so low
that an American woman would be arrested lor appearing
publicly in it. Well, a London burlesque company has
caught the swell turn, and the chief female beauty of the
organisation is of the English and Langtry pattern—a
deliciously genuine and shapely creature. Her costumes
are all decollete in a peculiar manner. Her upper arms,
shoulders, and throat are covered, but j ust above where
her wishbone would be were she a chicken a trian
gular opening begins. One corner of that triangle is
at the top, and therefore tha space of disclosure widens
rapidly downward. It is a very ’generous triangle, and
the lower corners of it reach low and wide. Neverthe-
less, the area of unhidden hide is as smooth as the middle
of her back. Now most of our New York girls who are
accustomed to copying the stage fashions of English
actresses are quite unable to imitate this particular out of
corset. A plump young friend of mine ordered a waist
for a ball dress fashioned in that way. She is accus-
tomed to merely telling her dressmaker what she wants*
All the fitting is done on a dummy that is a fac simile of
her own figure, and so she isn’t bothered again until the
gown is delivered. In this case the drees came home only
an hour before it was to be donned for a ball. Her maid
helped her into it. The triangular opening just framed a
picture that startled its possessor and would have caused
a panic in the ball-room if it had ever appeared there
—but it didn't. It was too large an order for even an
American girl to show to the public gaze.
An energetic American woman supplies the following
contribution to the bustle controversy:—“ I know that
women are hampered by their clothes, and I believe they
will never be able to compete with men until they are
better dressed. Give a girl pockets—pockets on her hips,
her back, her breast, and about her belt and side ; loosen
her waist, sleeves, collar, and skirt strings ; give her
hands and feet room ; burn her bustle and lighten her
skirts ; school her and give her plenty of physical exer-
cise, and at 20 she won’t hang two pounds of curled hair
at her back to mark her waist line.”


A RADICAL REFORM.
«/\H 1 I feel bo Mondayish 1” exclaims the
VJ housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches ■ and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
>
/
Stale Patent Washer , Wringer and Mangle.
The two above-described “Steaming” and
“Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foammg suds. In the process; the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boding are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
• Radical Reform!
A customer of ours calls the change. “ Washing
made Fun."
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
488, 484, ajtd 486 Giobob Stbbbt.
riDNBT.
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN'S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAIN’S
PAINS
LAST DAYS
of
POMPEII.
SATURDAY,
SATURDAY, SATURDAY,
March 30 bh, 1889,
PHILLIP PARK.
PAIN’S
SATURDAY, LAST DAYS MARCH 30bh
SATURDAY, ofj MARCH 30th
POMPEII.
Scenic Artists: Mr. Walter Mills
and Assistants.
Stage Manager : Mr. J. Raymond.
In accordance
SATURDAY, with the MARCH 30bh
Expressed Wish
of a large body of the Sydney public
who thoroughly appreciate the
ENTERTAINMENT
which has been provided for them.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS AND
ADDITIONS
SATURDAY, will be made to the MARCH 30
SATURDAY, Mammoth Stage MARCH 30
Under the personal supervision of
CAPTAIN RAISON,
assisted by a body of 200 skilled mechanicians,
working by night, under KIRKLAND & CO.’S
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
This work will have the effect of raising the
entire STAGE and SCENERY
TEN FEET ABOVE
its present level, thus enabling persons at the
extreme end of the Grand Stand to obtain a per-
fect and uninterrupted view of every detail in
connection with this MAGNIFICENT SPEC-
TACLE, and will furthermore obviate the neces-
sity of any spectator standing up.
SATURDAY, March 30.
PAUL WEITZMANN in his daring performance
on the Wire.
ROMAN GAMES,
GLADIATORIAL COMBATS,
BOXING, WRESTLING, NET & TRIDENT,
Deadly Combat wioh the Net and Trident.)
The Procession of Priests, Drill of the Roman
Guards, Mr. Raymond’s celebrated Flower Dance,
in which a trained ballet of lady artistes will
assist; living Roman statuary, athletes, gjmnasts,
rope-walkers, &c , &c , together with numerous
other attractions.
The whole invented and produced by
JAMES PAIN, of LONDON & NEW YORK.
Be early and secure good seats.
H. DENTON, of Svdoey, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yobk-stbekt.
THE MOST POPUL AR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Great Sensational Event to take place at an Early
Date.
THE GRAND OPENING SOON OF THE
SKATING SEASON.
Look out for the Date.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, c:ol, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
THE OPENING SOON.
To be lighted by thousands of the many coloured
Incandescent Electric Liehts provided by the
well-known firm, G. K, Kirkland and Co., 65
York street, Sydney.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice Palace,
Montreal, Canada.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassie.
Grand Exhibition in Skating by the Best Talent
in the World.
THE GRAND OPENING SOON.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
METROPOLITAN SK ATING RINK,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Two minutes from Railway Station.
THE COOLEST RINK IN THE CITY.
SPLENDID OPEN-AIR PROMENADE.
Beautiful Views of HARBOR and CITY.
City Band eve-y evening and Saturday afternoons.
The FLOOR has been laid with MATTAI and ■
has been pronunced Second to None.
The Building is brilliantly illuminated with
Incandescent Electric Lights, provided by G. K.
Kirkland and Co., York-street.
SESSIONS ;
Morning, 10, for Ladies and Children only.
Admission free, Skates 6d.
Afternoon, 2 30. Ladies and Children ; Admis-
sion 6d., Skates 61. Gentlemen : Admission Is.,
Skates Is.
Evenings, 7 30. Admission (bo all) Is. Skates Is.
Patrons (with own skates), floorage 6d. Season
Tickets now ready.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’buses pass the doors
every few minutes. The management reserve the
right to refuse admission to obj actionable persons.
D. W. HIGGINS, Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S COMEDY
COMPANY.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING, at 8,
Sydney Grundy’s powerful Comedy Drama, In
four Acts, entitled
THE GLASS OF FAS 3 ION
THE GLASS OF FASHION
THE GLASS OF FASHION
THE GLASS OF FASHION.
ADMISSION—£2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.} Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d,
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Bath’s Baking Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP.
Vinegar, Blacking,
hs., &0.,
Steam Works and Brewery:
imiS ITEBST, ULTIMO, STDNS7
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
HBATR B R 0 Y A
Under the Management ol
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Last Two Nights of
MR. CHARLES WARNER
as BADGER in
“THE STREETS OF LONDON.”
Prices as usnal. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
Complete and Undeniable Success of
MADAME MIDAS.
PRICES — Ss. , 3 s., 25., and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
HAWKBSBURY RIVER, SUMMER
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile fr>m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See yon go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
BRUCE SMITH.
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suite to measure tor £3 3s.
PERFECT HEALTH I
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines Irom
Hoiking*, 419 George Street, near King Street.
N
BWION
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS}
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton ft Lamb.
I ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple yet Ingenious In Its
construction: works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
an<i gives the occupant entire rest. Wo can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s. | without Stand, 265.
Packing In canvas, If required, Bs. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suitbs. Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCO ASTON AT, TABLES In all Woods. Immense
variety of designs j also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
V'.~
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
one sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided Into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
m
D
R A.WING ROOM OABI
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb
PIANOFOR iES by R. LIPP and SOHN
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
ŧ
A USTRIANBBNT-
J\. WOOD
FUBNITUBI.
▲ VIBT OOMPLIT
Absobtmbnt.
Many quite new design).
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
~l> POKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest*
ful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
t
T> KDBTEADS, all sties.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All desorlptloni
at lowest rates.
Niwton ft: Lam>,
t
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), beet
make i also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from lie. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
18a. 6d. | Dining Tables, from 30s. j Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side*
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.|
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERS! S
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.


The Queensland Post-office Directory, a
most creditable work published by Hollander and
Wright, 227 Queen-street, Brisbane, contains
nearly 900 pages of information arranged on prin-
ciples which render the book particularly easy of
reference. It comprises a complete set of street,
alphabetical, trades, professional, Government
and country business directories, and many valu-
able maps, and is published at balf-a-guinea to
subscribers ; 15s. to non-subscribers.
£5O
£5O
REWARD
FRAUD & DECEIT.
In order to protect the people from
being defrauded and cheated, the
American Hop Bitters Company offers
the above Reward for the arrest and
conviction of any person or persons
refilling the American Hop Bitters
Company’s bottles, and for selling any
vile nostrum or compound as the
genuine and original Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, or for counterfeiting
the Company’s Label —a Bunch of
Green Hops on a White Label, with
Black Letters.
DR. SOULE’S
AMERICAN
HOP * BITTERS
(A MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK).
CONTAINS
■OPS. BlICHU, MANDRAKE#
DANDELION.
ASD TUB PURIST AND B«8T MbDICAL QdALITIM Of
ALL OTHBB BlTTBRI.
THEY CURE
All Diseases of the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Kidneys and Urinary Organs, Nervousness, Sleepless-
ness, Female Complaints and Drunkenness.
THOUSANDS UPON THOUSANDS!!!
Of testimonials Of the most wonderful cures, volun-
tarily sent us, we do not publish them, as they do not
make the cure. It is our medicine, Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters, that makes the cure. It has
never failed and never can. We will give reference
to any one for any disease similar to their own if
desired, or will refer to any neighbor, as there is not
a neighborhood in the known world but can show its
cures by Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
DO OTHER GENUINE. TAKE NO OTHER.
SPECIAL PUCE Of REMOVAL
TO OUR FRIENDS and PATRONS.
We beg most respectfully to inform you that ,
after 22 years of active business life in our old
premises ,
We hive had to sake a Change in our Address.
The absurd rental demanded for the dilapi-
dated old property recently occupied by us,
and known as the Chisholm Estate, is so
enormous that we found it absolutely impossible
to remain any longer, and therefore took steps
at the Termination of our Lease to secure the
Premises almost immediately opposite,
formerly occupied by Lobb, Hambly,
Westbrook and Davies.
TheSe premises have been entirely remodelled,
and we are now in possession and ready for
businessl We hope to see all our old consti-
tuents, and are sanguine that with our greatly
increased facilities, we shall largely widen our
circle of customers.
We can conscientiously say, without boasting,
that our New Premises are the best lighted,
best arranged, and most commodious
premises for a
First-class Gentlemen’s Outfitting Trade
r Anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere.
We intend in the future to confine our busi-
ness operations entirely to the
MEN’S, YOUTHS’ and BOYS’
GENERAL OUTFITTING TRADE.
All Orders will he under the personal supervision
and care of the Proprietors, and no effort will he
spared to please our patrons, and to give the very
best value for money.
PEAPES & SHAW,
311 George Street, SYDNEY.
The most welcome discovery
OF MODERN TIMES —A new remedy for
C.nßumptioD, Asthma, Bronchitis, Hacking
Coughs, Hemorrhage. This notice is of vital
importance to all who suffer from this terrible
disease. We wish to impress on patients to try
our Medicine at once, for two or three bottles will
do more good taken in time than nine or ten when
the disease has laid hold cn the constitution.
Testimonials on application. Prepared and sold
only by FORD and CO., M‘Rea’s Buildings,
Fitzroy-street, Newtown.
AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Provident fitiily.
EJBTABLIBHBD 1849.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. E-q.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES 0. COX, M.D,
The Society is now in its forty-first year, and is
the only Australian Life Office which gives
AX Jill Ali BONUSES.
Policies in Force, over 86,000
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ... £33,000,000
Accumulated Funds nearly £8,000,000
Annual Income £1,500,000
Cash Bonuses Divided £3,250,000
Cash Bonus, for one year, 1887 ... £357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
THE CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works : CLYDE, NSW.
Hear Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
r IRECTOR S :
James Fletcher, M.P., S.ydcey; Geo. R. Dibbs, M P.,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney ; T. D Merton, CunnirgarWorks, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga,
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owners
of gold bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known ecientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each p»rcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances fcr amalgamating and
chlorination, together wiih a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W B. FLETCHER
fA BNUINE SWEDISH |MADE • CROWN
IjT BRAND” HORSE .HOE-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower in price.
Samples to be had at any leading Ironmongers,
or from
C. A. FALSTEDT ,
Sole Agent for Australia,
146 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
ARBENTZ’S RAZOR,
WITH WARRANTED INTERCHANGE-
ABLE BLADES.
The best, m:et reliable and easiest Shaver in
the world. Used by Teddy Wick, the Champion
Barber, who, after his recent great feat in London,
wrote “ Your Razors always kept me to the
front durirg the competition, and yen may be
prcud of my well earned victory. They are a
great improvement on the old fashioned Razors,
and lam delighted with their performatc s. The
harder the beard the better they shave. I shaved
some nights with them Uindfold, and did cot cut
one man all the week.
Price, 10s. per set of four ; 14s. per set cf seven
Extra B lades, Is. 4d. each.
May be had of LIOHTNER & CO., 32 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
Egyptian coo Cigarettes!
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO ’
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO
M. Melachrino & Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continental
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
Have the MRCetT gtLE in the World.
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best 1
Sole Ag»sts :
WARREN Si ROWN, \\ Barrack Street, Sydney,
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
„ No. 8 „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from ary part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0 , inclusive of cost of carmge,
will receive prompt attention.
Q
A B.
GAB.
GAB.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges,
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Boon: 9to 6, and 9tol on Saturdays.
■ :l ". ■».
«T* ■
BiSgiS
9
-•m
i
PM
'«■■
tm
- ■-•
JUlUl^
m
BHHi
m • asss
■w w iite®
:m
i'i
PTOS h •• •■■ ■."*■■ 'wrwwi
i
H
a -
-rv-.
tLfCTRJO PHOTO-ENC. CO- 8 BRIDCE-ST.. SYDNEY.
C3T NEW PREMISES BUILT FOR
T. WIILIAMS & CO , Boot and Shoe Manufacturers,
278 AND 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—STATEMENT OF—
lit Mutual Life Imee Company if lev York.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
For the Year ending December 31st, 1888.
TOTAL ASSETS ... ... £26,267,115 6 6.
Increase in Assets ... ...
Surplus at four per cent. ...
Increase in Surplus ... ...
Policits in force, Dec. 31st, 1888 ...
Increase during the year ...
Policies issued during 1888 ...
Increase over 1887
Risks assumed during 1888,..
Increase over 1887
Risks in force, Dec. 31st, 1888
Increase during year ...
Annual Income ... ...
Increase during year ... ...
Paid Policy-Holde s ...
£1,515,687 17 0
£1,654,179 18 6
£342,837 18 9
... 158,369
17,426
32,608 -
10,301
£21,502,971 2 0
£7,032,665 4 0
£100,442,746 14 10
£11,353,385 16 0
£5,461,652 12 2
... £645,002 1 11
£3,068,239 12 7 .
The Assets are invested as follows :
Bonds and Mortgages on Freehold Properties
Government and other Securities ... ...
Real Estate and loans on Collateral
Cash in Banks and Trust Companies at Interest
Interest accrued, Premiums deferred, etc. ...
Total Assets 31st December, 1888 ...
£10,337,057 1 9
£10,128,480 0 7
£4,538,776 2 3
£586,099 10 0
£676,702 U H
£26,267,115 6
I have carefully examined the foregoing statement and find the same to be correct.
A. N. WATERHOUSE, Auditor.
npHE introduction of new and popular features into the Policy contracts of The
1 Mutual Life op New York has nearly trebled its Annual New Business durum
the past five yean. &
Progress Exhibit :
Year. Insurances Insurances Surplus.
Gi anted. . in Force. ’
1884 £7,225, 295 £73,288,431 £988,286
1885 9,688,987 76,871,134 1,044 299
1886. 11,840,150 82,043,584 .. 1,175 743
1887 .....14,470,306 89,089,361 1,311 342 - - ■
1888 21,502,971 100,442,747 1,654*180''
The Mutual Life of New York commenced business in the year 1843, and is
financially the strongest Company in the World. With its enormous assets and’surplus
its liberal form of policy, its honorable dealings with its members, it stands at the head of
a’l similar institutions in this or any other country.
Full particulars and premium rates will be forwarded from the Sydney office on
application to the General Manager, who is prepared to appoint influential agents in
districts where the Company is not already represented.
AUSTRALIAN DEPARTMENT:
Hoad Office: 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Z. O. RENNIE „ ... General Manager.


—Hairdressers—
If you want EVERY or any REQUISITE for
Fitting out or Furnishing your Saloon,
APPLY TO
fUIAIG & AITKEK‘B
i. I Wales Barbers’ Supply Sow,
Where you can yet, at lower prices than
at any other House in the Trade :
Hairdressing 1 Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Razors,
BROWN & SHARPES HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (in Bottlb & Bulk),
SPRAYS, ANTIQUE OIL,
OOSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISE,
And Every Other Necessary,
»
American Hairdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial „ from £2 10s.
SOLE AGENTS for the CELEBRATED
“ Plum ”
t£- RAZORS ami SCISSORS la
»
Complete Uim Outfit
FROM £lO OP WARDS!
Assistants Engaged for Town & Country
Customers,
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco &. Cigar Merchants
And IMPORTERS,
Beg to call the attention of COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
In the Trade.
All the Leading Brands of
Tobacco, Cigars and Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
♦ 1 -
SOLE AGENTS for the
ARMY & NAVY
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
M! SWBBTHBJIET mam
An Immense Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking
Sticks, Cutlery, etc., etc.
Silver-mounted Meerschaum and Briar Fipee
B®" A BARGAIN.
Send for our Price List and judge for yourselves.
Note Address—
CRAIG A AITKEN,
Tobacco «S Cigar Merchants,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET
(next to Prxddy & Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The Queensland shearers are now all
amalgamated, and when they have joined in with
the Union of N.S. Wales the whole continent
will shear under the rules of the same union.
Macrossan is of opir ion that if the Com-
mission recommend Ihe renewal of Coolie labour
for five years, and Parliament allows it, it will
postpone the Separation question. But, if not, the
Northern members will be compelled to secede in
a body.
At Jimbour, one of the largest stations on
the Darling Downs, where, in the good old days
they sheared as many as 200,000 sheep, they have
lest one-half their present stock, and the manager
prophesies that, unless there is rain within the
next few months, five cut of six of the sheep on
the Downs will be dead. It is not the want of
water that does it. It is the want of grass.
Psarls in thb Mouth. —White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Prarl Dbntipricb. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
o chemists.*
Old Fobi, Claret, Eeok, Sherry, BuusUlqb, Madeira,
Muscat, Zokay, Sc. Unequalled High-class Wises are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 eeerge-elreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
E
o
<<
$
s?
&
©
A
&
&
ţt
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
&
-<v
fr
O
v
O
v
*
£
&
r
*
o
6^
&
o
<3
V
# v
t
ť
390 s GEORGE S T
The Jaffa and Jerusalem Railway Co.
“ squared” the Sultan by giving him tome shares
“ for nix.” The Sultan is as low as a member of
Parliament.
Mr, John Harris, Mayor of Sydney, has
most generously given a cheque for £lOOO to
found a scholarship for second year students in
medicine at Sydney University.
The German soldier takes a longer stride
than any other armed foot-assassin in Europe,
and the mounted horse-murderer of Austria
travels fastest among the equestrian homicides of
the Old World.
Parkes has put a stopper on Hannibal.
Start not. Hannibal is a kanaka and Parkes is
the Brisbane bobby who ran him in for bad
language. It would be pretty nearly the same if
Hannibal ran in Parkes.
WtuUM'a Australian Inseotleid Is death ta all Insaati
Simple in application—sure In efieot. f hie it the enlj
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death te
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odoc r
are at the same time most destructive to them. Bold it
s. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, SET King
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Kiistt Bret,
and I. Presses ft Co.*
£20
BDCUOABD BUGGIES
£20
Regular shipments of the Best Bnokboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 61n. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&o., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
A ustralasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash j or
Bam-er’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERQ k CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 CliABHNOB STBBET, WTNIABD SQUAB*.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &o., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
C'BA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS
SO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
II
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
■ •
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tcn.es’ ©e-win.gr s,
FOR IHK BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
raiEISS, HETTBEIIi & to,, lamere aid Leather Merehaite,
16 Y 0 R K SIRE E I. SYON E Y.
«—i Sola Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland. —«
o
Also Importers of Requisites for tho Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details, Including Machines*
I mDortedLeatherstTc. i and of the following Special Lines : PEERLESS QLcJsS, SATMpoLISjJ*
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanners Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms.
DR. RICHARDS.
aim;
P.O
CT
CO
D* RICH ARDS
i&j
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe, He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulneis to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORT? YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfallnessj disccntentedness, weakness of pains
In the back, Liver Or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, si
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably ma-ry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficul ies. On
receipt of fid. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt oT such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
[ Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances, The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 20,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing .
Consultation Fbbk.
IN THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. A. (to young friend whom he has not seen for two years): Eh—how’s tikis, Tom
Congratulations, old boy!
Tom (reddening): H’m! Well, the—sr —fact is It’s about three months now since my
wife got a divorce from the gentleman who should be congratulated for this,
—Life.


Baiineat Announcement#,
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street
PPS’S
Grateful—Comforting
OC O A
JfiedScaS.
More than 70,000 Oases already Oared I
fhe Greatest Success Y
of Modern Times. /
COSSULI
{All Chronic Disease
are Curable.
it, 3, L IS6MMH, Cnnltiar Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist fob all Chronio Disbasxs,
80 WIUIiH STREET, HEKBOVRKI,
*wy euSerers unable to call can write for a list 0! ques-
tions (fbbi) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Ur. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronio Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
somplete cure. Tou can then have treatment or not, as
yon may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Bead the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[OOPT.J
Glenhope, 19th July 1881!}
So E. S. KneiLMANU, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when 1 com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that 1 was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
surable. During the time 1 was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
lieotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
ungs, and 1 lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
Astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very tost.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
A result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as 1 ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until 1 was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1880, At
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
mr All Consultations Free. 'W
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is Incurred in the event of Cuba
KO9 BUNS EFFECTED.
T
0
SUFFERERS.
CONSULT FBBSONALLY OB BT LBTTBB
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIAN
ON ALL CHRONIO DISEASES.
THEY Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all eases.
x :x
H-B.— Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to ail parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
IBS Elizabeth Street, Brie Fill) SrdneT,
AUSTRALIAN
Eolles flour Mill; & grain stores,
GRANVILLE.
Royal Patent Steel Roller
JJII'vJ i’X V/jL'I O and Imperial Stone
can he obtained from principal T 7 f A I j 1)
Makers and Storekeepers in Syd- J. iJw L JA/v
ney and Country.
MIU PRODUCE ALWAYS 111 STOCK.
We are CASH BUYERS of Prime MILLING
(WHEAT in any Quantity.
Sydney Office : 34 Pitt Street.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED.
General Servants, Cooks, Nurse?, House
maids, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary,
Magic Meat,”
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials:—
O. S. Yko, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor :
“I tried the ‘Magic Meal’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improving fast.”
Mr. H Lddwio, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: “
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition."
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: “I
tried the • Magic Meal ’ on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed."
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 35., ss. 6d., 56lbs.
18 s. 6d , and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0,
Parcels of 561bs , Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony,
A. it. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlerbaqh Street,
SYDNEY.
■ . ,
3L
........ifi
S'#
iMIi
■ . ; ‘ --,
■ ’
S£~
PETTY FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
i
KS- LETTERS and TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
ŧ
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USE is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price —Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
dla,r©aa.cL©aa. Hotel, Iv/£sm.l3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
4 T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
dm. served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
llnner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
lere also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can os sibly make one
icmfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic artl i ira vided. Table
le H6te at I o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
•ialtors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Hrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock m Importers,
Late Lichtner *6 Co.. 32 O’Connell Street.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunteb Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage in the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 A GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Assurance Companies.
TUB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAQB-
MBNT ASSURANCE and INVBSTIC3NT
COMPANY, Limited.
pßUepiMfead bf Aet of Parliament. 17 Tlln
We. IQ.)
Registered Capital m ~ «. 51,111,111
Paid-up and Subsorlbed m m SBZ.III
Sir BDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLAOKBT, Bag., F.1.A., Deputy.
Chairman,
This Company resolves depoalta at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years _ T per cent.
For 8 month! i per oent.
fOI lytM - • par anS.
for I month! _ I per ml.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate leal
of the Company, payable to bearer or restored
holder, with transferable Coupons tor INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and Bivins a
FIRST charge on its entire real and perse nal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and npwardii
Beans granted on Mortgage lor fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONET ADVANCED" FOB BUIBDINH
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, etc.. Collected,
■states Bub-dlvlded and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Bud Omen— ll. aTISHUNTEB STREET
INoToT NEIBD, Manager.
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Pbopeiktob.
COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ERE 3). OOMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the finest hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
Conveyance meets Every Train,
JMPERIAL HOTEL
EMIT PARK,
William Toon ... Proprietor.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PRINOE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House Is conducted
In First-class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated.
¥ ! EHg
0» SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUB MOUNTAINS,
&0., &0«j
31S 9EOESE ST., Settreea Bantar-st., & S.F 0.
■ATTBBBA££'B
KOIITEI CQVSSLTiTIOII
Ate open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars eel
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," eare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Olub, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies In all parts
of the Globe, he is In a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to bis care.
Business transacted In four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
CONSULT
OORE &
OGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases dTthe Genito Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
COI.SULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: The Coming Colony.
tssr now i
the time to invest your FEW FOUNDS
U TO EEAP very shortly your THOUSANDS.
The eyes of the World are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent.rich.discoveries of SILVER, TCS. oHjor »«|j
*“ P — s *‘= “ LAKGE - SMALL
buyers, SYNDICATES, &c., from 410 to 420,000. WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
119a Elizabeth Street, S3rd.ra.e3r-
ONLY
Murder!
By the introduction of ihis Brand
cf Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest of selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Say well, of G
Park street, it will
Arrest
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure Bratds now on
the maiket. Buy a block, nn'ke
it, atd you will avoid the nume-
rous poisons
Imprisoned
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Atk your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, and obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholeeale and Retail from
F. W Ssywell & Co,
6 Park s‘reet, Sydney,
BBISBiLM'I] § HOTEL,
LAUHCESTOB, TASMANIA.
uu
.
Hi'
mm
5
A. DEM.USE
Fez prleto*.
FIKST-CLAgS HO"CrS3B,
Wines, Ptenc! Liquors & Banana tints a tnseialiU S, Boast. Cnisine Franeaisi.
SB
'| ■ i v . f?Q OsS^f
>2S
f r a. ■
it ■ j
■■4 :
'"7^
f S
■ _
fc Tf
II
a
UEOTOC PUOTO-ENC, CD-. B’BBIDG£-ST,i SYDNEY
The Oxford Hate', King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
v7hlte end sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action off 4h* gvms, and dellghfe
Sally fragrant breath can best to* ®tot»to»S toy gritty te®th fpowdase c®s cvgM weihco
asfl curing dally
ftowlancte’
** Odonto
3? Feeri BeatiMee, a white powder composed of the most recherche UngmdJents off the Oriental
iiierhal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preseimfi
fth* teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurry, strengthens the gums, and gives ss
i((leasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-eeptic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise o
iMghly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. AU Dentists allow that neither washes ®?
Mate* can poasibly be ae efficacious for polisfiing the teeth and preremWlßg decay as s iwn am
' —'
fasra-gritbr tooWi powder: such BOWJUANDS’ 01
Ho other"Ofioato So jjjemalau
ROWLANDS’ HIACASSM
fMi? and golden-haired people and oMMrm.
2XSK7 OfiM fie o *oM®a ®S8»1B m
ROWLANDS’ KALYOOR hearatUtas the ©oaanlexloa, eradicates all OT.tea«B9lfl
defects, and render* the sMm soft, smooth ®a«£ (Mitote. Ask EfflywhM® for BOWMafSaj
articles, of ao, Hatton ©ante,, toato, art crow amnisw casfl r!X2®!feteßa iMfcCtei2a=
Whotoule wd Betoll Af«ats—lft&ion Bio*., «id I. Pioura k 00., Bydier
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Parent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried cn at our new premise s ,
245 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine v i.hout our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited
P. C. HEDEMANN \
L. C. HENDERSON /
Trustees.
Jon Rothfoiid.
(Late of Say well’s Tobacco Co),
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN HA.LL),
SYDNEY.
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST ALIA.
The Bast Investment Going !
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth.
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit: Balance in 36 equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will secure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progressing and
property is hardening in value.
Buy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas ... ... Manager.
Musical.— patent scale indica-
tor, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
ss. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Arcade. Country Agents wanted
Stationer’s.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters. Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address LAWLER, SYDNEY,
J. LAWLER~& SONS,
Gkneeal Impoetkes and House Fubnishebs,
SYDNEY.
Established 1860.
The federal reversionary
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited,
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200.000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PITT-STRBBT.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit 3 Years, 10 per
cent. ; 12 Months, 9 per cent ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent. ; 3 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directois. A. W. MILLER, Manager
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETINS”
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthde Gavll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
"The Bulletin's ” well-known Artists,
L. Hcpklni and PhH. May.
Price ... ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland.)
SOLE AGENT FOE QUEENSLAND :
J H. IHO M P S ON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Robert butcher & co.
ha' e REMOVED their Wholesrie Wine
and h’piiii Susie ess to
502 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool S reels),
WINES, SPIRITS snd BFEES in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
Timber Merchants and ileus Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &o, In
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
(@)
PIPES
Tha Seat In the World.
WHOLESALE) AGENTS]
Mu Minimi & Ci.
OLARENOB STREET


Gaffney’s Creek.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(BY JAMES EDMOND)
Some five or six years have pa/ured
since the day when I first struck Gaffney’s Creek,
a little promr cuous town dropped down to dream
and moulder away i’s torpid existence among the
peaks which line the Goulburn valley, in one of
the forgotten parts of the V'c’iorian interior. It
lies far away from ail the main lines of traffic, but
anyone who chances to bate a certain back-track
leading to no place ihat any sane man could have
a reasonal la desire be arrive at may chance to fin I
it sprawling in a little side val'ey, as if it had
fallen heavily wb le on its wry to some more
desirable part of the ear* h and bad never cot up
again. A road which is eminen ly fi-ted for
Christian locomotion with a view *o the mortifiea-
Iron of the spirit enables the traveller to get as
far as M nsfieid ; then he plods along over weary
ways w here public houses are scarce aud signs of
civilisation few and Ur between un il the coach
shoots him down at Jamieson ; aud the rest of the
road consists mostly of a d’zzy climb into space.
Over innumerable zig zags, np boulder strewn
tracks and round gaunt, projecting cliffs the path
totters heavenwards, until at last the summit is
reached, end then a trnnendms rush downwards
and a fall that seems to heve no end brings the
traveller or his remains into Gaffney’s Creek.
Most strangers reach G ffney s in a sitting posi-
tion and with the wrecksgs of a smile on their
features. There is something of an amusing
character at the t>p cf the mountain that lies
behind the creek—l forget the nature of the thing
but I know it is there—and the visitor is generally
In the act of laughing at it wMn he reaches the
and of the earth and descends in a dishevelled
heap right into the abyss, and brings np in the rut
opposite the dorr of the looal hotel. When the
first i ilgrim thus shot birrs* If down he probably
created a little surprise emong the inha 1 itants,
tout the township gradually goo used to such visita-
tions in the hu’cyon days when Gaffney’s Creek
was a forsaken apology for a goldfield, and diggers
were crowding in at the rate of one or upwards in
a long time, and they take things philosophically
ssow in this year cf our Lord, 1889.
♦ * *
When the settlement was first built I
never learned. For a number of years, however,
It has gaped wearily along in a state of subdued
helplessness and has waited patiently for the
muddy little river which soaks past its doors to
wash down gord luck and deposit it in front of
the cowshed which does duty as a post-office, and
thus promote a great indm bra! resurrection. But
the river never seems to fulfil its missi* n Now
and then, however, it rises and overwhelms the
hundred rquare yards of ground on which G ff aej’s
Is built, and then the township hangs on to some-
thing in order to withstand the rush of the waters
and remarks that the weather seems to be damp.
A long course of experiences of this sort has
filled the inhabitants with a general aspect of
holding on t 9 something; if they are addressed
suddenly they generally moor themselves to a
fixed object before replying, and this tendency, so
Jar as I could learn, is hereditary and incurable.
Now and then a stranger of great mental force
and wide intelligence who has dri ted in a Fn* ly
saravan of one across the Flour Ba: —the huge,
obstinate looking, dromedary h*ped peak which
looms up between thepetrifi d silence of Gaffney’s
Greek, and the more oultcr* d and less suicid l woe
of Jamieson —arrives in the sudden manner
already described, and brings with him an air of
misplaced confidence which is th- own away on the
dreamy aborigines of the Fnd, but in less than
24 hours the slumb rous influence of the settle-
ment tfckes pos esflion of him and he begins to
lean up against things and gape in unison with his
exhausted surroundings. No hiog ever barpens
at Gaffney’s Greek, or, if it d r es, nobody ever
wakes in time bo see it. Now and then, perhaps,
a slate is blown < ff the roof of the little church—
the only builcing in sight wh ; ch seems to have
been roo f ed at ail except by accident —but though
the inhabitants as a wht le are well-d’sposed
towards the Chris’ian faith, wb ; ch they regard
with peaceful satisfaction as a creed that is not
attended by any sudden sheds or convulsions,
they invaria v ly let in lie. Possibly 1 hay indulge a
faint hope that it may one day be blown on again,
but this seldom takes pla'e. Apart from the
shurch, Gaffney’s is built chiefly of old hats and
cab-skins, braiders jam-tin», firewood, and bits of
rusted machinery removed by from
one or other of the various claims that are caving
In all round—or, rather, it would be more correct
to say that it is repaired with these diverse
materials, for what it was originally built of is not
recorded even in legend. Possibly some race of
primeval arobit ebs once hung out in the Broetian
wilds of the Goulburn Valley, and slummed this
isown together in their leisure hours, and
the white Australians who came after them
Inherited the place as it stood, and con-
tented themselves with ty’ng the tottering
towers together with stiing when they threatened
to fall apart, and patching the gaps that yawned
In the weather-beaten structures with anything
that came to hand. Oonnoi s urs who study tbe
formation of tbe settlement can still trace in the
different styles of its architecture the various
stages in the material progress of Gaffney’s and
can point cub the tide marks wh’ch record the
ebb and flow of its chequered fortunes. There
are buildings propped up with gin-cases and the
remains of brat dy-kegs—these are the relics of
some old time burst of prosperity when Gaffney’s
floated its intellect in strong drink and gave way
to public rejoicings. Pillowing this comes an era
whose history is written in the wreckage of tea-
chests and sugar bags—an era when the town hip
was sobering down and realising by degrees that
life ia n t all liquir and n irth ; and a little
further down the rut which forms the solitary
thoroughfare appear traces of another end more
degenerate age, whose footsteps cons'st mainly of
bricks and bark and the covers of ancient Bibles
—melancholy r* lies of a peri d when Gaffney’s
first began to go back upon the faith of its ances-
tors, and to regard Christianity ms inly as an in-
stitution which requires no physical exertion and
which is not heavy to lift Lastly, a period of
desolation shows abandoned tents constructed of
Government blankets prigged by a demoralised
race from the aborigines of the land, and beyond
this there is nothing tut mud and desolation.
• * •
Despite the versatility which enables It to
make me of so great a variety of material bless-
ings, however, there are times when Gaffney’s
is In low water, and then it generally settles down
to wait until some portable article of value slides
down from the adjacent mountains into ts back-
yard Sometimes this visitation takes tbe form of
a fal'en tre , occa-ior ally itis only a ruth of boulders
washed by the rairs from their customary resting-
place between earth and heaven : now and then a
belated cow wb ; ch has rer cb ed out too far into space
c mes tearing through the atmosphere ; whatever
it is Gaffney’s accepts it with the calm satisfaction
of a town which is accustomed to have its bless-
ings shot down at it from the upper air, and after
an interval of judicious c ntemplabion it fil’s the
valley with an appec 1 to “ Bill " to come and lend
a h»nd. One of the most striking peculiarities of
Creek lies in the feet that the whole
male population is irora or less named Bi 1. This
in itself does not amount to much, for the resident
male population is v'rtnal'y limited to four shock-
headed cit'zens who all trail their feet behind
them in silent contemplation, and get up early in
the n orning to plod over the hills with pickaxes,
and who e sole mission with ihe pickaxes is to
search for something which they know is not
there, and to or me back aga’n without finding it;
but in addition to this it appears that everj body
who ever had anything to do with G. ffoey’s Creek
was also named Bill from time immemorial, and
t‘ is state of things has become so deeply fixed that
anyone whose name is not Bill would find it
necessary to tear up the old tradition by
the roo's before he could assert his status
as a separate citizen. But perhaps, on the
whole, it is better and more profitable
to let the fra iaion slide. It establuhes a
bond of brothe) hood in a dijected region where
some such sc ftening and re fining influence is much
wanted, and in addition to this valuable moral
effect it furnishes a beacon for any casual stranger
who may chance to be belated in the land, o? lost
among the long grass of the damp hillside. Twice,
in the days when I had taken to roaming over the
peaks with a pickaxe after the aimlees fashion
which prevails in the Goulburn Valley, did I find
myself as night came on a lost atom roosting on a
dripping rock, with a drizzling fog all around, and
nothing but an unspeakable sense of emptiness
and disgust for a guide, companion, and friend, and
each time I rent the listening air with splitting
shrieks for “ Bill,” and each time a stentorian
prospector heard me and answered back from the
depths of the public-house on the Greek with a
blood-curdling whoop which shook the adjacent
ranges on their rocky thrones. It was not by any
means a musical cry, for the frequent Bill of
Goffney’s Cm kis not built to be a lightsome son
of song, but it was more welcome at the moment
than tbe notes of the heavenly choirs; and when
I bad located the voice and shinned dovn the
breakneck track to the creek, and crossed on all
fours by means of the fallen tree which served for
a bridge, I would fall violently Into the bar of the
ancient ruin where refresh ment was supplied for
man and beast—particularly beast—and tell the
loud-mouthed digger who had answered my appeal
that he could regard me in future as a brother
without any extra charge.
• * •
The Lost Soul claim ia, In ita way, one of
the leading features of Gaffney’s Creek. It
embraces the whole of a t easonably large
mountain right opposite to the hotel and con-
veniently adjacent to the post-office, so that if, at
any time, a Melbourne syndicate should cbarce to
write to tb e proprietor offerir g him £750 000 in
cash for the property there is nothing to prevent
him receiving the letter with all reasonable des-
patch. The Lost Soul claim dates back to the
beginning of Gaffney’s Creek, and it promises to
hold out till the other institutions of the place
have crumbled away, and the valley itself is filled
with debris and grit and unsaleable mining scrip
and other wreckage. Pome* he re In tbe davs be-
fore the public-house was built one Bill Wetter
fixed his eye upon the spot and resolved that there
he would lay the foundations of hfs fortune. Ac-
cordingly he took np a lease and inserted six tun-
nels in the most hopelessly inaccessible portions of
the property, and in the course of five years he
successfully disencumbered himself of all his
worldly assets without once striking even the
semblance of a reef. Finally he mortgaged the
property to a person named Thompson, and in-
stead of nsing the money thus obtained in a 'urther
search for the precious metal, as agreed upon by
the parties to the transaction, he feloni usly set-
tled down on the lower parts of tbe claim and
commenced to grow potatoes on the only spot
where these vegetables could hold out without
being individually tied to the earth with a string.
His end was of a melancholy and tragic charac'er.
One summer afternoon, when he was sitting down
and considering the profits of his agricultural
enterprise, Thrmpson arrived unexpectedly with
a view to foreclosing on the prop' rby, and brought
with him a large book and a pencil with which bo
take an inventory of the extensive machinery and
plant, and to note down the various signs cf
mineral riches which he expected to fall over at
every step. There was a brief and sto»my inter-
view, which Thompson, who was unused to moun-
tain climbing, maintained on all fours ; and it was
afterwards attested by a number of thoroughly
reliable and independent witnesses that in the
course of the remarks Wetter was distinctly heard
telling hfs partner to “ keep his bair on.” Then
the pair s-artfd uphill towards the tunnel, but
just at the steepest part of the assent the amient
prospector lost bis footing and, falling backwards,
overwhelmed his partner, and when they reached
the bottom of the mountain they were so hope-
lessly entangled that it was practically impos-
sible to sort out the remains. Thompson’s son
shortly afterwards took possession of the property,
but the curse which attach'd to it was too much
for him, and when he came up to look at the reef
the sight of it undermined his constitution and ha
took a series cf fits on various parts of the lease,
one of which ended fatally. His remains were
interred without ostentation, and when the
obsequies were ever the grandton of the original
Thompson inherited the Lost Soul claim, but his
head was bitten nearly off by a hone on the
second day of his proprietorship, and hfs worldly
goods reverted to an obscure uncle who was
generally looked down upon by the family. In
the case of this gentleman the anathema had
tvidently worked backwards, he having been
born without arms or legs some 35 years pr vu usly
—an event which was generally ascribed in well-
informed circles to the fact that he was the
destined owner of the Lost S ul mine; and this
view of the case gained considerable support from
the events which followed. Two months posses-
sion of Welter’s enterprise ate away the props
of Thompson’s uncle’s fortunes, and gnawed the
pillars of hfs house asunder, and after bearing up
as well as he could for that brief period be went
down to the bank in a go-cart and executed an
assignment of his estate. The manager took
possession in due form—after giving the shapeless
uncle a pass for the Benevolent Asylum—and
registered himself as owner of the mine at
Gaffney’s Creek, and tbe very ns xt day he fell
over a sleeping dog on I is own doorstep, and tump-
ing a hurried tumersaultt received such severe
damage to bis stomach that he was compelled to
live on a slop diet for the rest of his life.
* * •
After this there was a temporary calm In
the affairs of the Lost Soul property. A junicr
clerk, it Is true, fell and broke his leg while going
up to some Government department to attest a larp e
document relating to tbe mine, and a wealthy spocu-
lator fell out of a window and was killed when in
the act of arranging to purchase the claim for a
satisfactory figure, but otherwise the moral atmos-
phere remained calm and untroubled. At the
end of nice months the bank succeeded in effect-
ing a sale to a gentleman named William Smith,
who gave his bill for £5OO, payable at six months
from date, and the directors congratulated them-
selves on being rid of an unsatisfactory trans-
action. Tbe office-boy who went out to post the
letter in which Mr. Smith’s i ffer was thankfully
accepted disappeared mysteriously with the docu-
ment in his pocket and was never heard of again,
but otherwise everything went smoothly.
#■ ' • *
Mr. Smith constructed a ten-head battery
on the spot where the primeval Wetter’s potatc-
patch had stood, and proceeded to contuse himself
badly in his explorations through the mumbling
tunnels, and down the sloppy winzes, and around
the aggravating angles which were the principal
features of his new venture. He is still remem-
bered in Gaffney’s Creek as the one man who
ever went mining in the se parts with an umbrella,
but his principal claim on the gratitude of the in-
habitants lies in the fact that he was the only
white persen cnrecord who, by any chance, found
anything in the unprofitable mazes of ohe Lost
Soul mine. Walking rapidly through the lowest
tunnel on the first day of his proprietorship he
ccncussed heavily against something which he
didn’t know was there, and a nr'nute later he
emerced in a pallid state, with his hair stand'ng
up and frightful language issuing from his head.
He slid down the hill backwards, blaspheming
and turning somersaults as he went, and plunging
wildly across the creek, he finally sat down and
fibbered aimlessly In the roadway opposite the
otel. This unlooked-for conduct on his part led
to some explorati* ns which were c nducted by
two able bodied prospectors and a dog, and their
researches were presently rewarded by the dis-
covery of a dead body sitting in a corner of the tun-
nel, with a bottle in its pocket and its mouth filled
with bread and dees*. The funeral which ensued
was charged to Mr. Smith, and after this sad event
he pined away visibly and became reckless In his
habits, He hired more miners than could find
standing-room on the property, and commence d
to blast the hill away in every direction, and
finally he blew his own bair out by the roots while
firing a charge, and left a number of his mcst pro-
mirent features ecattered ever the premises.
This disaster left him completely bald, and a hair-
restorer which he commenced to use shortly after-
wards in the hr pe of allevia’ ing in sc me meature
the domestic ca ! amity which had fallen upon him
complete d his ruin. How it came about no one
knew, Hbut a chemist who lived 18 miles iff
in a north-easterly direction, and who started
over the hills to prescribe for the patient tut lost
his way and wandered about in the rain without
feed for three days and three nights, advanced a
theory that the fluid must have soaked through
one of the bruises on lis head and so reached his
brain, to impair and undermine an otherwise
va’uable intellect. At all events, on the second
Saturday after his disaster, Mr. Smith declined to
pay the men in his employ, and when they called
on him in a body to make representations bn the
financial aspect cf the question, he pointed cut to
them that the mom y market was o ipp:ed owing
to the high premium then offering for gold in
Paraguay, and explained that be never paid in
notes on conscientious grounds, these means of
exchange beirg frequently tainted with microbes
and carrying wi h them the germs of infectious
disease. For a few days after this collapse Mr.
Smith travelled about the township uttering
shrill wheops at intervals, and, finally, after an
ineffectual endeavour to catch a kangarpo v ith his
nails, le borrowed the baker’s hoise and left for
other parts. His bills were duly dishonoured on
presentation and the Lost Soul claim was once
more in the market.
* • •
Three weeks after the fiasco of Mr. William
Smith, an Irish gentleman named Higgins came
forward and put his mark at the foot of a bill for
£750, and the ininons n ine had a new owner lb
was, as he frankly admitted, the first lime he had
signed a document of this description, and it was
only after a long confutation with h : s spititual
adtier, in the course of which he assured
himself that he could rot be hanged for non-
payment, that he ventured his .soul in pen
and ink. Mr. Higgins’ outward aspect was not
suggestive of wealth, but as the bark officials
justly argued, if they kept on selling the mme to
every hi dy who tu> ned up there was a fair chance
that srme day one of ttn many proprietors might
strike enough gold to enable him to pay for it, and
so the transaction was concluded, and Mr Higgins
arrived >-t -sffo y’s Creek on foot to take posses-
sion. He brought with Mm a long handled shovel
with which to dig out the great mass f of pure
gold which he understood were e n the spot, and a
gun to defend his treasure to the last (rasp, also 40
rounds of ammunition, and a ccm;-lies ted species
of fog-signal with which to summon assis ance in
case he should he overpowered by a piratical
horde bent upen wres ing his millions frem his
grasp, but after a cursory glance at his new sphere
of industry his mood charged, and the township
was shi cktd to hear the worst disgusted Celt in
Victoria cursing at large in the public thor ugh-
fare. In the course of a long and complicated
anathema he consigned to eternal suffer ng the
town and the-while surrounding district, the
mice and all the machinery thereto attached, and
everybody connected with the property, and
everybody who bad ever seen it or anything like
it, and everybody who had heard of it, or who
knew of anybody who bad heard of it; and then,
gathering renewc d vigi urashe went on, he poured
cut the vials cf his wrath afresh and denounced
the public house for being opposite to such a
awied'e, and the post-office for being adj cent to
it, and he heaped a great anathema on himself for
being there, and on he place in general ior being
there to ho’d him. ard he used fearful
language ah ut the bar kng institution which
bad sold him the property, with sundry
side curses at a r staurant kept by a man
named Finnigan b< cause it was next dcor
to the bank, and a few stray < xpressions of violence
directed at everything, ammal, vegetable, and
mineral, which had not been covered and em-
braced by the previous execration. This public
futc ion being completed, Mr. Higgins deli-
berately fired > ff his h rby rounds of ammunition
at the cru hing plant and threw stones and mud
at the claim gene ally, after whr'ch he retired for
the night in a shaniy on the lee side of Hs pro-
perty. His reii n lasted eight days altogether,
and it peure din torrents all the time. During
Mr. Higgins’ ownership he put the claim to con-
siderable use as a means of keeping the wind off
him, and in the course of his sojourn the taught
the residents upwards of a hundred new profane
expressions and imparted a fervency and fluency
to their method of using the ild ones which con-
trasted favourably v ith the dull and lack-lustre
blasphemy previously in vogue. It was under the
Higgins’regime that Gaffney’s first learned how
to swear without sitting down to do it, and this
was practically the only trace which he left behind
him. On the ninth day after hl& arrival his
admiring fel’ow-citizens hired the baker’s omni-
present horse as a means by which Mr. Higgins
might get as far as Jamieson on his return to
town, and a deputation broke the news to him,
and informed lim that he would have to tear
himself away on account of bis language and
general unreliability. The Irish speculator, as ifc
char ced, was unable to ride, but his innate deli-
cacy forbade him to decline the nrstaken kind-
ness of his neighbours, and he alternately towed
the horse behind him and chased it in front of him
over the If ng-drawn out miles of that weary
journey. When at last be arrived at his destina-
tion he paid for a feed for the awful impediment
which had harassed him on his dismal way, and
hired a boy who had never been in those parts
before to return it to its owner. Then, discovering
the youth’s geographical infirmity, he accom-
panied him six miles on the return track, after
which he tea*owed a parting kick on the equine
incubus, and bade the youth return along with it a
certain hundred-joint* d curse and awful entangle-
ment of plain and fancy blasphemy which he
entrusted to his care with strict injunctions that
it was to be delivered while hot.
• • •
Excepting for the advent of a small, or-
dinary-looking man with a chastened expression
and a watery, apologetic eye who took possession
of the Lest Soal mine, and having murdered his
wife buried her on the ground, nothing of any
importance happened for some months after Mr.
Higgins’ departure, but at length—an evil spirit
having ent< red into me, and being deceived and
led away, or else being under the influence of
chloroform, morphia, opium, ether, or other
chemical preparations—l wes induced to purchase
the valuable property w hioh had languished so
long on tbe banks of Gaffney’s Creek, and having
duly concluded the fatal bargain, I started along
the rocky track which had been trodden hard by
the multitude of my retreating predecessors.
Mcst of them I found had left tteir traces at one
point or another of the road, and once in every
mile or thereabouts I roused up ghostly recollec-
tion of a previous owner or fell over some grue-
some prophet who had a tale which he wanted
to unfold. Among those moral footprints
the freshest were those of Mr. Higgins, who
appeared to have stopped to heap up some new
anathema on the top of every hill-witbin a radius
HE KNEW WHERE DANGER WAS.
PRIVATE (to dismounted officer) ! “BETTER GET UP AND MOUNT, THE HENEMY
IS CLOSING ON YOU. ’
OFFICER: “NEVER MIND, THE ENEMY WON’T HURT ME, BUT THAT BRUTE
WILL.”


Dry Imperial Champagne.— Messrs. Moet and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL ’’ 1884
vintage is the pure Juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Crown is In each corner of label, and 1884
branded on oork and label
ows
‘■EMBROCATION
¥ mm ~
• EV ER V-WH ERE(I
t
giBBLB & COMPANY,
Hfll WttITK Kt
AMD
—A RT +4 DECORATOR S —-
96 Cartlercagli Street
Onb [Dooe fbom King Stbbbi:.
B
ROU’S INJECTION.
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs
Sold in Paris by
or . IB 1 El IR HR 333 ,
(Successor toBrou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
Sufferers from Nervous
cure;
MEN ONLY! ! Complaints. Sure
14 days. Apply in confidence to “MEDIOUS,”
Box 120, G.P.0., Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Fbke.
■
BOWDEN £
bowdehs
houl
iBOWDBN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOSEPH C« BOWOESI - - Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba.
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rjoms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NCORP ORATED UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices — 283, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of In-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 „
12 ~ 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
LEA & PERRINS S&UC
AUC
V PCFP'^3
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERS HIRE
SA&CE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrint
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottlt
hears their Signature thus — *
without which no bottlt of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester, Crosse and
Blackwell, London, 5-v.. isre.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
i 11 r r fiife]! T Csifeiz^
m
■
ig
sm
-j •'”
iirHfanlrmp
mtf.
lii
I
m
L=P
I
KS
ss
SK
f
J.A.W ILSOIM
PROPRIETOR
G.Vf.CLARE
MANAGER , I
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
cr NOW OPEN, -si
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (800) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Yentilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot andjOold Water, and Shampoo Spray.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
Mr TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. "H
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terns i SUSIE BEIOOM, 2s. Si. uer HISII
Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of
using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM,
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANaGEB, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
RTH U R D. SPALDING
HOMffIOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST,
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURB IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time Is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &o,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential,
I Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12; 2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
p
ÜBLIO NOTICE.
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS. BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to Inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Hotel ill Bonitsl Business Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the tact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE,
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.
of a hundred miles in a circular direction, but in
addition to this I struck some faint indications of
Wetter, the founder of the enterprise, and his
partner Thompson, who seemed to have passed
through the district in a melancholy and subdued
caravan of two shortly before the fatal day
when they fell off the property with Thompson
underneath Furthermore, an aged publican told
me how he had on one occasion been wakened up
in the dead waste and middle of the night by
shrieks and howls and sound) of hollow laughter,
miagled with the rush of galloping hoo's, and
how he was c mvinced that this was the deranged
Smith and the baker’s horse on their joint road to
destruction ; and he was also filled with a dismal
tradition of the time when 25 of Smith’s unpaid
miners rushed his hotel and drank the establish-
ment dry, and laughed a Hollo v Laugh when he
asked for payment, and told him that they were
unable to settle the bill because there were
microbes in their notes and the boss was away
looking after the drain of gold in Paraguay. Then
they smiled a Fiendish Smile —the whole 25 smil-
ing in concert —and after breaking a few things
they gradually faded away.
• • •
Under the i .finance of these and obher
cheerful reminiscences I propped myself up in the
mud-heaps outside the Gaffney’s Creek Hotel at a
late hour that night in a pensive frame of mind.
Opposite the building a great, wet, hulking
shadow loomed up and stared at me in hollow
vacancy, and fro n its shap * and the inherent
emptiness of its aspect, I recognised my new
property I oast just one look at it and then
went indoors The landlord regarded me with a
pitying eye when I introduced myself, and when
he showed me to an apartment which sloped so
steeply away from the rest of the building that I
wai liable at any moment to lose my balance in it
and bring up with a murderous crash against the
wall, he surreptitiously brought in a Bible without
boards, and left it on the table so that I might
look up comforting passages if at any time I
chanced to feel myself sinking. On inspecting the
holy volume I found that it had been annotated
and roughly illustrated by Mr. Smith, apparently
in the days when that gentleman was in a de-
pressed and melancholy mood, one sketch of a
dreadfully loysided design being the most con-
spicuous among a long series Soma very necassary
explanatory references attached informed me that
the design was intended to represent a mediae ?al
lover serenading his mistress as she leant from the
casement of a baronial castle, while his j ealous
rival approached the scene on all fours, with a
murderous purpose on hand; and after glaring at
it discontentedly for a minute, I concluded that
my predecessor must have sunk very low in his
last days at Gaffney’s Creek.
• ■ •
I spent nearly a month at Gaff ley’s, and
ran imminent risk of breaking my neck at least
twice a day to no purpose Possibly I might have
succeeied in breaking it ultimately, but, as it
chanced, the opportunity was denied me, for about
two o’clock on a certain cold and slushy morning
my affairs came to a crisis I had just been
lulled to sleep by the gentle murmur of the creek,
and was climbing the slippery rocks of the Lost
Soul claim in my dreams, when my bedrocm door
opened with a crash, and a stranger, who evidently
was not accustomed to floors which stood at an
acute angle to the horizon, crossed the roim with
one tremendous leap, and faintly ejaculating
“Great Scott! ” drove his head into the opposite
wall and sat down on me. When he recovered,
which was after some time, hi regarded me with
an arrogant expression in his eye and evidently
considered that I had assaulted him, but smother-
ing his indignation ha informed me that he had
arrived to take possession of the Lost Soul mine
under the influence of a oar tain blue docu-
ment two feet long and eight inches across
at the widest part, which appeared to be
connected in some way with an equity suit
commenced against somaone whom I had
never heard of before, by the executors of the
Thompson who had had fits on my property. He
further explained that I was required to give an
account of all precious metals extracted from the
claim during the term of my management, and to
surrender to the custody of the honourable court
all plant, machinery, implements, water-rights,
easement?, leasehold or freehold property, and
all other matters whatsoever connected with the
estate, pending a settlement of the point under
discussion; and having made these elaborate
statements he hung on to the towel rack and
waited in gl >omy grandeur for my response. I
glared at him in silence for about a quarter of an
hour, and then I got out of bed and addressed
him with a blanket wrapped round me.
“My friend,” I said sternly, “ If you will ascend
that hill on the opposite side of the creek you will
find two tons of iron rust and one moth-eaten shed
without a roof, which comprise the entire plant
and utensils of the thrice infernal property which
you seem to suspect me of having feloniously ab-
ducted Also, if you will carry your researches a
little further you will probably discover six valu-
able and unique holes In the ground which I
assnre you I have not moved or otherwise inter-
fered with since they first came into my posses-
sion. They lead nowhere and if you follow them
carefully you will probably get there. Lvstly, if
you choose to dive under the bed you will pro-
bably bruise yourself against one lump of ballast
calculated to go 20 hundredweight of rock to the
ton, which specimen comprises the whole of the
mineral wealth which I have extracted from the
property. And now let go that towel rail and
get out for evermore.”
He got !


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S r_
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET)
(Between George ud York Streets.) P.O. Box Ml. Dr)
Opssr to » regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Sarrard College, D.B. (for confirmation see Maw Saalaad
fasstte, January Slat, 1888) alae Mew South Wale*
SaaaMe, April ITth. 1888). The doctor faaa derated It
taon to the Study of OHRONIO, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DIIBABBB. Pour el theae were In the leading
hospitals al the United States, whlob enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
Mas will laeelre his honest opinion of their complaints.
SI experimenting | no Mercury used. He will guarantee
h poaltlve aure In every case he undertakes, or ferlelt
AIM. His reason for doing so Is this—when there Is no
•agonic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
fii other wards, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
• certain result, there Is no reason why It cannot be re-
■trad with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Ba wishes It distinctly understood that he does net claim
!■ perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
M ala Ims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed In his speciality—OHßONlO ams
SPECIAL DISEASES or MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
it Stall be treated at home. The course of treatment will
Ml in any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and adrfas free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Oran, tS.B., 41 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 080. Office hours,
XI B.m. to 11 a.m. | Ito 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
II to 11 B.m. only.
©RIDGES
FOOD
mUFANTS and INVALIDS
Has u enormous sale in England,
Mad is now being introduced into the
Colonies. <
Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND. _
SPIH
WmMM-
FRBIHOB * FTyoyp »*■ *0
be found in the “EIGHT AND
SHI," far the Speedy Onre of NERVOUS DB-
BlUTT»and Kindred Diseases, fto, ▲ copy of
Ibla book will be lent Free, sealed, for Bln Fenny
Hamper Address—
B. WARD ft 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
T> Hunter Street Sydney.
f IF ■ FBIBIBTATIOt
JLi bt
DB. J. D. LLEWELLYN.
Specialist,
19 SOHiDAiij Bvbibi Babb. Mbibobbm
TMa'work'li a medical treatise .describing ■>
surately, 1 faithfully and concisely the Function
Disorders" and Diseases arising from excesses, li
discretions and other enervating Influences sri*
their assoelated evils.
Speelallf addressed to f onng men with advU
on health, and replete with valuable and tanglh!
that la of Insaltnlable nse to a’
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Oor
fidantlal Complaints. I '•|_ _ — : !i -
For the. benefit ol all who desire a speedy an
reliable k anratlve treatment without the alf *
quacks. I wr.
Price per mall Is. Id. (any colonial stamps), t
be had ol all eookaellers or the Otto Publlshls
Oo„ 4 A'Beakett btreet West, Melbourne.
Eucalypte Oulss
fCOLEMANE*sons
Ws.
'ft
the tree of life
m fSSaStMB-
Victory Ointments
■feta OalyJPwre Enealypte 1b tk«3W«rUb
4 WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
billon, Sydney. The only known CUBE for
Aafthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Saida, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Ingii also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands wlth-
• rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Snaonra, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
MMnlaatnrers of the Enealypte Pills, Enealypte
Restorer, Enealypte Soap, and our world-
Bucalypte Honey Is the best preparation
the public for young children and aged
•Mple. Also, makers of Lozenges
KM the Voice. Manufactory—Cootamdndba.
Ifinoy Wholesale Depot—227 Buzabbth-btbkkt.
treated to any part of the Colonies. Bold Bver|«
Mamart of Imitation** ar'-gf—* "I WT. t. a .
Business Announcements
PUOf»CtV«C*f
***•«?(A& 9F
HATS CAPS it
SjliseTrcFst
SYDNEY %
iMatlCtns
Branch ;
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitkena.)
RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS . »I 5
OTHERS
460,000 to Lonit.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPBETIIi,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIBLD, ALLAN & 00., Stock, Station
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 81 Pitt'
street, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose's Celebrated Eye Lotion.
Ihis valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure dwelling and
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Dyes and Lids. Dimness
of fright, etc. It will be found very beneficial and cooling
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels them
to strain their eyes. Highly recommended by ihe leading
Oculists.
P.Dulinn 1 The public are requested to notice the
tlUll i wor( j Sl “ROSW’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION,” with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
*. HOSE'S CEIIBBAIEi EVE LOTION,
Not tor Bose Eye Lotion,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser lor the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
B, A. ROSE, Dispensing & Binsftcls'inf Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. fid )
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN’S, GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
E R V O U S DEBILITY.
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address —
Herb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P 0., Sydney, N S W.
Prellmlna.y Announcement.
CONSUMPTION, ASTHMA. BRONCHITIS,
hoarseness, and all diseases of the throat
and lungs, cured without fail by a new remedy
made solely of Australian herbs. We prove Its
powerful efficacy hy allowing you from one to
three bottles as a trial Further particulars
and full terms of allowing trial medicine sent on
application. Address: BOUSEHOLD REMEDY
COMPANY, Tamworth, N.S. W.
THE ORIGINAL
UGH 5
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
!TS
%
\
S'
ISTHEBESTINTHE WORLD!!
1 NONE OTHER PUT
WAUGHS
receivedthe internation au
PR IZ E MEDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannon
Harbour S T Sydney
spldbyAll Grocers and Storekeepers
Medical.
4 WOMDIRfOL MEDICINE.
iEECHAM’S PILLS
Am Baivaraafty ad-
mitted to bo worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
Sstite, Shortness of
reath, Goetireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright,
ful Dreams, and all
_ Kerr out and Tremb-
tosations, Ac. Ths first dose will fir# relief
&S wc?only minutes.
Svsty sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
fcss *& thses Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
PATENT
PILLS.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
ITc? females of all agei these Pills are invaluable,
D 3 B few doses of them carry off all humonr»>and
TsjJisg about all that is required. No female should
without them. There is no Medicine to be found
to Bsecham’s Pills for removing any" ohstruc-
fska is irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
fitef to the directions given with each box, they
wST eeaei restore females of all ages to sound and
£s&«£& health. This has been proved. by thousands
bars tried them, and found the benefits which
£5O gfsoursd by their use.
3?ep a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Dtosadan of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
Sow doses will be found to work wonders on the most
i&agEOrtcmt organs in the human machine. They
afcacrathsn the whole muscular system, restore the
lorag mat complexion, bring back the keen edge of
aastoite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
ok aentth the whole physical energy of the human
teas s. These are Facts testified continually, by
Bssmbars of all classes of society, and one of the
boat guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BSOSOHAM’S FILLS have the Largtrt Sal* »f ang
ffetoni Medieine in the World.
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Pills.
Aa a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bnmehial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness o t
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wbessaing, 4c., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
ere the best ever offered to the public and will
opsofUly remove that sense of oppression and diffL
Salty of breathing, which nightly denrivs the
mtteat of rest. Let any person give BEfeOHAATB
©OUQH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will i» a short fime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
ths Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Laa-
gasMrs, England, in boxes Is. and 2s. ML each.
Bold by all Druggists and Patent MtoUeta*
SsaJare everywhere. «
HA-Fall directions are given with oao& lab,
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
84 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. HSH
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
applloatlon.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
gOUNOB CONQUERS DISEASES
The Successful Treatment of
fIRYOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
Mom MERCURY ob othbb Nozion
Stomachic Contaminations.
lr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., 40., im.„
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON r. ~
Sidney, Nervous, and Special oomplalnts; registered by
she Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
sgaily qualified practitioner advertising In Australia whe
ialdi. the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
Historian Prenealve Medical Inititaif,”
18, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
far the scientific and effectual cure of all phases el Nei<
aas Debility, Ohronlo and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright oures Fite, Spinal Oomplalnts, Nervous,
lead, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Emotions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
it Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affee-
lens, Oenlto Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what yens
roubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
senest opinion of your complaint. If it Is curable, hs
rill tell you so i If not, he will tell you also, (or he will
40t undertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
sure.. It will cost yon nothing for consultation, so satisfy
fsars 1 that the Dr. understands your ease.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE,
leftovers sau be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not claim
perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
1 claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
hsreugbly informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
FSOBSESSITE MEDICAL IISTIISTI,
61, Fundees Btbem W., Meibobbne.
V Mo tcnneotUm %oith any othtr Medical Institute in
AustrtMd Bex 1(8. 8.F.0.
FOR BALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bquetih Offise,
Business Announcements.
Gfoiness'a Extra, Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
r»Aot MAfeSi
Bass’s Tale Ale.
SOLS PURVEYORS Co the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE A9BNTB,
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
Orauaerclal Chambers. Bead-Street. Bydaep
V,MHTCASRUs%
MiUFACTURING MATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
-'"OUTERS OFAIITHC
FEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
JU BT w . PUBiEISHID,
A Most Unique Work on 4
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HTGIENXOi
SUBJECTS. j»
It contains Information most Valuable la
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For Its Hygienic Rules are worth Its weight la
Sold. Send yonr fall address, and we will send Poet
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY.
Cleveland Street, Sorry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Stdnst Bpuana
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITS
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable striotl]
la advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence
quarter, or One Found per annum.
pci
Thb Bulletin will be on sa e every Friday'al
the office, George Street, or from the runners Is
the street.
C. STEPHENS UN
BAB OM BALB—
CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VATI
RUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fto.
COOPERAGE,
IBV KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX ST REN
Batween King and Market Streets,
PISBRCLLAS
i «
«*cover£o.
Stwos «cc»r
Swr*y«a» Vvtrcil* 9i*um
wowmtA. ma& r<mg
su*.'
!«««*,
A SULUVAm
«' “ -
«o&
fHlMll m 4«
■MM r
Rn«
SSi
'FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NSAf
AND WELL."
DBSKNAED'S Piotbbjs rad MociDnc
• Soon, 889 George-meet (opposite Royal
Hotel), la acknowledged to be the Best rad
Cheapest in the (Monies. Photos., Ingravlngs,
&0., carefully stretched rad mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cot with seal gold edgeio
Special attention paid School Drawings. Pinch
work a sneclality. Inspection invited.
WH CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(from Puls)
Ladibb 1 and Gentlbmbn'n
Hairdressing Saloon
Ac the most central and well-appointed of rap
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery, Toilet Requisites!
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair,
NOTB THB ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(s few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial BankP
MELBOURNE, h
FOR SALE.— Two grand Watec Frontage*.'
Fasvamatta m«i Em* Osh Bivms. A nnlr/
Csunw oat *.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MAD*
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced frotoa 30s. to 31a.
*49 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatteraall’a.)
P orpoise Hide Weav s Twice as Long as
any other leather.
H sj-
THEY ARB NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
&T LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
&
MASON BROTHERS,
5 lif- (limitbd,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
I Have always in Stock for Salk
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ala.
R 4 LARKIN
IMPOSTER OF
WINHS, SPIRITS, BEERS &C., SoO r ‘V*
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
OF The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. Ml Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottlbd Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Seorge Street, Sydney.
&T SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. IS*
mST-CUSS LADIES' hWoMHT 100.JI and I'm TO IT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A, Hordern & Sons).
_ „ -i : Y
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst E-oad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.'
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH HUGE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Black Oils
OB
EMBROCATIOMp
FOB
bosses, dim. s m
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL. SYDNEY, ISM.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing (or FKK3H
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGB|
and as an EMBROCATION lor SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesales ;
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag Co., 8. Hoffnnag
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Bntlee Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbihbanb ; E. Fleteher, Jnnr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Bcdfeneu
PRICE ,m Ss. 6d. Per BotfU .
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is nota country in the oiivlised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not teas
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at ones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their net
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-st., London ttf Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pols.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street; London, they an
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT TTTK
Wertlxelm
SEWIMB MACHINE DEPOTS
VIcTO R I A.
THE
\N o/se/e y Sheep Shearing M a
PASTOEALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
A CENTS t
T n lE3L O - SIDID IB S <2z* Co. 9
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BE NTON’S Silver Lever WATCHEB,
The Working Man's Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear and specially
rated for the climate, Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. "sgB
Wholesale Agent!:
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdriau <fi& Co^
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rabbet Valves, Wabhbbb, Gaskets &o„ &o. Moulded to any Size. Bnbbnr good! lot all par doom.
lists and Samples on Application.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
SfZB
ef B ‘.
>%***>!* As s
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
ny
Ut Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
i : }■
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. \.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
m
t
H
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
