

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.”— Lancet,
GREAT REFORM
IN THE
T. WILLIAMS i CO.'S
NEW SHOP,
GEORGE ST., OPP. MARGARET ST.,
" OFEIT.
Our Windows are quite a Picture 1 Everything
Low in Price, and of Excellent Quality!
ADDRESS
278 George Street, Opposite Margaret Street
Forget I
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
II
f -
“S
IIXS
NSSONS
*
*
m
a
-D
X
☆
o
<v
ISIR ROGER
o
a
Mm
DIXSONS
BXOILBIOR HOTEL, OHAETIRB
TOWERS.
Iliond Brisk Hotel Building erestedlln store
lan. alto*ted corner o Gill end Ohnrsh Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
For Constipation, Indigestion
Stouach H Liver Complaints
O ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
c
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE- —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
lIOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EAXT DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength und
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotica.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
ALLAH A. MARSHALL A C 0. #
Engineers, Ooppebsmiths, Brass and Bru Founders,
jm-M, Feumbhbs, Gasiittbbs, Ship & General Smiths, Art ft Mediaeval Metal Workers
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Tarltf's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Bednoed Prices—ll,ooo Fires already In use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
boa or Brass, Ships’ Single and Doable Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appllancesi
MM ACCOM WORKS, • Hwaurit Place. Sydney, and Btanmore Road, Petersham.
M'LBAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.'
o
s
IRONMONGERS
5
c*
V
o
<fc
<b
REG?
SPECIALITIES s
Daws* Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
a IC" ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
QAS COOKING STOVES :-LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS St WALKER’S.
WASHING MACHINES, *o., *O.
msrniM mm fovdbb
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBS ITUTB FOR YEAST.
BRB A !)» TSA a CAZEIB| FASTHT, Jkc» B
AM
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHBN MADB WITH
Wilks’ Australian least Powder.
FOR THE TOWN. THE BUSH. AND THE SEA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLD IN TINS AT Od. THE HALF FOUND.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
84 COLLINS STREET EAST.
■ftplUu _
end Accrued OnpltnJ
Received - -
Tmi ending
Oo*.. 1881.
£160.m
81.630
08,681
118,848
100,108
Tur ending
Ook, 1886.
£860,000
120,000
181,600
147,840
461,086
Tear ending
Oo*., 1887.
£431,126
206,836
891,366
807,828 .
707,990
Tear ending
Oot., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,949
825,820
. 2,048,961
nteiTed at following Ratess —II months, 7 per sent, j 6 months, S per
tent. | S months, B per sent. Special Terms for longer periods.
gfflmwith
ss«.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
VN Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
lab to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
“DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK.
KjaNOH offers th* very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
FIVE par cent, par annum upon their Patty Balance,
lini rUIIS for Borrower*. TEBKS LIBEEAL.
a
• xr.cr'- •■ -***•■' .
ij*V ■ .v
I !l-
I I I
J'J J 1
■ :r.i .1 1-I
liiM life*
■£!»•. .<J >3 3 »,«u. : Vv «isj V I ■
. -- •<s : .v-
-i HZ.:’—‘l?
wroi? I
IT" "xl
- (I
3 J.ihTN
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. f*
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payment* upon theae Share* are la
per Fortnight until anch Payment*, together with Compound Inter**
amount to £25, when that aum la paid over to their holder* In Oaafit
The holdera of tHa Flrat laane of theae Sharea received In Octebei,
1886, £26 la. 9d., toward* which aum they had Contributed <u#
£l4 6a., at the rate of la. per Fortnight for 11 year*.
Hem. J*U HIM 10. M.P., J.P., _ - Clulnuuk
wn.i.liM DO UK STY _ _ _ AKißf-lMrtlUf.
* 5 -
r= 7 * v \ -t' r - • T 1 ‘
V »•« s' ;: ♦„. . *• m J " a : Lff' " ,: - T II n
’■■ t' ■ « II VI » | • = I :IJ; Ul li j ; J.ii ,„,, ,
tft_i_ 1 *
; V ; Mmty ill 11 r -
;;-■•• - •, W&fe'J * --vc : :;
•S •';■ ■' *“ <
|| I).
> t *^ r p.~>-,5..
- - *. r 'S m* •» ,
j&’ ~'/
’lmßi
THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE
ooenmr or
JEglrErg* (2z> Colllrrs Streets, IL£el‘too - a.rrr©,
Containing 500 BOOMS, la noir replete with every convenience lot the comfort of Vial bora.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Tafcfc
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL " GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Me n*. presided over by an experienced CMf, aaalated by a civil and obll«ln* abaff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMfe
HOT, OOJLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
Georgfi Cohen * IBanaji^


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 474,
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, 1889.
Price, 6d.
PijlL. f j*f.
“Beyond the Grave”: The Late Dr. Bromby.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ■■■ ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly Q ®
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
Literary Communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
•* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say .3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS-
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
found Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, viith whom we do not wish
tp interfere.
j
/Jl/e
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, 1889
Some Georgian Fallacies.
Every now and then there arises a man who,
finding a number o! holated facta which had
been collected but not arranged by his pre-
decessors, dovetails them together, and by
that means constructs a symmetrical theory
in which each of the formerly unclassified
truths finds Its fittiag place. Such a man is
Henry George. He has just the same
title, no more, to originality that Darwin or
even Shakespeare had. The former found
biology a mere jumble of ascertained veri-
ties, like the beads of a broken necklace. It
was his to find the string to bind them.
The law of evolution was the cord, and,
although many think it weak and untrust-
worthy In places, It has not yet been really
snapped In spite of the strain it has had to
bear. Shakespeare, too, found in old tales
and plays and annals the raw material which,
under his magic touch, became what we find
his work to-day. The same with George.
Hts most ardent admirer cannot deny that
scattered through the American’s first and
justly-celebrated work, “ Progress and
Poverty’” are whole chapters whose germs
can be found sprinkled over the pages of
English, French, and German economists,
and of obrcare pamphleteers whose Ideas,
being in advance of their times, were suffered
to sleep, like the princess In the fable, until
the proper time and person appeared to dis-
entomb \ hem. This in no way lessens the
value of George’s teachings or reflects upon
his talents. The facts he gathered and
moulded were the common property of all.
He alone recognised their true worth and
bearing—he alone collected, classified,
generalised, supplied the missing links from
his own observation and presented the world
with the result In a consistent whole.
There is no doubt that one of the causes
which led to the wide success of “ Progress
and Poverty ” lay In the pleasing perspicuity
of the book from cover to cover. There Is
not an obscure sentence In It. The same
attractive clearness runs through the author’s
subsequent works, “ Social Problems ” and
“ Protection or Free Trade.” This Is as It
should be, for questions of such moment as
are broached In the publications mentioned
are too important to be clouded by the tricks
of sophistry or of rhetoric. Still, as If to
show that nothing human Is perfect, this
very lucidness Is not without danger. The
danger Is that, In the charm of the style one
b apt to forget the weakness of the argu-
ment. Let us take the last-mentioned work,
“ Protection or Freetrade,” and examine a
few of the positions occupied and defended
with such skill. If it can be shown that
those positions, however defended, are still
untenable, it may occur to some of our
colonial economists that where George
failed they are not likely to succeed. It
may be as well to state at the very beginning
that we have no desire to judge the work on
the ah uno disce omnes principle. Few
anthers will stand such a rigorous test. Not
Buckle, certainly—he appears to be a
favourite with Mr. George— nor Leckey,
nor, to step back a century or more, even
the giants, Gibbon and Hume. Hence,
when we invite attention to what appear to
us to be demonstrably unsound conclusions
we readily admit that in “ Protection and
Freetrade" will be found truths which
appeal with the force of axioms to discrimi-
nating Protectionists as well as to the most
uncompromising Freetraders.
* • *
From pages 214-15 of the book referred
to we extract the following : —“ Do
not these facts show that what American
workmen have to fear is not the sale in our
goods market of the products of cheap
foreign labour, but the transference to our
labour market of that labour Itself ? ,
The poorer the mode of life to which
labourers are accustomed, the lower are
their wages and the greater is their ability to
compel a reduction in any labour mirket
they enter. What, then, shall we say of
that sort of ‘protection of American work-
ing men ’ which, while imposing duties upon
goods under the pretence that they are made
by ‘ pauper labour,’ freely admi s the ‘pau-
per labourer’ himself? The incoming of
the products of cheap labour Is a very differ-
ent thing from the in-coming of cheap
labour. We might admit the free importa-
tion of Chinese commodities without In the
slightest degree affecting wages ; but, under
our present conditions, the free immigration
of Chinese labourers would lessen wages.”
Mr. George further imagines two countries
separated by a wall which allows goods bat
not men to pass through. In one land
wages are high—low in the other. His
contention 1s that you might push through
all the goo3s you pleased from the cheap
nation Into the dear one without reduclcg
wages in the latter —so long as you did not
allow the persons who manufactured such
goods to climb the wall and follow
their merchandise. But that if the converse
wore the case —if the labourer could pass
while his products could not—wages In the
dear country would at once f*ll. Again, at
page 232, we find: “The true doctrine is
that enunciated in our Declaration of la-
dependence, the self-evident dec trine that
men are endowed by their Creator with
equal and inalienable tights, and that any
law or institution that denic i or impairs this
natural equality may at any time be altered
or abolished.” We have given the ex-
tracts as they occur in the book before us
so that the curious In these matters may
satisfy themselves regarding their correct-
ness. Let us examine them, beginning with
the last.
* * *
The very first of man’s Inalienable rights
Is the right of living and working where he
likes, whether under the Arctic Circle or on
the Equator. Yet this is precisely the first
that Mr. George would deny. Every day
experience shows him that the introduction
of large bodies of Chinese into the United
States lowers wages—indeed, In many walks
prevents native Americans from obtaining
employment at all. Thus the acknowledged
liberty of every man to bring not only his
goods but himself to the best market—a
liberty which, we submit, is one of the
fundamental canons of Freetrade —is ac-
cept’d by Mr George in one sentence and
denied In the next. It is no answer to this
clashing of theory and practice to say tha
expediency teaches the necessity for stopping
the ingress of an inferior race. For at page
243 we find :—“ A theory is but an explana-
tion of the relation of facts, and nothing
can be true In theory that is not true in
practice.” Besides, if the right of every
man to reside where he likes is accepted
as incontrovertible, then no subordinate lav
of expediency should be suffered to over-
ride It. Thus It comes that tha first horn of
the dilemma on which the American
economist finds himself uncomfortably Im-
paled Is this : He would not “ yield one lota
on any pretence ” —the words are his—of
tha doctrine laid down In tha Declaration oi
Independence that men had “equal and un-
alienable rights.” But as he admits that
“ under our present conditions, the free
-immigration of Chinese labourers would
Lessen wages,” and as he, judging by his
writings and lectures, would be the last to
endeavour to reduce wages in his native
land, he would not hesitate to pass a wet
sponge not alone over “one iota ” bat over
the most axiomatic canon in the Charter of
his nation by stopping Mongolians at the
frontiers.
* * *
The distinction sought to be established
between freely admitting goods into a
country and as freely permitting the en-
trance of those who manufactured them will
not stand serious examination. The
speclouanesa is obvious. Indeed, were it
not for the weight that justly attaches to the
author’s works we would be inclined to meet
such reasonings with Uvlty rather than with
argument. Suppose that China, instead of
being some thousands of miles away, was
merely separated from Australia by an
imaginary line across which all kinds of
goods, raw and manufactured, could be sent
free while the Chinese themselves kept
rigorously on their own side. Mr. George
says that so long as the Mongols were
kept off Australian soil we would have
nothing to fear from their competi-
tion— that their presence would not
affect wages iu the slightest. To treat
a statement of this kind seriously is a matter
of no small difficulty. Indeed, but for the
obvious sincerity of the author of “ Protec-
tion or Freetrade ” it would not be easy to
disabuss one’s self of the suspicion that he
was seeking relaxation from weightier labours
In a little harmless banter. Well, China is
alongside and over the border-line is poured
the products of her busy millions working
long hours for a few pence dally. Perhaps
some Freetrader will be good enough to say
what would bacome of the white artisan and
agriculturist. The dealer in boots wou’d
certainly nob give a j ourneyman shoemaker
seven or eight slillings a day when,
by stepping to the boundary and making
his want® known, he could nake sure
of getting the same work done for
leas pence than he formerly gave sel-
lings. Tbe same with carpenters, tmiths,
brlckmakers and the numerous h audlcraf os-
men whose work could be wholly or partially
done on the Chines i side of the line. Three
courses alone would be open to them—to take
to occupations—such as could be found—
which are free from foreign competi-
tion, to come down to the Chinese
level of wages aid living, or to starve.
Those workmen only such as masons,
navvies and others whose labours must take
place on the spot, wou'd find employment ;
and their wages would quickly fall to tlelr
neighbours’ level. For, other outlets being
closed, the trades which had to be pursued
on the ground would quick’y be swamped by
persons whose legitimate Industries were
ruined by unfair competLlon. The result,
inexorable as the law o! gravitati >n, would
ba that .the Australiaas would be forced
back on shepherding and mining, the occu-
pations for which, as Freetraders assure us
with unconscious humour, the continent Is
peculiarly adapted.
• • •
Or, to give a further illustration of Mr.
George’s remarkable statement. By ex-
amining a map of the United States it will
ba seen that Kansas is fairly in the centre of
the Great Republic. Imagine Kansas sur-
rounded by a high wall and thickly inhabited
by Chinese or by any people who earned
little, lived upon little, and worked long.
To complete the analogy, let it ba granted
that merchandise could be readily passed
backwards and forwards through the wall,
but that the latter was Impervious to men.
This is Mr. George's case exactly. He says
that under such ciroumsbancis the people in
the other States of the Union, sc far from
having anything to fear from the com-
petition of Kansas, would benefit by
such rivalry and should welcome it.
We say that under existing social con-
ditions it would make no difference
whatever, whether the State was surrounded
by a wall or not —whether the cheap workers
were confined to a certain area or scattered
broadcast over the Union —the result would
ba much the same, the rapid degradation of
white labour. How could It ba otherwise ?
Trade is selfish from Its very nature. No
trader who desires to prosper will give six
penca for an article he can secure for three.
When American labour outside Kansas is
ten or twelve times dearer than that Inside,
what chance has the former la competing
against the latter except by coming down to
Its level in evarythiug ? Our dellbarate
opinion, therefore, is that when Mr George
tries to draw a distinction bet we an the pro-
ducts of cheap labour and the cheap labour
itself, his failure is complete and irremedi-
able.
• * •
The ground taken by the true and thought-
fal Protectionist is this : If the world were
populated by the same race, on the same
plane of civilisation, speaking the same
language, obeying the same bove?nment,
hiving no attachment to one country ever
another and able to transport themselves
and their belongings from land to land
cheaply and rapidly, the Fraetiaie case
would be strong to conviction. But the
world is a very Babel of discordant tongues
and of antagonistic races, some tf the latter
far advanced while others are but emerging
from barbarism. To (xpect unrestricted
commerce under exhting conditions is as
Utopian as to expect Germany and Austria
to disband their fare's while on their
flanks Franca and Russia are swarming
with armed men The time may come when
a United States of Europe will arise to re-
concile the discordant elements o.n that
distracted continent. But the time is not
yet, nor, so far, have any signs appeared of
its approach. For one nation to disarm
under such circumstances would be suicidal.
So with Freetrada. Under the conditions
already mentioned It is the obviously
common-sense policy. Bat these conditions
mast come about by a slow process of evolu-
tion, not by a single bound. At present the
universal inauguration of unrestricted barter
is but an enthusiast’s dream.
Sydney Clamours for a Fixed Tariff.
It somehow seems to have been takan for granted
that the Sydney vote shoull be sclil for
Foreign-trade. At least the so called “ aristo-
cratic/’ i.e., the plural-voting sections of Calico-
polls—East, West, and North Sydney—have thus
far been in the habit of bowing to the dictum of
their foreign masters. We say thus far, because
there are visible signs of a coming rebellion. Such
knights of the yard-stick as are not bound hand and
foot, body and soul, to these over-sea bosses are not
going to be continually lining at their own c injoint
nose to spite their face. Selfish they have been in
the past, and selfish they will be in the future, and
will assuredly vote for Protec ion, now that Free-
trade has ceased to benefit them. Of course there
will ever remain that class of merchants who,
whether as offshoots of big manufacturing con-
cerns at Manchester, Leeds, or London, mere
branch houses in fact, or whether as simply agents
aid consignees for Brummagem and Berlin rub-
bish, will struggle still to breast the coming tide
of Nationalism, and curse the hour which sees one
brass farthing of their profits diverted from their
own Australian pockets. Let them struggle. Let
them curse to the end of the chapter. Only too
glad of the chance if it is offered, as it undoubtedly
will be, of becoming Protectionists and Fair-
traders in England, where their manufactories
are, they will still try and have their cake and eat
in, too, by being Freetraders in New South Wales.
The scum and scourings of their foreign ware-
houses mu-t be dumped somewhere, and where to
convenient a garbage-hole as Sydney ? In their
nostrils the very name of Protection stinks and
the idea of home industries is gall aid wormwood
to their shoddy-mougering souls.
• a «
But there is another bigger and more powerful
section, who are neither foreign
agents nor consignees for the world’s leavings.
These are the second houses—those engaged in
“distributing” what they have indented or
bought from the importers on the spot—aid the
great army of retailers. Of these there is a
growing number who are avowed Protectionists—
who believe in the National policy as the only one
conducive to National prosperity. But they also
include a sub-section, who, thus far, they scarcely
know why or wherefore, have gone solid for
Foreign-trade. They have for years imbibed
these old-fogey notions with their daily grog and
guzzle at their clubs, surrounded by their com-
mercial friends of the same political clan, »nd
their arid mental soil does not supply good hold-
ing-ground for new ideas. But even they are now
rapidly ditcovering that they have been hugging
a tolerably huge delusion, and that they have
everything to gain and nothing to lose by the
Fixed Tariff of which Protection would be the
certain harbinger. For if there is one thing more
than another of life-and-death importance to
commercial men, of more direct interest even
than Freetrade or Protection, more entirely
necessary even than Pure Government }!f. i
before which the strongest personal or P 0"
bias is smothered, it is the securing as nearly 88
possible an unchangeable Tariff. Unchangeable)
that is, in principle and effect. In matters o
minor detail circumstances may and must alter
cases, as one and another native industry spring
up and adjustments must be made to new ana
growing needs. But otherwise, so far as tn
spirit and tenor is concerned, the Tariff roust oe>
to ensure commercial prosperity, »s fixed and
movable as the laws of the Medes and Ferexau*.
Its fixity is the bread and butter of the busin
world. Yet this is precisely what, ever since r
tection threw off its swaddling-clothes and g r ,
up to adolescence, Sydney has never experienc >
and can never, under the old order of things, /
any possibility expect to experience. L> lB ® «
fidently asserted that the alarming frequency
the Tariff changes during the last two or t
years is more responsible for the paralysis of tr >
the utter stagnation, the dead and-alive ton J
Sydney commerce, than even a succession
drought-seasons. All efforts to do business
clogged and hampered at every turn by the *
ledge that another Tariff Revision is impen
Nobody, down to the humblest consumer, cat
risk giving 20s. for what a legislative decte®
to-morrow reduce to 15j. nor will he give - ’ g 0
what may be similarly forced up to 2;>3. • D ®
he has not a grain of certainty that his exp
tion will be carried out. Take the pre B ® n / ea |
which is merely another repetition of the
of the last few years. The instant the H° UB iel j
dissolved a deadlock in trade immediately en_
to continue, probably, till a Protection
weighs down the balance of power in the
So it has ever been, and so it must ever o
Tariff, fixed once and for all, puts a summary
to all this financial “agony long drawn out.


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq,; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 Months per cent.
T. S. RICHARDSON ... Managing Director.
Directors:
ii
It) is no exaggerated fancy to Bay that New
South Wales cannot stand the strain much longer,
solely to satisfy the whims of the M’Millions,
who have made their pile, or to pander any longer
to the fossilised fads and fancies of Oobdes, or to
amuse Paekes in his “ breadless home.” Hence
it is that among merchants the cry is gaining
ground “Give us Protection, anything you will,
but for Heaven’s sake atop everlastingly fooling
with our Tariff 1” And those importers who have
not to jump at the crack of a manufacturer’s whip
at the other end of the world will now largely vote
for the one policy that guarantees them Fixity of
Tenure to Trade. Freetrade has no fixed system
to offer. It is the boast of the Freetrade party
that it will one day abolish all duties, and do away
with Custom-houses, and establish Freetrade in
real earnest for the first time in civilised history ;
but this result is at least a few centuries distant,
and the only prospect that the party can hold out
is that of another 100 years tinkering with the
already much-tinkered tariff. Till a bank-manager
or merchant can go to bed at night secure in his
knowledge that no Foreign-trade Treasurer can,
maybe for sheer oussedness, upset the whole busi-
ness arrangements of the country before he can
get down to breakfast in the morning; until, apart
from the other benefits of Protection, a Protective
Tariff once and for all time finally prescribes a
list of Customs duties never more to be altered
or patched, taken off and put on at will—till, in
fact, the same Fixity of Tenure, which Protec-
tionists regard as the one essence of their salva-
tion, is granted to business men, the wheels of
trade will cease to revolve, and a ruinous stoppage
of the whole commercial machinery will ensue
whensoever a change of Government seems im-
minent. Amongst the many reasons given why,
otttside of the fiscal faith that is in her and her
general peace policy, America pursues the even
tenor of her course so continuously, so success-
fully, and with so little interruption, the chief
one is the knowledge that her industries are secure
from Legislative meddling, and her Customs sys-
tem unassailable. But even America estimates,
without having to face Tariff charges, that her
trade-loss runs into millions under the demoralis-
ing excitement attendant on a Presidential elec-
tion. What, then, must be the sufferings of a
little state like New South Wales, which, at every
election, has had to face the upsetting of all
business calculations and arrangements, nay—all
business itself for months at a stretch ? No wonder
Sydney merchants are beginning at last to realise
that Freetrade and Protection, Orangeism, Yellow
Pupism, football, and Social Gimlet problems are
to them only as the dust in the balance compared
to the question of the establishment of a Fixed
Tariff.
Hard Lines for Husbands.
It ttotllti not be tight to let the divorce-case of
Dobn v. Does lapse into the limbo of the law
records without pointing out the extraordinary
importance of the last decision of the New South
Wales Full Court, which forms a precedent bear-
ing all the force of a legislative enactment.
Sir Frederick Daelet decided, Mr. Justice
WiNDKiER and Mr, Justice Stephen concurring,
that: —
“ Bsfore beginning a divorce-suit against bis wile a
husband should carefully count the cost of his own pro-
ceedings and of his wife’s defence. If he had the means
to pay his own costs and those of his wife, he would be
justified in bringing his action. If he had not the means
to pay the costs of both parties he was very foolish to
begin such an action and must put up with the grievance
of 'which he complained
* * *
This will be excellent news for the smart young
actors who induce city magnates’ wives to supply
them with luncheons and underwear all carefully
entered to hubby’s account by his tradesmen, but
it is not calculated to raise the spirits of men who
have been the victims of dishonest spouses. The
decision actually places all such unfortunates at
the mercy of their wives and their destroyers. It
brings down once more the discreditable dictum
that there is one law for the rich and the poor,
tut that only the rich will be able to use it. For
the future, the husband who is openly and shame-
lessly wronged by his wife will be compelled to
work on helplessly unless he can muster up means
to pay her costs, which may easily be made to
amount to an intolerable and unattainable sum.
The Doen case in its admitted facts shows exactly
how this dictum works, and a very brief tnmmary
of its events is sufficient to show that, as far as
any legal remedy is concerned, the wretched
plaintiff is hopelessly devoid of redress.
* • »
Mr. and Mrs. Dorn’s marital unhappiness is
a very old story. Five years ago the wife insti-
tuted proceedings for a judicial separation from
her husband under which he was ordered to make
sundry payments. Failing to obey the order, he
was committed to prison where he remained two
years and four months. He then discovered that
his wife was living in adultery. He obtained his
release, brought suit for a divorce, proved his
case, got a verdict from a special j ury and obtained
a decree nisi for the dissolution of the marriage
with damages of £lOOO against the co-respondent.
The wife and her paramour obtained a rule for
a new trial upon purely technical grounds, but
after many delays the lady threw up the game,
quarrelled with her protector, left the colony de-
claring she would never return, and abandoned all
attempts to withstand her husband’s proceedings.
When the husband essayed to go on with the new
trial, a solicitor who had chosen to give the wife
credit appeared to oppose him and argued that
until he had paid the wife’s costs of the previous
trial he could not proceed any further. The court
laid down the rule, just quoted, and Doen con-
sequently remains the husbatad of a triumphant
adultress, the wittol of a successful Lothario
and the first victim of a legal decision which con-
demns all such unfortunates in future to “ put up
with the grievance they complain of.” In vain
after this may any man of moderate means seek a
remedy for his dishonour. In his way will stand
the great obstacle of the wife’s costs and as no
man can tell how large a bill a wife, aided by a
clever paramour and a sharp lawyer, may pile up,
divorce must for all time to come be the luxury of
the rich as it was in the old, shameful days when
the sole power to interfere lay with the House of
Lords.
i • •
Necessarily the matter cannot stop here. Doen
has many sympathisers, and an enthusiastic cor-
respondent writes suggesting a subscription to aid
him in paying his wife’s costs and getting free from
that lady for ever. Whether this suggestion bears
fruit or not immediate steps should be taken to
procure such a modification of the law as will pre-
vent a recurrence of so discreditable a catastrophe
as this, Here is a man who has already suffered
a fearfully long term of imprisonment because he
cannot obey an order of the Court directing him
to pay certain moneys to his wife, finally fixed
and tied to the guilty woman for life because he
cannot pay her lawyer. His first committal to
prison was a disgrace to our civilisation. What
good can it do at any time to commit a man to
prison because he cannot pay sundry moneys?
Punish him for fraud by all means if he
has committed one, or for any wrong he
has done, but not for the lack of coin
which is a matter beyond his control. If
Dobn had beaten his wife within an inch of her
life he would, at the outside, have received a sen-
tence of six months’ imprisonment. If he had
committed bigamy, two years would have been a
tery severe sentence. As it was he suffered a far
longer incarceration than would have been in-
flicted for an ordinary felony, and is in addition
to be bound for ever to the wife who has abandoned
her home, dishonoured his name, and disgraced
her womanhood.
• * •
If a man who has been so deeply wronged is to
pay the costs of his wronger before he can get
legal redress, why should persons otherwise in-
jured escape from the same liability ? An em-
ployer who is robbed certainly does not suffer
more than a husband who is dishonoured. Yet
the bare proposal to make him pay the cost of the
robber’s defence would raise a revolution. Society
as it is at present constituted rests upon the
security of the marriage tie, and no law
in the world has yet been found to
exonerate a faithless wife. It is an ex-
traordinary accident which places Sir Pek-
deeick Daeley, a scrupulous and conscientious
professor of religion, in the position of the
champion of the adultress and the protector of
immorality 5 but we are quite willing to believe
that his interpretation of the existing law is the
only one open to him. So much the worse for the
law, and so much the greater reason why it should
be instantly altered. If it be allowed to continue
in its present condition we may look for many
repetitions of the Doen case. The gaols will be
crammed with inconvenient and impecunious hus-
bands, and the seducer, who has a pretty easy
time of it now, will ride roughshod over every
restraint.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Two Ghosts.
Parkes and Co., during their late reign, tried to
stir up the old Walker sensation out of which
the Melbourne Evening Herald got so many
columns a few years ago. To put the matter
briefly it appears that Walker when a lad
lived in Canada, and was, or professed to be, a
Spiritualist. One night he was in a dark room
with the intention, so say Walker’s enemies,
of deliberately humbugging a man named
Saunders by producing ghostly figures and
writings with the aid of phosphorus. Walker,
on the other hand, asserts that he was at the time
and long thereafter a sincere believer in Spiritual-
ism, and that his object was to make a bona-fide
experiment in the direction of seeing whether
Spiritualistic phenomena could be produced by
such means. Through a mischance the phosphorus
somehow or other took fire, with the result that
Saunders was fatally injured and Walker
was severely burnt. A coroner’s jury found a ver-
dict of murder against Walker, on what grounds
does not clearly appear. Walker left Canada, and
when the matter was raked up by the Melbourne
Herald he boldly communicated with the Cana-
dian authorities offering to return and stand bis
trial if required, but the authorities made no re-
sponse, nor, when recently communicated with by
the Parkes Government, were they willing to
prefer any charge against WalKer. The latter
very pertinently points out that it is a curious
coincidence that this dead-and-gone matter should
have been raked up by his political enemies just
about the time when he was engaged in “ putting
ahead” on the Parkes party for spending the
State money on their own private lands.
* * *
The Bulletin’s view of the matter is just this.
The death of Saunders was in itself a pure acci-
dent, but whether or not the accident occurred
while Walker was engaged In a base act of
deceit or in a bona fide experiment is a question
which can only be settled between Mr, Walker
and his conscience. As regards Parkes’ action
in the matter, it may be pointed out that not long
before the Walker-Saunders affair, Parkes was
engaged in showing the people of a carefully-
darkened country a vision of his own manu-
facture, to wit, the Kiama Ghost. Parkes’
ghost was quite a success. Walker’s ghost was a
ghastly failure. Walker’s ghost burnt Saunders
and Walker. Pabkes’s ghost burnt only other
people. Walker’s ghost went bung at once.
Parkes’ ghost has only just worn out. And now
that it has worn out after Parkes had travelled
on it so long, the malignant old man wants to
travel on Walker’s spectre. Mr. Walker has a
tolerably venomous tongue and a good control of
the English language. Parkes, just now, is a
very excellent mark for his file. We look forward
with much interest to the Walkbrian tu quoque.
♦
Wages Hast do Down.
The once democratic O’Kanb, of the Northern
Miner (Charters Towers), has begun to go back
on the cause of labour in his old age. In a recent
issue he devoted a fiery leader to a general, all-
round, boiling-hot penny cursa on the local
Miners’ Union for endeavouring to keep up wages
in that land of gold and dividends to £3 per
week—a figure which is barely equal in purchasing
power to 45s. in Victoria or New Zealand
“ Brutal ignorance,” “ unbounded selfishness and
hardness of heart of the party of Labour,”
“ narrow prejudices, localisms, religious bondage
and snufflebusting,” are among the mildest of his
expressions, and, by way of c’inching these
epithets, he hurls the following prophecy into the
listening air :—
We have told the miners and the working men here be-
fore now that they cannot keep up the present rate of
wages by any power on earth. Men are working at Mount
Morgan for £2 8s. per week, and in Victoria for about the
same wages. As the mining population increases here the
inevitable result must follow —a lowering of the wages.
No artificial barriers, or Miners’ Unions oan keep them up.
True, O bounceable editor of the Far North !
Wages must come down ! Mines will increase in
number, new machinery and gold-saving inven-
tions will turn hitherto unprofitable rook into
heaps of wealth, millionaires will become so
numerous that the passer-by will fall over them
in the street, but wages must come down. The
miner who toils in a soul-destroying climate for
£3 a week, and produces by his labour £40 a week
for his employer, must learn to take a smaller
percentage, not because he is worth less, but be-
cause some Belgian or Pole or Chinaman is will-
ing to work for a lower figure. The men whose
muscle and intelligence are rabidly making
Charters Towers the most profitable tf Aus-
tralian goldfields must be content to dig up gold and
be paid by coppers—and so they will be paid until a
system of Co-operative Labour has taken the place
cf corpulent syndicateism, and the Law of Compe-
tition, by which wages keep on tending towards
the apparently-irreducible minimum of lljd. a
day, has been abolished. The curse of “ foreign
capital ” will keep on bringing shiploads of cheap
labourers from distant lands in order to swell the
profits of bowelless, soulless corporations, and the
damning influence of “British enterprise” and
the unspeakable curse of that eternal desire on the
part of London speculators to “ open up the
mineral resources of the country ” will continue
to fire hundreds of alien paupers on to the Aus-
tralian shores so that wages may be kept down
and dividends may be kept up. The fact
that Capital takes 90 per cent, and Labour only
10 per cent, of the world’s wealth makes it a dead
certainty that “as the mining population in-
creases” the worker’s remuneration must diminish,
for the population cannot increase slowly enough
to make that miserable 10 per cent, a sufficiency
for all. Therefore, Thadeus O’Kanb, prophet of
ill-omen, you speak truly. Wages must go down
—until Socialism comes along, and the faster they
fall the sooner will arrive the great upheaval,
— +
The Borrowed Sword-Eater,
That fine old Conservative gentleman, all of the
olden time, the Earl of Carnarvon, has rushed
into the pages of the Fortnightly Review to re-
commend that the military forces of the Austra-
lian colonies should be ‘ 1 welded into one compact
force,” and that a general “of the highest stand-
ing ” should be sent out to report to the British
Government upon the system of military defence
in these parts, and to make any suggestions which
might seemgood in his eye. Of course the first sug-
gestion which he would make would be that an
English general of the “ highest standing” should
be appointed Commander-in-chief, with English
adjutants, colonels, captains, and lieutenants
under him to kick the blawsted Australian
privates into shape, and when these functionaries
were all established there would begin a series of
rows between the cocked-hat aristocracy and the
common lay herd who run the different Govern-
ments, and a crowd of British officers with swords
dangling between their legs would roll up periodi-
cally to inform the Colonial Secretaries that they
held the Queen’s commission, and were not answer-
able to any common vegetable Administration,
whose only duty was to pay their salaries and be
’umble and loyal and respectful to its betters.
Only a few months ago one small naval Briton of
five feet nothing, and with no warlike record to
support his pretensions, endeavoured to bounce a
whole Australian colony 1200 miles long, and
it was only by the exercise of suparhuman
energy that he was stopped before he had
lifted the entire Queensland fleet. If this is
the sort of treatment which Australia receives
from one second-rate British dredge-officer, it can
be safely prophesied that a general “of the highest
standing” would occupy so much space that he
would crowd the whole system of Constitutional
Government into the sea. And, by-the-bye, who
on earth would this general be ? Not the famous
Field-Marshal Gamp, Duke of Cambridge, for
Britain cannot spare the eminent fall back officer
who fled with loud shrieks on tbe only occasion
when a musket went off within a mile of him, and
who has drawn some £8000 or £10,000 a year for
the last decade as the reward of bis agility.
Neither could she part with Wolseley, for that
decorated slaughterer of naked African spearmen
is the only thing that holds up the Field-Marshal’s
paralysis, and these two warriors, neither of whom
has ever had a modern rifle pointed in his direc-
tion, are the props of Britain’s greatness at home.
Perhaps Batten hero, Commander of the Isle of
Wight, might be the man, but then Battenbeeg
doesn’t know a gun from a cow ; and Edward of
Saxe-Weimar has an idea that it is necessary to
blow down the barrel of a rifle to see if it is loaded,
and some day his head will bs blown off as the
result of his experiments. No, Carnarvon, it
won’t do ! Britain hasn’t got any General of any
particular standing at all to send to Australia,
and these colonies can’t endure any more of the
crippled warriors of the old, fat-woman brigade,
without losing the very last shred of their venera-
tion for the military system of the dear, old,
respected, and much worshipped parent land.
The New Pat-fees’ ministry.
After a stormy existence of 50 days the New
South Wales Protectionist Ministry has resigned,
and the old figure of Henry Parkes is again at
ihe head of affairs. An almost invisible majority
of four has decided that Foreign-trade and cheap
labour shall have another trial in New South
Wales, and the imbecile Protectionist electors
who voted the Foreign-trade ticket at last election
because Foreign-trade demagogues, whose billets
were at stake, informed them that the Protestant
faith was in danger, will have the gratification of
knowing, through another season of hunger and
want and depression, that their suffrages have
brought this result to pass. The new Cabinet,
however, rests on quite as unstable a foundation
as the one which has just passed into oblivion,
and the return to Australia of Messrs. See, Good-
chap, and Want will leave the two parties on so
absolute an equality as to make another appeal to
the country inevitable at a very early date. The
sublime indifference with which Parkes treated
the vote of the two-to-one majority that denounced
bis tramway policy as a public fraud may again
stand him in good stead when the House resolves
a second time to ba rid of its ancient incubus, but,
despite the old placeman’s lofty contempt for all the
usages of constitutional Government, his position
is too insecure to be long retained. The personnel
of his new Cabinet is a practical denunciation of
his old one, written large. With only two excep-
tions, he has utterly disowned his former col-
leagues and all their works. Cocky Burns is left
cut in the cold, and when the question of these
extensive road-making operations—by which the
ex-Treasuret’s private property was so largely
improved at the expense of the nation —again
comes to the front, the Parkes Government
will be in a position to wash its hands of
Burns and leave him, if necessary, to fall
alone with a dull, sickening thud. Public-house
Roberts, sleepy John Sutherland, Inglis, the
tiger-assassin, and the much-denounced Clarke
are all trodden upon by the large foot of Parkes’
scorn, and—worst blow of all— Francis Abigail,
the phonetic father of the Yellow Pup, the illiterate
Orange demagogue who stood up as the bulwark
of the Protestant faith and denounced Dibbs on a
visionary charge of having “ dined with Cardinal
moran on monday,” has been sacked to make
room for that aggressive Holy Roman, Dan
O’Connor. Therefore, we rise to point out that
the Protestant religion is in danger, and that the
Papacy is preserving an “ Ominous Silence ”
about Dan's appointment, and that the discharge
of the Protestant champion without a character, to
make room for this son of Rome, is the first
step towards denominaticnalism and anarchy, and
unless something is done at ones to preserve the
constitution Parkes will be found drinking
squash in disguise with the Cardinal, and all will
be chaos. The Orange party has been completely
ignored in the formation of the new Cabinet. Mr.
M‘Millan, the shrill boy who lately denounced
his chief as a traitor and a recreant, looks after the
.treasury. Daniel O’Connob, already men-
tioned, who, only two years ago, cursed Parker
by all the saints of his Mother Church as the
upas-tree of politics,” now sits beneath the
shadow of his own poisonous herb among the
festering carcases of Protestantism’s defenders ;
and the other new members—two Smiths, one
Could, and a Oarhuthees— are merely politicians
ot ordinary respectability, who worry them-
selves not at all about William and the Boyne.
At 6 raD £ e .P u P is kicked by its own servant and
thrown out in derision by its own hireling, and
£., e A urpme bruised animal will shortly
fall the astonished land.
Wanted—A Victorian Patriot.
The new National party in Victoria is waiting for
a leader, but, so far, the leader has come not.
Alfred Dbakin, from whom great things were
once expected, is becoming petrified before his
time by long association with the abject Imperial
grovellers of the Coalition Cabinet, and in place
of developing into a patriotic Democrat he is
degenerating into fossilism and Conservatism, and
is waiting for circumstances instead of making
them. Premier Gillies, from whom the Demo-
cracy expected nothing, and in whom it has
not been disappointed, is the leader and orga-
niser of the party which sings the National
Anthem and rolls its head in the dust when the
honoured name of Wales comes to the front.
Thenominal Opposition consists of a slavish band
of fifth-rate politicians who base their claims to
office on the ground that they are even more sub-
servient and sycophantic in their worship of
royalty than the subservient Government itself
and the voices of Jones, Patterson, Bent, and
Mdnro were among the loudest and hoarsest on
that memorable occasion when the Victorian As-
sembly resolved itself into a music-hall, and filled
the air with the inane doggerel of “ Gor Save the
Cjueen as a protest against the “disloyalty” of
the two or three members who fancied that Aus-
tralia was not created for the sole honour and
glory of the gilded relict of the “ Ever-
Lamented.” The infamous Naval Tribute Bill
by which Australia was invited to surrender its
independence to a foreign mercenary fleet, aroused
hardly one dissentient voice in the servile
Assembly, and the Victorian Lower House even
went out of its way to state that it stood aghast
at the conduct of the revolutionary M'Ilweaith
in asserting the right of Queensland to a voice in
the selection of its own Governor. The old
Liberal party is practically dead ; the purposes
for which it was formed have all been achieved,
and in place of forming a new programme
and aiming at new reforms it has existed ever
since as the monument of its own past deeds
until at last it has become more Conservative
than the Conservatives themselves, more slavishly
“loyal” even than loyalism, more stagnant than
the party of stagnation to which it was once
opposed. Graham Berry, the erstwhile Tribune
of the People, has become an aristocratic renegade
with a title and a deep-rooted love for courts and
palaces ; and the men who once threatened to ship
the Governor back to his native land now crawl
on all-fours in the vice-regal presence. The rapid
advance of the National party in Queensland and
other colonies, and the evident resolve that
Federation shall be the stepping-stone to Re-
publicanism, have made the politicians of Vic-
toria the bitterest enemies of Australian unity
and the smouldering fire which still lives m
the ashes of the two dead parties is kept alight
solely by the common resolve of Victoria’s states-
men to keep this continent disintegrated and
divided against itself, in order that internal feuds
may make the establishment of an Australian
Republic impossible. Yet, despite all these ad-
verse influences, a National party has sprung into
existence in Victoria, and if anyone of the old,
dead sign posts of Imperialism would wake into
new life with the nerve and courage to declare
himself the leader of a great Democratic and
Republican movement a great career awaits him.
The country is growing weary of Imperialism and
servility, and it only wants one man of energy
and genius to lead it on a new path. The time
has come for another Berry to go on a crusade
and undo the evil that was done by the apostacy
of the old Tribune of the People, and for such a
man there is a prospect of future greatness com-
pared to which the rank of Viceroy of all Aus-
tralia would sink into insignificance.
The four men found guilty at Melbourne of
criminal assault, and sentenced to death, have
had their sentences “ commuted ’’—three of them
to twelve years’ imprisonment with two floggings,
and one to seven years and one flogging. Id may
be logical (though we don’t say it is) to give a man
a flogging with a very short term of imprisonment
or no imprisonment at all; but to give a man
twelve years in gaol and two floggings is an act
which would be considered unreasoning and use-
less savagery even by the black logicians of the be-
nighted realms of King Coffee Oalcali, of
Ashantee. Victoria has never been a convict
colony, but it has had the misfortune to b©
located right alongside one. You can’t touch
pitch without being defiled.
+
Polling day, in New South Wales, is an occasion
when the Railway Department flourishes with an
exceeding great flourish. On the day when the
poll was taken at Hartley one train brought up no
less than 150 Sydney magnates, Freetraders every
one, to vote for Hurley on behalf of their allot-
ments at Katoomba, Mount Victoria, and other
summer retreats, and to help to swamp the local
workman whose stake in the district consisted of
his wife and family and his entire means of liveli-
hood. All this 150 had voted early and voted
often at the Sydney elections—probably they
mustered some 2000 suffrages among them—and
having thus done their duty to their party they
started to scour the country and vote anywhere
and everywhere that they owned a patch ot earth
which could raise its voice for Parkks. “Ser-
mons in stones ” bub the old wheezi is played
out. There is more than sermons in stones as
stones go in New South Wales.


“Mt Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him Suite to meunire for £8 Be.
Store Cattle for Sale —lOOO male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Write for plans £10 Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
The Noostf excitedly dcclirea that the
N.S.W. (lovernment undertaker refuses to inter
corpses from the Sydney morgue on Sundays, and
desires to know why. Surely a deeply religious
newspaper of the Noosk type need not be tola
that a corpse has as much right to keep holy the
Sibbath day, as a Hkhald composite-.
Most and Chandon’s Ciiampagnk —Messrs. Meet and
MOKT AINU a ~
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their Dry*
*♦ 1884 vintage is the pure Juice of selected
XSTl,™ i., «.<
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Crown Is In each corner of label, and 1884 branded os
cork and label.
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFIOB
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE
W, M. HACUKVT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic
Letterpress Printer, Dieslnker, Embosser, Bookbinder.
Aooount Book Manufacturer, Ac., Ac.
Maolardy's M Boa of Stationery a specialty. Send f» r
List of Contents.
Hole Address— ——
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas
and Fancy Goods. Inspection Invited.
The Referee
They are saying In America that M‘Anllfle
in meeting Jackson, the Australian, tripped over
the colour-line.
. * *
The Bulletin paragraph anent the Place
Consultations, fell like a bomb shell into the
camp of the sporting tobacconists, more than one
of whom had been guilty of malpractice in an in-
cipient sort of way. “ Rudolph,who was
specially singled out, hides his diminished head
and advertises quadrupled totalizators no more,
« i *
San Francisco does not like O'Connor, the
oarsman who is coming to the colonies to win, if
he can, the championship of the world. It ap-
pears that some time ago the Jaynil’s namesake
journeyed to ’Frisco, beat their crack oarsman,
Paterson, won a ton of Californian money, and
then went East and called the Friscans “suckers.”
Long before the late race between O Connor and
Gaudaur, the Newsletter and other papers said it
would be a “hippodrome” and a “dizzy-fake,”
which, indeed, It proved to be.
* • •
Mr. Tom Slephens has succeeded the late
Major Walmsley as general manager at Sylvia
Park, Auckland (N.Z.)
• • *
“Par” excellence from the Hevenin’
Noozk Owing to the fact that hundreds of
our racing people are over in Melbourne, while
others preferred to stop in Sydney, the attendance
on Saturday afternoon at Canterbury Park was a
very satisfactory one.” We send this item along
to Dr. Jeff aria for analysis as a “problem in
paradox.”
George Morris, a humorous bookmaker
from N.Z. hai hung out his shingle in Devonshire-
street, Sydney. Being opposite to the cemetery,
the location, he says, should be a good place for
laying “ stiff ’uns. ’
* * •
The Melbourne Age sporting prophet—
thanks to The Bulletin—tipped Lcchiel in
rhyme for the Australian Cup. This original
genius dropped into verses which were so pal-
pably inspired by “Another Lochiel’s Warning”
(published in The Bulletin two days previously)
that the “ crib ” was freely commented upon.
Moreover, this second-hand bard gave himself
away by taking Lochiel for the long race before
the Newmarket Handicap—victory in which
would entail a 101 b. penalty—was decided. For
that event he tipped Lady Betty, a three-year-old
filly weighted within a stone of Lochiel, and any
racing-man will understand that such a New-
market selection was utterly inconsistent with
the Australian Cap varse. The Age man just
stole The Bulletin ideas and rang a change with
them. Rhyming tips in the daily papers are a
novelty for which our well-remembered “ Men-
tor ” parody is responsible, and when next Mel-
bourne Cap comes round we shall have every
leaden journal in the country making some sort of
attempt to initiate The Bulletin success of last
year.
* • • •
On Champion day at Flamlngton, after
Sinecure had cantered home in front of her it die
companion, Rudolph, for the Special Juvenile
Stakes, the public-alike on stand, hill, and flat
—expressed their feelings in groans which will
ring in Mr. James White’s ears for some time to
come. Whatever may be said or written to the
contrary, it is certain tnat Mr. White’s action
invited the demonstration so apparently painful
to him. The Juvenile Stakes was nothing more,
practically, than an exercise gallop for his two
horses, the only other starter being a hopeless
outsider going for the £4O “third money.” In
tha absence of Hales (unable to scale either
weight), Mr. White’s next jockey, Huxley, would
naturally be expected to ride the stable fancy,
and, as the result proved, Huxley did have the
winning mount. Nevertheless, the public, quite
at Mr. White’s disposal, were encouraged to lay
odds on the loser by the fact that bis jeekey,
Ellis, carried the colours proper, while Huxley
wore those arm-bands in which he has always pre-
viously ridden the stable “ second string.” It is
useless to attempt to defend such a misleading
arrangement, though we are ready to be-
lieve it was the result of a pure inadver-
tence. Presuming that Hales had been
able to ride the more fancied o! Mr. White’s pair,
as he always does when possible, he would not
have worn armbands, nor would there have been
any real betting on this race. Why then, should
Huxley (temporarily promoted to Hales’ position)
wear the warning badge on this occasion, thereby
encouraging the public to support the “ proper
colours” with their usual confidence? That the
bookmakers smelt a rat was shown by their will-
ingness to accept short odds on Rudolph, while
refusing to lay more than even money against
Sinecure. With Huxley minus armbands, the
books would have wanted prohibitory odds on
Sinecure, but, as things were, those “in the
know ” were enabled to back the right one at the
expense of the hoodwinked public. If armbands
are not to be accepted as indicating an owner’s
preference for one or two horses they ought not
to be so constantly identified with the jockey who
doesn’t hope to win.
• • •
The time-teat was knocked all to pieces at
last Flemington meeting, and two-year-old form
was pounded into a jelly. On the Saturday, Spice
beat Richelieu four lengths for the Ascot Vale
Stakes—time, Imin. 17sec. Three days later they
met again over the same course, carrying the same
weight, and Richelieu belt Spice three lengths—
time, 1 min. lOsec. Backers lost thousands when
Spies won and more thousands when fhe km 1 ), but
on both occasions they were following the form
which is such a reliable guide to two-year-old
running in England. As regards the clock-test,
the fallacy of all arguments based upon half-
seconds has been proved times out of number. One
or more among a field of common horses may
escape being jostled or shut in, and make the very
best of their way to the winning-post within a
certain number of seconds. Probably three of the
horses have all done the distance in what is called
phenomenal time. The same three run again with
better class animals, but, on this occasion, there is
a lot of jostling and cannoning for the first fifty
yards of the race. When the field is fairly going
the “ phenomenal time ” horses are beaten for
speed by several others, notwithstanding that the
time is seconds slower than the previous record,
Joe Thompson has gone home In the
“ Arcadia ” with his beloved Governor—
It is commonly reported that there la much
bitterness of spirit among the Sedition party since
that slippery lady ran away with the Newmarket
Handicap. The owner won nothing, whereas one
of the trainer’s family connections cried “ Thank
God ! I’ve won a fortune ” when the mysterious
gr od thing came off.
The excellence of the Newmarket Handi-
cap form was proved by the subsequent splendid
victories of Lochiel and Carbine, not to mention
Churchill and Chetwynd, both of which ran very
prominently in the six furlong race.
* * •
Carbine, like Mr. Donald Walla cj’s’jformtr
Champion winner, Le Grand, was very near it,
awful near it, for the two big handicaps cf the
meeting. Mr. Wallace took a big wager about
Le Grand for the treble event, but he was scarcely
so sanguine this time.
* * •
On the last day at Fie mington an Indus-
trious bookmaker went around laying an unusually
tricky “double.” The second event was “ for
two yesi-olds that have never been placed at time
of starting,” a condition which had virtually
struck out horses like Dreadnought and Kose
Argent some days before Their numbers were
allowed to remain on the board, however, and the
bookmaker la ; d them in conjunction w.th Carbine
for the first race before his clients tumbled to the
fact that they were being fairly had. They did
grasp the situation, and demanded their money
back, even while Dreadnought and Rose
Argent were still figuring es possible starters
on the board, but the bock ffatly declined
to part “until it was ssttled.” Furthermore,
he began to offer “Carbine and Dreadnought”
more vehemently than ever. On the rule that no
bet can be lost which never could have been won,
it follows that the backers in question had a right
to receive their money back on the course, without
being doomed to hunt about next week for a man
who evidently intended to give them no facilities
in the matter. These “unplaced” races must
always offer special opportunities for crooked deal-
ing, unless the V.R.C committee rule that horses
are necessarily struck out the instant they become
ineligible to run.
* * *
The race between Carbine and Lochiel for
the Loch Plate was a eight for the gods and a
credit to the Turf as a sporting institution. Car-
bine just succeeded in turning the tables on his
former conqueror because he bad improved with
every gallop during the meeting. In point of
fact, Carbine was not quite fit for the Newmarket
Handicap, although the colt couldn’t have won it
anyhow.
• • •
O'Connor, the American chunplon oars-
man, says that he will not sail for Australia until
Searle has arranged a match.
* • *
A Californian paper suggests that Jackson,
the Australian, and Kilrain or Sullivan, should
fight with bare knuckles for the championship of
the world. To avoid the severe Californian penalty
against prize-fighting, it is suggested that the
’Frisco Athletic Club should charter a foreign
steamer, and that the contest should take place on
the deck, outside the jurisdiction of the United
States. #
There are now 1989 members on the list
of the Melbourne Cricket Club. 2000 is the limit.
w • •
The latest is that Slugger Sullivan and
Jake Kilrain will talk to a finish.
* • »
The San Francisco News Letter offers a
few remarks about Peter Jackson :
IH ia remarkable how q'liok the victory f f Jackson has
made the Kllrain-Mitohell coterie of sluggers hedge on all
propositions to fight Kilrain dots not want to face
Jackson at all, and Mitchell’s proposition to the CaUfornia
Athletio Club that this wind champion be allowed £l,OOO
for training expanses, in addition to the liberal purse
offered, is simply preposterous, and is made with the
objact of preventing a possible defeat. Sullivan's latest
ultimatum, which is to the effect that he wi'l not fight a
colored man nor face any pugilist who has, is downright
idiocy. When a man claims the championship of the
world, as Sullivan does, or has the belt, as Kilrain has, he
should be prepar d to meet, and thould meet, any one in
the world, be the new-comer a white man, a negro, a
Chicatuan, a Malay, or what not. If Sullivan draa s the
color line on Jackson it will be through cowardice, and if
he would not meet MoAuliffe the same cause —cowardice
—will hold good Personally, no sane man would th'nk
of choosing Sullivan before Jackson, Sullivan’s skin is
white, but his heart is of quite another color, and he is,
moreover, a brutal bully. Jackson’s skin is dark but bis
heart is white, and his manners are those of a gentleman.
Should Sullivan wrest the belt from Kilrain and then will
not meet Jackson, the Antipcdean, in our opinion, wou’d
lie Justified in resorting to a street battle to get satisfac-
tion.
Dear old Joe has gone away,
The lambs he’s ceased from skinning,
For many a weary, weary day
Their stuff he won’t be winning ;
They will not see his snow-white hair —
They will not hear their Joseph swear
That something “ wasn’t spinning.”
The cup of sorrow to its dregs
They drink—but keep on paying ;
They make the precious golden eggs
While dew old Joe is laying.
And that they’ve done their level best
To feather white-haired Joseph’s nest
There’s really no gainsaying.
Return then, Joe, for all our sakes,
And don’t stop over yonder ;
The absence of the shepherd makes
The lambkins’ hearts grow fonder.
Shall stiff ’uns come, and stiff ’uns go
And you not in the swindle, Joe—
This awful question ponder !
[?]
8-1(5 Macquarie-street North, 13th March, 1889.
Dear Moorawnda, —
Everyone has heard how a young Brisbane doctor not
long since sent a remittance to England to his sweetheart
that she might come out and marry him, and how she
started on her journey, and how, when the vessel was
S'gnalled, the gladsome doctor went do am the bay
to meet bis promised bride, for whom he had taken
a pretty house, and engaged servants, and how, when he
boarded the ship, he was informed by the chief-engineer
that the bride-inter ded had gone ashore at Townsville,
and had got married to the captain. In one sense
I am sorry for that yourg doctor, one cf whose
chief troubles must, by the way, be the amount of unasked
public sympathy which has fallen to his lot. But he will,
no doubt, accept the situation philosophically when he
reflects that his 24-year-old bride has fallen to the lot
of a podgy cvptain cf over 60 years, so that when 10 years
hence the bride is 34 the captain will be over 70, The
whirligig of time brings its revenges. The silliest thing
which can ever possibly be done by man is to try and
import a bride as cargo, instead of “personally conduct-
ing ” her. The influences of shipboard are such that gold
lace—how potent is gold lace s she re I—and even grizzled
whiskers, a dyed moustache, and a full set of false teeth
form no obstacle to a fulfilment of the dream of love
which, conceived at sea, is, in nine cases out of ten,
merely the result of having nothin? else to do but to cat
and drink.
The Lochs—with their two daughters, one governess,
three servants, and the lion. Keith Falconer as flunkey-
in-chief—duly effected their escape by the Arcadia on
Friday. lam told that the parting scene was of a most
official and *■ God-save-the-qjueen ” character, although
Mr. Gillies was conspicuous by not teing there. The
military mustered in strong force, as you might guess,
and there were any number of loyal pickpockets pros-
pecting for purses while the “brilliant assemblage ” on
Wiliiamstown pier were taking one last lingering look at
\ ice-royalty. I hear, too, that it was most amusing to
notice how cwefully his Excellency and Lady L. avoided
seeing some of the people who have put themselves
awfully out of the way to be llieir fellow-passengers.
General Brownrigg and his rather nice little wife will be
(he Loch s main support during the voyage, and most of
the others hundred or sa first-class passengers will wear
themselves to shadows in fruitless attempts to get a word
in edgeways. I do believe that a lot of them will be driven
to suicide b«fore they are out of the tropics.
I heud a funny story about one of the Victorian candi-
dates for Parliamentary honours and £3OO a year. This
statesman in posse lived, once upon a time, at a Mel-
bourne boarding-house, and laboured under the miserab'e
delusion that he could play chess. A fellow-boarder, who
knew something of the game, used to while away the
time by quietly beating our friend, the candidate, at the
tort of cne shilling a game. The loser continued to play,
under the impression that the luck is bound to turn at
chess if you only persevere with it, and the other man
rather encouraged this bright idea. Si, one week, they
started with the usual shilling and played “ double
or quPs” until the victim of bad luck lost £6 75.,
which he couldn’t, or wouldn't, pay up. Anyway, he
left that boarding-house without settling the debt of
honour, and after a bit his creditor began to embitter his
existence by swooping down upon him for the money at in-
convenient moments. Things were made so warm for the
candidate that at last he met his old opponent in the
street and asked him whether he would take £1 cash and
consider the chess transaction completed. The other
man jumped at this small dividend, and registered a
solemn vow never again to chalk anything up to a public
man. If the hero of this story realises his hopes at the
next election I must let you know. Very likely he will,
lor cf such are our Legislative Assemblies, alas 1
Several Melbourne girls I could mention are in partial
mourning for young Robert Farrar, the masher who lost
bis head over the Gaiety girls, and got rid of £7OOO
which a bank-clerk borrowed lor him out cf the cash by
some means that no woman can understand. They have
both gone to prison for it, anyhow, and poor Farrar will
be seen no more in sassiety lor two long years. Even
when the term has expired sassiety will look the other
way if it sees him coming, I suppose. Do you
remember Phil. May's cartoon, “On the Melbourne
Block ? ” Farrar is one c f three young men re-
presented as walking arm-in-arm--;he one with a
“flat" profile. Only a few days before his trial
and sentence Clara saw him in a private box at the Prin-
cess’s Theatre, Melbourne, with his cousin and two rather
smart girls. I suppose the said girls were notav are that
a detective was watching the party all the evening, and
that he made it bij business to find out their names and
address. Ilencslorth they will enjoy the distinction of
being “ well known to the police,” though not quite in the
usual acceptation cl the word.
Yours, affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
WALKER!
Parkes’ ghost no longer walks the land,
Or is a scoffed-at stalker,
And so, ta fortify his hand,
He’d raise a ghost for Walker.
In vain Freetraders defender calls —
This bragging, senile talker —
This modern Witch of Ecdor bawls
Vainly—the ghost says—“Walker !’’
Messrs. Thomas Cook and Co., the world-
renowned tourist -agents, have just opened an
office in Sydney.
The Genesis of the present political parties
in N.S.W. is clearly shown in The Bulli tin's
“ History of Botany Bay.”
It is cabled that Fronde has “become a
convert to Irish Home Rule.” This strikes us as
even a bigger lie than that great recent effort of
the cableman, the Mexican perjury.
It Is rumoured that Peter Jackson attri-
butes his success in the States to the use of Mar-
shall’s Tonic Nervine, and has ordered a case for
training purposes in his coming match with
Cardiff.
It is rumoured that a resolution Is to bs
submitted simultaneously in all the Australian
Legislative Assemblies the (fleet that at the
opening of each Parliament members be required
to take, not only the oath of allegiance, but the
temperance- pledge.
At the ensuing N.S.W. Ministerial elec-
tions every candidate, whether Freetrade or Pro-
tectionist, should be required by the electors to
declare whether he will support the principle of
“One Man, One Vote.” At the same time he
might also be asked to say whether he believes in
“ One Man, One Wife.”
There is a malicious story current in Sid-
ney that the local D.T. having engaged a leader-
writer, newly “from home,” sat him down for
three weeks to read the back numbers in order
that he might grasp the policy of the paper. At
the end of the tnree weeks the leader-writer
turned up saying that he had an awfully sore
head and chat there was nothing tangible to grasp.
Considering the opinions that Mr. Bruce
Smith has publicly expressed at Kiama and else-
where, concerning Sir Henry Parkes, ard con-
sidering the opinions which Sir Kerry Parkes has
expressed at various places concerning Mr. Bruce
Smith, and the way he expressed them, much sur-
prise is expressed at Mr. Smith’s action in con-
senting to be politically associated with tbe
present N.S.W. Premier.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, — 1 have been
desired by tbe House Committee to acknowledge,
with many thanks, your handsome contribution
to the funds of this 1 ospital of the sum of £45,
being the hospital’s shaie of the commission cn tbe
two first of “ Adam Bede’s” consultations, ard to
inform you that your letter and suggestions will
be brought under the notice cf the Board of
Directors at their first monthly meeting,—Your
obedient servant, H. D. Russhsl, Secretary.
Sydney Hospital, 11th Maach, 1889.
Recently a correspondent of The Bul-
letin wrote, asking if io was true that there were
ironworkers on the Hawkesbury Bridge contract
working under an agreement made in the United
States for the wage of ss. per day. We referred
the question to Messrs. Ryland and Morse, con-
tractors for the bridge, who have promptly re-
plied that the lowest wages they pay ironworkers
ard labourers is !»s, per day and tbe highest 12s,
No workmen were brought out under any agree-
ment, all the labourers (save the foremen, who are
experts) being purely Australian.
The present N.S.W. Parliament comprises
1 agricultural-implement maker, 1 accountant,
and 29 members of the agent ar d auctioneering
persuasion. These are seasoned with 5 banisters,
14 solicitors, 9 journalists, 14 mei chants, 9 squat-
ters, 6 colliery-propi ieters and mine-owners, 3
millers, 2 surveyors, 2 land jobbers, 2 ex-putli-
cans, 2 engineers, 2 tutchers, 2 financiers, and no
less than 13 who profess to be “ gentlemen, c nly.
In addition to the above, we bare cne each (f the
follcwirg:—lmperial officer, MD, storekeeper,
saddler, contractor, cabinet-maker, ex-railway-
manager, brewer, leather-merchant, builder, lec-
turer, carrier, goldfields-warden, and undertaker.
The Sydney branch tf the London and
American Tailoring Company, at the George-
street entrance to tbe Sydney Arcade, his
recently undergone considerable alteration Until
recently the manufacturing department was
situated in a distant portion of the Aicide build-
ing, but the management have recently leased a
suite of well-lighted rooms exsctly over the
elegantly-appointed shop, ard have gone to con-
siderable outlay in connecting the two branches or
the business. The alterations were the suggestion
of Mr, J. H. Bairstow, the resident director in
Sydney, and were carried out under bis imme-
diate supervision. The company employs over 70
hands in its Sydney branch, and all the tweeds
manufactured are specially purchased for them m
the leading markets of the world. The London
and American Tailoring Co. is cne of the biggest
concerns of the kind in existence. It has six
branches in Melbourne, one in New York, and one
in London.
A now enterprise, known as the Colonial
Ice Company, Limited, with premises at Kerning'
ton-street, Chippendale (Sydney), is now in pro-
cess of being floated, and consequently the coolmK
substance is likely to be cheap and abundant next
summer. The company, by means of a new
patent process, will be able to produce ice in larfl*
quantities at one-third of the ordinary cost, and
it will also manufacture ice-making machineiy for
country customers. The plant required by the
new piosess is wonderfully cheap and portable
and when its advantages become more widely
known every sweltering bush township will ha. va
its own ice-works, and will be enabled to coal its
own head by local industry. In addition to dis-
pensing these blessings the company proposes to
establish an inland trade in fresh fish frozen in
solid blocks, and thus a valuable article of oie*
will be placed in tbe meat safe of many a remote
settler whose ideas of fish have hitherto been
limited to the story of Jonah and the whale.


Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent, s Left-off Clothing,
Dress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
i&S to by QUITTENTON BRbS.. 11l
RusseM-street “ “
Kvervbodv Bhonld nee Pemell’i lateel bee! &NOW-wmr>
I* to bhe greatest raoooH of ttio
w
cl
o S
1+ T
o
U
M
/tejENTS.
DEIISSAt PHILLIPS
s'! 3i<5 Basmck Street
Everybody Bays— and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’e Snow-whit* P*t»mt Rolt.bb Floub the
hei* In the market
Sundry Shows.
Thkatke Royal— “ Never Too Late to
Mend” • -5*
Hbb Majesty’s.—“ The Vendetta n
Obitkbion.—“ Betsy ”
Pain’s Fireworks. —Phillip Park
The various shows of Sydney are still
tiurning round with the continuous ‘' whirr ” of a
broken grindstone on the sad sea shore where the
wild waves are singing the monotonous refrain of
ii washes-waahee■ wash,” but among them all there
la nothing conspicuously new. “ Betsy has
undergone no improvement at the Criterion,
because there was no room for any, and only a
man who hungered to whitewash the fixed stars
and shine up the handle of the planets could want
to make any alterations in that joyous little piece.
“The Glass of Fashion,” in four acts, will be put
on next Saturday. “ The Streets of London’
the dull, dusty, evil-smelling, cabbage-stump-
strewn, muchly-yellow Jog-haunted thoroughfares
of the great metropolis—lakes the place of “ Never
Too Late To Mend” at the Royal on the same
evening, when Mr. Charles Warner will appear as
Badger, an individual with teeth. At Her
Majesty’s the “ Vendetta” tramps serenely along
its path of gore, and as sundry other improve-
ments have been made in this production, and
Count Danella has got a new wig, the drama
begins to look more promising. The evtr-lavish
Mr. Rignold kindly gave the use of his magnifi-
cent theatre for a matimie benefit to the Italian
Opera Company on Tuesday last, on which day the
operatic season closed in disgust, and as Governor
Oaringbon lent his presence and his yawn, which
latter article of furniture is studiously withheld at
the Opera House, the results were of a handsome
kind “ Un Ballo in Maschera ” with such artistes
as Pimazzmi, Dimitresco, Madame Lab'.aohe,
Miss Flora Graupner and Mr. Sinclair to sup
port it, is always worth seeing, but Sydney
does nob care to see it unless Oaringbon lends
his yawn—which it is understood is with-
held on account of the stair/. But when the
breathing space in the gubernatorial countenance is
on view then enthusiasm rises to fever heat, and
the returns assume gigantic proportions What
they would amount to if it were known that a
monarch would be found lying drunk on the stairs,
or that a duke would be gnawing a bone at the
front-door and the muddy footprints of a sultan bs
visible on the landing is is impossible bo guess
They would be vasb—prodigio as-overwhelming
in their immensity, bus to calculate the amount
would make arithmetic file its schedule and
algebra go out and drown its elf. We would like
to sing a hymn on this subject, only we are too
hoarse.
* * * *
An elaborate correspondence Is being
maintained in the Sydney press by a number of
gentlemen who want to find out why “Captain
Swift” was a failure in Sydney. Mr. Warner
ascribes the collapse to the lack of public patron-
age, which looks moderately probable. “ Want
of assets” is the cause of most insolvencies, and
a lob of people die through absence of breath, so
when a drama breaks down through the an dienes
staying away it looks reasonable to assume it
burst up bscause they weren’t there. But toe
reason of this human scarceness and unexpected
shortness of the Aryan race is what the country
wants to find out, and, by way of solving the
problem we would gently suggest that a rather
good drama was puffed until the pub n
expected it to be a lot better than it was,
and then Mr. Warner’s acting made it look
a vast amount worse than it had any business to
ba. The public came along to see something
particularly magnificent, and tottered away _ dis-
gusted. This explanation is so simple that it is
hardly worth while to go into Mr. Lewis Scott s
theory that the drama should have been produced
with the name of the author left out in order to en-
sure success,though Mr. Scott s experience entitles
his opinion to a certain amount of respect. Most of
that gentleman’s pantomimes have been produced
without his name being attached, and the success
which attended them when the public didn t
know the name of the man they wanted bo throw
bricks at, as compared with the results achieved
when the nation knew who it was that they were
anxious to trample on, shows that there is some-
thing in Mr. Scott’s idea. But still it is not uni-
versally applicable, and in the case of “ oaptaia
Swift” we are inclined to think that the
talented poet is arguing on a wrong basis.
# * * *
Mr. James Pain, the firework man, de-
sbroyed Pompeii wibh immense succsss on Satur-
day night in Phillip Park, Sydney, and has since
kept on descending on that doomed city with un-
interrupted good fortune. Next Saturday, weather
permitting, Pompeii will be burated up over again,
and any remnants of that Latin town which
escaped the previ ins devastation will then be
pounded into atoms and blown up and scattered
to the four winds of heaven. Mr. Pain s show is
“ more fiscal than popery,” and is not intended in
any way to undermine the secular education policy
of N.S.W. Tae fact that Roman candles are used
to a large ex teat may possibly grieve thasaulof
Ah Haynes and others, but it has no religious
signification whatever, and Mr. Pain has, so far,
not bsen seen in company with any Cardinal.
We think it right to mention these facts_ lest we
should be unjustly charged with maintaining an
Ominous Silence.
* * # *
Unless the police have already arrested
her on suspicion “Mama” is the source of much
frivolous merriment at Melbourne Opfi a House.
“ Mama ” turns out to be an expansive old har-
ridan, who retired from the ballet in order to
marry her daughter to as many men as possible,
it being a first article of faith with this awful
woman that those whom Heaven hath joined to-
gether must be pub asunder by a decree nv si. ihe
daughter leaves all nuptial arrangements to her
parent, and when she returns to the happy home
of her first husband as the new-made bnde of his
second stepfather she doesn’t turn a hair. ine
first husband wouldn’t mind this mixing up c t
things, neither would his second wife, because she
is young atd innocent, and doesn t hinw how
often everybody has been getting married already.
But the anxiety of Mama to pass her daughter on
to a third husband —a bachelor who lovtd her
before she was divorced —brings about a climax
which the shade of Brigham Young must contem-
plate in shocked amazement. Mamas system
of working a divorce is simple and straight-
forward. She just incites the husbands to
hit out at her, whereupon she artfully ducks
and the wife gets a smack in the eye by mistake,
which constitutes legal cruelty. Other necessary
grounds of divorce are provided by the old woman
swearing that her victims took somebody to sup-
per "In a private room, with the door locked.
This screeching farce, in three blushes, is about as
blue as they make ’em, albeit, a company com-
prising Frank Thornton, A. T. Hilton, Oates,
Misses Annie Taylor, Lucia Harwood, and Ada
Lee play it with due regard for the proprieties.
Miss Harwood, in particular, is careful to repre-
sent the young woman that marries to order as a
helpless waif upon the ocean of promiscuous
matrimony, while Mr. Thornton displays a ten-
dency to Mormonism in a harmless style sugges-
tive of the “ Private Secretary.” “ Mama may
be a huge success, or it may not. It is singularly
naughty, a remark reiterated with the amicable
intention of giving this show a leg-up.
* * #
“ Mama ”is preceded by that clever trifle
“ My Milliner’s Bill,” a Analogue so full of smart
lines that the two performers have few oppor-
tunities to be wearisome. Miss Lucia Harwood
takes three-fourths of the honours, and the re-
maining section falls to Frank Cates but the
author has a big lien on the lot.
** # #
“Every Man for Himself,” the drama
which Miss May Holt wrote in blood with a toot-
jack, is a fearful and wonderful success at the
Alexandra. As time goes on, that boy Dan ap-
pears to fill a growing space in the public eye,
while his genius for evading attempts upon his
life, by flood and field, gets worse than ever.
Under these circumstances it is safe to assume
that the fair authoress knew what she was about
when she steeped the shoe-instrument in gore, and
the man who said fact was stranger than fiction
must have been a fool.
** * *
Ocher Melbourne theatres are preparing
for a change next Saturday. “ Penita ” is to be re-
placed by “Erminie” at the Princess’s. The
Royal Pantomime will become a lucrative memory
of the past after to-night (Thursday), when Royca
takes his little ben. amidst a blaze of special
attractions. Then Bland Holt, who never makes
a mistake in a melodrama, starts his season with
“The Union Jack,” a bit of overrated bunting
that is almost past being lied about. The Silbons
are introducing some smart new business into
their final week at the Opera House, and the early
departure of this strong crowd is a cause for tribu-
lation. “ Richard the Third ” will introduce Mr.
Miln to a Melbourne audience on Saturday. It is
somewhat against this plucky exponent of high
art ihat there a-e no somersaults in the poetic
drama, but he hopis to give an attractive all-
round show without them. * Mr. Miln’s support
includes several people who understand Shake-
speare as he ought to be spoke, and, as regards
‘■Richard III.,” it is a good rousing play from
every point of view. A right down wicked uncle
like Richard should come as a pleasant change
after a long succession of modern stage nuukies,
who are continually blessing their nephews and
having them wealth untold.
** * #
Mr. Frank Lincoln Is a pretty consider-
able boom at Melbourne Athenaeum, and the
subtle charm of his entertainment bids fair to in-
crease and multiply. As a fashionable resort the
Athemeum Hall labours under the disadvantage
of being more often closed than otherwise, but
when Frank Lincoln ii included among the things
that are generally known he will be regarded in
the light of a wholesale revelation and a public
blessing. His music-hall chorus would make a
mummy split its bandages. At St. Georges Hall
the departed Ooghills are succeeded by Hicks
Minstrels, the ones who can be mostly warranted
to wash without the colour living, Frank Clark s
inextinguishable show rolls along at the Victoria,
and Pain’s Fireworks are furiously raging twice a
week as usual.
** * *
They say that the Triumvirate are In
grievous doubt as to whether the Victorian
deputy-Governor, Wobinson, can “ command 1 a
performance, or merely bless it with “ vice-
Viceregal patronage.”
** * *
Messrs. Brough and Bouclcault, of the
Melbourne Bijou, are about to apply for an in-
i unction or something against the proprietor of
the new Palace Hotel, to restrain him from filling
their theatre with an alleged odour of steak and
onions. They contend that adjacent cooking
destroys the illusion of rural landscape-scenes and
renders it impossible to waft a suppositious honey-
suckle tcent across the footlights. On the other
hand, they should be able to give a strong air of
realism to the second act of the “ Magistrate,
which takes place in a supper-room.
*# * #
The Adelaide Royal la still occupied by
the Majeronis, who are doing their best to attract
good houses. ‘ Wanda ” has been well produced,
bat the public seems to take little interest in
Ouida’s impossible heroine. But why should a
nineteenth-century management force ‘ List
Lynne ” upon an audience of the same age ! Ims
crying drama should be relegated to the no more
reaion or produced in 16 different languages at the
same time, with Archibald Carlisle and his erring
spouse left out, and arrangements made for little
Willie to die before the curtain goes up. We pre-
dict some fearful tragedy over this piece, and
tens i, for the sake of quietude, that “East Lynne
will be with us no more. “ The Corsican Brothers
will soon be revived, with Signor Majeroni as him-
self and the other fellow.
** # *
Little Jimmy M‘Mahon la fond of telling
a good yarn with regard to his experiences in
Sydney with the Gaylord and Silbon Troupe,
which lately made things howl at the Gaiety
Theatre, and the story proves how easy it is for
even an orchestra-conductor to go astray, bilbon,
it appears, had a great fancy for a tearful and
wonderful class of exhibitions which he called
“ Tableaux Vivants,” in which a number of ladies
dressed in a classical costume of tights and chalk
posed alternately as Mary Maidalene. Mary Queen
of Scots, or the Rook of Ages. When Silbon started
this ghastly show it was found at the last moment
that no music had been selected to suit the occa-
sion. So the manager sent for the conductor of
the orchestra, and, giving him the list of tableaux,
asked him to kindly fit music to them. You
see.” said Mr. M‘Mahon, “here is the life of Mary
Magdalene Now, I should suggest for this some-
thing plaintive and melancholy, which would
recall in a touching way the sad history cf this
woman. Then there is the Rock of Ages, for
which, of course, you can use the old bymn; and
next you want a soothing and subdued me ody
to accompany Mary Queen of Scots throng
her last moments.” So the conductor went
away and promised to do his ( and he
did. When the scene representing French
Bathers ” was ushered in with the Garb of Old
Gaul ” it did seem rather appropriate, and a good
many of the audience wished they had lived in
those times. But when “ Mary Magdalene ”
came on the scene, accompanied by Mendellsohn’s
“ Wedding March,” a certain sense of the ludi-
crous began to be apparent amongst the audience,
as Magdalene wasn’t supposed to be married very
much. Things did not seem to fit somehow, and
matters were not improved when Mary’s varied
career was enlivened by the strains of “ Mary had
a Little Lamb,” and her death marked by the
touching tune known as “ Dem Golden Slippers.”
The conductor had a musical seance next day with
the management, and in explanation of his crime
stated that these were the only tunes which his
men knew, and he thought they would do as well
as any others.
## * #
At one town where Sara Bernhardtappeared
there was a thin attendance and no applause
worth mentioning. Sara packed her trunks and
fled first thing in the morning, and her last public
act was to kick her hotel bedroom into chaos and
pour a quart of ink over the bed. Then she felt
much better.
** * ♦
Mrs. Ward, the Tasmanian-born authoress,
has refused to allow “Robert Elsmere” to be
dramatised.
** * *
Mra Shaw, the whistler, has just been
divorced from Mr. Shaw. He objected to her
whistling and she whistled at his objection.
** * »
Fred Leslie has had an offer of £2OO a
week to go to America.
** * *
One of the latest plays put on the London
boards is called “The Union Jack.” We are of
opinion it would “take well” here, as the hero,
in one scene, jumps from a ship’s side and swims
to shore through a raging (tank) sea. Another
capital scene takes place between Olara Jepks,
Dalton Sommers, a soldier, and Shine, a sailor.
Shins, finding Sommers on sentry go from which
he dare not move, walks Clara up and down
before him, and fondles and kisses her until the
unhappy sentinel nearly bursts in two with rage.
At list Shine, byway of dealing the final blow,
chucks Clara under the chin and exclaims, “Yes—
there, jou see that—l’m a-kissin’ of ’er agin—yes,
an’ what’s more, I’m a goin’ to marry ’er —there:’
To which sentry Sommers, driven to exasperation,
promptly replies, “Yes; and when you re gone
away to sea, 11l come round and comfort her I”
That puts the fly into Mr. Shine’s amber at once,
and a beautiful moral is to be drawn.
#* # *
This la an American theatrical Item, It
may be true, but it doesn’t look like it: —
An enthusiastic resident of Petaluma was so much
delighted by a performance of Booth’s he had witnessed
daring that actor's first week here, that upon re-visiting
the city yesterday he brought with him a gigantic pnzj-
water-melon as a modest testimonial to the star. He pre-
sented himself at the stage-door last evening. The play
was “ Othello,” asd the dusky Moor was listening,
with hated oreath, to the crafty promptings of lago,
when our rustic friend arrived at the side-entrance.
Sudienly the horrible thought crossed his mind
that he had negleoted to tie his team. He gently
placed his gift on the floor and sent it slowly rolling
towards tne actors. The watermelon solemnly waddled
to the centra of the stage, then tumii g, rolled down the
incline with great velocity. After upsetting Ia;o in a
frantic attempt to head it off, it bounded over the foot-
lights into the orches.ia, knocking down the clarionet
player and landing in a bass viol with a terrific crash.
Amid the general yell that followed the curtain was rung
savagely down, and tl e shrieks of the Petaluma agricul-
turist weie heard as the supers fired him out. There was
no music after that between the acts —nothing but the
tantalizing, slobbery, slushy lounds of the musicians
thoughtfully munching that watermelon.
m* * *
Mary Anderson, the actress, says an Eng-
lish exchange, is intensely and devoutly religious.
She would rather spsnd the rosy hours of the
morning at mass than ia the enjoyment of the
most delicious repose. Slow music, please
Old Dkn Boucicault has just re-marrled
Mi *s Thorndyke. The lady has held brevet-rank
for about three years.
** * *
Baldwin cams out to Australia under en-
casement to an enterprising New Zealander, who
guaranteed him £590 an exhibition. There was a
loss on the N.Z. tour,, and when Baldwin arrived
in Sydney there was not a big enough attendance
at the first advertised performance to Justify the
parachutist counting on a subsequent perambula-
tion of the spectre, and, as he had a deep-seated
objection to risk his neck for less than £SCO, he
didn’t go up. His entrepreneur, we understand,
lost £l5OO by the spec.
* <* • •
Nina Tulloch, the respondent In the
divorce suit, Yates v. Yates and Friedman, re-
cently heard in the Supreme Court, Sydney, made
her first appearance in Melbourne in March, 1880,
at St. George’s Hall, in M‘Lean’s Troubadours
She was then an attractive little girl m short
clothes, doing German business d la Maggie
Moore, in “Struck Oil ” Miss Tulloch was lost
sight of by Melbourne play-goers till early in
1886, when she re-appeared, this time at the
Victoria Hall, where she was billed as The Great
English Artiste. 1 '
♦# w w
Real donkeys are introduced on the stage
In “ Pepita,” at the Princess Theatre, Melbourne.
They are very popular, because, unlike a great
many other asses on the boards, they have the
courage of their pedigree.
** * *
Dion Boucicault Is offering the copyright
bis nlavs for sale. He claims that they have
earned' KoOO for him. “The Shaughraun ”
alone returning £50,000.
When the morning hours are rosy,
And the dew is on the grass,
From her bed so warm and cosy,
Mary dodges off to mass.
Should she visit us we’ll greet her
With a loud triumphant shout,
Hasten out in crowds to meet her —
We are nought if not devout.
Yet methinks we Va not without one
Bright example of this rage ;
Mary’s not the sole devout one
Who’s connected with the stage.
Once upon a morning early
Looking dimly through a glass,
We will swear we saw the burly
Allison sedately pass.
Then, we thought our intervention
People might as rudeness class,
Now —we’re very pleased to mention,
Jimmy’d only been to mass.
Correspondence
“ W.C.1.” (Granville) : The proceeding was
most irregular, but would not invalidate the election...
“ A Northern Toiler ” (Cairns, Q.); Paragraph was clipped
from a Cairns paper. We had certainly no desire to
prejudice the case, which we believed had been heard..
“ Nova Carlotta ’’: “I basked in her smile” has been
duly bssketted “ H.J.T.” (Melbourne): Most of your
verse is below mediocrity...“ Thos. Hynes” (Parramatta):
Have written to Dr. Nicholson.. .“ A. 5.8.” (Newcastle):
You can order it through any bookseller. The publica-
tion can be seen at the Sydney libraries.. Kismet' :
Don’t kn0w....“ Didaskalos” : Sentiments illiberal.
“ Jayoebes ” (Melbourne): We long to hang
jour poetic friends scalp at our girdle “JO.”
[(Harden): Verses not suitable, though not devoid
of humour “Icarus” : Nob bad, but not good enough;
<< Thomas B.B.”: You may yet be able to write poetry.
“ e S.” : No, we don’t think there will be a European
war just yet a while. The world is too busy keeping shop
to fight jast now “Bulli" (Wollongong): You say that
much can be said on both sides, but that is no reason why
3 ou should say it on both sides of the paper “Theo-
dore Ranft” writes that no writ has been issued by him
against any Sydney paper in connection with com-
ments on the Taranganba mine. He wished to
take proceedings, bat was advised not to do so..
“ W.M.” (Roma): Tne reports in the Sydney dai'y papers
convey not the slightest idea of what really happens in
the N.S.W. Legislative Asscmb’y. If you want to study
politics as they are, you must road Hansard, and even
Hansard is edited quite enough “W. Manton”: Mr-
R. B. Wilkinson, M.P., is evidently a political shuffler of
the Sohey order, and must be summarily dealt with by
the Nati rnal party at next election “W.C.J.’: Argu-
ments in public halls about religion lock too much like
“hippodromes.” “E. Williams’’: Ye?, we are afraid
it is an old story, but then Mies Sappho Smith is young
and innocent, and imp’icitly believes everything she is
told “ J. 00.” (Shepparton); “Songs of the Army of
the Night ” may be obtained frem Turner and Henderson,
Hunter-street, Sydney. The other verses have not yet
been published in book-form “ Agnes P." : Next
wee k “Justice”: Ask some member to attack the
matter in the Assembly. It is a gross scandal....
“w. J.P.” (3.H ): (1) As a novice, perhaps JOs. or £2 a
week, but some aptitude at composition is required even
from a beginner. Not one man in five hundred has the
mental and physical capabilities which go to make a really
first class reporter. (2.) We cannot te'l until we see
the sketches “ Original Yarn” :We don’t believe you.
Send it to the Protestant Standard people. They abso
lately revel in such stories “ M N.D.” : \es, we row
remember them. Though unsuitable fer publication in
the form in which they were sent they formed very excel-
lent suggestions for the artist.
Abigail writes with regard to the mining
business that “ a Mountain has been Maid out of
a mole hill.”
The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay ” is a record of events written for the people
who to-day form the nucleus of the coming Aus-
tralian nation. I* is essentially a bock with a
purpose, and sets forth that Australia is fiti-1
dominated by the surviving remnant of a class
whose history will make the Australians of the
future burn their records. The “ Hutcry ”is
profusely illustrated with pictures by L. Hopkins
and Phil. May, and is published at one shilling.
The hotel runners of Sjdaey are an active
and enterprising crowd, but s me?) day one of them
will get hurt. This gentleman who is reserved
for future damage has a habit of laying violent
hands on the newly arrived pilgrim at the wharf
with a view to kidnapp'ng him, body and soul and
baggage, to his particular establishment, and
when once he clutches a victim nothing short of
amputation will make him let go. If the stranger
explains that he is g ling to another hotel he is
assured that the place in question is full; if he is
going to a dozen other hotels he is told that they
are all full; if he intends making for his own resi-
dence he learns to his horror that it is choke-full,
and if he explains that his wife is waiting for him
the runner tells him that he has seen her and that
she is full, also, having contrasted the habit of
tippling in his absence. All Sydney, in fact, is
full except the particular hotel which th's awful
tout touts for, and bp dint of vocal slime and
violence he breaks up what were once happy
famil es, and severs p.ea?ant home ties, merely
that he may drag the fragments of a shattered
household to his accursed pub. and make these
d etracted remains run up a heavy bill there.
This course of fraud has been going on for many
months, but retribution must come. Some day
the mangled remains of a hotel tout will bo found
in the harbour blown up past recognition with
hydrogen gas, and then peace—gentle, b»lmy
peace will once more prevail.


Wolfe's S
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And ia a
Pare Refreshing Beverage
Be Careful you obtain Wolfr’s.
Stork Cattle for Sale.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
(jnepnsland.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratxt with
Cral* Annie Blossom at the Obown Psbfummt Oo.'s
Stands in the MELBOURNE EXHIBITION. All Mel-
bourne is on this Scent,
There have been 106 Bishops of London-
in direct success ion.
Recent Queensland statistics give the fob
lowipg unhappy results :—Brisbane ; a city famed’
for “sin, smells and selfishness.” Maryborough :
remarkable for “sin, saw-mills and Salvationists.”
Bundaberg: noticeable for “sin, solvency and'
solidity.” Rockhampton:; “sin, sweat and sor-
row.” Mackay ; “ sin, sleep and sugar.” Bowen r
“ sin, scares and simplicity.” Townsville : “ sin,
syndicates and stinks.” Port Douglas: “sin,
swamps and separation ” Cooktown: “ sin,
stones and shipping.” Normanton : “ sin, sells-
and savages.” And last, but by no means least,.
Cairns : “ sin, sand and scandal.” It will be seen
that “ sin ” polls well throughout the blazing land;
The Carthusian monks have ju&t refqaed ;
£820,000 offered to them by a London firm for
the plant, goodwill, and secret of their liqueur-
manufactory at Chartreuse. The secret of
manufacturing Chartreuse and other such liqueurs
has always been profoundly kept. Apropos, it is-
related that the day before Eauntleroy was
executed a cold-blooded fashionable friend ob-
tained entrance to the condemned cell, and thus
addressed the prisoner : “ To morrow you die,
and I have one last favour to ask of you.” “ Speak
on,” said the condemned, “ I want to know, and'
by your hope of salvation tell > me the truth, now
that you can have little interest in preserving the •
mystery —where did you get that delicious ■
curacpa of yours ?”
It has just bsen discovered from docu-*
mentis in the English record-office that “ Rare ”
Ben Jonson was in early youth convicted of felony ’
upon his own confession, escaping the death -
penalty only,by pleading “ benefit of clergy.” He
was tried in October, 11)88, at the Old Bailey, for -
the manslaughter of Gabriel Spencer, whom he
ran through with a sword called a “rapiour, of ’
the price of,three shillings,” inflicting “a wound
of the depth of six inches and of the breadth of *
one inch, against the peace of our Lady the ■
Queen.” Jonson pleaded guilty, claiming benefit
of clergy, and in open court proved his claim to
this by reading his “ neck verse,” and was branded 1
with “Tyburn T.” ; or, as the record of the clerk
to the sessions quaintly endorses the indictment :
“ He confesses the indictment, asks for the book,
reads like a clerk, is marked with the letter T,,
and is delivered according to the statute ’’—that
is, he is released after proving he can read like a
clerk or clergyman, and is therefore exempt from •
the penalty, by Act of Parliament 18tb E izabeth,*
The Brickbat.
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT."]
The ancient Hebrew man who rent hla
collar asunder, and shed his boobs, and emptied
the dust-bin on his head as an outward symbol
that he wasn’t feeling well and suffered from
symptoms “akin to the above,” looks a dignified
object when viewed from the other end of the
corridor of the Ages, but he is no good for every-
day wear. As a means of stemming the tide of
latter-day oussedness sackcloth and ashes are as
ineffectual weapons as a raw chicken when
matched against a revolver; the former Oriental
apparently could drown his cares underneath these
simple appliances, but modern care is not
so easily stiffed, and even with a cask of
beer and six tons of railway-iron on top of our
Borrows they decline to be suppressed. Sackcloth
and ashes went out of use at a rather remote date,
but an attempt was made lately to revive this
ancient symbol—though with strictly limited suc-
cess. The patient was a New Zealand selector
with a small piece of ground and a tremendous
mortgage which the local bank threatened to fore-
close; he had toiled for years with patient in-
dustry, but at last he broke down under the pres-
sure of oats at sixpence a bushel, and taturs at
nothing in particular, and at last he resolved to go
the way of the old preachers of Pialesbine
and see if any good would come of it. Ac-
cordingly one morning he went into the
barn and hung his clothes up on a nail,
and then ho put his head through a large
Back, and with his brawny limbs sticking out in
all directions and a jug-full of ashes on his head,
he marched off to the bank shrieking at intervals
and stating that in 4fo days New Zealand would
be destroyed. There was a good deal of excite-
ment on the road that day, and as the patient
went along it increased to mania and then to
raging frenzy. Every dog in the place sniffed at
the calves of the mortgaged one as he trotted
pist and all the small boys enquired where he
bought that hat, but he took no notice. As he
entered the public room of the bank an old lady
stopped arguing about her balance and inquiring
why it wasn’t more, and merely saying faintly,
“ Oh, my !” she clambered right over the counter
and fell in a pile of agitated flesh on the other side.
The irreverent boy who licked the stamps on the
correspondence gasped out, “ ’Ere’s a lark !” and
the cashier tried to remonstrate,,but the sackcloth
and ashes only draw his martial bag around him
and stalked
into the pnr
vate room
where the chol-
eric man a g e r
was swear in g
a 3 he charged a
bogus cheque to
Smith’s over-
draft. There
was one awful
moment of sus-
pense inside as
the great official
sat up stiff
with horror and
un speakable
rage, and then
dropping the
overdraft, he
hung on to the
ball till it came
away and let
him down, and
then he
sere amed loudl y
for the police
and rung the
telephone till it
broke up.
Meanwhile, the
apparition had
taken a chair
and deposited
its horny feet on
the table among
the papers.
“Take your
hoofs off there!
howled the
manager, but
the spectre only
looked at him
and said some-
thing about
Aholibah, the
son of .Tedediah,
The banker
aimed a ruler at
his feet and
brought him in-
to a standing
position snd-
enly. 11 What
d’yer want ? ”
he said savagely; “What’s all this here dust about?
Where are yer boots, you raving lunatic?” “Have
you any bowels of compassion?” said the crazy
selector, making insane struggles inside his bag.
“ Have you hardened your heart after the manner
of the Philistines or ?” “We ain’t got no
bowels of compassion,” yelped the boss ; “ There
was some old ones lying in the corner once but we
threw them out. What’s this insane rig for, at
all? When were you drunk last ? ” “Your place
shall be sown with salt, and you shall become a
habitation for wild beasts,” answered the de-
ranged one with a jump and a yell that brought
him half-way out of his bag. “ Oh, Lord 1 where
can I borrow a bull dog ?” interposed the frenzied
master of the situation, but the lunatic only dived
into his bag and began to emerge from the other
end, pointing out as he did so that the wicked
should not always thrive, while the righteous
should be like a vegetable planted along-
side a tank, and then he flapped the tail of
the sack in the manager’s face and shook
the ashes out of his hair into the manager’s
eye, and compared the bank to Bildad the
Shuhita and Joab, who came to grief in
the days of Solomon. Next he seemed to be
taken with a short fit in the bag, but he revived
presently and described the establishment as a
whited sepulchre and an abomination of desola-
tion and . But the head of the pawnshop had
rushed to the door and was yelling for assistance.
“ Get the police ! Fetch out the artillery ! Bring
a barrow and take this beast to the lunatic
asylum 1 Hunt up that overdue bill of his and
sell him up ! Put him in gaol for bushranging,
somebody —or bigamy—or homicide, or anything;”
and then, amid a series of frantic struggles, the
reviver of old Hebrew manners was thrown into the
gutter and successfully run in. He was locked up
on a charge of riotous conduct, and the jury
which sat on his case called it “ dangerous in-
sanity, ” because he had endeavoured to resurrect a
good old custom which had been dropped by a
meanly utilitarian age. When his assets were
overhauled, his Bible was found lying open at the
story of Mordecai, and the doctor said it was
“religious mania.” And
now an apparition in a
large sack is the favourite
patient at an adjacent
asylum, and the uselessness
the prophets is the sub-
ject which he mostly dis-
courses upon in the inter-
vals of grinding nothing
with a broken grindstone in
the bask yard of the insti-
tution.
« • •
f j;A men who has lent
out his- wife and 'can’t get
her back again is just now
filling the air of the
Northern Territory with
the harrowing pathos of
his song, and is telling the
coroner and the clams and
the local police and the
fan-tan person at the corner
the particulars of his dis-
aster. Tae lost lady was
just rising 25, warranted
sound, and nearly 20 hands
high, able to read and
write, and capable of- re
peating the ten command.-
ments right off, and was
altogether a property of
considerable value. Her
owner, however, was of a
lavish turn, and when a neighbour’s wife
fell ill he offered him the use of this grass-
fed female to wash and dust and spank the
children and sweep up, until the invalid recovered
or died or went insane or took fire and was btirnt
to the ground and matters straightened them-
selves out. So far all was right enough, but when
the patient finally gave up the struggle her
bereaved husband positively declined to return the
borrowed woman. Every time her proprietor
came to ask for her he was informed that he
couldn’t have her just then because she’was out or
in bed or having a bath, or else she was drank or
demented or dead or otherwise incapacitated,
The proprietor grew mad at last over these
excuses, and hit the man who had borrowed
his wife with a new patent harrow, and was
hit in his turn with the tooth-end of a
rake. Then a great, imperial row ensued, but
the lady came out and worried her husband in the
rear with the leg of a table, and he was routed
wioh great loss and the field was covered with
dead. Since then he has repeatedly endeavoured
to recapture the lady, but has been repulsed with
dogs and slaughter every time, and after the last
sanguinary engagement the bereaved husband
went home in disgust, and, by the aid of a gutter-
candle and the light of his only available eye,
he wrote off the lent out person as a bad
debt. He has grown lanky and attenuated
under the pressure of his great sorrow;
a hat and two pairs of boots could be
hung on the sharp angles of his despondency, and
a horse could be tied to the gable-end of his grief,
and he swears that even if he should one day own
wives and 210 children he will never lend a
single one of them out to any man, though the
applicant should have 100 women in the last stage
°f consumption on his premises, and his house
should be on fire in six places, and surrounded by
alligators and serpents.
TWO GHOSTS.
THE SPIRITUALISTIC TYPE OF GHOST
S R H.
THE KIAMA GHOST.
“There, Ringnose, my boy, there’s a proper
ghost if you like! Note of your shoddy
phosphoros fakes of the Walkerian Dead-
Relation type, you understand, but a ghost
as 'll last. Why, I raised that there ghost
with my own ’and 20 years ago, and 'e's as
good as new yet!”
Aboriginalities.
A good many years ago, when the
lamented Edward Kelly was in the flesh, that
affable bandit stormed the town of Jenlderie, and
arrested, - among others, two innocent, happy,
childlike publicans, who were thinking no evil and
didn’t know that he was coming. They were
both fat and ponderous, and both were of foreign
extraction, one being from the distant land of
Shairmany, while the other’s name speke for
itself—it was Grogan. The lurid brigand had &
spark of humour in his soul and wanted to see
this pair do something for their living, so he
politely requested them to cut down a telegraph
pole in order to cut off communication with
Melbourne, and loafed round with a revolver
while they did it, not necessarily for publication,
but merely as a guarantee of good faith. The job
was just half through when a perfectly harmless
selector came along and stared aghast at this
reckless destruction of Government property,
Then he concluded that the two publicans, and
Grogan in partieffiar, were in a bad atate of
snakes and he began to talk soothingly to them
as if he were hushing an infant, snd babbled
gentle words in their ears, and besought them to
allow themselves to be led away by the ear or the
hair of the head, and to come and have a drink,
They shook him off and told him in smothered
accents to go to eternal ruin, and tried to intimate
fcv dumb signs that somebody was pointing a re-
volver at them from an adjacent bush, and the
brigand chuckled audibly in his retreat and showed
bis pistol and the top of his head among the leaves.
But still the selector declined to be shaken off.
“ Ye better come and haya a drink,” he said,
persuasively ; “you'ye lots of time to get that post
down. What’s ver hurry ?” This was too much.
“ Look here, you blessed fool,” shrieked the ex-
cited Irishman, “ if you was working for my boss
vou’d be in a bigger hurry than yon eyer was in
your life before,” and just here the freebooter
from the ranges rose to his full elevation and
stated that he was the contractor who was super-
intending the work, and the local fanqer fled
down the road,in a lamentably disorganised coa-.
dition and vanished round a corner.
# # •
,
An unfortunate resident of. Coiling wool
(Melb.) swallowed a fatal dose of strychnine “in
consequence of being worried by the receipt of a
lawyer’s letter asking him for payment for two
volumes of ‘Victoria and its Metropolis : Past
and Present.’ which he asserted he had never
ordered.” Under such circumstances it is nob
surprising that the poor wretch took a short cut
into the great Hereafter. It wasn’t that he
couldn’t afford to pay for the book, but it was the
awful dread of being haunted by that volume for
the rest of his natural life which brought about
the tragedy. In his nervous, frightened state
that man probably worked, himself up to believe
that when the book had been paid for, he would
get another lawyer’s letter desiring him to read
the mournful narrative of how Smellbourne be-
came Marvellous, and who made it so much more
remarkable than it isn’t. He imagined an officer
of the law bursting into his hitherto happy home
*S SS
sent” aloud The mere thought of the book
brought a thousand diseased notions into the poor
fellow’s head. It’s a sad affair, but we think he
was right to take poison in preference to the other
g Wo mimti have died in atronv anyhow.
bhmg. Hemnst have died u» agony, any now.
, . . nn
Arby Davis, the driver of a mall, coach on
the mountain road between Hokitika (N./j ) ana
Christchurch, lately “ played it low down on a
gullible newspaper man at a way-side township.
He gob off a story that amongst his passengers
was no less a personage than the King of Portugal
who, after visiting the Melbourne Exhibition in-
cognito, was unpretentiously sampling the wonders
of N.Z. Truth to tell, there was a Portuguese
journalist of distinguished air on the coach, arc!
this individual was pointed out as the monarch
whosa dusky subjects have done so much to ex-
pand the fish-peddling industry in these “beastly
colonies.” While the passengers were at dinner
the sold pressman rushed off to his office, con-
sulted his atlas, and found out where Portugal
was, then ransacked the encyclopedia (This
the yarn right away. Country editors in
N.Z. don’t hav6 any encyclopedias.— Ed. B ) for
facts about the little kingdom, subsequently whip-
ping off an article about “our august visitor the
King of Portugal,” winding up with a little poem
of welcome which commenced
“ Princely offspring of Braganza
Bealey greets thee with a stanza.”
The issue h ving gone to press, the proud editor
had the first copy printed on a square
yard of pink calico and, addressing it
to “ His Imperial Highn°ss the King
of Portugal,” rushed off to Cobb’s
depot and presented it to the dis-
tinguished stranger, with a low
salaam. Then he took his hat from
off hi a organ of thought, waved it
pound his head frantically and yelled
for three cheers for the King of
Portugal, his Queen, and all the little
Portugals and boys, and as the coach
moved off the Portuguese journalist
made a note in his book that the
people of Bealey were “ ver mouch
mad ! Insanite! Zay faneeeefery pody
ze ging of Portugal. Ha ! ha !” and
Arty Davis cracked his whip and
laughed to himself until the arrival
at an up-grade necessitated the bo
stowal of the whole of his mentfoJ
faculties on the construction of n#fr
forms of cuss-words with which to
arouse his cattle to activity.
* * •
Five years ago Miss Bensbed,
of Bundaberg (Q.), started to teach
the young kanaka idea how to shoot,
in a religious and an educational
way, and succeeded in rounding up
ten echolars. To-day she has 240
scholars, and these boys, hearing that
their teacher was about to be married,
presented her with a massive silver
butter-cooler and other fixings, to-
gether with the following neat and
original speech delivered by her head
scholar: “Missee Binsted, One
month longa all boys teacher longa
us tell us you go ’way. We all velly
solly, coz we lub you berry much. We
wanta you take dis bresent from all
boys,, ’cause you goin’ get it mallied.
We hopey you get mallied velly
many happy times more, an’ we all'
wishes fo’ you—goo’ day.” Then the
poor little nigger “filled up” and
broke short off in what was one of
the very few sincere speeches made on'
uch occasions.
• • •
A new scheme for harbour
murder—we mean harbour defence—
has lately been patented in America.
The inventor’s idea is to lay down
perforated iron pipes in the bed of
the channel, and whenever an enemy’s
fleet approaches to pump thousands
of gallons of blazing petroleum
through them and convert the
whole port into a raging, burning
furnace, which will shrivel up a*
whole navy like a tpider on a red-hob shovel. This
sort of thing, he considers, will depress any enemy
now alive and make him not feel well. Even
ironalad monitors will double up with the heat
and split open, and wooden vessels will collapse
like ships built of dust and ashes, and steel-plated
monsters of the deep will melb like snowballs in-
Gehenna, and for weeks after the engagement the
shore will be strewn with boiled admirals, and*
captains that are cooked to rags, and bibs of over-
done lieutenants, and other debris. It is a noble-
scheme and a credit to Christianity. Only a man-
who believed in hell would have struck such an>
inspiration.


Stork Cattlb fob Salk.—looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
On dit that £lO,OOO will be dae from cer-
tain shareholders of the now notorious Taranganba
mine in a few days, and some difficulty is expected
about where the money to come from.
Eastway Brothers, 411 George-street, Syd-
ney.— Ladies Wire Dress-Stands, for Draping
Diesses on. These Stands save time, trouble, and
money. Wire Flower-Stands, for holding pots in
halls, verandahs, gardens, &c. They are light and
strong, painted any colour. Fish, Fish,—Why be
without fish when you can always have plenty by
having one of our traps. Just received : A splendid
lot of Canary Cages.
That famous old Sydney hostelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
qlaur hotel.
JOHN DH'EUfAN ft CO. p
AUCTIONEERS.
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers dt Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
*6-paga Country Properties, Farms, Gracing
Properties, &0., &o.
BS-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Ylllar,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, fto.
related Hit sf Easinesses far Rule Issued Bnll,.
411 Lists posted Fm» on application,
Personal Items.
j Rider Haggard haa become a vegetarian.
North, the Nitrate King, has bought St.
Stephen's Review.
“ Triumphant-Democracy ” Carnegie owns
several English provincial papers.
Edlaon is only 42 years of age, and his
school life lashed bub eight weeks.
Count Jouffrey D obbins, French Consul-
General to N.Z., is returning to Paris.
The heir to the Russian throne is deacrlbed
as “ brainless, but a nice sort of youth.”
Turner, it is said, painted his storm-effects
from a tomato omelette dropped on the floor.
Colonel Bigge. from whom it is aaii
Thackeray drew “ Pendennis,” died recently.
The marriage of Mr. George Grist la an-
nounced in the Melbourne pipers. Grist in bond.
Queen Victoria gave up her atag-hounda
because she didn’t like to see her money going to
the dogs,
Pender, the cable-man, ratted from the
GUdstonian party because Gladstone refused him
a knighthood.
Ex-President Cleveland on hla retirement
will probibly become the manager cf a great N. Y.
financial institution.
There are over 8000 autograph letters from
distinguished personages in the Grey collection at
the Auckland Library.
Millionaire Burdekln is Parkes’ fairy god-
mother. He has stood by him financially, matri-
monially and politically
Lord Dalamere, who, with his wife, are
touring in N Z. just now, is a chatty old gentle-
man nearly 80 years of age.
Rochefort, the Parisian journalistic swash-
buckler, won £4OOO in wagers through Boulanger’s
victory in the Seine election.
A London hatter states that Beaconsfield
took a hat Gladstone’s size is 7f, Irving’s 7i,
the Prince of Wales’ 7g, and Salisbury’s 8
Mr. R. Haverfiold, editor of the Bendigo
Advertiser, turned his three score and ten last
week. He never reads his own paper, perhaps.
In St. John’s Caurchyard, A*hfield,
Sydney, there is a tombstone erected to a man
named Limeburner, who was cub off in 1847,
aged 105.
Boy Politician Caulfield is starting busi-
ness in Sydney, and threatens to run against Oan.
O'Connor when that hoary Malaprop stands for
re election.
The editor of Cologne Gazette would
not be out of place in the NSW. Parliament.
He lately called the persecuted Getfeken a ‘ ; hypo-
chondriacal pighead.”
Once Zda has goi a book through the
press he never so much as looks at it. It has thin
become an object of aversion. He haa a marvel-
lous mistrust of his own talents.
Charles O.ho Montrose writes to The
Bulletin emphatically denying that he is deal
as stated. He is nov editing the Victorian
Farmers’ Gazette, a real live Ridicai paper.
Pritchard Morgan haa lately been “ un-
loading” shares in his Welsh gold mine, and they
are now down to ss. each. It will be a cold day
when Pritchard gets left in a gold-mining venture
Mr. Ralston, son ln-law, and Mr. Whlt-
feld, late registrar to Mr. Justice Windeyer, seem
from present appearances likely to monopolise in
the near future the business iu the Court (Divorce)
presided over by his Honor.
Mark Twain has just perfected a type-
setting machine which, he says, will do the work
of six men better than any six men that ever stood
at a case. How Alfred Bennett will long to
hug Mark Twain to his bosom !
Mr. Green, editor of the Adelaide tempor-
aries paper, was formerly M.P. in N.Z. He had a
big opinion of himself and, when first elected,
stated from the hustings that he would be Premier
in two years. But it didn’t come off.
The Earl of Klntore’a fa her wag a weak-
minded man, chiefly known for the habit cf de-
livering wandering lay-sermons of a highly
evangelical type. If the Earl takes after his dad
he will suit the people of Holy Adelaide right
down to the ground.
Mr. Fraser-Martln, of Sydney, writes to
say that he cannot see a scintilla of either wit or
humour in the writings of Max O’Rell, and that
he (Mr. Fraser-Martin) is a Scotchman, Tre
latter remark seems, under the circumstances, to
be utterly unnecessary.
The Sj/dney D.T. writing of a showman
who made a model of the Sbrasburg clock, grace-
fully says that “Mr. R B Smith is not the late
Executive Commissioner for New South Wales at
the Melbourne Exhibition, but a clever and un-
obtrusive citizen of that name.”
Francis REenty, one of the pioneers of
Portland (Vic ), has left £313,040 behind him.
Mr. Henby was one of five sons who migrated
from Van Dieman’s Land in 1835 to Western Vic-
toria before “Johnny ” Fawkner or John Batman
founded the now marvellous Melbourne.
Way Lee, the Adelaide boss Chinaman, Is
a Freemason, and while in Sydney a few weeks
ago attended and spoke at a Masonic lodge.
Speaking of Parkes, on his return to Adelaide, the
Chinkie said—“ I wish Sydney Government man
was a Mason—not a ‘ say ’ Mason, but a ‘do ’
Mason.”
Justice Kerferd, of Victorian Supreme
Court, started life in that colony as a brewer’s
traveller. And yet, three years ago, he carried
through the Assembly the stringent Publicans’
Act now in'force in the Southern province. From
’a brewer’s drummer he became a brewer himself,
and now he tells criminals to avoid the accursed
drink.
Mr. L. E. Lester, a pioneer Queensland
squatter, has left this earthly station for ever.
Sir Arthur Palmer, the acting Governor of the
North, when a lad acquired “ Colonial experi-
ence ” on one of Mr. Lester’s stations, and judging
from the language the old knight uses at times we
conclude that the knowledge of these early days
wasn’t wasted on him.
The difference between Harrison and
Cleveland—Republicanism and Democracy—Free-
trade and Protection —according to the American
fashion journals, is summed up in a sentence. All
the various issues which (>0,000,000 Yankees raved
about for weeks and months resolve themselves
into the fact that Mrs. Cleveland wears a bustle
and Mrs. Harrison doesn’o.
Some years ago, a political opponent of
Si.' George Grey issued a pamphlet entitled
‘ What Sir George Grey h?s don*,’ which on
being opened was found to contain 30 pages o!
blank paper Sir George came across the
“rquib” and remarked, “There’s nsthiog in it
It’s a blank charge.” Tne veteran, however, was
very much amused at the brochure, which he has
had gorgeously bound and added to his collection
in Auckland Library.
Commander Sadlier, R.N., of Liverpool,
N.S.W., has ‘ gone over” at the great age of 93.
The Commander had been in the colony GO years.
There is no record that he had been at the Nile
with Nelson, or the Baltic with Napier. He was
a well-known philanthropist and an indefatigable
writer of letters to the Press and he represented
the Hunter when ex-Treasurer Burns was totting
up the value of chops and steaks at Nicholson’s
butchery at West Maitland.
Australia is fall of feebly disguised editors
who used to be clergymen, but the way they sling
eternal fire in their leading articles and bang the
moral code down on the table of the Ouse betrays
them every time. As a set-off to this multitude,
Australia boasts of one parson that used to be an
editor-the Rev, W. Poole, who abandoned the
Age to preach in South Biistane. Mr. Poole was
one of the survivors of the Ly-ee-Moon disaster—
which proves that Jonah d.es occasionally gat
ahead of the whale.
Carlo Pellegrini (“Ape,*’ the Vanity
Pais caricaturist), is dead. He went to London
30 years ago, a penniless Laban adventurer, and
the first money he earned was a sovereign for a
caricature. This he kept as a “luckpenny,”
though onca in dire straits he pledged it for five
shillings. He is credited with the popularising
of the cigarette, the first famous brand of which
was called “Tne Pellegrini.” “Ape” was the
bast dressed man in London, and one of the
greatest Bohemims.
Ic is worthy of note that though there are
several parsons on the colonial press the most
clerical-looking reporter south of the line is Jack
Rider, of Melbourne Herald, who in his youth
spent a fortune on the drama, including tragedy,
and burlesque leg-shows. When a parson or other
such regenerate person invades the reporters’
gallery at the Herald office for the purpose of
interviewing the godly “Demos” Palmer, he
straightway makes for Jack while the office-boy
giggles and mutters, “ Sold again !”
There Is not a better known political
character in Collingwood (Melb) than Pierce
Joseph Clinton Murphy. He was a member of
the Land Convention which sat 30 years ago in
Bruuton’s Hotel, opposite the Melbourne Parlia-
ment House, as an opposition shop. The mem-
bers represented various districts, like members
of Parliament, and the Convention led the way in
the land reforms which afterwards took place.
Murphy was educated by William Carleton, the
Irish novelist, who was tutor in his early days to
the family of the Murphys.
“Doc. Wylie,” who was as widely known
in Western N.S.W. as the gum-trees, has rolled
up his parchment and sent in his diplomas. He
died at Larras Lake Run, and was buried beneath
the root of a native apple-tree He was, during
his professional visit to this region of infirmity,
boycotted by the learned members of the Siciety
of Medicine, because he wished to pursue his call-
ing in his own peculiar way. Among his many
eccentricities, he delighted to call his favourite
horse the “ Devil.” Anything else he would name
after the Divinity. He never married but lived
happily.
Miss Alice Cornwell, otherwise Mrs. John
Whiteman—that is to say, the Princess Midas—
considers that the plan devise'd by Mr. Rowland
Ree-, M,P, for an Adelaida outer harbour
scheme, “is very cleverly woiked out, and that
the whole scheme is far preferable to the one pro-
posed by Sir John Goode ’’—the great marine
engineer. This item is gravely printed in all the
daily papers Miss Cornwell is a very clever
woman, and rather nice looking, and in Melbourne
she used to sell excellent beer, but who oa earth
made her an authority on harbours? Her money,
we suppose.
This is how Editor O’Kane, of Charters
Towers, drives his journalistic pick into the
“legal )iug ” of the burning North :
Thera are not more than half-a-dozen lawyers in the
colony with any—the slightest pretensions to a liberal
education. They may be counted on the fingers of one
hand —Lilley, Griffith, Harding Real, Paul, Power. The
rest are “forced plants” in colonial hot-houses, half-
educated persons, and “ babes of gr.ee,,“on whose pious
stomachs the gosp.-l milk has turned sour and unprofit-
able,; butchers’ boys who have exchanged the chopper for
the engrossing peo, and a whole “ruck” of nendtscripts,
all shoved through the “hoop” in Brisbane to expound
unintelligible laws to the unfortunate people of this
colony.
One day the drink question was under dis-
cussion in the Victorian Presbyterian Assembly,
and the late Dr. Cairns became hot and earnest on
the subject. Suddenly a lay member rose and
vehemently remarked : “ Misther Moderator,
’am rayther sarpreesed t’ hare me freend Docbhor
Cairns spak like that aboot a little dbrappie noo
and agin, when marniy of ua know that nae maun
likes his glaiss o’ islay better than he doos !” ,0a
the same occasion a Rev Mister Mac Something
declared that be never took more than one glass
a day “How big is the glass’’’asked a big
matter-of-fact Glasgow man. “ The smallest f
■can get," was the vague reply.
Te Kooti's fanatical horde of Hauhaua
killed nearly forty people during their raid at
Poverty Bay at the latter end of '68 —, amopgst
them Capt. Wilson and Major Biggs together with
their wives and families. It was only the other
d*y that Te Kooti was lionised at Auckland. He
is sixty years of age, and has Just the same weak-
ness for 'human flesh now as he had twenty years
ago—in fact he divides favour with Kereopa,
who ate Volknef’s eyes, and because they stuck
in his throat, drank some of his blood out of the
skull to wash them down. And yet Ministers of
the Crown to the present day are to be found
rubbing noses and fraternising with these noble
savages.
POLITICAL POINT
Boundary-riding—Sitting on a rail.
The N.S W. political issue is now Calico
versus Country.
There are ten attorneys in the new N.S.W.
Legit lative Assembly.
Germans are displacing the negroes on the
plantations of Louisiana.
“ Stupid people are generally Conserva-
tive.”—John Stuart Mill.
Dr. Rose, (naif the candidates for North
Melbourne, is being opposed by “the wives and
mothers ” of that moral constituency.
Premier Gillies has declared in favour of
the One Man One Vote doctrine, and intends
mating it one of the planks of his platform.
Quite a nunFe* of gentlemen who were
“ educated for the Church ” or have forsaken the
pulpit are putting up for Parliament in Victoria.
During the last 47 years 83,000 souls have
been driven out of Queen’s County, Ireland,
and 12,000 he uses have been levelled and destroyed.
Way Lee told an Adelaide interviewer the
other day ; “ Chita, she make soon tleaty along
with Lussia, and China send gunboat to Aus-
tlalia.”
The new Parkes Ministry consists of two
auctioneers, two barristers, two solicitors, one
butcher, one “ Calico Jimmy,” and a professional
politician.
Now that sleepy Sutherland has baen left
out in the cold by Parkes, how long will the
Evening News continue bo support the Foreign-
trade leader ?
Mr. Harold Stephen, M.P., for Mcnaro,
has given notice of his intention to introduce a
bill to abol'sh the “oat” as an instrument cf
civilisation in N S.W.
Sir George G:ey says that America has
acted a noble part in checking German aggression
in Samoa—aggression that England should have
resisted from the first.
Macrossan, Acting-Premier of Queens-
land, says that N.S W. will not join the Federal
Conference until the wave of Imperialism at pre-
sent passing over Victoria has subsided.
S/dney Burdpkiu, at whose house in
Macquarie-streeb the present Parkes Ministry was
constructed, is one of Sydney’s bitrgest landlords,
and is believed bo be worth £BO,OOO a year.
The “ Devils Own” is well represented
in the N.S.W. Legislative Council, which includes
five practising and two briefless barristers, to-
gether with four attorneys and three pensioned
judges.
la its I ‘General Elections” column the
Age last week headed a report “ Female Opposi-
tion bo Dr. Rose,” under which heai-line were
summaries of the speeches of five clergymen. The
Age is getting too bad
It has been said by the Foreign-traders
that all women are freetraders We point, how-
ever, to a lady journalist—Mrs. Maiion Leatham,
proprietress of the Molong (N.S.W ) Express,
who is a thorough-going Protectionist.
“ This houtrage on the Constitooshnn is
almost enough to bring back Wentworth and
Martin from the grave,” said Sir Henry. “You
would have a very bad time of it old man, if they
were to come back,” retort id Toohey, M P.
When Abigail stood up in the N S W.
Assembly the other night and began his speech by
saying that “ a more pitiable spectacle than they
now had before them had rarely been witnessed,”
the Nationalists shrieked with laughter and
hoorayed till they were hoarse.
The Macmllllon, speaking in tha N.S.W,
Assembly, said that Premier Dibba was a renegade
merchant and a renegade politician, and they
knew what renegades either in religion or politics
were. This is rough on Mud J. Haynes, a most
influential member of the Macmillion party.
J. P. Abbott Is moving in the N.S.W.
Assembly for the removal of the duties on bacon,
butter, and cheese —this with a yiew of putting
the screw on the people of the South Coast, who,
being protected themselves, selfishly .vote the
Foreign-trade ticket for the ruin of other people.
There Is now In the Victorian Assembly a
genial member who, a few years ago, was hoeing
the mealy tuber in Bungaree. He entered the
district he now represents with his swag upon his
shoulder and his billy by his side. An ambitious
“widdy,” a public-house, and unfailing affability
did the rest.
At & tobacco-factory not a thousand miles
from Maitland, N.S.W . where 40 men were em-
ployed before the excise tax of Is 3d. per lb. was
put on, only four now find work, and a bleeding
country provides a Government officer called a
“ Locker ” to see that these four men don’t cheat
the revenue.
Mr. ex-Speaker Barton Is the most fasti-
dious politician in N.S.W. He thipks po mepa-
ber should .call the other a liar, or a dog, or an
unhanged murderer, or a reptile eating dust in
the gutter, or things, pf that sort, and this feature
in his character appears to us an insuperable bar to
his advancement.
Daring the recent t N.S.W. general elec-
tion the anti-Oatholic cry was used as a means of
coercing Protestant Protectionists to vote the
Foreign-trade ticket. Yet out of the 24 officials
of the new National club, which was a direct
result of the late elections, only one (Mr. L. F.
Heydon) is a Roman Catholic.
William O’Brlerl, M.P., in taking back all
he ever said against Lord Spencer (a rather con-
siderable contract) remarked that now, if he could,
he would black the Red Earl’s boots. Then the
perfumed Balfour spoke : “ Mr. O’Brien,” he re-
plied, “is one of those singular people who must
be blacking something. First he blacked Lord
Spencer’s character, now, ahem ! he would black
his boots.” One more injustice to Ireland.
B. Rlngnose Wise aays he will only enter
the NS. W. Parliament by the front door. He is
too long to enter any other way without getting
jammed. The front door is the only orifice big
enough for him, and if Mr. Wise was only half as
large as he thinks he is the whole side of the build-
ing would have to be removed.
The N. S.W. Speaker called Mr. E B. L.
Dickens to order for stating that Mr. Haynes
was “a servile follower” of Sir Henry Parkes.
Considering that Sir Henry Parkes once publicly
told Mr. Haynes that he “ wanted neither his
support nor his acquaintance,” and that Mr.
Haynes is still among his enthusiastic supporters,
the offence must be regarded as purely a technical
one.
Mr. Houston, the Secretary of the Irish
Loyal and Patriotic Union, once persuaded a
green young Conservative member to ask the
Secretary for Ireland, in the Commons, if it was
true that in the parish or “Muokanarragh, in
the barony of Liasnonane, in the county of
Mayo, 200 cows and bullocks, the property of a
Protestant landlord, had been mutilated ” The
green young member realised how badly he had
been lef o when the secre!ary pompously replied that
there was no such parish and no such barony in
Mayo or even in Ireland.
There is now in thq field for the consti-
tuency of Grant (Vic.), so Jong represented by the
late Peter Lalor, an ambitious plebeian named
Peter Cuudy. Peter let loose his maiden speech
at Egerbon the other night amid loud and con-
tinued applause. Among other questions put to
him at the conclusion of his speech was this :
“ Are you in favour of the * absentee tax’?” Peter
raised himself to bis full height as he unhesita-
tingly replied:—“l would abolish all taxes on
tea for it is such a useful article, and I am as fond
of a good cup of tea as anyone else.” A vote of
confidence was carried as usual “by an over-
whelming m&j oriby.”
Tha 1 ] the new power In politics, the Aus-
tralian born and bred, is “Jack ” of the doddering
parliamentary fossils whose platitudes and prin-
ciples were imported with them, and whose
woeful powers of speech were mostly acquired on
the Sunday-school platform and at the Wesleyan
prayer-meeting, is making itself pretty evident at
the electioneering meetings now being held
throughout Victoria. E very where young men are
taking to the stump, preaching Australian Demo-
cracy untainted by the cant &f Imperialism,
and the number and enthusiasm of their sup-
porters promise a House full of young blood ani
new spirit for the next Parliament.
As a preliminary Eflej towards the achieve-
ment of ths One Man One Vote principle the
National party in the N.S.W. Parliament must
insist on the abolition o! polling-places in the city
for suburban and country constituencies. At tha
recent election for Balmain over 1500 votes were
recorded in Sydney, nearly five-sixths of them
being in favour of Freetrade candidates. The
election took place on a Saturday and there was
no reason whatever why all the votes should not
have baen recorded within the boundaries of the
electorate. The city polling booth is merely a con-
venience for the non-residential voters - the men
who own small blocks of land or have leases of
wharves or of prominent rocks which are used for
advertising purposes.
A South Australian journalist who visited
New South Wales daring the progress of the last
general election, reports that the most marked
feature of cornstalk politics is the comprehensive
profanity of everybody concerned. What im-
pressed him most of all was the language used by
a certain venerable politician in support of the
absent “Jack ” Want “Gentlemen,” he said;
“You all know that Mr. Want is a dashed goed
man at sea, a gory good man on land, a
blasted good man in court, and an in-
fernal good man in the Assembly, so you can’t
do better than put him at the head of the darned
Sheol of a poll.” (Loud and prolonged applause )
Then a crushed-lookicg elector rose to put a ques-
tion : “ Wot I wanter »x is this : Is Mister Want
goln’ ter hopen the pubs, on Sunday so as a pore
wurrukin’ man kin gib ’is beer ? Is Mister Want
bin favour o’ that, I wanter ax ?” “ How the
shrieking Hades do I know wheth°r Mr. Want is
in favour of beer or not ? He’s in Japan, and any
dashed gorilla that would like to know can bloom -
ing well go there and ask him. Any other bald,
old deranged as i want to ask any more questions ?”
And yet Mr. Want got in.
THAT EMU.
Oh say, have you seen that the head of our Queen —
On a stamp of Colonial “ brew
Is replaced by a bird with an aspect absurd,
Which is called the Australian Emu ?
Have you
Seen the stamp with the printed Emu,?
Some deem it moat base that her Maj esty’s face
Should thus be erased from the view,
And angrily scowl at the cumbersome fowl—
At the wicked, usurping Emu,
.Quite true;
It is cheek of that brazen' Emu !
But when others declare, with a sorrowful air,
They together pan put two and two ;
And argue—like nails !—that the leal New South
Wales
Means to paddle her private canoe—
Pooh-pooh 1
Jpst tell ’em they’re wide of it— do !
Though the symbol thus placed be in doubtful
good taste—
Thqt's no reason to “ stamp ” the whole crew
As a people who mean to abolish the Queen,
And bow to their native Emu ! . . .
A dieu!
Long Ijve that long-legged Emu !
ENGLISH PAPER.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, MARCH 16, 1889.
ŧ
ţ
OM/. y A pet R/w/tr^' 1
> P V
r
t
hT//. /7fV) ILL- //afa/TSy,
'6/fopq CA/^fipy
.s «r’.


J)AA/ OCoh/voR.
cCe6>o,f~e. T / s
Cu k/jcts Ty<xy ; 6ccf Z See / y°y
Sec Are. p oc^‘
\ W r v
Mi' \ Syccae.
Jray afreet- afffl
i
t
ţ
.1
J-i
/ Wv
[m , *
’ , yTfl /
I*
-fi
„/ar\ r ' c 'f \
C° c/< Y BT
fOcchcC %a.t-sf)eff £e/e-- Cohßn T CJeof aU *-Y
fte/Hlh~ 7sats *-V/* ■
NEW SOUTH WALES POLITICS.


For Impaired Mental Power
IT RE horsford’s acid phosphate,
' Dr. Gao Shearer, L.H C.S , Liverpool, Eng. says : “ I
prescribed it in a case of chorea of several > ears standing,
and the most inveterate type, with the happiest result.
It was in the case of a boy, aged 14, whose memory and
mental powers were beginning to suffer, and in whom the
involantary movemen s were almost maniacal. He is
quite cured.”
Dry Imprrial Champagnr.— Messrs. Meet and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the wotld. Their “DRY IMPERIAL" 1884
vintage is the pure Juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2600 acres in the choicest districts in France.
The Imperial Grown is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on oorb and label
High Abt Photoqkaphy.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminentlv high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord 1/arington
" By Appointment.”
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
■ESTABLISHED XSSI.
THE LEADING HOUSE
VOB
Pianos, Organs, Musis,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special Attention 1b called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS!
ÜBBBL and LEOHLEITBR PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and GO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Oar Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano eve*
factored
Oar BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTBY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves I The Bstey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con*
slderably reduced their prices, in order that c
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main]
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work •
manshlp and durability.
INE TRUMBNTS SENT TO ANT FART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT BTBTIM.
W. H. PALINI ft CQ-, Ui
IB* GEORGE STREET, two from P.O, .
Society
On the very day that Parkes announced
the formation of his new Government a monkey—
the only monkey ever born at Sydney Zoo —first
saw the light. The advent of this baby monkey
is an omen that points to something. The
Bulletin is confident that the birth of the little
stranger (whom it has taken the liberty of naming
Henry Parkes, as a compliment to the distin-
guished statesman who says he is the author of
the N.S.W, Public Instruction Act) heralds the
time when N.S W. will produce its own monkeys
and pretty nearly everything else, instead of pay-
ing through the nose for them to Calico Jimmy,
the middle-man.
• * •
Governor Loch has gone to England on
“ private business,” which will probably keep him
away from Victoria for the remainder of his
natural life. His Excellency allowed his wor-
shippers to cackle idly on about a pleasant trip,
the joy of welcoming him back, and so forth, but
the great man thrust his tongue in his cheek
meanwhile and replied in the language of diplo-
macy. Governors and sich (not excepting Bishop
Barry) are privileged prevaricators on the subject
of what they intend to do, assuming that they
actually do anything at all. It is part of their
official duty to believe that a revolution might
result from any indiscreet disclosure of facts which
nobody but a handful of hangers-on wants to know
or would care tuppence about in any case.
Loch doubtless considered that the peace of Vic-
toria might ba disturbed if he dropped a hint
about taking another situation under the dear old
Crown Victoria, however, will get along just as
well without Loch ae with him. If he had been
an irrigation schema, or a new patent sheep-
shearer, or an improved meat freezing apparatus,
he would be worth worrying ever ; but as he was
merely a Governor —producing noshing, preserv-
ing nothing, destroying nothing—he can go toTim-
buotoo for all it matters. On behalf of all honest,
self-respecting Victorians The Bulletin gives
Lech permission to consider himself dead and
buried from this date. Long live Wobinson !
» • •
Lady Loch has sailed for E igland, and
Lady Robinson is about to reign in her stead.
Robert Henry Farrar—a very young and
previously very well-behaved young man, who
made away with some £lO,OOO during that delirious
period when the Gaiety girls were in onr midst
is now working out his two years with hard labour.
Farrar’s offence against the law lay in the fact
that he obtained £7OOO of the £lO,OOO from the
Commercial Bank, Melbourne, by a fraudulent
arrangement with one of the clerks employed in
that easy-going institution, but what Farrar did
with all the money is not exactly known.
Anyhow, it disappeared. Farrar engaged a
private box at Melbourne Princess’s for that
glorious Gaiety season He gave little suppers,
brought to a magnificent) climax by whipping
off the fable-cloth and smashing a lot of
things. He drove four-in-hand, followed the
Gaiety girls to Sydney, and took a leading part in
that final demonstration on the Quay. All these
things were expensive luxuries, but they didn’t
swallow up much more than a tithe of £lO,OOO.
Robert Farrar —poor fellow !—has, doubtless,
some wild, excited recollections of the ways and
means by which he disposed of the balance, and
we trust hia memories of the golden past are not
embittered by any suspicions that he was artfully
lured into paying an exorbitant price for his plea-
sures by “ friends ” who knew that he hadn’t suffi-
cient means to meet the bill. If there were any
such accessories before the crime which Farrar is
now expiating, he might do worae than “ round ”
on them by working them into a realistic story,
dedicated to all young men who do the Melbourne
Block. Daudet wrote “Sapho” for “my sons
when they are twenty years old.” What a pity
that Farrar cannot write “Gaiety,” for “my
pals, when they are mashed on ladies who know
a lot more than themselves,” Men who are con-
stitutionally inoapabla of squandering money
under any circumstances, or men who have no
reasonable excuse for attempting to play the rdle
of gay Lotharios, will speak of Farrar as an un-
principled young fool, richly deserving all he has
got. Of the temptations that beset the good-
looking boy they know no more than (quot-
ing Mr. Labouchere) maiden ladies know
about adultery although, by the way, in
Sydney last week Mr. Justice Wyndeyer found
a maiden lady guilty of adultery. They
might commit crime in the endeavour to make a
fortune for themselves, but they haven’t a particle
of sympathy for him who steals money to be im-
mediately wasted upon others They are the
respectable people of this world, and when they
die their virtues are set forth on massive marble
monuments and church tablets. Nevertheless,
the man who goes wrong all along of a woman or
women is not necessarily a villain, or an
ass. King Solomon was wise on every subject
but ladies, and Samson might have ouolived a'l
Philistines had Delilah not been a two-faced lifctle
minx. By the same token, Farrar was unfor-
tunate in falling under the influence of charmers
who—bo say the least —were indifferent concern-
ing his welfare. Ha is noae tha lass to ba pitied
because he devoted the last weeks of his liberty to
reckless tomfooleiry and riotous living. When a
fellow is oiit on bail waiting for she time when he
will be sentenced to a term of imprisonment—
what is he to do, anyhow ? He can’t get married,
or take up a profession, or enter a merchant’s
offica with a view to working into a responsible
position. There is nothing left for him but to
drive around town in a hansom cab, drown his
conscience in lemonade, and curse the Law’s delay.
A dream of scraggy women (being the
nightmare of a fashionable milliner, as depicted
by the gifted pan of Mary Fiske—“ Clara Belle ”
—news of whose death arrived by last ’Frisco
mail):—“‘You hear and read about the lovely
forms of women. It’s all stuff and stuff-
ing-cotton batting principally. About one
woman in ten has a really good shane.’
‘ And the other nine—what of them ? ’ ‘ Hor-
rors—walking nightmares and specimens of
feminine angularity that would stop a clock with
fright. Now, there’s Miss S . She’s of an
elegant height and looks like d queen, but she’s
nothing more or less than a good pair of feet and
a nice round face. I’ve seen her disrobed a
hundred times, and each time I was more sur-
prised than the other at the gullibility of men.
GUBBINS ON PARLIAMENTARY REFORM.
“I REPEAT IT,” CONTINUED MR. GUBBINS: “MR. CHAIRMAN, SIR, I REPEAT IT! WHAT
THE COUNTRY WANTS IS FEWER MEN! (renewed applause) AND, I WILL ADD,
MORE OF THEM! ” (Loud and prolonged cheering.)
She always brought down a pocketful of love-
letters to read to me while I fitted her. You
never read such stuff in your life. Admirers
were constantly sending her eulogies of her
angelic form. I must say she is a sensible girl, and I
think will make a good wife for whoever gets her,
for she used to laugh heartily over the praises of
her padding. She has a neck like a crane and two
hollows under her collar-bones that you could hide a
couple of boxing-gloves in, but when the dress-
maker gets through with her she is all graceful
curves that make the impressionable male sex
wild with admiration. I had one customer, a
married lady, who always wanted to pose before a
large mirror while I was fitting her. All in the
world she had to be proud of was one dimple on
her shouMer; otherwise she was all gables, like a
Queen Anne residence, and you could hang a
hat on any corner of her. That solitary [and
forlorn dimple atoned for everything, thengh,
and she always pee'ed down enough of her clothes
to feast her eyes on it. When a venerable por-
poise weighing 300 pounds in ring costume comes
in to be fitted for a tailor-made costume, you
would think it would be enough to disrobe quietly
and say nothing in praise of the oleomargarine
industry. Seven times out of ten, when you get
any old dame of that quality, she will insist on
your feeling her arm to see how hard her flesh is.
Then you have to pat her on the shoulders to see
how much like satin her cuticle is, and you are
lucky if the performance does not wind up with a
ballet show to convince you that she is built
on the most improved pattern from the base-
ment to the roof. The real hatd work of our
profession consists in putting the shapeless girl on
a matrimonial equality with the shapely one.
Fortunately for the slab-sided fair ones, society
does not demand that any portion of the female
foun should be fitted closely except the bust. Now,
suppose I have only a framework of bones that
stick out in a discouraging way in every direction.
I have to begin operations by supplying a substi-
tute for smooth layers of fleeh. It needs in many
cases thick rolls of padding that rest on the
shoullers and fall down the back and chest, com-
pletely changing the natural configuration. Then
the unsightly hollows under the collar-bones that
bell of defective lung-power are padded, and by
an astute arrangement of cotton batting, assisted
by an artistic corset and other indescribable aids
to loveliness, the torso of a Venus or a Juno is
construe'.ed out of a flapjack. I dressed an
anatomy who was handicapped by red hair,
freckles, big hands, a fiat chest, and curvature of
the spine, yet I got her married eff in three tea-
sons. It was hard work, though, and cost a barrel
of money, but it succeeded. I studied her com-
plexion and shape, and designed her a costume for
the next fashionable ball. She had an offer of
marriage 1 from ah insurance-elerk before supper,
and six eligibles had a fight on the sidewalk for a
bonbon she had left the marks of her teeth in.
She came down to me ia ecstasies next day, and I
made her a street costume which proved such a
success that she never walked home without some
infatuated bank-clerk following at a respectful
distance to see where she lived. Love letters
began to pour in on her by the bushel, and the
crowning triumph was the capture of a wealthy
wholesale butcher. He was a very ardent lover,
and, having practised love-making in his younger
days on buxom servant girls, he was rather
familiar and frisky. This gave us some trouble,
as ordinary padding might be detected, but by a
skilful arrangement of whalebone and cotton
stuffing we made him think he was hugging the
real article and he fell a victim. They were mar-
ried —poor man!' ‘Poor man! Why?—‘Oh,
divorced long ago, of course. You cannot expect
a man to keep cool when he thinks he is wedding
a Juno and finds that he has married a pair of
tongs.’”
• • •
A Social Parity Society has been In-
augurated at Sandhurst (Vic.) In-awgrer-ated,
we presume.
* • ®
Mr. Mylea M‘Rae, M.P , is satirised by
more than one newsoap Q r for having spoken of “the
palatial gaols of N.5.W.,” but all the same Mr.
M'Rae is right. Palaces are built for criminals
out of the loan-funds, while the patifnis of Sidney
Hospital are cribbed in a weatherboard building
which, when it catches fire, will roast 300 people to
death in three minutes.
The Argus has just made two comical
printer’s errors—one in saying “the Lorette has
written.” instead of “the Laureate has written j”
the other in printing “ tropical song ” for “ topical
song.” However, there is a little reason in the
latter trior, as many topical songs are about as
tropical as you make ’em.
• m •
One of the dally papers last week stated
that a man had died near Albury through eating
an excessive quantity of grapes. What a lot he
must have eaten! The writer has seen people,
while undergoing the “ grape-cure ” in France,
eat six pounds of grapes before breakfast, and on
an average ten to twelve pounds per day in all.
• * •
Why should the offer of Mr. Andrew
Ohirnside and Baronet Clarke to form a battery
of horse-artillery for the Victorian Government
be deemed “magnificent?’ Between them the
pair draw perhaps £400,000 per annum from land
pegged out by their immediate progenitors.
Defending their country ! Why, they own the
country.
• • •
A big Sydney mercantile house, finding
that it was being robbed by some person unknown,
discharged the whole of the hands employed in
the department where the thefos cccured The
remit is that 30 people are now put out of work at
one fell swoop.
A fatal accident has cast a thick gloom
over a Gippsland Sunday-school picnic. Some-
thing fell on a nice young man whose tenor voice
was one of the great features of the school, and
k-lled him on the spot There was no witness to
the catastrophe, hut hi* remains were found spread
on the gras 3 with a piene of home-made cake on
top of them, and it is believed that the deceased
was struck by that article of food and thereby cut
off in the flower of his usefulness.
• • •
A man who was hauled up In Melbourne
for selling gas-jets on the highway, and refusing to
push his barrow when so ordered, told the Bench
that he was I ord Carington’s brother. Hereupon
the Bench ordered him aside for medical examina-
tion—to take the dimensions of his yawn, we
presume.
* • •
A forlorn old woman, with a tattered hat
and irrepressible suicidal tendencies, appeared
before Melbourne City Court the other day. She
had attemp'ed bo drown and otherwise deeaase
herself in a variety of ways, and explained that
she was Qieen Victoria celebrating her jubilee.
This poor but honest crahk does not seem to have
grasped the situation. Her Gracious did not
celebrate her jubilee that way—she took every-
thing else she could lay her hands on—except her
life.
Coldblooded rumour
sayeth that a well-known
New Zealand doctor who
was lately ordered to vac-
cinate several members
of the police force re-
plied “ What’s the
good ? They never catch
anything !” And that
reminds us of the un-
seemly disturbance that
lately took place between
Inspector Goodall and
Majah Portah over the
capture of Te Kooti at
Poverty Bay. Instead
of settling their little dis-
putes on the road, they
“ had it out ” in front of
the old rebel, who was
squattirg under a large
punga tree with four of
his wives, bless your life,
just like any ordinary
European. The inspector
being armed with a war-
rant carried the day and
arrested his man, who
has since been liberated
after finding heavy sure-
ties tor his future good
behaviour.
* * •
Alexander of Batten-
berg has morganatised
with a Miss Doesinker.
He doe- sinker a nice girl.
Pltzgibbon, the
Town Clerk of Mel-
bourne, concluded a gro-
velling address to the
departed Loch by saying
that he (the Gov.) had
“ fittingly represented
the august person of our
revered and beloved
monarch, her Majesty
the Queen.” This is
nonsense. The august
person has never Deen
fittingly represented in
Australia except by Phil
May and Hop. Fitz-
gibbon can’t have clapped
eyes on Our Suffering
Lady, we’re thinking.
A dissenting clergyman has been com-
mitted for marrying after hours, at Hobart. This
is carrying out the early-closing system to its
logical conclusion.
• • •
la Melbourne, nntll one of them died
lately, there were twin brothers, both chemists.
The pair were so strikingly alike that it was said
it would require a chemical analysis to tell one
from the other.
CHORUS OF MELBOURNE WEEKLIES.
In deep distress, dear Lady Loch,
Oar Rands we sit a-wringing ;
About your dress, dear L idy L )ch,
The ink we’ve left off slinging ;
Your “pleasant smile,” dear Lady Loch,
No more is theme for twaddle ;
About your “style” we’re mum, meanwhile
Dear Lady Rob’s our model.
Sir William’s wife, dear Lady Looh,
We shortly shall be singing ;
O! rumour’s rife, dear Lady Loch,
Of costumes she is bringing.
The journal snob, dear Lady Loch,
Though now so broken-hearted,
Upon the job with Lady Rob
Will very soon be started.
THE EMPTY CRADLE.
Little empty cradle
Treasured now with care,
Though the bridegroom’s only lately wed ;
Oft the flowing locks of
Someone’s snowy hair
Hang around the future baby’s bed ;
When the chubby cheeks and
Little laughing eyes
From the tiny rumpled pillow ahi-i-ne,
Then he’ll gaze in gladness
Mingled wiah surprise—
Singing little songs to “Baby mine.”
Chorus :
Babby, see the doggie, pitty ickle sing—
Kizzie, kizzie, suck its ickle thumb ;
See the little frog-gie, riegadingading—
I shall live forever, baby’s come.


Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man. “My Tairor.” 154 King street, Newtown.
“Parity the blood, cleanse the stomach, and sweeten
the breath, with Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
Stork Cattle fob Salk —looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
Do you go fishing? Eastway Brothers, 411
George street, Sydney, have a splendid collec-
tion of all kinds of Tackle for hand, rod, or net
fishing. We have tackle suitable for all (each and
every one) fishing grounds in Australia.— Bastway
Brothers, 411 George-street, Sydney.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW
PRwmtVt,£ ABLE *- TONTI NE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OP THj»
PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death w lithin the Tontine Period, or in the Knent of dnrvimal. PULL PARTICIPATION
i 4UNTTNII SURPLUS «r Rr»ukM !■ *ll Cn*ni»i»* m»* Ik UwiTßr KivanoM
The pride of the hidalgo of old Castile Is
a mere circumstance beside the ’aughty hexclu-
siveness of that aristocratic assemblage of bank-
rupt noblemen, the Northern Club, Auckland,
jj.Z Ij is composed largely of the Calico-
Jimmies of the place, and they draw the line at
“demmed professional people and tradesmen ”
Some years ago, they blackballed Mayor Waddel,
an esteemed and worthy citizen, and noted for
baking the best bread in the place, and they have
iuat sent another little shrug of disgust round
Auckland by refusing to admit Mayor Devore,
a local barrister of good social standing.
Judge Gillies, who was one of Devore’s
nominators, has since resigned the presi-
dency of the Club. “The Northern” is one
of the most noted gambling shoos in Auckland,
and it was hero that the lata Johnny Sheehan,
Minister of Native Affairs, caught a Resident
Magistrate sitting on an ace at a game of poker,
i~-. • • *
la a recent Sydney divorce case, although
two medical men swore that the girl with whom
the alleged adultery had been committed was, to
all app'arances, a virgin, Judge Windeyer found
adultery had been committed, and decreed a
judicial separation.
The saobocracy of Adelaide await with
anxious yearnings the advent of their new
Governor, and the prospect of hob-nobbing with a
real live Earl is causing the first families to furbish
up their manners and furbelows, both having
fallen into sad disrepair of late. One discordant
note has bean sounded in the welcoming chorus,
and than by one of the Ci>y Eathers, who,
hailing from the Emerald Isle, views with
displeasure an anti-Irish speech which his
Excellency made recently at one of the numerous
banquets which are at present undermining his
digestion. Indignant at the thought of the Cor-
poration presenting an address of welcome to any-
one who insulted his patriotic countrymen, he
tried to persuade them to refrain from so doing,
but meeting with a courteous refusal, played the
next trump card he held and obtained the Mayor’s
promise to present an address from the Irishmen
of South Australia. Begorra, ’twill be illigant
readin’ that same,
• * •
Mr. GantDavh, the Conservative M.P.
(siaoe resigned), who has bolted with a sassiety
married woman, only recently did six weeks’ im-
prisonment for disobeying an order of the Court of
Chancery. He mist loe a sad dog :
An amorous knave is
This Mr. Gent-Davis ;
Away from his missus he went
With a swell married lady—
Alas ! we’re afraid he
Is rather more Davis than gent.
• • •
Another Melbourne undertaker has been
victimised by an importer with a readied cheque.
If this continues the undertakers will look with
suspic’oa on tvary man who hands in his cheques.
The R C. ijthe only one tf the leading
denominations that has not a Chinese clergyman in
Australia. Years ago Melbourne had one in the
person of the Rev. Joseph L°e. The late Arch-
bishop Goold made application to Rome for a
Mongolian priest, and Joseph was exported to
him Father Lee had a great objection to “Ah ”
being stuck before his name. He was a great
vocalist, but his lungs got bad and lie went back
to Pekin.
• * e
The Saltan cf Zanzibar — the modern
despot—decrees that every thief shall have his
right hand cut off. From this we presume that at
Zanzibar members of Parliament give their left
hands to the Sultan at the annual leve a.
* *
*
The head master of Grafton Grammar
School (N.S.W.) is advertising for a governess and
requires “ age ” to be stated 1
• • •
Sach a galaxy of bankrupt colonels, majors
and captains assembled on the Queen-street
wharf, Auckland, on the departure of “the
troops ’ to capture Te Kooti, that it seems almost
a pity they were not formed into a distinct com-
pany, to be known an “Lawson’s Whitewashed
Brigade,”
* * •
Dr. John Edward Bromby died at Mel-
bourne on sbh inst,, and for once when they say
"regretted by all who knew him, ’ no He is told.
As head of a great public school this big-hearted
man created a sentiment of honour In his boys that
he never appealed to in vain. As a theologian he
dared to accept the theory of evolution and be thank-
ful for it, and he preached a sermon on Darwin’s
discoveries—which naturally got him into trouble.
Though poor himself, his purse was ever at
the disposal of impoverished friends. Some
have contended that he didn’t make brilliant
scholars of most of his pupils—he did better. He
made men of them ; and many an eye will glisten
as its owner recalls the brave, honest face, the
humorous twinkle, the kindly smile, and the
reverend white locks of his former schoolmaster.
* * •
One English Idea which we want to see
crushed with the ponderous hcof of contempt
before it can take root in Australia is the long-
lost brother, the family reptile who went away
when he was very young and was never heard of
again, until 25 years later another member of the
household went wandering over the earth’s super-
ficial area, and suddenly recognised Thomas acting
as Khan of Bokhara, or spotted him by his leet as
they stuck out of a boiler filled with refuse which
the vanished one was employed to clean out at a
salary of 15?. per week. The mission of the long-
lost brother, in our opinion, is to continue being
lost, and the miserable, hearse-like gush which is
supposed to ensue when he is found again fills us
witu a sentiment which is akin to cold pig’s-feed.
■lust now a Victorian journal is gushing a good
deal about an event of this sorb. A young man
from England had dropped in at a store for some-
thing or other, and as the girl wrapped ib up for
him ib suddenly occurred bo him that her face be-
longed to another girl called Jones whom he Is ad
known in his own town at home “Is your name
katsith!” he demanded abruptly. “No! ’ she
replied ;“ it are Brown ! ” Then they embraced
each other, and the local paper gushes bo the ex-
tent of half a column of atrocious grammar over
“he remarkableness of the incident. In our
opinion this sort of thing requires to be torn
Pby the roots. In some cities we know of
an orphan who was found on a doorstep
and reared in a workhouse is liable to find as many
as ten long-lost brothers in a forenoon, and every
one embezzles something from his pockets till at
last he is eo badly cleaned out that the eleventh
brother, who comes along after dinner, has to be
content with baking his boots cff him while he is
standing up Then if a wealthy uncle drif cs past
about dusk there is nothing left for that relative
bo plunder except the newly-found one’s hat,
unless, indeed, he screws off his feet and takes
them. This kind of incident has gone on too long
and now it is going to be smashed in the bud.
Anybody who even imagines that he is the long-
lost relation of anybody at all should be shot on
sight and then hanged at the going down of the
sun, and his remains require to ba interred about
midnight upon a barren shore in the centre of a
malarious locality that has gone broke.
• • •
Prosidenteaa Harrison has let it be known
that she will discountenance the low-necked dress.
She is, however, on the side of the bustle in the
other great controversy which is moving American
society from apex to base.
* * •
Two more fortune-tellera have been com-
mitted for trial in Sydney. If ib is illegal for
people to tell fortunes, why should it nob also be
illegal for the proprietors of an evening newspaper
to continuously reap big harvests from fortune-
bailers’ advertisements ? A similar question would
also ba somewhat pertinent in regard bo the baby-
farming system.
* * •
That good old monarch, William of the
Netherlands, is still dying, and when he finishes
the job his subjects will nob weep over his loss.
GEOGRAPHY IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
MR. FEEDER , B.A : “JOHN, WHAT IS THE CAPITAL OF VICTORIA?”
JOHN: “THE MONEY BLED FROM FREETRADE NEW SOUTH WALES, SIR.”
F William has been the dirtiest,
. . ' . , . x* , ?•’
snuffiast monarch in Europe, and his
, llf6 h * a been made up of spirits, raw onions, and
SZ
paw has always baen open. Some 10 or 14 years
n ll _ _ * ii n j •
’«b Jh
of things, sent Bertinatti, the dirtiest and
b » th ® d maa in all tbe Pe n ™ula to represent
them at the Hague, and the tie of a common
dinginess bound the unclean king and the smudgy
diplomatist together in close friendship. They
both snuffed and the love of onions was mutual,
butl one ni «ht at sapper they both clutched the
strong vegetable plate, and though the
king got it the old cordiality was never quite re-
nowed. Bertinatti, being toothless,
had only mumbled one onion to the king s throe,
anc * when he reached out his snuffy claw for the
opty remaining root, and William dragged it from
him with one hand and took the last remains of the
B in wiah the other he felt mad enough to declare
war on the spot,
• • •
,
The chief gaolera of the leading N.S. Wales
gaols are henceforth to bo known as “ Governors.”
This is the correct thing, inasmuch as the colony
started as a gaol and the first gaoler was known as
the Governor. A new title, however, may have
to be fouid for Baron Carington.
, •
* -o n , /TTJ . , , , , ~ , ,
-A Ballarat ( Vie.) lady, who advertised for
a govern-si, received the following reply
“Midame.-I here that you have a vaioensy in your
school. I would like like very much get it. Although I
hlve 1104I 104 a3t u»»y been teaching I have had a good deal of
experience among children. I was four years assistant
domestio wioh Mr in Sburb-strset. There I had to
assemble the children for breakfAßt—to call the rool to see
if they was all therj. There was 17 of them. If any one
was absent mine was the duty to go out mustering, and
bring him into his meals. I have great command over
ohi.dren, aad none ever dared to resist me. lam 5 feet
Ilf in my bare feet and measure 14 in arm, so can have no
fear, but that I can keep dlssipline all right. I could
teaci general subjects— vritug, sumi, sowing and
ceteree. At a pinch I could teach music. Although I
have not practised for five years I have been through
Zurney’s studys, and could brush ib up if ncjded."
The moral influenca of delicate woman again!
And yet this soft feminine zephyr—a fathom long
in her undressed extremities, and with enouga
power in her 14-inch arm to upset a Government
by the simple process of lifting up one end of it
and a’idin? it off its throne—is reported unfit to
be entrusted with a vote, and politicians prebend
to think that she couldn’t hold the animal if she
had ib. Nature built her to grasp elephants and
shove them up against the wall, to haul carta and
tow barges and push loaded trucks, and while she
is doing these things knock-headed statesmen
with sausage limbs and pipe-stem arms get up and
pass laws setting forth that woman is an inferior
animal and not on a par with man ! It makes us
feel exhausted.
♦ • *
Narrow-minded persona may refuse to
admit illegitimate children to private schools, but,
thank heaven, there’s no nonsense of that kind
about the secular Public Schools of N.S. Wales.
* • *
Justice Webb, of Victoria, has gone on a
visit to England. It is to be hoped that he’ll
have a pleasanter time of ib than when he last
went home. He then broke his Teg, lost his
daughter, aad gob the small-pox. Judge Webb
left Melbourne with a face as smooth as a new-
born infant’s and returned so pock-pitted that
his most intimate friends hardly knew him.
G.H F.W, was formerly Government shorthand
writer. He was called to the Victorian Bar in
18(!0, on the same day that the Mikado of Mel-
bourne, E, G. Fit/gibbon, was admitted.
• * •
The story goes that the local R.O. autho-
rities have just warned off the fishermen from the
water frontage of the immense tract of land at
Manly, granted to their Church by the N.S W.
Government years ago. Curiously enough the
name of one of the evicted fishermen is Peter—
and he now has no place on which bo dry his nets.
The water-frontages of this land will sooner or
later have to be resumed by the State.
* • *
A lady-scribbler la a Melb mrne “sasslety ”
organ says that a pretty fancy is to have the
toilet long and narrow and placed upright in a
corner. Long and narrow, eh? We have sur-
veyed the girth of many of our fashionable ladies,
and agree—ib would be a pretty fancy, indeed.
* * *
Advertisement from an English paper :
A clergyman, earnest worker in the Lord's vineyard, at
present In great difficulties, anxiously solioits help from
generous Christians. Eight wives (three of them ill)
40 children (13 stepsons, not his ovn) of whom the
maj irity are down with measles, and the rest teething.
Clothes, food, anything thankfully received.
Shrieking Jebosaphat!
• • •
Max. O’Rell says that a Frenchman
always stands aside to let a woman pass, but at
the same time he takes care to have a good look
at her as she passes.
• « •
The N.S.W. champion waltzing confceat
has been won by Richard Liebas, “at one of those
dancing academies which infest a certain part of
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Over 100 young
people, many of whom would have been better at
home in bed, assembled to witness the final heat
of the contest ” The Bulletin presumes that
Richard will now be asked by GovernorCaringtort
to “collar his gal ” for the next waltz at Govern-
ment House.
» • •
An Anglican clergyman of a Western
N.S.W. township always prays in moleskin trou-
sers, The fashionable city parson who apparently
imagines that Providence stands about in evening
dress when ib leads an ear to his supplication
might make a note of the levity of this sinning
brother and see what should be done about it.
Baaconsfield dida’o smoke, neither does
Gladstone.
An English paper describes the Yankees
as a social nuisance, and wants a tax put on them.
An English paper remarks thaty like the
seasons, everything elseii upside down in Austra-
lia. It instances the fact that the town of Orange
sent £lOO to the Parnell Indemnity Fund, while
the town of Homerule only raised £35.
A provident and medical society, adver-
tising in the Sydney papers, says : —“ This
association employs ten doctors in Sydney
and suburbs,” and innocently adds : —“ The
amount paid away in sick pay and death claims
is marvellous.” We are anxious now to have a
list of those ten medical men.
Mr. William Cooper, a N.Z. barrister,
who has just hung up his shingle at Samoa, will,
if we mistake not, become a central figure in South
Sea Island politics. He is one of the “three
Coopers,” of Auckland, all brothers, all members
of the legal profession, and all of whom, strangely
enough, commenced life as printer’s devils.
A Maori took a huge fancy to a pair of
boots in a country store lately, and tried in vain
to put one of them on his feet. At last a happy
idea struck him, and without further ado he
struck his big toe off with his little tomahawk
and triumphantly waded into the bluchers, gore
and all. The man that sends us this item says
the Maoris are insensible to pain.
That fashionable London paper, the
Queen, seems to be about as ignorant of Aus-
tralian matters as the well-cared for lady who
bears the same title, for it says “ The Australian
Women’s Suffrage Society has been started in
Melbourne. There is also a society with the same
object in "Victoria.” What in thunder has little
Bailey been doing in return for that £240 which
Froggie Parkes so generously gave him to go
forth and educate the benighted British masses
on matters pertaining to Australia ?
The swift footed and bright-eyed Wads-
worth. Secretary to the Victorian Executive
Council, is about to retire on a pension. Wads-
worth, who in appearance is an exact double
of the “ Iron Duke,” has served under six
Governors and four Acting-Governors during the
30 years he has held office. The number of times
that he has told the reporters that “ the Council
decided that the law should take its course ” no
man can tell. Although bent from chronic rheu-
matism, Mr. W. has done some wonderful feats of
pedestrianism in his time.
Daring a recent political tour in the
N S W. North Coast district, made by John See,
M R, a Sydney reporter who accompanied him
received a perfect ovation at Bowraville on the
Nambucca lo subsequently transpired that it
had been wired to Bowra that Ewing, M.LA,,
would accompany See. The former, however,
didn’t turn up, and the citizens of the Nambucca
capital thought the pressman was the legislator.
The journalist afterwards said that he never felt
so small in his life as when he heard that he had
been mistaken for a member of Parliament.
“ Gross’ patent electric marine compass ”
is on view at Messrs. Hcffnung and Co , Pitt-
street. By the use of this invention, which can
be applied to any marine compass, the officer in
charge is at once notified if the course ordered has
been deviated from, an electric be 11 communicating
directly with the compass and acting automati-
cally immediately rings on the slightest alteration
in the vessel's direction. It has been examined
by all the leading nautical experts in Sydney, as
well as the Government Astronomer, and pro-
nounced a thorough success. All shipping and
steamship companies will consult their interests
by adopting this new appliance which has been
patented all over the world.
At the invitation of Messrs Hasaall and
Woodhouse a number of prominent citizens at-
tended last week at Cook’s River Reclamation
Ground and witnessed a most successful trial of
“ Robertson’s Patent Hydraulic Improved
Dredger.” The improvement consists in the ad-
dition of an air pipe which projects into the mud,
and is connected with the nozzle of the injector.
The pressure of water creates a vacuum into
which the air rushes and forces the water, mud,
&0.,_ to a given height, and discharges same into or
behind breastworks or into punts and (if required)
empties the punts for reclamation purposes at an
extremely low rate per yard. It is claimed for
this dredger that ib will raise all ordinary material
from such depths as are necessary. The machine
at work is simply a model upon which many im-
provements can be made, but, nevertheless, first
class work was obtained from it—aa high as 04•
of sand being thrown out in a continuous stream.
Ib is a machine which will be largely used for
working alluvial wash under water—sinking
cylinders and bridge pile’, at which work it has
been used successfully at the Clyde Docks,


Something New in Sewing Machines.
THE
BALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT.
THE restless inarch of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
or the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ng, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con.
structed and fitted to make Button Hcles in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
to the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring bone stitch for blankets
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top-sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines —as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
abour, produce work of similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
Is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING. —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER Is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
48t, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
p
A
I
N
S
N
S.
Magnificent and Realistic Spectacular
Production,
THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII.
p
A
I
N
S
Invented and Produced by JAMES PAIN.
of London and New York.
To Night, the GRANDEST SPEOTAOLE
ever prfsnbed in Australia This Magnificent
Spectacle, representing ANCIENT POMPEII,
has been Specially Painted by Mr. Walter Mills.
The MAMMO CH STAGE, 300 ft. long by 60fb.
in depth, is occop : ed by upwards of 300 Auxiliaries
The Celebrated Roman Games and Gladiatorial
Combats carried oat by a Perfect Combination
of Acrobats and Professional Athletes.
The LOWLANDER BROTHERS will be
specially noticeable for their graceful and Mar-
vellous imitation of Living Roman Statuary,
TO-NIGHT—The Precession of Priests, Drill
of the Roman Guards.
And Mr. Raymond’s Graceful Flower Dance will
be a startling revelation to all Australians,
THE ILLUMINATIONS
Will be exceptionally brilliant aid extensive.
TO-MORROW
The Powerful
ELTLOTHIO LKiHT
TO-MORROW. ,
Supplied and worked by
Messrs'. Kirkland and Co ,
' urning the gloom of Night
into the Bjilli»ncy of Day.
PHILLIP PAEK,
Wnich thus cffers to the public an easy method of
access to witness this
UNRIVALLED SPECTACLE,
THE IMMENSE GRAND STAND,
A perfect and tclid structure, capable of seating
8000 Persons.
The Entrance to the Grandstatd is corner of
Phillip Park, immediately facing Hyde Park and
Sa. Ma*y’s Cathedral, the Prices of Admis-ion
being TWO SHILLINGS. Children H*lf-m ice.
The Entrances to the ONE SHILLING PRO
MENADE are situated oa Ei her Side of the
lower portion cf Phillip Park.
Tne Three Main Entrances will be Brilliantly
IlJuminared by the
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
N B —The Gates will be opened
• TONIGHT (THURSDAY),
Punctually at 7 o’clock p m ,
and in order to insure good seats and prevent
undue c.owding, the public are requested to
attend early,
THE PROMENADE CONCERT
Will coma ere i at 7.30 p m ,
follow* d by
PAINS MANIFICENT «ND REALISTIC
SPECTACLE.
THE LIST DAYS OF POMPEII, stB.3op.ro.
The whole Performance, ii is anticipated, will
conclude by 9.30 p.tr., thus enabling the thousands
who will flock to the scene from the uttermost
pwti of the surrounding suiburban distric s to
reach their homes at a seronable and reasonable
hour.
PUN’S LAST DLYS OF POMPEII.
TO NIGHT (THURSDAY), MARCH 14, and
SATURDAY, MARCH 16.
Be Early and Secure Good Seat?.
H. DKNTON, of Sidney, N.S.W.
JAMES PAIN, of London and New York.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-clotbs, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cate Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30i. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frlll-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; yon will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address - LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER~& SONS,
Geneeal Impobtebs and House Fubnishbbs,
SYDNEY.
Established 18(50.
* .. .
Hawkesbury river, summer
SEASON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of l visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; boating and fishing; three-
quarters of a mile frj-m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &o.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
Stobb Cattle fob Sale.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Batlj's Baking Pifim,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
ko„ *o., flu.
Stham Wobks and Beewbbt !
BABBIS HUH, ULTIMO, S7DNU7
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr, S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Immense success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER
as “ TOM ROBINSON ” in
“IT’S NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.”
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessees ... Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.50.
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
as “COUNT DANELLA ’ in
THE VENDETTA.
PRICES-5s , 3 s., 25., and Is.
Box plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. J ohn Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
EVERY EVENING at 8 sharp.
Immense Success of
BROUGH and LOUCIC AULTS COMEDY
COMPANY
BETSY
For 2 Nights only
BETSY
BETSY.
ADMISSION—£2 2s to Is
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Ohildren, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
AS. GAB. GAB.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEO
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to 6, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
March 12. 1889.
RENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES,
For conditions tea “Government Gazette.”
BRUCE SMITH.
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suite to measure for £3 3a.
PERFECT HEALTH I
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wlnee from
Soaklngi. 410 George Street, near King Street.
When next you bake try PemeU’i Show-whits Patimt
Rolls* Plods, and roar bread will be it white ae enow
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS]
uWijt
v
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH. EASY CHAIRS.
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The above
oat represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
80s.) without Stand, 365.
Packing in canvas, if required, Bs. Bd. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
-.-I.
Miifias
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
Otis sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
MPEa'akpia.
mm
6*1 y w
wi'i’n.t
00
m*s r
D
R A.WING ROOM CABI
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Dksio
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFOR iES by K. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
t
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vest Complete
Asbobtmbnt.
Many quite new design*.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered bo order 1 2
any material. Newton & Lamb.
KLF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUGH.Ior
Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and res?
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ţ
T3EDBTKADB, all blbbb.
Nickel-plat sd and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All description!
at lowest rates.
Newton Jb Lamb.
ť
ŧ
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
maket also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
—-
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
18b. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 20s. | Kitchen
Dreeserß, from 275. 6d.; Washatanda, from 12b. 6a,|
Chestß of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. Bo* I
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s. ___
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERED S
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Snow Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRINO & O’CONNELL STREETS,


WESTERN AUSTRALIA : The Coming Colons.
C& NOW is the time to invest your FEW FOUNDS
m TO REAP very shortly vonr THOUSANDS.
ith
and
Properties
Sale to suit LARGE and SMALL
secure
PRICES
ASKED.
buyers, SYNDICATES, &c M from £lO to £30,000.
WEST AUSTRALIAN
ONLY
119 a IBlaza/ToetTn. Street, S3rca.ra.e37 -
Djn O'Oonnor not long ago described
Parkes as “ the Upat-trei of politics.” And now
Dan has taken c ffice with Parkes, and is comfort-
ably sitting under his own Upas-tree, alongside
the political corpses of Abigsil, Burns, Inglis,
Garrett and Co.
The appointmsnt by the late Dibbs
Government of Mr. Solomon, brother-in-law to
Mr. J. P. Abbott, as paymaster of the N.S W.
fore’s at, in all, £63oa year, strikes The Bulletin
as a fishy job. As fishy a job as the appointment
by Parke* of Mr. Charles Lyne to the secretary-
ship of the Put lie Works Coma i ttee.
CAUTION.
LOOK ODT FOR FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “ Hop
Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitter* are the
Purest anti Best Bitter* ever made-
They are compounded from Hop*, Buchu, Man-
drake, and Dandelion —the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all th*
best and most curative properties of all other Bitters,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, Liver Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are their
operations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and In-
firm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
■litters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
**•!•*»•• gremlin#. T «Up f*o
Musical. -patent scale INDICA-
TOR, for pupils learning the PIANO.
Price 3s. fid. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC,
5i fid., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S.
Sydney Arcade. Country Agents wanted.
Stationer’s.
The federal reversionary
investment and financial
COMPANY, Limited
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874
CAPITAL, £200,000
SYDNEY OFFICE, 301 PUT-STREET
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate Advances granted Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended te. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fix id Depieii 3 Years, 10 per
cent. ; 12 Months, 9 per cent ; C Months, 8 per
per cent. : 3 Months, 7 per cent. By nrder of the
Board of Directors, A. W. MILLER, Manager
PERTH
The Capital City of
WESTERN AUST'ALIA.
The Best Investment Going !
GOOD BUILDING SITES
Paddington Estate, Perth.
ft™. Jen Pounds J Lni -
TEN POUNDS! TEN POUNDS!
Only £1 Deposit; Balance in 3fi equal Monthly
Payments. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Early application will teaure good Corner Lots.
Western Australia is rapidly progres ing and
property is hardening in value.
Huy Now! Buy Now!
And reap Large Profits like early purchasers in
other Australian capital cities.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets post free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
% BATHDRST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. Douglas Manager.
Robert butcher «c go
hare REMOVED their Wholesale Wine an fl
spirit Easiness bo
592 a GEORGE STREET
_ (B®tween Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and oul
Bond at LOWEST RATES,
w
St. Patrick'i Diy Geht atior. Uarcb 5,
THE UNITED IRISH SOCIETIES
will hold a
GRAND NATIONAL OELEBATION
on SATURDAY, 16 th March,
at BOTANY.
A LARGE Programme of Sports will be car-
ried out. Dancing in the large Pavilion
all day. Sir Thomas Grattan Esmond® (grand-
son to Henry Grattan) and John Dbasy, M.’sP.
(the Delegates from the Irish Parliamentary
Party) will make their first public appearance and
deliver orations at Botany on that day.
A PROCESSION o! the Societies, headed by
the Scotch Pipe Band, will leave St. Benedict’s at
10 a.m., and march through Gaorge-street to the
tram terminus Special trams at ordinary fares
all day. Entrance to the Grounds, 2 1.
ST. PATRICK’S EYE, MARCH 16,
GRAND CONCERT in the New Masonic Hall,
C iftlereagh-strc 1 1
Proceeds in Aid of the Parnell Indemnity Fund.
All the Popular Artistes in the city will take part.
TICKETS—S?, 3'., atm 2i
F. B, FREE HILL, Esq., President.
H. B. KELLY 1
J. WARD
Hon.
Sacs.
KEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Paient Unbreak-
able Saddles is now earned on at our new premises,
245 Castlereagh street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Uenuine wi hout our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakab’e Saddle Conpany,
Li mited
F. C. HEDEMANN
L. C. HENDERSON
Trustees.
# Adam Bede s *
Reneyolent (Consultations.
“ All the Yeab Round.”
TWENTY TEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “ Adam Bede ’ will devote to
specific public charities three tenths of his com-
mission on all sweeps upon four of the great events
of the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cap, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup. In the three tweepi advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps excepti those above
specified he reserves to himself the tight to give a
bonus to charities commensurate w ioh the success
of the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run at Hawkesbury, April 13, 1889.
i|ooo Subscribers at £1 Each.
First Horse £l6OO
Second Horse £6OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Sydney Gold Cup,
Run at Randwick, April 22, 1889.
10.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N. Z , April 22, 1889.
2.000 (Subscribers a( £1 Each. 2,000
First Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £300; Non-starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
Alin Belt 1 ! it the oih fair method of dram
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdh until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event ADELAIDE CUP (£2000)
Mav 9th, 1889.
ÜBLIC NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
has the pleasure to inform his Friends and the
General Public that he has commenced Business as
Bold and Cental Business Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
He also wishes to draw the attention of his
future clients to the fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale is effected, and in the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.
RTHUR D. SPALDING
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST.
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET).
I have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so pernicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE ISO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Cor suiting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p m
THE CLYDE ORE CRUSHING, AMAL
GAMATING. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S W.
Head Office: 46 CaSTLEREAGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T irectoes :
James Fletcher, lIP., SycUey; Geo. R. Diubs. MP,
Sydney ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), S/d-
-ney ; T. D. Merton, Cunmr gir Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga
These works have been erected at large cost fcr
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold-saving platt
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon shares with owrers
of gold bearirg properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold minirg,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the ds-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
apnreciated.
Ores in quantities not lees than one ton will be
treated by the latest known icientific methods,
and a full report and a®eay given by competent
experts on each p»rcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamsting anc
chlorination, together wiih a complete assay and
analytical laboratorj) will be under the imme
diate direction of Mr, T, D. Merton, who has sue
c ssfully worked and deve'op’d an extemiveanc
similar establishment at Cantingar, near Harden
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN k CO.
W. JAMESON A CO.’S
"KmOWBONE LANE" WEISEY,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathuret-street, Sydney,
AUSTRALIAN
1 Mint Eitiity
ESTABLISH BID 1849-
HEAD OFFICE:
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors :
J P. ABBOTT, Esq,, M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL. Esq., Deputy Chairman.
J. T. WALKER. E-q.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, E-q.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Actuary :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Chief Medical Officer : JAMES 0. COX, M.D.
The Society is now in its forty-first year, and is
the only Australian Life Office which gives
ANNUAL BONUSES.
Policies in Force, over 86,000
Sum assured (with Bonuses) over ... £33,000,000
Accumulated Funds nearly £8,000,000
Annual Income £1,500,000
Cash Bonuses Divided £3,250,000
Cash Bonn % for one year, 1887 ... £357,000
Policies are NOT FORFEITED if the Surrender
Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
Joes Riieesfom,
. . .... r ■ ■ -
(Late of Say well’s Tobacco Co.},
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Oppositb TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
COLUMBIA. RINKING COMPANY.
ROCKHAMPTON.
Applications will be received by the Under-
signed until TUESDAY, March lihb, 1889, for
the office of Manager, competent to instruct and
give exhibitions in Roller Skating. Applications
must be accompanied with references as to char-
acter and qualifications. Salaiy, £5 per week.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS, Chairman.
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED,
General Servants, Cocks, Nunes, House-
maids, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-rcom prcvidtd.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge,
Offices: 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
Stobk Cattle fob Sale.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland


Hairdressers—
If you want EVERY or any REQUISITE for
Fittirg out or Furnishing your Siloon,
APPLY TO
CRAIG & AITKEft’S
N, i, Wales Barbers’ Supply Iou:e,
Where yem ean yet, at lower prices than
at any other Uo"se in the Trade : —
Hairdressing Chairs,
Shampooing Apparatus,
MIRRORS, HOT WATER URNS,
Brushes, Combs, Scissors, Itaxors,
BROWN & SHARPES HAIRCLIPPERS,
CREAM OF LIMES (in Bottle & Bulk)’
SPRAYS, ANTIQUE OIL,
COSMETIQUES, POMADE HONGROISE,
And Every Other Necessary.
American I'airdressing Chairs, from £5
Colonial ~ from £2 10s
SOLE A OEM’S for Ihe CELEBRATED
“ Plum ”
t3T RAZORS ami SCISSORS
Complete Saloon Omni
FROM 410 LP WARDS!
Engaged for Town »V Country
Customer*.
Craig & Aitken,
Wholesale Tobacco 8c Cigar Merchants
And IMPORTER*,
B g to call th« altf nti- n cf COUNTRY STORE-
KEEPERS and TOBACCONISTS to their
Prices, which will compare favourably with any
in the Trade.
All the Leading Bratdt of
Tobacco, Cigars aid Cigarettes
IN STOCK.
SOLE AGENTS for the
ARMY k NAVY
TOBACCO & CIGARETTES,
Vulcan Pipes & Tobaccos,
AND
M! SWEETHEART mmm
An Tnomfnre Assortment of every kind of
Pipes, <itr«r and Cigarette Holders, Malking
Sticks, Cutlery, ele„ ete,
EiWer-moutted Meerschaum and Briar Pipes
fST A BARGAIN. ‘EI
Send for out Pi ice Li t and j ilge for yturrelvep.
Note Addrees—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Tdliann A (Ipr Merehanf-,
080 * 082 GEO R G E STREET
(next to Priddy & Co., The Hatters),
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The Lancet says that “ claims to centena-
rianism almost invariably break down.”
A thousand Mount Morgan shares changed
hands in Melbourne last week at £7 18s. Bd. Not
so very long ago they were quoted at from £l3
to £l5,
The Presbyterian General Assembly of
N Z. have decided by a narrow majority to re-
tain the old fire-and-brimsbone Hades of their
forefathers. Some of the most prominent clergy-
men, however, said they were averse to the old
style of Sheol, and maintained that the Confession
of Paith is cut of keeping with the living faith of
the church. The Bulletin rises to smile very
loud at the attempt of the Presbyterians to fix up
hell to their own liking. While they were lr;ing
to make alterations in the inferior branch of the
future state they might have done something to
render the “ other place ” attractive to people who
don’t belong to Liedertafels, and who haven’t any
ear for music.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
Srisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
accassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children,
RowLANDS’KALYDOßremovesfreckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
In perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, RooclUob, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, 4w. Unequalled Hlgta-olaN Wines are
only to be had from Bookings of <lO George-itreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
E. C. ELEY
■ ••
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
<2>
4
<y
S
O
'O
*
V
<e>
o
&
v°"
</
1r
*
s
✓
t
ţ
390 a GEORGE S T
BYDXHY,
New noun—PJggottry.
The Licentious Victuallers’ Gaze ite
(Sydney) says “We are compelled, through
pressure on our spice, to hold over an exhaustive
article on ‘ Sixpenny Bars and Threepenny
Drinks’” Taat art’cle should be worth reading
if Editor Conway gives his views on sixpenny
bars and barmaids, and leaves the threepenny
drinks to ba dealt with by his sub editor, who is
understood to be a man of great capacity.
There are no leas than 13 convicted
murderers awaiting execution in New York, anc
it is more than probable that they will escape
altogeiher through the astuteness of a certain
Gtunse), who has pointed out that, through the
abolition of death by the rope in favour of death
by electricity, it is legally impossible to carry out
the supreme sentence. The regime of rope, under
which these men were condemned, ended
with last year, and after being sentenced to ba
hanged they cannot be electrified, and hanging
being abolished they cannot be hanged.
William's Australian Inieotlold is death te all Insstli.
Simple In application—sure In efieot. Ihls Is Ihs only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death te
all kinds of Insects, while it le perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be need without the slightest
apprehension. Per the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fnmes of
the bnrnt powder, while throwing oil a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
l. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, IST King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Blllett Bros,
and B. Prosser A Co.*
£20
£20
BVCKBOAKD BUOCIBS
Kevlar shipments of the Best Backboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 61n. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&o., £27. F.O.B. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works In
4 nstralasla. Call and see us. Terms : Cashi or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
BRITTENBERG ft 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Ciabbnob Street, Wtntabd Squabb,
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
EREB BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLAREECE STREET, STOREY.
M
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce.
AND PAY 9
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
+:+ : +
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tcm.es’ Se-win.gr Mac3c.in.es,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FA&LEI6S, NETTSEIU & Co., Tanners and leather Merchants,
16 Yoit K SIRE E T, - SYON E Y.
—— Bole Agents for the above lor New South Wales and Queensland. .
o
o
Also Importers of Requisites lor the Boot Manufacturing Trade In. all Details, Including Machine*
Imported Leathers, fto. i and of the following Special Lines i PEERLESS GLOSS. SATIN POT.THh’
NUBIAN BLACKING T...... Tool. a»d Mitarlal., Indents sxeeuted o. jr.votw.bl.
DR. RICHARDS.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and OhlM
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college!
and hospitals of Europe. He haa devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
Ha has by profound research thoroughly lavestl-
fated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification!
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hli
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practise
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other elan of troubles that
afflict mankind.
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bash fulness,
dlsoontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, bussing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to In-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he haa
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Bd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
TREE, A LARGE OLOTH- BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private os
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
BEND
tor Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
K* receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
at*d courteously, a candid and straightforward
ojylnlon of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
hs the volume will be found a list of oarefully-prs-
pared questions, which will, in all propablllty,
assist yon materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by firs,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves-
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 36,004
sases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communist-
Mens should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
f Spring Street, Sydney
”sUI?tTnG~.
□■RICHARDS
DISEASES.
YOUNG MEN
sN Pitt Btreet North).
Bt turt to ms ntion this papsr v>ktn wit* «#•
ON CHRISTMAS MORN.
MR. O'BRIEN, (the Younger): “Don’t shtir for de loffe av ye, Patsy! Santy Claus is
fillin’ de stockin’s; I seed de wooly coat av him wid me own eyes!” —PUCK.


Business Announcement*
EPPS'S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
MedfteaA*
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured 1
fhe Greatest Success \
of Modern Times. /
imMOO
f All 'Chronic Dlssase
\ are Curable.
Hr, B, E. KIIUUUII, Cnnltiv Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Disbasbs,
s« iriUIAH STREET, HEIBODSHI.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (PRRi) by which they oan be treated equally well at
**Mr. B Kutrelmann’a treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
■omnlete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenbope, 19th July 1888^
Is H. K. Kdobuunn, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, So.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank K. K. Knight,
af Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought ft was time to consult a medical man, and I
went Into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute lor six months, and,
Sthough I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
Shat I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists medi-
cines, as all I had taken lor the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
Fungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
“u could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines lor a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
■kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand,
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very last.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little Bbo , rt ° f
oulous, as all expected I would soon die , and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill *bihty)l
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I ean do as £° od and
M h“d a day’s work as f ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK S. K.
KNIGHT. witness —J. 0. DANIEL, Glenht pe.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
HT All Consultations Free. Hi
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement Kiven which
provides that No Gobi Is incurred in the event of Odm
nos suns Epfrotrd.
T
0 SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PBRSONALLT 0R BY LBTTBR
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
x :X
VMST Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nebvous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC principle.
x:x
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all oasts.
x: X
J 9.#.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to aU parts of the Colonies .
1 T T
Note the Addbesh s
COWAN AND ANDEESON,
EOLEOTIO PHYSICIANS,
Oxfobd Hbbbal Dibpbnsabt,
IS2 Elizabeth Street, Srde Park, Sydney.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Offioe, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMTS,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies In all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all In-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted In four different languages.
No connection with any other offioe.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
WANTED, the address of GEORGE, JOHN
and WILLIAM THRUSH, formerly of
London, England, who many years ago went to Aus-
tralia and who have been tor some time lost to
their relations and friends. Should thu come
under the notice of any or all of them or any
of their present acquaintances, they are earnestly,
on behalf of their Mother, to commum-
qjitc with their brother, FREDERI OK THRUSH,
23 Little Paradise, Bedminster, Bristol, England.
Or IS J&. 3>T 3D t HOTEL,
? i OOBNBB Of
fy WARY and MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE. "^1
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
r
7,-,v
COSCROV*
1
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. OOSGROYK (Late of Lennon’a Hotel)
Pbofbibxbiss.
"vV
■4*
3a*
• «<t
f
»w*
*
Wmm I
PETTY'S FAMILY HOTEL, York Street, Sydney.
tw LETTERS and telegrams promptly attended to. "S*
THE
“ Plum
RAZOR.
OR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ;setjready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price Single Ra o ,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
AITKEN, Potosl Hair Catting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed!
GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
F
CRAIG &
680
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
Clleir©:n.clo3a. Hotel,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
i T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
\ «erved on the ebortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most rtcherchi
vou oan enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country j
lare aiso can have good company, good wines-in fact, everything that can os *bly make one
imnfnrtable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! yided. Ta It
S iSf? at retook daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
daitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMIHSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
n-DDACT'm ODTSAN BEAOH» MANLY.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock Importers,
lAte Llelitncr A Co., 33 O’Connell Street.
T lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
L ama teur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises-at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET. Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 A GEOR6E STREET, SYDNET.
Auoranoe Oompaulei.
T”«
■ AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MAHABI'
miot ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
duiiimMA by Act of PMllainiili II Tli«i
MS. IB.)
KesUtarsd Capital M
Paid-up and Subscribed
M f 11.191,111
H. AII,III
Sir BDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Ohalrmaß,
ARTHUR BLAOKBT, Bid., 8.1. A., Deputy-
Chairman,
This Company reeelves deposits at the lollowlat
rates ol interest
Foi 8 ye*iß T pel cent,
lot e months 8 pei cent.
reilyau - «»«••■«.
roi I month!— • pel mi.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate eeal
oi the Company, payable to bearer or refistcred
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and persi n u
property, Including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward!.
Boons granted on Mortgage lor fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONBT ADVANCED FOB BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, ete., Oolleeted.
Estates Bub-dlvlded and Sold by Auetlon an
Private Oontraot.
HMD Oniih—ll. *l* HUNTER STREET
JNoTb. NBIBD, Manager.
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Peopeietob.
“COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
EOOKH AMPTON.
LRED. OOMLEY, Proprietor.
Acknowledged the finest hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall 60 x 40.
Conveyanoe meets Eveby Tbain.
XMPERIAL HOTEL
, EMU PARK,
William Toon ... Peopbietob.
This First-class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street East.
This Well-known Sporting House Is conducted
in First-class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated. ___
Bweftnaea Annannaensanwu
KING’S V*EWS
Or SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&0., &0,,
816 6E086E BT., Brim Buter-it., i S.P 0.
TATTERBALL'B
Hlim COI3ULTATIOII
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattorsall's," care
of Qeorge Adams, Tattorsall’s Olub, Sydney. Per-
eons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
ins
WE 0 A N RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(i tew doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank).
MELBOURNE. *
FOR BALE.— Two grand Wales Frontages,
Parramatta and Em* C*t* Bltmi. Apple
liiimii ow*®


OF
liTMiff
w
(TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS.)
Capital: £30,000, in 30,000 Shares of £1 each
(With power to increase )
16,000 Shares are now offered to the public. The balance of 14,000 Shares will be issued
to the vendors as paid-up to 10s. in part payment of the purchase money.
Shares payable, Is. 6d. on application, Is. on allotment, and the balance in calls not exceed-
ing Is. per Share, and at intervals of not less than one month. When the Contributing Shares
are paid up to 10s. both Shares will rank alike.
Provisional Directors:
The Hon. 0. K. MACKELLAR, C.M., M.L.C , M.B. Macquarie Street.
JAMES TOOHEV, Esq, M.P., Standard Brewery.
,T T WILSHIRE, Esq., M.P., Bur wood.
C NETTHEIM, Esq, Merchant (Faklbigh, Nktthkim & Co), Sydney.
JOHN SCOULLER, Esq., Messrs. Scouller & Robertson, Sydney.
Bankers :
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND, Sydney.
Solicitor :
JOHN ELLIOTT, Beq., Norwich Chambers, Hunter Street.
Brokers:
EOOULLER & ROBERTSON, Wynyard Chambers, Wynyard Street.
THIS Company is being formed Lrthe purpose
of acquiring by purchase from the Vendors,
the Ice-making Plant, Machinery, Business and
Lease of the Premises known as the Colonial Ice
Company’s Works, situated in Kensington-street,
Chippendale, together wiih the Patent Eight* for
the Colony of New South Wales in and to a
Patent known as Kyle's “ Improved Compound
Direct Acting and Reversible Ice Box,” and also
for the purpose of enlarging and extending the
said plant and business.
These woiks were started about eight months
ago in order to test the value of a process of Ice-
making, invented and patented by Mr. T. D
Kyle, by which he claimed that Ice could be
manufactured for one-third of the cost of the tr-
dinary process. The results have been entirely
satufactoiy, and fully bear out all that the
Inventor claimed.
The Works are now capable of turning out 12
tots of Ice per day, at a cost of about 103. per ton,
thus showing a very substantial profit, as Ice sells
readily at £3 to £4 per ton wholesale. When the
present plant is completed, the same Machinery
will be capable of turning out more than double
the quantity at a very small additional cost. The
Ice produced by this process is solid, clear and
pure, and has been pronounce! superior to any
Ice yet produced in Sydney; being frcz°n
very hard, it lasts much longer, and is
consequently more economical than other Ice.
Notwithstanding that the Company only entered
he market in the middle of the season when Ice
consumers had made their arrangements with the
other companies, still this Company’s Ice is
making a name for itself and is finding its way
into the market. Already the Company is not
only paying expenses but making a fair profit.
The Vendors were very fortunate in securing
very suitable premises in Kensington-street, dote
to the Railway Station, which they hold undtr
lease for three years, at the moderate rental of
£l5O per annum, and there is no doubt that this
can be renewed on very advantsgeous terms.
Besides the manufacture of Ice, the Company
will undertake the fret zing of fish in solid blocks
of ice, in which condition they can be forwarded
to the remotest parts of the colony, arriving as
fresh as when they came out of the sea. By th ! s
means, also, fish can be kept perfectly fresh for
several days, even in the hottest weather in
Sydney. Thii is a branch of business which can-
not fail to be very remunerative, as the oppor-
tunity of getting fresh fish almost daily must be
highly appreciated, especially in tha far inland
towns.
During the winter season when the demand for
Ice is very limited, it is intended to utiizj the
Siaff in the manu'aofcure of Ice-making Machinery
and Plant, capable of turning out 5 to 10 tons of
Icb per day, suitable for the larger inland towns.
As the cost of an Ice-making plant cf the descrip-
tion is comparatively small, these cai either be
sold to local companies or individuals at a hand-
some profit, or they can be used for carrying on
local branches of the parent Company, and as Ice
in the inland towns sells readily at Id to 2d. per
lb. a large addition to the Company’s revenue
must accrue. Already several inquiries have been
made which it is hoped will result in orders fcjf
Queensland and large inland towns in N.S.W.
The Vendors have every confidence in
bringing this under'aking before the pub-
lic, believing it to bs one of the scundest
business ventures which has been offered
recently, and one which cannot fail to yield very
handsome results as the business extends. It is
esp3cially commended to consumers of Ice, who
will not only share in the profits of the under-
taking, but will also be entitled to liberal conces-
sions on the amount of their purchases.
The Company will secure the service of Mr.
Kyle, Manager, for a period of five years, during
which period he undertakes not to engage in the
Ice or Ice making Machinery business other than
for the Company. Besides disposing of his present
patent rights to the Company, Mr. Kyle under-
takes to give the Company the benefit of any
further improvements or patents which he make
during the said period of five years.
The Vendors will pay all the expenses of float-
ing the Company.
Intending Shareholders are invited to inspect
the Company’s Works.
The following Contract has been made namely :
A Contract, dated 27th April, ISBB, between
Thomas D. Kvlk and Scoullak & Robertson, on
behalf of the Company.
Forms of Application for Shares may be ob-
tained from the Brokers.
Extract from “Sydney Morning Herald
Dec. 21, 1888.
“In lOnsington-street, Redfern, the Colonial
Ice Company have recently opened new works
where ice is manufactured under a new process.
which cannot fail to strike the visitor to
these works is the absence of ponderous plant,
such as is usually seen at establishments of a
similar kind. Here the plant is equal to the pro-
duction of 12 tons of ice per day. The specialty
in connection with these Works is the extreme
compactness of the cells upon which the ice is
encrusted. A new branch of industry into which
the firm is now prep wed to lacnch is the process
of preserving fish. Briefly described, the process
is as followsA large tin or ‘shape’ is paced
into the machine, and when there is an inside
coating, an inch in thickness, the fish and water
are placed in the shape, and the process of freez-
ing the whole into a solid block is soon completed.
In that condition the fish can be conveyed to any
part of the colony.”
Extract from “ The Australian Star,”
Dec. i 6, 1888.
“ A further addition to the manufactories of a
few plucky investors, bent upon settling wage-
paying works in cur mi Ist, at all hazards, is to be
found in the vicinity of the R°dfern Terminus, or,
precisely speaking, in Kensington Street, Chip-
pendale—in the premises of the ‘Colonial Ice
Company.’
“ This new venture already bids fair to prove a
Dividend-paying and public satisfying one ia the
best senses of the term, and the Syndicate, which
is developing this latest addendum to local re-
quirements, have evidently made sure of their
goal before venturing to risk their money or kick
the ball.
“The works are already in full swing and can
pan cut some 12 tons cf pure crystalline ice per
day. Ground space sufficient has been secured
for adding to existing plant, so that as the demand
enlarges the output can be at once increased to 36
tons a day, or more, as the cate may be; two
additional.huge vats, or ice boxes, being just now
under weigh.
“ A candid observer will admit that the Ice
turned cut equals anything of its kind yet pro-
duc'd. The machinery and plant has been manu-
factured in the colony, at considerable cost, it is
true, under existing tariffs, but the proprietors
have set their minds upon mating their enterprise
one of an essentially Australian character from the
jump Much night be said and written with
respect to the undertaking, but, as its success has
already been assured, there ii little need for
minutite.
A complete revolution may also be looked for
in oir retail fish trade. The proprietc ra are set-
ting themselves out in this direction, and by an
ingenious contrivance in the way of freezing re-
ceptacles, fish of all sorts and sizes can now be
hermetically coffined in an icy coating, shipped or
trucked anywhere in any weather and delivered
as fresh as when they left the briny. The
Patentee supplies with each consignment a simple
method of thawing out, under which the fish may
be again handled and found fit for cooking as long
as three or four days after delivery.”
Extract from “ Daily Telegraph .”
“ Tha Colonial Ice Company proposes to cater
for the benefits of residents in the interior as wel
as for those in Sydney and its suburbs. A visitor
bo the works is struck by the paucity of machinery
and the want of maty curious looking devices
which the makers of ice usually require for their
work, and this, upon inquiry, is the result of a
speciality of this particular Company. A leading
feature of the establishment is the small amount
of plant required in bringing the water to tlat
degree of coldness when ice is formed. This is
owing to the uie of a patent of Mr, T. D. Kyle,
the present manager. The usual method is bo get
the required cooling power, through the use of
brine, or anything that will nob freeze, but in these
works the brine is done away with altogether,
and the gas used to cool the brine is
utilised directly in the formation of ice. It is
claimed that by this machinery the loss by radia-
tion is gained. The gas is what is known as
* flashed ’ into cells consisting of a series of iron
tubes placed close together. The B 9 cells are im-
mersed in water, rows of them at certain dis-
tances, and the ice collects upon the cells to any
thickness desired, according to the time they are
kept there. By this direct process, it is stated,
that much expense both of first cost, and subse-
quent working is saved, A feature in the business
is to be the free zing of fish into solid blocks ; it is
proposed to obtain fish direct from the fishermen,
and on being cleaned they will be at once frozen
and sent to the inland towns, such as Bourke, and
places where fresh fish will be a great Ins«y. At
present provision is made for burning out 12 tons
of ice per day, but before long it is hoped that
even a larger quantity than this will be made.
The promoters are confident of the success of their
undertakirg, and any process by which ice can fce
made more plentiful and come more generally into
domestic use will be welcomed by the public, wh
may therefore wish well to the new venture.
The Vendors will accept 14,000 Shares, paid up to 10s. per Share, and £3,000 in cash
for the plant, machinery, patent, rights, lease, &c., &c.; and in order to show their confidence
in the concern, they agree not to take any dividend upon their Shares until the Subscribing
Shareholders shall have received a dividend of 10 per cent., thus making the Subscribers
Preference Shareholders.


DOWS
fvEMBRO CATION,
\ vSOLD
ft EVERYWHERE
v V N
■■Hi
ť
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
«I«» WSITKKI
AND
—A ET ++ DEOOKaTOR B—
96 Gaitiereaib Itmt,
One Doob pbom King Street.
gR 0 U’S INJECTION,
INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
£* Hl tv
Cures’ promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT . F S R E B.
ISuooessor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
MEN ONLY!!
Sufferers from Nervous
Complaints, Sure cure;
14 days. Apply ia confidence to “MEDICUS,”
Box 120, G.P.O , Sydney. Personal advice by
appointment, Ekee.
* ■ I f
i
sa
pmmm
It i
iVi
•» -
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (near Hunter St.)i Sydney.
JOSEPH C. BOWDEN • • Proprietor
LO.NG’S imperial hotel
"_l Toowoomba,
1M
• 'Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
AUSTRALIAN
souel flour Mill? t Gum stoles,
GRANVILLE.
BRUNTOFS
Royal Patent Steel Roller
and Imperial Stone
can be obtained from principal P I A| j 1)0
Makers and Storekeepers in Syd- J 1 LU U J l'j
ney and Country.
MILL PRODUCE ALWAYS IN STOCK.
We are CASH BUYERS of Prime MILLING
(WHEAT in any Quantity,
Sydney Office : 34 Pitt Street.
The Ajstralian^’Mercantile'’Loan ’■'and
m i6'iaran v ee]Company, Limited.* '« a
'INCOBPORATBD UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL ~
£500,000.
Sydney Office:
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offioas—2B3, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily,
■ M 1 I M .
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, s|per cent.'
® ® »»
12 .. 7
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, 1| per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1\ per cent.
1
By order of the Board of Directors.
HJtn, i iT
RUSSELL MARSHALL
tt
Magic Meal,”
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and
Poultry.
—I —
Extracts from Testimonials :—
G. S. Ybo, Esq., Mulgrave Stud Farm, near Windsor ;
j ” riec * ®“ e Magic Meal ’on a horse bad with worms
ana he seems to be improving fast."
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: "
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.”
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butterbone, Macquarie River: "I
tried the‘Magic Meal’ on a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in grand condition. ... I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
f ° ld J n Bags—7lhs. 35., Ifibs. ss. 6d., 56lbs.
los. 6d. t and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561b5., Freight Pald,3to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlereaqh Street,
SYDNEY.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
Timber Kmbasts, and Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &c, in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a speciality.
Country & Station Orders promptly despatched.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
ŧ
t
The Seat In the World.
WHOLES ABB AGENTS]
Mins Collscoilt S Co
•f
83 OLARENOE ST
lopfirtf
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE. OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
Bourse S'
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOT
E
$
Jl:
.
• -O
sees
E-
m
/m
m
mi
PI
*1
~
&
J.A.WILSOIM
PROPRfETOR
Q.W.CLARE
MANAGER
The PALACE HOTEL, BOUEKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
KT NOW OPEN, -ea
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches, It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS .
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Sprat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
tr TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS H
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terns I SINGLE EE9EQOU, 2s. Ed. per NIGS!
f Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of
I using the Public Koouis of the llotel.
<2T MEALS can fee had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s. ’
Full particulars as to the Tariff, See., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
§ HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
m
:
?
mx
y.
IT
'.■■■■
* -A.oti.EusK^:
in
a
> i -
u
* -
sra3sa«s=rrr.
Fr-sTIMI* ttHftfO-GIUL t I itt*W-i* N>Oil»»
A. DEUIUBE H i* m H H H , Proprietor.
Wilts, Frmi Liquors & Banna Ci»an i SvtcialitT S. Bout, Ciiiiit Fnieain,
t
ť
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERS HI RE
SAI/CE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ash for LEA and PERKINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle »*•*
'i t °PP tr - iVholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester, Crone
dlacb-well, London. <s~v., 6rc.; and by G racers and Oilmen throughout the World


BWgaiT BO KOMI A, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. (13..
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st.. East,
WKIIUHKSH.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cannot be surpassed.
is supplied with splendid billiard-rooms, elegant
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, ana
is fitted up with every appliance
modern civilisation to make life pleasant- *JZ
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and ndifcfforQ
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hot*
thoroughly oomfortabe.
Harder Hade Easy.
(Fob The Bulletin.)
Never since the days of Burke and Hark has
John Bull known a scare so deliciously thrilling
as the Whitechapel murders. For years past he has
browsed on shilling-shockers, and the twopenny
terrors "dished up” in his newspapers, but nothing
in their ideal blood and thunder was ever quite so
shockingly shocking as these Easo-end realities.
Yet, though these crimes soothe, they do not
satiate his aching for the hideous and the awful,
the instinct that impels the common variety of
Briton to whoop in the papers at any calamity,
from a cabman’s overcharge to a massacre —the
instinct to take revenge on someone or anyone
rather than breathe one word against his putrefied
social system —has prompted a yell of execration
at the incompetency of the London police. No
one blames the bestial herding of the poor, nur
condemns the vile conditions of their lives which
make such crimes possible. Doubtless, Bull
would enjoy killing the culprit, but he will he
almost equally content if vicarious atonement be
made, no matter by whom. Provided somebody
is damaged, the great throbbing heart of England
will cease throbbing and forget—but first some-
one must be damaged. Hence the howls.
• « .
So far as the police aspect of the case is concerned,
we do not blame the police for not catching the
murderer. His crimes are of an extraordinary
character, and no British (or Australian) policeman
is fitted by nature or art to wrestle with anything
but the severely humdrum. The normal criminal
and all his methods are conservative; he would
scorn to introduce low Radical innovations into a
noble profession, and as the police and their
methods are equally Tory and tame, they cannot
be expected to do anything more under extraor-
dinary circumstances than look as wise as a meagre
capacity that way permits.
* • •
Discharged constables and other gaudy story-
tellers who, in tawdry yellow-backs, present var-
nished portraits of detectives — super-human
mixtures of sleuth-hounds, red-Indians on the trail,
and trebly-distilled Solons—are either ignorant, or
lie to please a public t w at prefers to take its truth
in the treacle of fabrication —or both. The British
(and Australian) detective is a thief-taker and
nothing else, dependent for all he detects on his
male a? d female jackalls—criminals or quasi-
criminals—and on "fences,” "bawds,” and other
fountains of that unfathomable symbol of police
lore, “ From information Oi recaved.” Apart from
these he stands revealed the ponderous possessor
of an aspect of variegated mystery, some un-
natural wigs and clothing, and a distressing
inability to disguise the identity of his regulation
highlows.
• * •
Live detectives are not dug from the strata of
which police are composed, nor are they produced
by existent police systems. As naturalists can
ideally reconstruct from a bone the ichthyosaurus,
so should the detective be enabled, from clues the
most fragmentary and by aid of pure reason, to fit
every detail of a crime, and find, at the end of an
cnbreakable chain of evidence, the criminal. This
demands not only the highest sort of education,
but splendid powers of perception, analysis, and
sustained logical thought. To supply these the
authorities, with the chuckleheadedness insepar-
able from British officialdom, select cohorts of
big, brawny, bunniony bumpkins, who, though
not acephalous, carry the least possible brains to
their square inches. .They then surrender their
prize beef-eaters to some military Putnblechook —
some arid apostle of pipe-clay and brass polish,
who drills them into machines in highlows, teach-
ing them that evolution from militarism and
mutton-headedness embodied in the drill-ser-
geant’s exordium to his recruits. "You think I
what the devil business has a soldier to think ?”
Forgetting all else the policeman never forgets
that. Under this system, when a constable has
mastered the military salute, the goose-step, and
best method of clubbing “ the blawsted mob ”
with minimum risk to himself, he is as full of
attainments as he can hold without bursting his
clothes. Faced by thoughtful and unwonted
crimes, such as those of Whitechapel, and finding
the usual channels of information useless, it is
-farcial to blame such men for detective incapacity.
• « *
Confronted by the intelligently-executed crime
of the non-professional, the police have but one
resource. Taey nose for a "suspicious kar-
racther,” preferably a poor foreigner, and finding
one sufficiently friendless and forlorn proceed to
fit him into the crime. Incapable of fitting a
crime to the perpetrator, or of reasoning from the
little they know to the large amount tihey don’t
know, they bound from something they know
nothing about to something else they know less
about. Unconscious Plstonists in blue and buttons,
they build square theories and try to ram round
facts inside. One of the consequences is that
they often blithely hang the wrong man ; another,
that innumerable crimes, not earmarked as pro-
fessional, have baffled them; the latest consequence
is that the Whitechapel murders have flabber-
gasted them beyond repair, and they can only
offer the old bald theories, a little balder than usual
• •
Whatever else may be unfathomable and buried
among the ruins of conjecture, it remains a cer-
tainty that the murders were not committed for
plunder, the victims being all in the last stage of
destitution ; these crimes are therefore plainly not
the work of the professional criminal, who indeed
regards murder as a luxury in which he never in-
dulges sav'i in self-preservation. The most
reasonable —on the surface —is the maniac theory,
and at first sight it seems probable that a madman
might be the guilty person. The police favour
this idea, thereby accurately gauging their own
skill, which, in all its aggregate ponderousness, is
by their own admission wiped out by the cunning
of one idiot off the chain. But apart from this
unwonted police self-abasement the madman
theory is little short of preposterous, and even
when the police have captured some harmless
imbecile that nobody owns, and proved him guilty,
and had him duly and sufficiently hanged, we will
still adhere to this convijtion. E ven granting the
cunning claimed for lunatics, their craft is essen-
tially lopsided ; half of them may be fox, but the
other is most assuredly unmitigated ass. If not,
they are not mad. Now, a lunatic may have sense
enough to know that he wanted to kill women —
women of a certain class —in a certain way, in the
same neighbourhood, about the same time. He
might even be astute enough to master the police
movements, and, like the murderer, the intricacies
of the most intricate diitrict in London. He
might, that is to say, carry any one or even more
of these matters in his sick brain, hut no maniac,
that ever lived could carry them all and all
together . No maniac, out of a penny-droadlul,
ever possessed the power of continuous and well-
sustained thought and action evmced by this
murderer, who constantly eludes cordons of police
sentries, commits murder with police a few yards
away, commits «t scientifically and quietly, con-
trary to insan. idiosyncrasies : again eludes the
watch in retreat, and, with blood upC n bim, threads
the streets Mid regains his abode at thC moatl BU8 Pl‘
cious hour of the morning without exciting atten-
tion by police or passers-by. Not only must this
“ maniac’s” knowledge of the districti be astound-
ing in any —save a detective, but his exact know-
ledge of police movements is phenomenal in any—
save a detective,
„ • •
London doubtless boasts a number of assorted
lunatics at large, but very few o! these are “ homi-
cidal ” —that phase of mental disease being rare.
Assuming the culprit to be such a maniac, some-
one must know him as a lunatic. The medical
history of such mania forbids the supposition that
any man went to bed sane and waked a raging,
and at the same time, a cool, calm, and cautious
madman, who, with a plan of butchery out and
dried, whispered to himself, “I will go out and
kill something.” No madman’s first essay is
wholesale slaughter r be works up to that There-
fore, if the man wanted be a lunatic, he is an old
lunatic, and as a dangerous madman, must be
known to someone either relations, friends,
doctors, or attendants. Yet we are asked to
believe that such a madman can be out night after
night, committing horrors that make every man,
woman and child in London sicken with terror
horrors that are on every tongue, blazoned on
every hoarding, yowled by paper-runners in every
street, and still no one has observed their maniac’s
midnight absences on those very nights when
murder has been done ! Assuming the absurdity
that this lunatic showed no premonitory symp-
toms of lunacy, that he is an estimable
citizen by day and a fiend in human shape
by night, still he must be known to some; he
must live, eat, sleep ; keep and change hia cloth-
ing, and wash the blood ofi him somewhere The
more openly he lives the easier detection; the
more secretly, the sooner would suspicion of neigh-
bours and busy-bodies be attracted. London may
be the nicest place in all the world for an ordinary
criminal to hide in, but these murders have made
the metropolis a vast hive of amateur detectives,
viewing each man his neighbour with suspicion.
The first thought that would strike any house-
holder on opening his paper wet with the gory
horrors of the night before, would be : “Who was
out of the house last night?” the next: “Who
came in early this morning ?”_ Whether the
murderer lives in his own house, in hotel, board-
, I
Q /
“ MAN IS ONLY A MONKEY SHAVED.”
CLERGYMAN (porously) : " NO, MISS SMITH, DARWINISM IS UTTERLY
IMPRACT ICABLE THE COUNTENANCE OE MAN IS SUFFICIENT
PROOF THAT HE WAS NEVER DESCENDED FROM THE APE.”
MISS SMITH: “AH, YES! THAT ARGUMENT APPLIES TO SOME MEN
CERTAINLY. IN FACT IT APPLIES TO SOME MEN A LOT MORE
THAN TO OTHERS.”
ing-house, or coffee-shop, his absences on the
nights of the murders must be noted by some one
or more. If he lives utterly alone —itself a rare
and suspicious circumstance in crowded London —
the constable on the beat has long had him under
surveillance, that being the said constable’s only
strong point The monomaniac, the mad-doctors
tell us with blighting gravity, is sane on all points
'but one—that, his special delusion. Just so, but
this "maniac” evinces his greatest sanity on the
subject of his " delusion.” For instance, he com-
mits murder at night only; the homicidal mad-
man slays wherever and whenever the fit takes
him. By working only at night the murderer
evinces a fear of detection utterly inconsistent
with homicidal mania, the cunning of which ex-
tends only to the perpetration of the deed and not
to the means of eluding suspicion afterwards,
* * *
If the lunatic theory thus peters out, then the
"Man from Texas,” the “Man from Sydney,”
the “ Man from Russia ” theories peter with it,
all those being merely imported madmen instead
of the local or home-made idiot. The other police
theories are beneath serious argument. The idea
that the murders were committed by an anatomist
for anatomical purposes is disproved by the fact
that no real anatomical skill has been exhibited
by the murderer, or none greater than that pos
sessed by a butcher, and the supposition could
only have emanated from a policeman s weary
little brain, sick with too many attempts at un-
wonted thinking.
* * •
Having exhausted theory and deduction, we
turn to fact and induction. What is known about
these murders ? Not much, certainly, but still
something. It is known that they are murders.
It is known that the murderer has continually
before, at, and after the commission of the deeds,
eluded the detectives, the uninformed, and the
amateur police on watch. It is known—-a most
E regnant fact, as showing acquaintance with what
appens inside police-stations—that a few minutes
after an unfortunate was kicked out of a police
station she was killed in the usual manner. It is
known that the murderer has a phenomenal know-
ledge of the Whitechapel district and of the police
movements therein. To reason from what is
known to what is not known, the first thing
that must strike the inquirer is the superhuman
skill displayed by the murderer in passing and
repassing the patrols. To credit any person with
“ superhuman ” skill is, however, to seek a need-
lessly complex explanation for a fact while simple
explanations are available. The assassin merely
passed unsuspected. But he could only pass be-
cause his presence excited no suspicion. On the
other hand, every stranger would excite suspicion.
We therefore assume that he is not a stranger to
the police. But even a well-known civilian would
be stopped and questioned at such a moment.
We consequently conclude that he is not a civilian.
To discover, under the circumstances, a possible
murderer, we must search for someone whose
right to be anywhere at any time in the White-
chapel district is beyond question; someone who
is above or beyond police interference and espion-
age : someone who, in wide limits, may do
anything, wear any disguise, even, say, the
blood-stained blouse of a Whitechapel slaughter-
man ; who might carry arms, who might refuse to
be stopped or questioned by the police, and might
enter his own abode day or night unsuspected. To
such a one the perpetration of the crimes would
be preposterously easy, to anyone else preposter-
ously difficult. Who, then, fulfils the foregoing
conditions ? We answer, a man of one class and
no other in England, or the world —a detective
policeman !
• • •
The murderer’s knowledge of the district, his
intimate acquaintance with the police arrange-
ments, his evident! familiarity with his victims,
who would j ust now fear any stranger, his power
of passing the patrols, his disguises, the apparent
ease with which he gets rid of his blood-stained
clothing, his power of leaving or returning to his
abode at suspicious hours without arousing suspi-
cion, are all, in a detective, the most ordinary and
natural matters po-sible ; in any other person they
are astounding, extraordinary and unnatural, and
we reiterate we have no logical righs to painfully
search out complex and occult explanations when
perfectly simple ones are to hand.
• * •
Those who, by aid of trashy novels and the
saponaceous gush of newspaper reporters, have
learned to regard the detective as part Abistidks
N _
and part Solomon, will scout our conclusion. Let
them. We app sal from these innocents to men of
the world—to men acquainted with the under-tow
of life in large cities—and ask, do they consider
detective police the white, wise lambs the inter-
ested and foolish suppose them to be? The sup-
position is too ridiculous. We do not say that all
detectives are possible murderers or even rogues;
we unhesitatingly assert some are. Selected as
are the police, it stands to reason, and is a demon-
strated fact, that men of depraved instincts some-
times join the forces. Such men, though possess-
ing none of the true detective gifts, have fre-
quently ten limes the low cunning of their simple
military superiors, and having easily hoodwinked
them by the display of small sapiencies, obtain de-
beobive rank. What may follow was demonstrated
by the London detective scandals a few years ago
which partially discovered a reeking abyss, quickly
covered again, of police corruption. The Pall
Mall Gazette, and other papers, have since
levelled the gravest charges, still unrefuted, at the
English police—charges of intimidation, black-
mailing prostitutes, conniving at abduction of
young girls, and conspiring with brothel-keepers,
burglars, and receivers of stolen property. Not
many years ago a constable was proved to be the
trainer of young thieves—from such matters to
murder is no far step/ Judglx" by what men of
the world see and know of the police, and reflect-
ing how little a civilian is likely to know, and the
difficulty any outsider would experience in pene-
trabing the arcana of forces so homogeneous, more
than sufficient is known bo make thoughtful men
shiver at what is often hidden behind the police
mask of stolid respectability.
# #
Those who argue that were the police to commit
serious crimes, they would speedily be detected
and exposed, make the assertion of blatant igno-
ranee and folly. Who is to expose them ? Who
that ever tried, really succeeded, and who that
once assayed, would dare repeat the attempt ?
Who is brave enough and pure enough in life and
character, to tempt police retaliation and espio-
nage, and the hostility of the authorities, the
natural protectors of the police?.' Who is rich
and at the same time puhlio-spirired enough, to
spend the time and money to procure evidence
and institute prosecution, and who canning
enough to rebut police ruses, small subtleties, and,
above all, that solid rock, police teitimony—prao
tioal testimony, professional testimony—which
will be arraigned against him? Bah 1 Don Quixote.;
db la Mancha is dead; we of the nineteenth cen-
tury tilt not at windmills.
* * *
Motive ! This to the lawyer is indispensable.
Not so to the psychologist who recognises that
science knows nothing of the hidden springs that
move the mind. Criminal motives always seem
absurdly inadequate and will remain so until we
can see with the same oblique mental vision as the
criminal himself. In searching for motive we
must be satisfied with the most reasonable—for
here we leave the region of fact for that of sup-
position. If, however, there be difficulty in fitt-
ing a detective with motive, there is ten tiroes the
difficulty with a civilian. Ninety-nine per cent,
of “ sane ” murders are prompted by greed or re-
venge. The status cf the victims precludes the
plunder theory. It is unreasonable to suppose any
but a madman had any cause, real or imaginary,
for revenge against nine “unfortunates.” But
revenge is not always direct in its operations
Constance Kent murdered her brother to be re-
venged on someone else ; servants have murdered
children to spite employers; soldiers their officers,
who never harmed them, to be Revenged ort
Governments. The person next to the victims
most injured by these murders is Sir Chari.es
Warren, lata Chief of Police, who, covered
with obloquy, has had to resign. With
his resignation the murders have ceased! If
anyone desired his retirement and humiliation
they could not have chosen a speedier way of
inducing them than these murders. No civili-n,
illused by the police, would have a grucge agait at
Sir Charles Warren, but against the inferior
police who had illumed him. The inferior pol es
have not suffered by the murders. But had a
civilian, capable of murder, a deadly hatred to Sit
Charles in his official capacity, surely be could ,
have murdered the Commis ioner, and there an
end. If his grudge was of a pergonal and private
nature, why attempt to injure Sir Charles in his
official capacity, and what civilian knew enough of
the domestic economy of the police to foresee these
murders wou’d be the cause of Warren’s degra-
dation ? The same arguments apply to a detective.
Those acquainted with the bitter jealousies and
intrigues, the professional pride trad strivings
after precedence and promotion not uncommon in
some regiments and the rule in police forces, will
clearly understand that an unscrupulous, am-
bitious, and cunning detective who had been de-
graded, or whose “ merits ” had been neglected by
bis Chief, might, after long brooding over big
disgrace, take what have proved to be the surest
possible methods to relegate a hostile superior,
covered with humiliations, to the background.
This, at any rate, is what has happened, and none
but a policeman could have forseen that it would
happen. The motives may not be deemed ade-
quate Perhaps they are not. But revenge, dis-
appointed ambition, and wounded pride are the
most terrible levers the world yet knows.
* • *
This is »n attempt iu show that a aotective is
the Whitechapel murderer. It is more; were it
not it would not have been written, for it is not of
vital importance to Australasians whether a police
or civil fiend butchered those poor wretches whose
rest with the worms has a peace and decorum
denied to such women in life by a cruel “civilisa-
tion” and an accursed social system. The true
purpose of this essay is to call attention to the
monstrous power plsced in the hands of men, none
of whom are fitted by education, and few by
character, to wield it From governors, judges,
magistrates, legislators even, society demands, if
it does not always obtain, special training, attain-
ment, and character, and these are eternally
under supervision and their public acts are open
to public inspection. In our police, over whom
we have no check and who burrow like moles im
the dark, we ask only so many pounds avoirdupois*
of bone and muscle, and neither brains, education,
nor character in the true sense Yet what powers
over life and reputation have governors and judge*
compared with detectives ? Absolutely none
The judge passes a sentence which a governor
may confirm or remit, but only after the police
have presented their case. The detective may be
honest and ignorant, or ignorant and a scoundrel,,
but whether true man or Satan’s spawn it is he in.
most cases who really prepares the evidence that:
imprisons the accused or dangles him broken-
necked over the gulf of eternity.
• • •
Of all men in the world the detective’s
character, principles, ard training should be
highest. Practically above the law, free to come
and go, to be dispuised, armed, and to fraternise
with criminals, the magic “Oa Duty” is his all
sufficient shibboleth Behind him, a solid phalanx,
are comrades versed in the art of giving evidences
prepared—conscientiously often, but stupidly to
swear to what he says. Behind these again, solid
and stolid as a wall—often as wooden—range*
higher police officials, magistrates, judges, fre-
quently juries, who seem to have blinder faith in a-
policeman than in the prophets and the apostles
and all the hosts of heaven. What might an un-
scrupulous detective not do, if so disposed, to any
innocent citizen ? “ Murder Made Easy,” indeed t
Why, to the evilly-disposed policeman it is murder
made pleasant and inviting, and he could
“ legally ” kill any man or woman and the law
would eulogise and reward him. Does any re-
flective man suppose the police, with their dread
ful opportunities, have never “ legally ” put away
enemies or dangerous friends? There are, we
know, hundreds of instances of the wron a man
having suffered through the fatuous theories and
stupidity of police, but Omniscience alone knows
how many innocent men have been murdered by
process of law, or are at this present moment
dying of prison dry-rot because they have offended
the police ? Said Clive, accused of robbing and
murdering Hindoos, and thinking, maybe regret
fully, of chances to loot and kill let slip; “My
God, at this moment I stand astounded at my
own moderation !” When we think of the ras-
calities that might be perpetrated by the police,
we are not surprised at what they do, but standi
gratefully amazed at the abominations they have
left undone.


Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
{Salween George lad York Streets.) P.O. Box 111. Dll
Spier la a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, 0.8. (for eenSmatlen see Hew Sealant
Gantts, January <lst, 1888) also New Boolh Wales
Ha setts, April XTIh. 1868). The doctor has devoted 14
ynre to the ctndy of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were In the leading
iiifUale ef the United States, which enables him to treat
all Mmjrialnts with excellent results. All applying to
jw will receive his honest opinion of their oomplalntß.
Mi experimenting | no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
AMO. Hie reason for doing so Is this—when there Is no
•tganio disease, and nothing but an Inorganic trouble, or,
IS ether words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
• certain result, there Is no reason why It cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
■a wishes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
M perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
fee inly to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed In his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
aesMlng at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail bit treated at home. The course of treatment will
Mt In any way Interfere with their business. Examlna-
and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
H.D., 41 Margaret Street, between George and Terk
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 820. Office hours,
It o.oa. to U a.m. | Sto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
It to 11 a.m only
RIDGE’S
FOOD
ira INFANTS am INVALIDS
Was an enormous sale in England,
and ic now being introduced into the
Colonies.
JEtrepy Storekeeper should get a supply,
ms ©very wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLAND.
mi
PI JS
l v ■ O M art in
be found In she "LIGHT AND
UTI,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, fco. ▲ copy of
ahle book will be sent Free, sealed, lor Six Fanny
Stamps, Addtam—
S, WARD fc 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
IS Hunter Street Sydney.
m/TEBMERIO, MAGNETIC, and ELECTRIC
jyi INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
gDI. a®. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
Awmrlo, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
,|wwl«mi Remedy Company. All Diseases
ffPEBD, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
mrn ly, bis motto being “ Nature cures Nature’s
ieaay.” Dancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
•oritively cured, without cutting, in from three to
low days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
■ell In being the only person known In the world
Efbo will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
BoEgne without Surgical Operations of any kind;
in hat, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
Incidental to suffering humanity, even when all
giber treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B. —
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that yon get
PCthlwg bat the genuine article. A Faot.—This
Is the only Instltntion of its kind In the World
Erbese all Kinds of Onres are Effected with little
at no medicine.
Please Copy the Address—
DR. ST. VINCENT,
Iff Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
Eucalypti 0
TREE OF LIFE
mi SS&fcQS-
Victory Ointments
Mr Ik* illy Pare Eucalypte la the Werld,
A WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
JBL Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CUBE for
Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
JMIUUDny JDtUUviiiuiß) jl iuui ioj j
Odds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
loan I also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
•Sh Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands wlth-
Mt a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Rumours, and Shin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
Manufacturers of the Encalypte Fills, Enoalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
lamed Encalypte Honey Is the best preparation
More the public for young children and aged
fffftpK Also, makers of the.Euoalypte Lozenges
to the Voice. Manufactory— Oootamdndba.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—227 Elizabkth-stbkkt.
Posted to any part of the Colonies.^Sold Bvery-
Bnoart of Imitations,
Business Announcements,
2^
CKS
OF
sM»
CAPS fc
4MCEORCE »T
•gVDNEY 1
jfaHOth jLaMttUnj
Branch ;
678 GEORGE STREET.
BBIOKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Oraig and Altkens.)
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, ARD
OTHERS.
MOpOOaTto Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIUS,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & 00., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, M Pltt-
street, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery
Rose's Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling and
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Byes and Bids, Dimness
of Sight, etc. It will be found very beneficial and cooling
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels them
to strain their eyes. Highly recommended by the leading
Oculists.
! The public are requested to notice the
- words, “ BOSS’S CELEBRATED EYE
LOTION," with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Ask
HOSE'S CELGS&AIES ETE LOTION,
Not for Bose Eye lotion.
as yon will get a Lotion composed of Bose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser lor the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
B. A, ROSE,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY'
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. (By post, 3s. 6d )
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
N
ERV O u s
DEBILITY.
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward Advice
and his Medical Book Eekk. Address—
Herb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P 0,, Sydney, N.S.W.
Preliminary Announcement.
CONSUMPTION, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
hoarseness, and all diseases of the throat
and lungs, cured without fail by a new remedy
made solely of Australian herbs. We prove its
powerful efficacy by allowing you from one to
three bottles as a trial. Farther particulars
and full terms of allowing trial medicine sent on
application. Address: HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
COMPANY, Tamworth, N.S.W.
ORIGINAL
T
Ba me
AN
°^AU wTiotav
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHEBEST IfITHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
PRIZEDEOAl
Manufactured byJamesChaknom
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Croc era and Stojxfcecpar*
Medical.
Zk WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
iEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are usdvaeoally ad-
mitted to bo worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Karroo*
Diaorden such a*
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
neoe and Swelling
after Meal*, Diasri-
neee and Drowtines*,
Cold Chill*, Flushing*
of Heat, lioeo of Ap-
petite, Shortnea* of
Breath, Coatireneaa,
Scurry and Blotchea
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dream*, and all
Kerrou* and Tremb-
The Hr at doe* will giro relief
SE2S isasations, Ac,
Era fwaaty minute*.
ar*ry sufferer is earnestly innted to try one
femafithaa* Pill* and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Ete female* of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
03 Q few dose* of them carry oft all humours* and
Itefeg about all that is required. Ko female should
t£3 WM&out them. There is no Medicine to be found
gqpbl to Beech am’* Pill* for removing any*obstruc-
Me 3 fj irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
Qfej to the directions given with each box, they
wmeson restore females of all ages to sound and
v&mEk health. This has been proved, by thousand*
wSi® hare tried them, and found the benefits which
Gffa secured by their use.
a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
low doses will be found to work wonders on the most
Important organs in the human machine. They
ateswthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
longloat complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appotite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
oe health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
beat guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEBOHAK’S PILLS have the Large* I Me »/ (KJf
Patoti Medicine in the World.
Beeoliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
A a a remedy for Cough* in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Bzea&h, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
asa the neat ever offered to the public and will
ptpcsMy remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty af breathing, which nightly deprive the
rototeat of rest. Let any person give BKEOHAM’B
OOUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and BetalL by
<&s Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lea-
(ScaaMrs, Kngland, in boxes Is. lid. and 2*. NL each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Etoalen everywhere.
gJA—Full directions are given with aaoh fcas.
THB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Stdnkt Branches;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
gOIENOB CONQUERS DISEASE:
Kl'... . t The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mom MERCURY ob othbb NoziOOH
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. cT WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., &0., w i /
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON r
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia who
holds, the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
•* Tilterinii Progressive Medical Institute,”
18, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
(or the eolentlfio and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Cbronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity tor Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Oenito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it Is ouraole, he
will tell yon eo i if not, he will tell yon also, lor he will
net undertake a case unless he le confident of effecting a
■me.. It will cost you nothing tor consultation, eo satiety
yams Yf that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
H. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that Ido not claim
le perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
S claim only to be a skilled and eueoeaeful Physician
thoroughly informed In my speciality.
Note Address^
HOemSITE VESICAL 11371T0T1,
58, Fmndbbs Btbbbt W„ Mbibobbhb.
MT No §onneetion set th any offcsr Mutfcsl ImtUuti In
Australia Bex 188, H.P.O.
FOR BALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
Guineas’* Extra Stoat.
ruts* QUALITY.
in
OE
11V0..11
Mass’s Pale Ale.
SOLB PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE A9BNTB,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.
sosaMtarelal Chambers, Boad-StreeA S?On«
CASHED SOf/£
MANUFACTURING MATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
('POUTERS Or All THE
FEWEST SHAPES.
'■MYHsraa ‘xßsnuu i v* p*t
JUST PUBLISHED.
A Moat Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It oontalna Information moat Valuable la 1
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES, 1
For Ita Hygienic Rales are worth its weight be
gold. Send your fall address, and we will send Port
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry'Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Stdnk BuiurniN.
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers ® FITS*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable stelotlf
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence pec
quarter, or One Found per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sa e every Frlday>t
the office, George Street, or from the rnnnerc la
the street.
fi. STEPHENSJN
Bib OH CAM-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ OASES, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fcC,
COOPERAGE,
18V KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX ST RE El
Between King and Market Streets,
WALDE:
SR, Tent, Tarpaulin, C
296 PITT STREET.
,uUn, Oilskin Maker.
MABQUBKS ON HXBB.
LLAS
BECOyEREQ.
O
KntluatVntnlli 90k
«n«red. mdytxw
rtmacaatatineA aa&tmi
J. StTLLIVA>n%
sa" - -
UfNiMi •&&;
fmnact* rad* W>
NMt a*s*nam*3 M
"FOR WRAMUNO A PICTURE NBA S
AND WELL."
D BERNARD'S Piotdbc nod MooiDina
• 9tOU, 383 George-atreet (opposite Royal
Hotel), is wtknowledged to be the Best Mid
Cheapest In the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gildlng
equal to new. Mounts ent with real gold edges.
Special attention paid Bohool Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
T IFM PRESERVATION
Dl. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
If LOHCDAkB BBBBB* EABI. MBiBO«BH
This work la a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in*
discretions and other enervating Influences will
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advlai
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that Is of incalculable use to aU
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con
fidentlal Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable cnratlve treatment without the aid §1
quacks.
Prise per mall Bs. Id. (any colonial stamps), la
be had of all booksellers or the Otto PubUchtal
Co., I A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON UADB
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from SOt. to Sl«.
N* PITT NT., &YI»NET (Near fattamU’M
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice at Long at
any other leather,
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS "¥8
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
Msi
MASON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R THENWARB.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GBNBBAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
P. R, LARKIN,
IXTOBTKB or
m WIN BIS, SPIRITS, BBBBS Sc 0., &0, *•*
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 yean old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old dork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Marten's and Sazerac’s Brandies (6, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldesf Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
KT The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. IS' All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottlbd Ah and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince off Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
at SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. TE*
riESI-CLASO LADIES' SErmHMm" BOOM and LAVATOBT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hoedbbn & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, PREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S.
Slacks Olio
OB
EMBROCATION,
808
HOUSES, UTTLE t ML
Will make Hair Grow ovai Oldest Bmh.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, UK
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRUSS
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALUL
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, RAMS
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MAN6U&
and m an EMBROCATION for SERAM,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and BMLARO&
MENTS.
Prepared Bair hr
J. Behan & Go., 135 Bliiabtlh
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Australian Draff 00., 8. KffiSteaf
and 00., J. Brash, Son and Co., W. S.
and Son, SB3 George Street, Mad Bntlas Wem**
Wjmyard Square, Sydkbtj Sparks and Yawns*
Eagle Street, Bbibbanb; E. Fletcka, 9mm*
Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
J. BIHAX, T.S., SB Pit* Street, Mtaßl
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per
Bold bf all Chemists, Saddlers and Ht—ahasgaBS»
A BLESSING IN EYERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OIMIMWi.
There ia not a country in the oilrlisedwerM vSam
the healing virtues of theee grand medicines have netlnia
recognised by thousands of suflerers. In aB Pie ssdtoM§>
ailment* of humanity their benefloient action Is at ease
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied ter (feels BBS
In every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
factored only at 7S Niw Ozfokd-st., London. MSF
chasers should look to the Label on the Boses and
If the address la not 638 Oxford-street; London, Mesjr m»
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
PSBURG PIANOS
AT XHI
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
lOTORI
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsor
BALL/v RAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
BOHUOA ...
BEEOHWORTH
HAMILTON
WaRRNAMBOOL
3 ALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swamton Strut.
New Coffee Palace, Boorke street.
59 Swaaitoa Street, opposite Town HalL
... Swan Street.
... Chapel Street.
... Sturt Street.
... - Fall Mall, next Lyceum Stone.
... 66 Moorabool Street.
«, Main Street, next Aaaohlmana’e.
w. High Street.
... Camp Street.
«. Gray Street.
... Fairy Street.
... Foster Street,
... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Mach ins
PASTOKALISTS are notified that, to avoid
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
ICIBXTII
t. a.
Pi
19 Phillip Street* Sydney.
Bl' NTON’S Silver * Lerer WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Biding and Bough Wear emdipeeki lf
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this weeufkti*
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Ageata i
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, lydmy.
INDIA RUBBER Ml AH UF ACTURERSp
270 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Bnbbet Vaith, Washbbs, Gabmts *o„ ko. Mmklid to uy Biae. Rabbet geoie lee el pag
Lists and Samples an Application.
t
ŧ
S?2«
As s
«
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
m
4W Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they k on eempeMk
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horologleal art and of
the very best materials throughout ; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime* and are Ml
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring," hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watekMl
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.9.A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. r - f
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horologleal
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon thp Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, aad South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minotu Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of oonstruottvs gsniua.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
CHROHOGRAP
&
<o
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham Bulldlngs p Bcid Street, SYDNEY. ———
