

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SO.NS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.”— Lancet,
AMERICAN
WALTHA
K^r.
ZE
de
T®“
jl*”
Tla.o Best Timekeepers th.
■e World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
be /^ lEKICAN . Y^ THAM . Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
able to oixTororder hrOUgh ° Ut ’ lculafced to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coding of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary fiat hair-spring l No other watches
-»■ waSfrfc ™
of vote™. ld “ d Silver Ca3e8 ' Ensli,h “«kSrs .‘SSL.w
wtr Chronographs infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth cf second, start, stop, fly-back,
vvf I'-IL Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish. P 7
a tham ladies' V\ atches. ihe “ bio. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite o-em of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. 4 g m 01 norol0!?lcaJ
a altham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom. ’ d b th
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof. a
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, trom their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others. . ®
” altham V ATCHES are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
M
glwi
*
fex
CHRONOGRAPH
m
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
Waltham BT3.lltai33.gs, Bona street, Sydney.
Lever Brothers, Stjnlig'iit Soap” IVtctnufacturers
P’ w J°t2!“*ilS “*K* «"«■«»* Wordthan the letters contained in the name "Australasia." FIRST PRIZE, Five Pounds fan ■ SECOND
Children Under Fourteen tears of age- One 405., two’ ss & ** PhT s*¥ 'f coo ®? M .>w? el a?|j fr T the *"*s* “Snnligllt Soap,” for
the Ist is the work of the child, name of the school' at whS SS&H that
o
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers.
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEEES.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
ĥ
EVERY LADY HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BY USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
1 “WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OE FASHIONS,” contain-
ing- Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of the country
on receipt of (lOd.) Postage Stamps.
Madame WEIGrEX.,
101 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
XJSE
Liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
H : y
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry, «y c .,
x ABB
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams * Australian "ST oast Powdicri
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold 111 TIIIS at 64. the Half-Pound.
The Bulletin


TU
If
*
O
ħ
h
ĥ
SIR ROGER
- ■'» - - ■
*
O
si
DIXSQNS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and. is now toeing introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
SB.. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
m
hht
HOME-
S’* fonuqmnce if TnitSftins of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAtyCE . which are calculated t <» deceive the Public, Lea and PerHfVt
Have to request that Purchasers see that the Label ■. every
heart their Signature fhus-~~
Op
without,*tbhkh m bottle of the original WORCEStERSWfSE
SAUCE is genuine.
'Ash fif't. E A and PERR I US' Sauce, and see Name-on Wn-'-pn-, Label, Bottle, and
'Stopper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, it-or. ••ter, Crosse end
' Sitaebevtil, London, (pc,, (re. ; and by Grocers and Oil-men th -<~g.tofU the World.
• •
HIGHLY IMUTRIT4VE
Coeoa
MAY B£ OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS UR PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
WILLIAM == CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“Can’t B Beat.”
‘CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of C heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New! Something New 1
The £ff Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered}
W” Smoker’s Companion! 'Vft
containing the following
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American To oacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
60 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib.’ Long- Cut, American
|3g- Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 5(1
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address;
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Sydney.
BRITTENBEB6 & CO.’
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mou
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous comnounds sold
under the same name.
Of alt Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Mark- -“White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Merchant.
PREMIER
Building' Association,
64 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,630
Deposits Received
Advances Made
Total Income
93,581
123,248
200,106
Year ending
Oct., 1387.'
£431,125 '
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Year endm
Oct
I V'V
£580,999
, Oli*
1,12.5.949
2,048.951
Year endina
Oct.. 1886’. ‘
. £350,000
120,000
. ,261,500
247,840
461,085
. )-(-
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, S per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by-
small sums of uncertain amount,
. , , . and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon thetr Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liiberal.
s
9II £ i 1:113
jfii)
PREMIER
Building' Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when, that sum is paid over to their holders in
Gash. The holders of the Fikst Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £25 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con"
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is, per Fortnight for 11 years,
i : J*
Hon._ John Fimmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
*
ra* federal Coffee Palace,
CORNER OF
and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors
PRIVATE SUITES OF ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DIMING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, ColcL and Shower Baths.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
C 3" eor ST o Colien olio, stt. &xt


The Bulletin
Vol. 10 -No. 4C2.
SATURDAY, JULY 20, 1889.
Price, 6cl.
fjl fjftl
STR JAMES LOUIMEE (“DISMAL JEMMY”).


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
' Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 1.1 6
Quarterly ... ... ... .». 0G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or A ewspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put tea
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ire are riot responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS,
NOTICE.
Ly sending direct to The Bulletin Office. Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
fan have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In, that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirety
pi the hands ff our carriers, , ifith whom %ce fly, not uysh
(o interfere.
SATURDAY. JULY 20, 1880.
“Banks"—Bogus and Otherwise.
Jr A has saved £‘loo which he wants to lend
at interest, and B applies for the loan, A
will steadfastly refuse to lend unless B gives
him good security—that is, of course, if the
two are strangers. But, suppose B hires an
office and calls himself tfye “
Loan Discount Mortgage and Fimpipi;\l Free-
hold Banking Company, Limited ; capital,
£5,000,000," and offers, say, 10 per cent, for
fixed deposits, A will cheerfully go, sqd leave
his money with B without askipg for a
fraction of security. For he feels so much
safer in dealing with a “ Conmaqy ”—con-
sisting of B—than he \yould bb iq pealing
with Bin propria persona. The name <>f the
company inspires him with confidence ; the
word “ limited ” its sarcasm being latent—
invests the concern with an awesome solidity ;
and the capital—existing only on the well-
gilded office-window dulls any instinct fore-
telling danger. Other hanks may break,
and depositors who are foolish may lose their
money, but a “bank” that can give 10 per-
cent. on deposits and yet offer the splendid
security of £5,000,000 “capital,” must be
sempiternal in solvency as in name. Resting
upon such an assurance, depositors, who
know not how easily “ companies ’ and
“banks” are formed nowa-days, invest
their savings, and in too many cases find,
when the term has expired, that”the ‘‘bank”
has expired also, and that their money has
gone where the bad bankers go—to Val-
paraiso or San Francisco. This bogus bank-
swindle is one that has been regularly worked
for years past, and nothing but a stringent
Act of Parliament will stop it in the future.
Advertising a company that does not exist,
and a capital of which a minute frac-
tion or perhaps even not one penny has
been subscribed, is not a false pretence
capable of being used in any indictment fox-
obtaining the monies of depositors : the
swindle can be, and, therefore, is, carried on
with impunity, and the general public hears
nothing of the fraud. The robber does not
publish the record of his crime, and the
robbed, ashamed of their folly and having no
efficient civil or criminal remedy, do not
care to xxxake known the fact of their loss.
* * *
Bogus financial companies may be classified
according to the amount of fraud in their
pretensions and transactions. To the lowest
rank belong the concerns which are rotten
all the way through. These have no capital,
no registration, and no shareholders. They
come into existence in the way they ulti-
mately expire—without ceremony and with-
out any previous notice to the public. An
office, with a small counter and a big front
window, is secured. A gorgeous name and
a fancy capital are painted on the window,
behind the counter a clerk ia installed,
and in a small “ manager’s room ” at
the back' the “company” himself sits,
twiddling diamond-rings, and awaiting credu-
lous holders of treasured coin. He, the
“ company,” is sometimes a prematurely re-
leased felon who finds this kind of robbery
more profitable than burglary, and safer ;
sometimes he is nothing worse than an un-
certificated insolvent. The latter case, how-
ever, is rare. Nearly always he is a man
who would not be trusted with a copper if
lie were not endowed with the glory of sup-
posed incorporation, and unlimited capital.
He does not care to lend money ; the “bank ”
depends upon deposits alone, and the longer
the term for which these can be got the
better. If depositors give him their money
for three years he will give them another
three years to catch him—-an arrangement
which suits everyone but the depositor.
Sometimes, of course, a man may call him-
self a “bank” or financial company and
not mean to swindle anyone. But not
often. The facilities for robbery are so great
that humanity can seldom resist the tempta-
tion if it tries. Concerning the law which
permits these frauds to flourish as a green
upas tree we shall hereinafter write.
* # *
A grade higher in the way of fraud are the
financial institutions which have some share-
holders, some capital, and carry on a certain
class of business on the lending side. These
companies usually begin their history by
defrauding their shareholders. Two or three
“financiers” meet and agree to start the
venture. Each of them requires some
plunder to requite the use of his name and
influence. They, therefore, as a preliminary
step, allot to themselves so many shares or
so much money, the capital of the embryo
company. Then, when shareholders have
been captured and operations begun, a
false balance-sheet is prepared ; the plun-
der secured by the promoters being then
abstracted, the balance-sheet, if accurate,
would show tfie company to be insol-
vent. Therefore the figures have to
be cooked. This is sometimes done by
making a fictitious entry under the head of
investments ; sometimes forged vouchers
for preliminary expenses are put in to
square the amount abstracted ; sometimes
the promoters are guileless and publish a
statement proving the company to be insol-
vent. But, whatever is done, share-
holders who have no notice of the bood-
ling are defrauded, and creditors from
whom the transaction is hidden are
robbed of a part of the security upon
which credit was given. \Ve could quote
one financial institution whose “promoters”
plundered it to the extent of £6OOO. |p
another case more than double that amount
was landed, and in each case a criminal
cooking of the accounts has periodically
occurred. These companies, like others of
even less reputable character—or rather,
class, for character they have none—are
marvellously fond of impressing the ignorant
by quoting an enormous nominal capital. If
£6OOO is required to satisfy the promoting
vultures and £5OOO more for business, the
capital will he fixed t\t, say, £500,000. Of
this amount we suppose £lO,OOO to have
been subscribed. The rest is advertised as
“Reserve capital, £490,000,” and«on this
amount, as stated, depositors and other
creditors rely for their security. But, in
reality, it offers no shadow of security. No
one is liable for it; as no subscription or allot-
ment of the shares which represent its sum
has ever been made. It is a lure to those
who may chance to be beguiled: $ bait to
those who can’t see through the attempted,
or, perhaps, accidental, fraud.
Compared with the “ financial institu-
tions above mentioned the recognised
banks, building societies, and mortgage com-
panies are models of stability. But even in
their management many matters which may
at any time lead to danger offer large scope
for legislative reform. There is, for instance,
no check whatever upon the issue of notes
except the fact that the bipik-shareholders
are liable to the last penny for the amount
represented by the notes aforesaid, whether
the bank be a “limited” or “unlimited” one.
No gold reserve has to be held against nptes
in circulation, and no deposit of gold in tfie
Treasury on any account is necessary. The
only thing that banks are required to do is
to furnish sworn quarterly returns. Banks
which do not issue notes are not obliged to
publish any returns whatever. Another
weak point in the management of all success-
ful institutions is the treatment of what is
humorously described as the “ reserve fund.”
This fund is not represented by any security
capable of instant or even of speedy realisa-
tion, but is employed, like the bank’s capital,
for the purposes of loan upon securities liable
to extreme depreciation in time of panic, and
not often of a kind that could be sjoeedily
realised upon, even in the best of times.
W ith building societies the most danger is in
the fact that the management can keep on
concealing the rottenness of the whole con-
cern until there is no possibility short of
wholesale smash remaining. None outside
of the directorate can tell at the present time
whether any one of half the societies in (say)
Sydney are safe. Properties have so depre-
ciated that whereas directors formerly lent
on the faith of security deemed ample, they
now have only a hope that land may boom
again and re-establish values at a safe level.
It is a boom or a bankruptcy with some
societies, but no one can tell how many or
which of them, for the public can discover
nothing more than directors deign to pub-
lish. This matter becomes especially im-
portant inasmuch as it concerns a most
worthy class of investors.
* # #
Although the law as it now stands is power-
less to prevent the fraud, or lessen the
dangers of which we complain, yet minor
evils upon which it is not our present pur-
pose to dilate, might be decreased if full
effect were given to the penal clauses of the
Companies’ Act. An intelligent prosecutor
might use these latter provisions with much
profit to himself and great advantage to the
community. From nine out of every ten
public companies penalties might be re-
covered for one or more breaches of the Act.
A carelessness and neglect, sometimes, if not
generally, wilful, lias for a long time past
characterised the action of company officers,
and a few searches in the proper department
would reveal serious irregularities for which
appropriate penalties could be recovered. It
may be true that the recklessness of share-
holders and creditors is the primary cause of
this negligence, but still the directors and
office:s are responsible to the law and could
be made to pay for its infraction. In many
cases also there is a criminal as well as a
civil remedy to injured parties, a remedy
which once applied would for a long time
prevent directors from issuing balance-sheets
like several we could easily cite.
* # #
To prevent the larger frauds which we
have described some new provisions of law
are required. A penalty by way of fine or
imprisonment is necessary for the flagrant
swindles perpetra'ed by men pretending to
be registered companies and offering a
security of capital which exists only in
imagination. The ordinary criminal pro-
cess now available is insufficient, for the
simple reason that the fraud is not revealed
to the depositor until the perpetrator of
it has got out of the jurisdiction, and no one
but the depositor could undertake a prose-
cution. The quotation of enormous nominal
capital could be checked by the simple means
of taxing the published total to a moderate
extent. This would not hamper or unjustly
burden a company using its capital for busi-
ness operations, but would effectually prevent
companies from advertising a capital of bab-
a-million and trading on a fiftieth pqrt of
that sum. Or, if a tqx were for any reason
deemed undesirable, the difficulty could be
met by providing that a company should not
be allowed to commence operations until its
whole capital were allotted. Then the share-
holders would be liable for the uncalled
portion of capital, and creditors would get all
the security which they could rightly expect.
Another very necessary provision is that all
companies accepting deposits and thus be-
coming borrowers of ‘ ‘ other people’s money,”
should be obliged to furnish sworn re-
turns in the same manner that the banks
of issue do now. It is impossible to discover
any just reason for giving this security of
publicity to the holders of bank-notes while
denying it to the holders of bank-deposit
receipts. It might well be argued that de-
positors are even more to be considered than
note-holders : for while the latter can at
once convert the vouchers into gold, the
fqrnier in most cases have to wait for months
before they can apply for paypipnt. Finally
—although this is a reform that would meet
with the vehement opposition of vested in-
terests —we would urge the wisdom, of making
every financial institution deposit a moderate
sum in the Treasury, in gold or debentures,
as a guarantee of honafides. The Companies’
Act has been so often perverted to the uses
of imposition and robbery that no reasonable
check to .such operations could be properly
opposed. No promoters of what was meant
to be a stable and permanent company would
object to supply such a, pecuniary hostage for
the benefit of those involved in their opera-
tions. Company-mongers as a class would
inveigh bitterly against any such demand,
but they as a class are not deserving of very
high legislative consideration. The. cp,im-
munity would profit hugely hy the effectual
squelching of the, grandsons of the horse-
leech.
Judge Windeyer’s Trouble.
The correspondence in the matter of the cpm-
' plaint of one Hinqksman, presented to the New
South Wales Legislative Council last week, directs
pointed attention to the assumed position of the.
Bench ip that colony. Mr. Hincksman was
defendant in a suit brought by one Reilly, and
tried before Judge Windeyer in July, 1888. The
plaintiff was represented by counsel, bid the defend
ant appeared in person, a,pd, of course, lost his
case. _ Beipg dissatisfied concerning the manner of
the trial, he forwarded a statement of his griev-
ance to the Minister for Justice. The following
extracts, which may or may not be true, for, so
far, they have neither been proved nor denied,
include the gist of his complaint :
The Judge, in the opinion of myself and many others in
court, acted most unfairly and one-sided at the trial. He
would hardly let me speak, and, on reading my address to
the jury, he stopped me, and said he did not think I ought
to be let read it. The counsel for the other side said he
had no objection if it had not been drawn up by a lawyer.
The counsel on the ot her side was even more fair than the
Judge. In summing up he leaned altogether to the other
side, impressing it on the jury to give the plaintiff sub-
stantial damages. The jury returned into Court with a
verdict of £lO damages. The Judge, upon hearing their
verdict, said to them: “You could not have considered
your verdict; you hail better go back, and award the
plaintiff something substantial.” He then left his seat and
followed the jurymen to the door, and gave them a piece
of paper. The jury, after some time, returned with a
verdict of £22 10s. . . . The Judge’s manner and bear-
ing all through was harsh and severe towards me, as if I
stood before him as a criminal of the worst type. . . .
A fair trial I did not get.
How much, if any, of this statement is true wc
do not know, nor is it material that its reliability
should be ascertained. The Judge does not con-
descend to notice its assertions except in the sen-
tence, “Were a charge of my so dealing with a
jury true, moreover, it is clear that it would be a
good ground for a new trial, and had any inquiry
been made it would have been seen that the de-
fendant had nut moved for a new trial, but had
submitted to the verdict of the injustice of which
he complained.” This argument may seem incon-
clusive, for if what Hincksman described really
did happen it would be a marvel if anything less
than wild horses had ever dragged him to face the
Bench again. But these considerations are im-
material ; we quote Hinokrman’s letter, nottoshow
that injustice was done, but for the purpose
of showing how great an injustice was alleged.
The statement was referred by Minister Clarke
to Judge Windeyer, whose reply opened with the
words, “ I decline to take any notice of the angry
and ignorant remarks made by a defeated suitor
in my Court, ’ and concluded with the assertion
that “ the Chief Justice joins witli me in express-
ing surprise that such a document should have
been referred to me, and he hopes with me that
such a course will not be taken again in the case
of any Judge.” To this the Minister replied,
stating inter alia that, as “ the matter would pro-
bably be brought before Parliament,” it was
necessary that such reference should have been
made. The Minister’s minute, mild as it was, did
not please Mr. Justice Windeyer, who stopped
the business of the Court for a day to enable
him to frame a reply, which was sultry in the
extreme, but a not very admirable outcome of a
whole day’s work; it merely serves to show that
the much-tolerated Mr. Justice Windeyer is only
a politician in a wig, after all. “ Scurrilous
attack, ” “angry and ignorant litigant,” “insulting
observations,’’ “low-minded and ignorant persons,”
“personsof this character,” “vulgarattacks,” “an
angry attack,” “ disappointed and angry suitors,”
“ignorantly,” “ill-informed persons,” “angry
suitors in my Court,” “conveyed to the ignorant, ”
“ frivolous questions,” “ angry suitors ” —these are
some of the' choicer gems culled from his Honor’s
nonpareil column of mingled protest, reproach,
and argument. It is with the latter only that we
wish to deal.
* * *-
The contention throughout was that the
Minister has no “ power of inquiry into the con-
duct of a Judge in the discharge of his judicial
functions,” the latter being “responsible only to
both Houses of Parliament and the Queen.”
These words sound strange in a country where
the “sovereign people” rule. Has “the right
divine of kings to govern wrong ” been denied in,
order that the same right might be conceded to
Judges, and have the latter been protected in their
positions to such an extent as to, remove them from
popular criticism? We think not. And Judge
Windeyer thinks, that way too. 'For in this very
letter he “presumes that no Minister would
trouble himself with an inquiry into the conduct
of a Judge in the discharge of his official duties,
unless he saw grave prima fade reasons for be-
lieving that it had been such as would justify his
bringing his conduct before the Cabinet, with a
view to both Houses of Parliament being
moved to address her Majesty, praying her
to remove the Judge.” In Hincksman’s letter
the statements made were such as, if true, might
have led to the adoption of an address praying
for the removal of the Judge. Any cause for such
removal is sufficient, if a majority of members of
each House consider it to be so, and affirm their
belief by their votes. Improper behaviour proved
to the satisfaction of Parliament is sufficient to
terminate the tenure of office by Judges, which,
after all, is only quamdin se bene yesserint. This
particular charge conveyed “an insult so out-
rageous and gross ” —we quote his Honor’s words —•
that the Minister was bound to inquire into it,
and the honourable and proper preliminary to
such an inquiry was an application to the Judge,
for any explanation he could supply. Assuming
that such conduct would, if true, have served as the.
grounds of an address, the Minister did right m re-
ferring to the Judge before he sought evidence from
other sources. Ip, a strict sense, the Judges are
not amenable to Ministerial control, and are not-
in an equally strict sense—“ officials ” in any de-
partment. But the people, by whose Ministers
Judges are appointed, and by whose representa-
tives in Parliament Judges may be removed, are
entitled to know whether the judicial
are properly discharged, and the Ministers are*
authorised to ascertain this. To quote Judges
Windeyer again, a Minister “may investigate*
any charge of misconduct in a Judge which, if
well-founded, might seem to be of a character
justifying the. removal of a Judge from office.”
Why, in the presence of this admission, the
courteous and dignified hero of the Mount Rennie
trial should have, Refused to explain or deny
Hincksman’s change is a question that at present,
seems to be without an answer,
* * *
The whole, piatter is unpleasant aryl wvsat&fegK
tor .y- Charges hayp b,eQi made which, if they
• could have beep proved, should have caused aii
address tq, b,e tabled ; yet these, though they may
not coptam one grain of truth, have, by the action
of the JiVjdge and the inaction of the Minister,
remained, W existence nnaffirmed though not dis-
proved. The present New South Wales Minister
for Justice has not grit enough in him to take up
and deal \yith this or any other matter in which
democratic rights have to be rescued from the
grasp of the vested interests of Horsehairdom;
unless there are men in Parliament strong-
enough to force tjhe Cabinet to action, the Judge
Will not bp relieved from this accusation and the
community will bp unsatisfied.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Free Passes Down South.
In the Victorian Assembly the other day a member
of the “Young Australia” party, Mr. Kirton to
wit, was unanimously laughed down for moving
that the issue of 7000 free railway-passes to
“ people outside of members of Parliament and
railway employes ” was a wrong to the colony at
large. No seconder could be found for Mr.
Kirton’s motion. Alleged “liberal ” members of
the Assembly cut imbecile jokes at his expense,
and when the unfortunate Kirton suggested that
no private company would scatter 7000 free passes
among the wealthiest section of the travelling
community, the rest of the Senate roared out”
“Double the number!” It was not quite clear
whether they meant that a private concern would
allow 14,000 human carcases to be carried on thb
railways for nix, or that the Government clight,
so to do, but, anyhow, the sentiment of the
House as regards the advisability of extend-
ing this free-pass system, rather than reducing'
it, was disgustingly universal. Before joining-
their chosen representatives in “great laughter” at,
Mr. Kirton’s proposal, perhaps the people of'
Victoria would like to know what sort of com-
parison can be drawn between their State railways
and those run by private enterprise in England,
in the matter of permitting officialdom to escape
paying the fares charged to despised outsiders.
“ The officers of Her Majesty’s naval and military
services ” are included among the gallant 7000-
who get whirled around the country in first-class


carriages at the expense of Victorian taxpayers.
But imported swash-bucklers could, if they chose,
inform their friends and admirers that they always
liad to “part” to private railway companies in
England. They might illustrate the fact with
that old yarn about the Duke of Cam-
bridge bustling to the pigeon-hole to pur-
chase General Gordon’s ticket when a “dis-
tinguished party ” went down to Charing
Cross station to see the Khartoum crank off
upon his last hazy, hapless mission to Egypt.
There's a nasty jar for the old jobbers who jeered
at Mr. Kirton last week ! Again, the Governor’s
blessed butler travels “on the never,” but The
Bulletin will bet its bottom dollar that our
Gracious Queen’s flunkey buys a ticket when he
wants to visit his relatives in the rural districts of
England. Yet again, while those emissaries of
Heaven, the parsons, have to pay full fare, the
V.E.C. and V.A.T.C. handicappers and secre-
taries —what a reflection for the unco guid! —
are franked over the Victorian railw ys from
year’s end to year’s end, which is tanta-
mount to a Government subsidy of those two
private racing speculations. English handicappers
and secretaries have to charge their travelling
expenses, at specially high racing rates, to the
clubs which employ them. Finally, as for the
600 and more members of the House of Commons,
everybody knows that they pay their way like
anybody else, and that peers generally are ex-
pected not only to pay but also to drop “tips ” as
they go along. The free railway-pass system in
Victoria—aye, and throughout Australia—is such
an iniquitous swindle that it was certainly advi-
sable to sit upon Mr. Kirton when he attempted
to discuss the subject.
♦ —
The Imperial Federation Conspiracy.
John Stubbs, a Canadian correspondent of an
English newspaper, turns the bull’s-eye glare of
truth on the Imperial Federation question : —
Imperial Federation may look well enough in the sight
of aristocratic Whigs, who profess to be Liberals in politics,
who love their native land, and who, together with the
aristocratic Tories, own it all. But, in reference to this
question of Imperial Federation, colonists have a say.
The Tory Government of Canada would, no doubt, adopt
it; but what of the people-those who have been driven
from their native land, to seek a home on foreign shores,
sometimes to be frozen to death in the far North-West?
Let us look back to the last century, when the Duke of
Sutherland drove from the County of Sutherlandshire
alone not less than 15,000 people to seek homes in the
British Colonies and America. Can it be expected that
we, who have left our native land through oppression,
tyranny, and injustice—the injustice of landlordism-the
difficulty of obtaining employment, together with other
social and political evils, will be ready to stretch forth our
hands to defend a country that has driven us from its
shores ? Look at the condition of things at the present
time in England. Thousands upon thousands out of em-
ployment, on the verge of starvation. And yet what has
your Government done to alleviate all this poverty and
misery ? Simply nothing- nay, worse than nothing. Your
Tory Government ordered your police to charge them, baton
in hand, and disperse them when they met in Trafalgar-
square to discuss their position. Is that the way Govern-
ments treat the overplus portion of the population ? In-
stead of providing an outlet for such in your colonies, and
aiding them somewhat to get a living, you drive them to
desperation, and so fdl your gaols, workhouses, and
asylums. And yet, after such treatment, your aristocratic
legislators look across the Atlantic for the unification of a
people whom they have treated no better than the above-
mentioned. There are loyalists in Canada, but they are
either Tories or the unthinking portion of the community,
who know nothing whatever of the condition of things in
the old country. The Canadian settlers have a hard
struggle for existence, besides having a severe climate to
contend with. They are becoming more democratic daily,
and less inclined to British connection or British protec-
tion. The next move in Canada will be either independ-
ence or annexation to the State. I prefer the latter, and
so do thousands more. Our close proximity to the Great
Republic is doing its work, slowly but surely, and the day
is not far distant when we shall become part and parcel of
the Great American Republic. Then we need not fear
the great military and monarchical despots of Europe.
Those who earn their living by honest labour and industry
do not intend to fight the battles of English capitalists,
who loan their millions in Russian, Turkish, and Egyptian
securities. Imperial Federation, or a federation of the
English-speaking people, might he all well enough if there
was any likelihood of a ivar of races or of nationalities,
hut it is unlikely. On this American continent we are of
a mixed race, and therefore difficulties would spring up.
The United States have absorbed the French element in
Louisiana ; but Canada has not done so with the French
in Quebec, and is not likely to do so. The French Cana-
dians aspire to hold the reins of government, and there
will undoubtedly be trouble in the future. “ Annexation ”
will then be the cry, instead of “Federation.” Already
the French are pushing their way into Eastern Ontario,
buying out the English farmers with their Church loans.
The English Protestant farmer finds it difficult to live
where the French Roman Church levies its tithes. Were
we annexed to the States, then this evil would cease, and
the Roman Church, like the Norman Church, would lose
its hold in the States.
— -♦—
Protection for Pirates.
The president of Melbourne Trades Hall Council
has brought under Government notice the sad case
of certain local “publishing” firms who have
hitherto prospered and waxed fat by supplying
“ special supplements ” to up-country newspapers
at the rate of 25s. per thousand. It appears that
certain English rags of a like character are now
supplied as supplements to the bucolic press at the
rate of next to nothing at all, they being “such
valuable advertising mediums,” so the president
of the T.H.C. put it, that the proprietors can
afford to almost give them away. Therefore, the
Victorian Government is besought to put a duty
of one halfpenny eacli on imported supplements,
in order that the suffering local firms may not be
finally knocked out of time. Before indulging in
a bitter laugh at the whole business The Bulletin
acknowledges that the Trades Hall Council presi-
dent was quite justified in speaking up for the
typographers, the printing “hands” who earn an
honest living by setting up these Victorian sup-
plements, and who might be temporarily thrown
out of employment if the precious tilings were run
off the market. But, surveying the question from
a litterateur's or journalist’s point of view, it is
impossible to feel one thrill of sympathy for enter-
prises which are purely piratical, and involve the
daylight robbery of other men’s brain-work. Sup-
plements to Victorian country newspapers are
manufactured in Melbourne by the aid of a sharp
pair of scissors and a pot of unhallowed paste.
The imported sheets upon which a protective duty
is asked for are prepared for the press by a like
process, excepting, perhaps, original matter in the
shape of three-column “ stories ” sent in as com-
petitions for a gorgeous prize of twenty-one shil-
lings or less. Though against this encouragement
to literature, we must set off the fact that “ prizes ”
are more frequently given for the best clipping from
newspapers that have paid for the original stuff,
whereby the professional pirate encourages amateur
pirates to do some of his dirty work. ’Twixt
Tweedledum and Tweedledee there is nothing to
choose in the matter of unworthy dealing, which
the passing of a Journalistic Copyright Act would
at once bring under the category of fraud.
Whether these supplements are scissored-and-
pasted in London or in Melbourne makes no dif-
ference whatever to the poor devil who made the
literary material or to the publishers who bought
it from him. It can be legally stolen, and the sup-
plement pirates do steal it without a blush. True,
a certain amount of extract matter may fie found
in the most liberally-conducted newspapers, but
they acknowledge the source, specific or general,
whence such matter is obtained, and are fairly
entitled to call it an “ exchange ” —an exchange of
purchases that have been already used by the
purchasers. But supplements consisting wholly
and solely of clippings are parasites preying
upon the Press, “ bears ” of the journalistic
market (because there should be work in writing
supplements if the country press wants them) and
exhumers of decayed ideas. It is a melancholy
sight that meets the eye in one of these piratical
publishing offices. Special supplements to the
Bungaree Buster, or what not, dated some six
months in advance and waiting the day when
certain rural districts will be ready for an extra
dose of “news” and original thoughts. These are
what the Victorian Government has been peti-
tioned to protect with a special prohibitive duty !
A just and natural request, too, in its own miser-
able way, albeit the parties most interested in
getting the duty on the statute-book are not worth
twopenn’orth of protection. And perhaps the most
ghastly joke of all is the indignation of the old-
established Supplement-mongers against the Mel-
bourne D.T. That pious journal is stereotyping
some of its stuff also for up-country “Supple-
ments, ” which the other people regard as a cruel
wrong to themselves, in so far that the D.T. escapes
the expense of setting up its extract matter again.
♦
Stealing- a Park.
THAT ancient but well-preserved question of the
extension of the railway into the city of Sydney is
likely to cause trouble in its next stage of develop-
ment. The Commissioners and chief Government
officials are anxious that Hyde Park, or at least a
big slice of that beautiful reserve, should be em-
bezzled by the Railway Department; and the men
who have syndicated the agitation for railway
extension, and who are now booming it for all it is
worth, don’t care a rap where the present railway
goes so long as it gets to the centre of the city
somehow, and thereby heaps another pile of un-
earned increment on to metropolitan freeholds
The proposal now under consideration is that about
ten acres at the north-west corner should be taken
for railway purposes, besides a strip along the
whole length of the western boundary. Hereafter,
of course, when the Department wants space to
accommodate new lines to the eastern suburbs, the
rest of the park will be made a railway-track, and
trespassers upon any part of the people’s estate
will be prosecuted with the utmost rigour of the
law. Mr. Bruce Smith apparently views such
a prospect with equanimity, if not satisfac-
tion. Being a capitalist, he naturally regards
land as an investment, and he considers that
the park, as a remunerative property, is a
failure. It doesn’t pay any interest on its
value, and costs something besides. It is not
by holding property of that description that any-
one ever makes a fortune. Mr. Sydney Burde-
KIN likewise favours the proposed larceny of the
people’s common. As it stands now, the Park
doesn’t pay rent every Monday morning, and the
bailiffs can’t be put in possession under distress-
warrant, so the jolly off-handed millionaire fails to
see the use of it to anyone. Mr. Myles M‘Rae is
also anxious to turn the Park into railway premises,
and he offers another valuable suggestion, to the
effect that shunting-room should be provided by
making the terminus where Government House
stands, space for the railway-track being, of
course, obtained by resumption of a big slice out of
the middle of the Domain. Alongside of this sug-
gestion of hideous sacrilege we would record the
fact that Mr. M‘Rae is an M.L.A. Morpeth is
responsible for his election. By fighting like a
cohort of tiger-cats against the party of spoliation,
Sir Henry Parkes threatens to acquire a new
popularity. He has to oppose his colleagues in
standing out, and in the Cabinet, at least, he plays
a lone hand in this deal. But when it is all over
the old man will be declared to hold all the
trumps and the honours, for the poorer people of
the community will indignantly reject this coolest
of proposals, and when the popular protest has
succeeded and the ground is once more held
sacred to the community, a grateful people
will recognise the real grit of Sir Henry’s
action, and, perchance, change the title from
Hyde Park to “Henry Parkes.” The chief
difficulty confronting those who contend against
the annexation of so much of one of the few
open spaces remaining in Sydney is that such
opposition will be regarded as opposition to the
extension itself. But it is more important that
Hyde Park should be preserved intact than that
the railway should be extended. A railway can
be made any day, but land once taken for railway
purposes can never be regained. And even if only
a part is taken the mere fact of a railway running
through, or even along the edge of the Park, will
vulgarise and profane what is now sacred ground.
Sacred at least to rest, recreation, and recupera-
tion ; sacred inasmuch as it is not devoted to the
uses of the Mammon-worshippers. It is one of the
properties that are not expected or desired to pay
a dividend or to return rent in coin of the realm.
Narrow-souled money-grubbers may not understand
the value of such a possession. Why should they ?
Their scales weigh according to avoirdupois and
cannot measure incorporal things. One per cent,
would be a greater consideration with them than
any sentiment based on seclusion, retirement, or
the necessity of mental refreshment. But the
thoughtful masses of the people will hold in higher
esteem the services now rendered by the Park,
and—looking forward "to a future when Sydney
population will more than ever gather and throng
in the streets and squares—will decree that the
projected sacrilege shall be effectually and per-
manently prevented.
♦ —
The Misses Lynch have had the honour of
directing attention to the peculiar kind of legisla-
lation by which Queensland authorities have at-
tempted to engage white labour for use in that
colony. Encouraged by the amount of success
with which Kanakas had been imported, the
Queensland Government went a step further in
the same direction by pretending to legalise bar-
gains by which emigrants were to sell their free-
dom for three months in consideration of their
being transported to their place of imprisonment.
That is what it amounts to. The contract is not
one for labour ; it is one binding the person of the
immigrant, preventing him from exercising his
freedom during the stipulated term. Such a con-
tract in violation of the natural law against
slavery, which law is adopted and made a part of
the British code and a part of our constitution, is
distinctly ultra vires and cannot be justified by
any narrow plea of expediency, or by the fact of
assent by the party affected having been given.
The law purports to bind the person of the im-
migrant, yet makes no provision whatever for his
sustenance or employment. In this respect itl
goes beyond the case of the Kanakas, for under
their agreements means of livelihood were dis-
tinctly provided for. And, beyond that, the
Kanaka contract was one for services, whereas
this “Lynch law ” involves a contract for sur-
render of freedom, and is, therefore, an agreement
for slavery. Under these circumstances it is a
subject for satisfaction that New South Wales
lent but indifferent support to the work of slave-
catching. The tribunals are not worthily used in
hunting fugitive offenders whose only offence is
that they regarded themselves not as slaves but as
freemen, and acted accordingly.
——♦
The Choral Society of the Ormond Working
Men’s College gives a concert at Melbourne
Athenaeum. This is a sample of the work done.
The college is overrun by the shabby-genteel.
Hardly any working-man element. Look at the
syllabus, mostly made tip of softy, namby-pamby
things. A college course seems calculated to take
the backbone out of a workman. The underlying
idea is the grand cardinal maxim of society ■,
“ Labour is dishonourable ; work is disgraceful.”
Get out of it as quick as you can into some re-
spectable employment. The notion of the Work-
ing Men’s College, so far as it is Work, seems to be
that Labour’s highest office is in ministering to the
luxuries of the rich, decorating their mansions,
and, so forth. This is what the much-mouthed
technology amounts to. As an amusement Art is
excellent, as a means of getting your living it is a
failure. After all, the best-off man in Australia
is the good Hard Grafter. Ministering to luxury
is the surest way to poverty. Look at all the
carpet-makers," silk-weavers, and those people.
Always the poorest, lowest, most hopeless. Oh,
get to agriculture if you can —unless, or even if,
you feel that you have within you that lasting
power and that spark of genius which alone will
enable you to adorn a “ profession.” If you can’t
go to agriculture, make sure of the next best thing.
Graft, graft. Stick to the Grand Manual.
■
Lieutenant Scott, of the Albion Fire Brigade,
Melbourne, is beginning to feel already that the
role of hero carries more with it than hooray and
free drinks. In fact, like many another historical
character who has awakened one morning suddenly
to find himself famous, he has discovered that fame
has its drawbacks. A short time ago a banquet
and presentation were given him in recognition of
the distinguished bravery he displayed in attempt-
ing to recover the body of the late Captain Par-
sons, who met his death at the Bijou Theatre fire.
But hardly had Lieutenant Scott’s head re-
turned to its normal size after the banquet-
of course, we use the term “ big head ” merely in
its metaphorical and American sense—than the
secretary of another brigade wrote to the
Age to state that he (Lieutenant Scott) was
never near where Captain Parsons was, and
didn’t try to recover his body, which was recovered
by somebody else altogether, and, in fact, had
accepted the banquet and presentation on false
pretences. We call this cruel—it is also very likely
untrue. But Lieutenant Scott has the best of the
argument, however it goes. He is a banquet to the
good. No earthly power can take that from him.
The moral of this little incident is—Take anything
good that is given you without asking why it is
given. Leave that to others. Remember what
Dick Swiveller says: “When the goods are
delivered what can the waiter do ?”
+
In Tasmania no criminal can be flogged who is
over 19 years of age, and in all cases the flogging
merely consists of birching. Thus Yandenionia,
which thrashes erring boys but has ceased to flay
grown men, is at least in this respect a deal
more civilised than New South Wales. Thus
spoke Mr. Justice Dodds from the Tasmanian
Supreme Court Bench the other day :
Whatever the popular opinion respecting heavy sen-
tences might be, it was the duty of the judge to stand
between the prisoner and the popular clamour, and the
judge who would not take that responsibility was un-
worthy of his position. In England the punishment fixed
by law for rape ranged as low as not exceeding two years,
with or without hard labour. The law was different in
Tasmania, but the tendency of the present day, as regards
sentences, could be gathered from the laws of other
places, and that tendency seemed to him to recommend
consideration—the barbarous long sentences of olden days
were passing away, and properly so. The sentence in
Burr’s case would have been longer if the whippings had
not been ordered.
In modern Botany Bay, on the other hand, they
still wantonly lash the man whom they are sending
to gaol for 20 years. The pig that eats the baby
is endowed with as much refinement as adorns the
upholders of such a law in “this so-called nine-
teenth century. ”
♦
“The Pope, he leads a happy life,” says the old
song. In some respects he must. There’s the
Monte Pulciano wine—- we would undergo a lot of
Popery for that. Then there is the gold dinner-
service, not to speak of the silver tea-service.
Plenty of flunkeys, too, in crimson plush, though
it is imprisonment. Now they say the Pope is
going to Valencia, Spain. It is a delicious city in
the Mediterranean, with a grand fashionable
parade, the Glorieta, which, hallowed by the
Pope, would become as glorious as the Pincio, at
Rome, when the Pope was monarch. The new St.
Peters will be the fine Valencia Cathedral, with
its Moorish tower. But the worried journalists
who fudge up English cablegrams for Australia,
have made a mistake in “ spotting ” the French-
man Cardinal Lavigerie, Bishop of Algiers, as
next Pope. It has for 360 years been a rule that
the Pope must be Italian, and this rule is for
obvious reasons not likely to be broken now.
Once upon a time France used to ‘ ‘ boss ” the
Pope, another time Germany, another time Spain.
Lord J ohn Russell, as English Foreign Minister,
offered Malta as a home for the Pope 25 years ago.
People thought the G.O.M. of Italy was going to
burst up even then. But the Pope holdeth up his
two fingers and laugheth them to scorn. It is
safe to predict that the Pope will ecclesiastically
flourish when Germany and Russia are Republics,
though his “temporal” power has gone, never,
never to return. But the day will come when the
Pope goes to the United States. Yes, Gladstone
says the population of the United States will be
500,000,000 in 1989, which will include 100,000,000
Catholics —and Pope Leo XX.
The prohibition of the publication of salacious
law-reports by newspapers would eventually
greatly benefit the already firmly-established jour-
nals. You ask—How ? Simply because a newly-
launched paper can only readily secure a paying
circulation by the publication of “highly-spiced”
matter. It is no use shirking the truth. What
sells certain Australian evening papers till they
run into the severalth edition ? Is it their leading
articles —or is it the graphic account of the brutal
prize-fight, the “ sickening details ” of the horrible
murder, the lascivious disclosures of the divorce or
breach-of-promise case ? The evening paper that
endeavours to build up a circulation without these
items must, unless its capital be unlimited, in a
measure go under; a case in point, that of a
journal run on absolutely legitimate news-lines,
will readily occur to New South Wales readers.
Thus, an Act of the kind might at first reduce the
circulation of successful evening journals, but, on
the other hand, it will undoubtedly snuff out all
attempts at" rivalry, A study of newspaper
readers in all classes leads one to believe that
nearly all women and many men first turn ever
their evening paper for “ spicy ” news, and when
unsuccessful fall back on the luscious morceaux of
the police-courts with a sigh of relief. Such
appetites grow with what they feed on. It only
remains for some newspaper man, more daring,
unscrupulous, and immoral than his fellows to
cater for them, by the issue of a daily
paper containing nothing but skilfully dished-up
blood and prurience, to top the largest circulation.
The writer has in his possession a collection of
clippings, extending over several years, cut for a
legal purpose from the files of a certain Australian
evening paper; and he makes bold to say that in
all the world there has never been got together a
more disgusting collection of clumsy brutality and
hideous filth. The morning newspaper never
prints literary ordure—garbage of that kind, like
the street-woman, appears only at night. But
whether it is desirable to restrict the liberty of all
because in the hands of some liberty becomes
license is a question too momentous to be dis-
cussed in the space of a mere paragraph.
,
Mr Eugene f Rudder is of opinion that there
. g & more truth in G> ft. ReiiVs asser .
tion that “ the increase in New South Wales sheep
jg attributab ] e to Freetrade ” than G. H. would
care to see uncovered, believing that much of the
land now used for grazing purposes only would
kmg since have be | n u ” ned l into agricultural
areas, thereby increasing the population and
wealth per acre, if the pastoralists had not so far
monopolised fche Protectionist coddling of the
State. That the subject is beginning to claim at -
tention ig sh by the ? n a visit i ate l y paid
by M) . Gullett, of the Sydney D.T., to Tam-
worth “ in search of the agricultural industry of
tbe C( d°py- . The local News records it as a
mere flying trip,” possibly intended to form a base
for future strategic explorations. The D.T. syn-
dicate is wealthy, but agricultural operations are
} n full , blast . home. Why not make a start-
™g Vomtot the Chinamen s gardens down Botany
' At east they have a palpable existence
even 011 the cai vest nig t.
The Editor—A Lay of Labour.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
The night wore out amid a drizzling rain,
And the low cry of a wet, creeping wind,
That hustled up against the window-pane.
And shivered in the slender beams that find
Their way from hearthstone and from lamp : and
Ned,
With fifty years of work, and many a year
Of getting fit to Work, upon his head.
Prepared to go into the ghostly sphere.
His brother Tom sat by him, and was sad ;
For lie and Ned together trod the plain
And up the mount of Life, and always had
Pour hands with but a single heart and brain.
“ I’m glad to think,” said Ned, with feeble breath,
“ That things wear now so confident a face
That you will suffer little by my death,
And that The Chronicle will hold its place
“ Among the people. All our lives we spent
In founding papers, but, except this one,
They all slid down the sides of good intent
And died before their lives had well begun.”
He coughed. The drizzling rain with swifter feet
Along the shingles pattered, and the wind
Crept closer and rolled over in the heat
The lamp and fire threw through the window-
blind.
Tom felt a thousand answers at his call ;
But as he shaped them into words he found
They one by one stuck in his throat, and all
He could achieve was to look on the ground,
And —while he bowed his head—wipe off a tear.
“But, Tom,” Ned said, “although the way is
straight,
Stick to the Principles we have held dear,
Be still the Guiding Finger of the State ;
“Reprove the trimmer, bruise the trickster’s head,
Exalt the worthy ; humble, smite the knave,
On all that’s good immortal glory shed,
And all that’s base send to dishonored grave !”
He coughed again. As if the rain had ears,
And list’ning at the nail-holes overhead,
Had caught the speech, a score of drops, like tears,
Large, warm, and soft, came down upon the bed.
And flat against the window-pane the wind
Pressed its wet face and whimpered, as if by
Ned’s going hence a gap was left behind
Ev’n to cold winds blown from a lonely sky.
Tom rubbed his throat, but yet his thoughts, when
clad
In words, were far too big, and though he craned
His neck, and turned and twisted, still he had
To give the effort up, and dumb remained.
Ned, breathing hard, said : “ Tom, I’m sinking
fast;
How stands our Circulation ? ” At the word,
Tom’s throat expanded, and his answer passed
Out swiftly, and as swiftly it was heard.
“ Tom,” Ned said, “always add a nought! ” Then
out
He stretched his hands. Tom seized them.
Soon the place
Appeared to sway and swirl and rock about.
Light rose and fell and made a sea ; and face
On face, a multitude of faces, fair.
With glorious eyes, looked smilingly across
The waves at Ned. Tom saw the glorious hair
A-stream upon the light, and sense of loss
At sight of eyes and hair died out. But now
Ned breathed from mouth and nostrils, and the
breath
Slipped from Tom’s arms; and, as it went, a brow
Was added to the brows made bright by Death ;
But they, with all the light around their limbs,
And round their bodies, but with faces bright
Upraised, uprose, and sounds like whisoered
hymns
Fell from them as they melted into night.
Tom held Ned’s head between his frigid hands ;
The soulless body would not move again ;
The rain went from the roof to western lands;
The wind went eastward from the window-pane.
THENTA.
A dangerous fire broke out on board the
Atlantic steamer Baltic, while running before a
westerly gale, New York to Liverpool, with a
heavy sea. The flames came rushing out of the
forward hatches and ventilators. Captain Kennedy
shouted for all hands to hold on tight. Then he
ported the helm and brought the steamer to. A
tremendous wave came dashing aboard, and doused
the fire, amid wild cheering.


Ben Franklin Printing Office
A X It
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
lias just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., Use.,
KUITAHI.K FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the , Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates, g|f" A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street),
[?]
840 Maeqiiarie-street North; Sydney; July 17, 1880,
Mv Dear Moorabinda,—
The weather for the Sydney Hunt Club’s axtntml race-
meeting, on 10th inst., was simply glorious, and Only once
before have I seen such a gathering of “ tabbies ” at Rose;
hill. A nice gown was of seal-brown cloth, the jupe
braided in darker shades; the Directoire coat faced with
velvet, the braided test finished with beaver fur, bonnet
en. suite. Equally stylish was a cactus-green Melton en
hirectoire over a jupe of striped velvet in pale and deep
green, collars,- vest, and revers of the stripe, Gainshoro’
hat trimmed With moire and plumes. Then I liked an
invisible-green cloth with facings of moire (a übiquitous
trimming which, the frock-builders say, is going out of
fashion at last), sealette jacket, a high toque hat with
dark-green bird on top ; a chocolate-brown velvet
redingote over a moire skirt, moire facings, and bonnet
trimmed with flat bows of brown and copper-yellow
ribbons ; and a mist-grey cashmere artistically draped over
a plain grey, velvet skirt, the loose fronts opening over a
vest braided in silver, grey straw coralind hat trimmed
with grey ribbons and a white asprey. Then the large,
golden-haired person wore a bright-green cloth dress pro-
fusely braided in gold. A small lawyer sat on the grand*
■stand inhaling smelling-salts out of a large green
vinaigrette, and the Baron was there in all his glory, xvith
txyo “ chappies” from. England in his wake.
Though it came down a drencher on the first perform-
ance of “ Joseph’s Sweetheart,” at Sydney Criterion, on
the tilth, still the d.c-, came out in great style. A much-
gifted actress wore an ‘ 1 art ” gown of shrimp-pink silk
and long greenish plush cloak, while her head resembled
a birch-hroom dipped in gold-wash. A pretty dress xvas
of xvhite silk, the berthe bodice designed in pearls, pink
hows on each shoulder ; and a small xvoman in a crimson
opera-cloak just blazed with splendid diamonds. Bi t
when the curtain went up the (rocks of the “house” did
Ipok dingy ! In the first act, Mrs. Brough, as, the naughty
fiady Booby, wears a dainty Dresden-china sort of-Watteau,
gown, the bodice, paniers, and train of pink floral striped
silk edged with lace, over a jupe of pale-blue satin ; full
front of lace caught xvith a diamond brooch. In the third
act she wears a lovely ball gown, the bodice, train, and
paniers of cream brocade over a jupe of, cream lace caught
xvith cream ostrich feathers; the corsage cut low and,
ornate with cream plumes ; diamond necklace, brooch and
gainings, and ostrich feathers in the poxvdered hair ; while
in the last act her goxvn is of ixory and primrose. In
“Joseph’s Sweetheart ” the men also are gorgeously
pranked out. Inman, in particular, xvho plays the part of
the bold, bad Duke, appears in beautiful raiment culminat-
ing in a pale-blue satin coat embroidered in silver, a lace
vest and flesh-coloured hose. The scenery, too, is another
source of delight, except that in the giddy Ranelagh
scene, modern fairy-lamps look rather more lately than
previous, as it xvere.
The fancy-dress carnival at the Elite Rink on 9th instant
xvas a great success in point of croxvd and general gor»
geousness. Fancy dresses were in the majority, the besfj
get-up being a “ Wasp ” —black and gold, with gauze
wings and black-and-gold cap. A girl, with a face to cut
wood with, wore a Kate Greenaway costume —a style that
absolutely yells for babyish features to carry it out. A
xvell-known importer of skafes’did the floor (which every-
one pronounces perfect) as a. “dead-beat,”, in a’question-
able overcoat and dissipated-looking grey boxer ; and the
only roly-poly creature came as.“Peasant”-in black print
trimmed with white, bars. . Also, a girl xvith three little
flags in’her hat, looked like a “ tfy-your-huigs ”, machine,
and a thin youth, in-pink, trimmed xvith swansdbwn, xx-pre
pink tights oyer pot-handle shanks, and had his face
painted. During the evening little Miss Phoebe Levy gave
a wonderful “exposition” of trick and fancy skating.
The “Elite Children’s Carnival,” on the 10th, was a
sensible festivity, in that it xx T as held in the aftemobn iu-
stead of at night, xvhen children should be in bed. Un-
doubtedly the prettiest little skater xvas a tiny T'Flower-
girl,” in ciel-blue satin' xvith garlands of pink roses, fargo
blue satin bonnet with a pink fo.se in it ; .xxhile’a most
amusing character xx T as a minute “ masher ’’—eyeglass,
moustache," “boxer” and all. ' j ’
I hear that an ultra-squeamish person took her daughter
t,o a recent football-match on Moore Park, and during a
‘.‘scrum ” the playist called out, “ Held I held !” “febrile
axxay this instant, Maria !’.’ shrieked" the U.S.-;- “ those
horrid men are using bad language !'•’
I am told that Lady Carington, xyhen requested recently
to make a certain show, .“ Y.Rt’V replied l that she
patronised only for charitable, purposes. It, is just-as
well to know that there is a hard-and-fast’rule’bri the
subject; '
What it has cqme ’to- •’ -
POUR Gentlemen at present .residing in- street,
L , xvishing to have a change from, their pre-
sent quarters and the inevitable rirormng chop; would
he glad to hear from landladies xvho do not consider
the aforementioned article absolutely necessary lo
sustain life. Address A., Herald.
After xxiiich I suppose x\'e shall ha\ r e “ board required
where the landlady has not seen better days, but considers
her present circumstances her best.” ‘ For fried chops and
frequent allusions to former magnificence are the horrors
of the hoarding-house.
The first performance of “ Mari tana” at the New Opera
House on the 13th inst. resulted in “standing-roomonly,”
the circle especially being crowded. Very fexv evening-
dresses were worn. As Don Caesar .everyone knew that
Knight Aston had music allotted him beyond his compass,
hut 1 confess I xvas dismayed at the distressing falsetto
he resorted to occasionally to get through ; the falsetto
passages render his otherwise excellent interpretation
almost ridiculous. There is one pretty gown in “ Mari-
tana ” which Miss Tree (in the name-part) wears in the
last act—a pale-pink frock with hanging sleeves lined with
mu-de-nil silk.
I hear of a largely-attended hut primitive ball some-
where in tlie hakblox recently. The programmes were
slips of foolscap with the dances marked in lead pencil,
and coffee was brought rbtmd by the hostesses in pudding-
howls. Also, half way through the festivities the host
retired to the hotel over the way and went to bed—an
example many hosts would do well to follow;
The afternoon dance on hoard 11.M.S Calliojie, the other
day, was not such a success as it would haVe been if the
other warships had been in port; for men were painfully
scarce, and as dancing was the order of the afternoon this
state of things was the more unfortunate. Some hand-
some gowns were worn. A recent bride wore a pretty
dark-blue cloth gown with interludes of scarlet silk, small
dark-blue hat with feathers and ribbons en suite, and Miss
Lilian Secconlbe, the English actress, wore grey with a
black picture hat. Lord Carington, accompanied by his
brother and Mr; Herbert, smiled on the proceedings dur-
ing the afternoon;
It has been so dull in Sydney during last week that
people have even been thankful for the burglar-scare in
the absence of a pleasanter sensation. Vibe-royalty has
riiade one or two pilgrimages to Santley’s shrine; and one
to hear Sydney Liedevtafel in the Exhibition Building; tin
which occasion they had the g'reat baritone in tow—having
had him to dinner at Government House.
There has been the usual array of “ suburban hops ”
when “Miss Smith looked nice as usual,” but Potts Point
lias maintained an “ominous silence” in the matter of
entertainments—a state of affairs for which I suppose we
Ihust thank the Rinks, which are again crowded this
season. The cricket-match arranged to take place at
Admiralty House (the hostess whereof has not yet re-
covered from her indisposition)—a team of girls against a
team of naval officers playing with left-hand only—was
prevented through the rain; which has lately given strict
attention to business.
Hostesses who are prone to much entertaining during
the winter season when frosty nights nip the camclias and
the “ westerly ” beats the jonquils into the ground, will
be rejoiced to learn that seaweed and shells are in for
winter table-decoration. At a recent dinner the fairy-
lights were wreathed with garlands of sea-weed; while
small bouquets of white; crimson, and deep brown sea;
weed were arranged in flat vases on a bed of sea-shells.
THE LATE HON, CHARLES MANN, Q.C., OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The finger-bowls, were wreathed ip sea-weedy and the
menu cards, had a border of shells, which are easily fixed
on with starch-paste. The possibilities of sea-weed as a
table decoration are legion, for it can be dyed any colour
and has a very fern-like effect. Exposure to the sun re-
moves the strong salt smell.
I wonder who originated the idea that Art had few de-
votees in Australia? Someone xvho never examined our
society women’s cheeks in the sunlight evidently, or else
lie would have lifted up his voice in praise of our frequent
and beautiful frescoes. It’s a pity, though, that, as our
women will illuminate themselves (and really a glance at
hev dull complexion—a penalty the Austraheune pays for
our beautiful climate—must make resistance to the rouge-
tablet exceptionally difficult), they don’t do it convinc-
ingly; a broad “impressionist” principle of black, red,
and white daubed on with the finger not being the most
successful way to achieve the deception of trustful man.
I look forward to the establishment in Sydney of a really
artistic school of (cheek)-decoration.
At the football match, Port Melbourne v. N.S.W.. on 13th
inst., a pretty gown was a grey cashmere (grey is to ho
the colour again shortly) en directoire xvith front, petti-
coat, and revers of grey moire, and black picture hat laden
with black feathers ; grey gloves and white moire parasol.
The “field” had quite a kaleidoscopic appearance, the
teams wearing bright blue and crimson jerseys respec-
tively, which looked clean, for a wonder, though after the
first scrimmage, as the ground was wet, their white
“kickers” resembled the map of Europe done in Indian
ink. I really think that footballers ought all to wear hosen.
To see a six-foot man racing in the open in short white
pants and half-an-inch of sock isn’t a pretty object by any
means. And why don’t they leave off having undarned
holes in their stockings ?
The engagement is announced of Miss Florrie Byrchall,
fourth daughter of Mr. S. B. Byrchall, of Melbourne, to
Mr. Edward A. Vidler, eldest son of Mr. Thomas C.
Vidler, surgeon. Mr. E. A. Vidler is a grandson of Dr.
George Bennett, the well-khown Sydney naturalist—
Sydney’s Grand Old Man, in fact—and is manager and
editor of a successful Melbourne magazine.
Though far from the land of duty, poor, dear Lady Loch
is still toiling in the social interests of Victoria, having
“presented” no fewer than five Victorian ladies at Her
Majesty’s last “drorin’-room.” On the important occasion
Lady Loch wore a handsome gown, the train of sea-green
feather hroche bordered with dark-green velvet arid lined
With pale-green satin; the jupe of white duchessewith a
border of pearl embroidery draped with china or6pe
richly designed and fringed; corsage of white satin, with
hand and sash trimmed with pearl passementerie; head-
dress of tulle and feathers, diamond and emerald orna-
ments, and bouquet of orchids;
Says a society paper
“ A colour has recently been reproduced which is said
to have been very fashionable with the ancients.”
How fortunate it has just been revived in time for the
comic opera season ! The chorus will feel so at home in it!
Apropos of fossilized “fourth rows,” the half-crown
warblers at one Sydney theatre are a standing advt. as to
the salubriousness of our climate. And one of them
doesn’t even trouble to hide her grey hairs with a gold
washed wig.
Driving in Rotten Row recently the Princess of Wales
is reported to have worn fi a simple black gown With
white spots and a small black liorlnet with niaute flowers
in it.” The DucheSs of Edinburgh, though she wears
riiore ghrgeous apparel—sometimes sporting a set of sables
worth £4OO0 —never looks so well-groonled as the Princess
of Wales, for all her magnificence.
Mantrap from S.M.H;: —
TYTIDOW, educated, domesticated, trlisthil, happy
’' disposition, good Style, wishes to correspond
with widower or bachelor in good position, 35 to 50 ;
secrecy observed. Address Genuine, G.P.0., city.
“ Good style ” and “ secrecy observed” are gloomily am-
biguous, aren’t they? Coming from a “vidder,” remarks
like these may conceal deep and dark allusions to the fate
of No. 1.
The other night I sat behind two young men in the
S alls at Sydney Royal; At the end of the first act of
“ The Yeoman of the Guard,” when Cblhnel Fairfax is to
be beheaded, a crowd of citizens, mostly women, troop in
to witness the performance. Said the first young man:
“ Rather out of place, don’t you think, those girls coming
to See an execution ?” “Not a hit,” said the other ; “girls
are always about When there’s any fun on !”
The respective wires of two Mount Morgan shareholders
receive regularly £4OO and £6OO, pin-money, per month.
Another gets £7OO, hut she is the daughter of one and the
wife of another Mount Morganer. And yet they all con-
tinue to live in the city of sin and sorrow ! By the way,
I hear that; up North, if a man holds plenty of Mount
Morgan shares; he is privileged to raise a row at a hall and
“ wipe the table down ” with his unoffending adversary.
Some people are saying just, now that, if the lady's hus-
band lakes things so quietly why should they trouble to
cut her? Others, however, have commenced to stare ox er
her head. Even society has to pretend to be shocked
sometimes.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The King of Samoa is protected by black
guards.
Some more of New Guinea has been
annexed from the top of Mount Owen-,Stanley.
Where others failed Sir William Macgregor suc-
ceeded, fortified in his self-imposed task by
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,
Page 15 carries the prospectus of the
Gilberton Gold, Silver, and Gem Mining Syndi-
cate. The Gilberton goldmines have the reputa-
tion of being extremely rich but wanting machinery
and capital to develops their resources. The pre-
sent proprietary has expended a large sum of
money in performing the dead work on the mines,
and accepts nothing out of the £15,000 sought to
be raised by the syndicate ; £12,000 will be
devoted to working expenses, and the balance to
equip a specially-organised prospecting party to
secure an area of ground which is believed to be
diamondiferous. The bulk of available shares
has already been applied for.
“ Adam Bede’s ” programme of his Bene-
volent Consultations for the spring e vents, notably
the Melbourne Cup, is.certainly a novel and good
idea, and one that is certain to be well supported
by the public of Australasia, It is not to
lie wondered at if investors subscribe more
liberally to Adam Bede than to other pro-
moters, when they have so many extra
chances of drawing a prize. For instance, in
the Melbourne Cup Sweep of 50,000 subscribers,
Adam Bede announces 357 prizes, and.each pound
invested has a chance of drawing seven separate
prizes in value varying from £lO to £20,000. This,
together with the well-known lona-fidcs of Adam
Bede, of which we are thoroughly well assured,
and the method of his drawings, which, as ho
says, “Is the only fair way,” should bring the
result we have always in view, the presentation of
a handsome cheque to be publicly devoted to
various charitable institutions.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Thealrr Royal. .... ..... “ Yeoman of the Guard.’
Her MA.iesty’S. “In the Ranks.”
Opera HbusE. ... “ Marilana.”
Criterion “ Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
Academy of Music European Celebrities.
Metropolitan Skating Rink Ultimo.
Elite Skating Rink. Redfrrn.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
Theatre Royal “ Bells of Haslemere:”
Princess' “ Jo.”
Alexandra “The Unknown.”
Opera House. The Silhon-Sliik ( Vnnpary
St. George’s Hall.. .Harry Rickards’ Chiitpany
The author of “’ Joseph’s Sweetheart ”
has bad a wild worry of it in fitting Fielding to
the high moral standard of to-day, but as a general
thing he may be said to have succeeded. The
splendid constancy of Joseph Andrews, the son of
kHir George Wilson, is a reminder that Joseph, the
son of Jacob, deserves more credit than it ha»
hitherto been the fashion to give him in connec-
tion with that little incident in which Mm
Rharoah Apophis sullied her reputation, in-
asmuch as in his case there was no prior at-
tachment to assist in preserving purity ;
nothing, in fact, but the memory of an old
store-coat between him and perdition, where
the modern Joseph has Fanny Goodwill —and
Julian Gillmore makes her good enough to eat.
It is only possible to say something nice about
Mrs. Robert Brough at the expense of her audi-
ence, every man in which wanted to be Joseph
Andrews all the time, under the impression that a
worse kind of idiot in the neglect of his opportu-
nities was never bred under an Australian sun out-
side the snow-limit of Gippsland. Parsons of the
“Adams” type have disappeared before the
march of civilisation, and the world is so much the
poorer while the flesh and the devil remain.
Llewellyn ap Griffiths —with compliments to
George Leopold helps, when sober, to increase
the respect for the cloth inspired by Parson Adams,
one or both of them being always on hand, when
there is a good turn to be done, or a chance of
chipping in.for a share in a fight. The copra and
pearlsbell business had not then been discovered,
and the modest but fugitive threepenny had no
existence. “Joseph’s Sweetheart,” as staged at
Sydney Criterion, has a mission.
The Gettysburg Cyclorama, or “Circular
Rammer,” as it is styled by those who consider
“r” a good sounding consonant with which to
back up any weakly vowel, is still booming along,
and the peaceful termination of the war is appa-
rently as far off as any army contractor could
desire.
Jic iff fle
So far no one has suggested that the
Marble Man- is only in a trance. We implore Dr.
M'Carthy to give him a little more time to wake
up ore making that section. Look at the awful
case of Irving Bishop, for instance.
* «- -;k-
Thc declaration of Australian Indepen-
dence may find “In the Ranks” still in possession
of Her Majesty’s, a circumstance which will be
turned to advantage by Ned Drayton to
further increase its popularity and magnify the
beauty of the scenery. Visitors from “the agri-
cultural districts ” still go to see him.
Time, my lord, hath a wallet for Oblivibii,
But, ere we go, we first put in time at Poverty
Point.
The poor player-r-r, wlid s'tuts anil frets his hour
Upon the stage,
Arid then is heard no more. Look,at Billy Elton.
He rides a high white horse while I, a hotter
actor-r-r,
Am strolling her-r-e as Inspector of Pavements, ,
At Garton’s bight Her-r Majesty’s and the Rova)
Mail.
To drink, or not to eat, that is the question,
For I have only one poor thrunibuster.
I’ve been a great star-r in my time,
Though now I am but a seedy ’un,
Kind friends, in me you behold
Julius Bt-r-oWn the Tr-i'-agediaii!
'Pile associate I of G. V. Brooke and Barry
Sullivan,
Charley Young, " Johnny Hydes, and Daddy
■ Rogers.
All the wor-r-Id’s a stage a stage, the goal is
Poverty Point.
Here’s Manager Buskin raking up a company
For Murderer’s Flat, Green Gully, and the Bogong
Ranges;
If I go with him I shall get stuck
Up in some country place with ne’er a “ deenerw
Cully, tell me what to do.
Oh, my prophetic soul, my uncle !
Straightway I’ll pop with him my King Dick wig,
The black one with the well-oiled ringlets.
But the next day I may meet Miln,
And lie will say* “Look here, old chap,-
I'm right ashamed to play Hamlet, Richard,
Antony*
With the Australian Garrick walking on the
Point.”
How many million angels caii stand on the point
of a needle ?
Aha ! I must be going fn-a-d, m-a-ad !
Why can’t I keep in collar like that blatant Nat
Douglas?
E’en my blank verse halts noW, alas ! alas !
That wasn’t meant for rhyme. Am Ito play
naught
But “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” and the “Octoroon ’’ ?
Hallo ! There’s old Josh Heawond, and with him
Joe Dias.
At least |’ll get a job of copying.- But e’en the
typewriter
Comes now along, and young girls up Chancery
Lane
Get all the copj ing. Yet better days will dawn —■
My new great play, my new Struck Oil, shall rise,.
Though all tire wor-r-ld overwhelm it to men’s-
eyes.


Frank M. Clark is back again with a
variety show that might hold more “ European
Celebrities ” and not precipitate a national panic.
But the variety is there, and the democratic ele-
ment in an Academy audience rejoices to see the
larrikin exalted and the Prince of Wales brought
low in connection with a certain Mary Ann of
massive charms and questionable antecedents.
Walter Herbert and the Bonhairs hold up one end
of the show with clever acrobatic feats.
** * *
Frank Lincoln leaves for N.Z. and
home” next week if the weather doesn’t interfere
with his laundry returns. He has seen and col-
lected enough of Australia to fill him with anxiety
for more, and he Just hates to have to go away
while there is any of it left. But he will come
back, and in his grip-sack he will have the latest.
** * *
“I have a song to sing, O !” is hummed
fn a guttural key by the heavy father who awaits
the advent of breakfast with his back to the fire m
a suburban villa, and by the vendor of .“16 m a
ba<>- for (Id.” in moments of relaxation. Were 1
thy bride,” being better adapted to parlour
rehearsal with a scratch and cuddle accompani-
ment, has not yet reached the streets, but the
inoculation is complete and much inflammation has
been set up by the reckless style of kissing preva-
lent in the Kith century as interpreted by ihe
Yeoman of the Guard ” and his pretty sister,
“ Who the deuce can she be ? ”
* * -X *
There is more poetry ami less personal
danger in skating than in burgling, and it is more
remunerative—for the rinks. You may rink with
impunity if you have a shilling, but you 11 be shot
if you burgle, so the advantages are all in favoui
of the rinks. Which accounts for some of them—
notably the Elite and Metropolitan—being full of
youth and beauty, while the pensive burglar yarns
with the policeman in the shadow of a corporation
lamp waiting for his mate and the summons to
attend to business.
* X- *
Sanfcley’s farewell concert brimmed over,
and filled up other shows, to the joy of rival
managers and the disgust of quite a number of
superior people, who will either have to clodg’e tiie
subject when bis name crops up in conversation,
or evade the truth. For those who don't know
how to lie circumstantially, with grace, the posi-
tion will ho awkward. The other artists who
helped to make the show deserved not only
sympathy, but admiration for their splendid
endurance. They all suffered eclipse, and some ot
them actually never found it out.
* * *
More “Maritana!” The Opera House
production is right ahead of many of its prede-
cessors, and certainly it is far ahead of all its im-
mediate fore-runners, even though the baldhead
in the fourth row of the orchestra-stalls
enquire why the tuneful Gitana, Miss Lilian Irec,
doesn’t warble in a shorter skirt. Knight Aston,
subject to reservations concerning his falsetto,
attaches much kudos, and the Signor who sings m
shattered English while he acts m Italian, stands
the strain with dignity and self-possession. J ds-
tice has not been done in the daily press to the
vocal perfections of Miss Flora Granpner. Ihe
Opera House chorus is more tuneful than lovely,
but it gets there all the same.
iC- X- -;i:- Hi
Mr. Phil. Beck’s moral being has tem-
porarily given way under a prolonged strain of
stage villainy, and the disorganised condition of
his liver made it necessary to suddenly withdraw
“ Grimes of Paris ” from Melbourne Alexandra
just when that immortal work had attained the
heydey of its horror. This public calamity led to
the setting up, on Saturday night, of a five-act
drama entitled “ The Unknown,” which appears
to have been fired off in a vindictive spirit by one
J. A, Stevens, Esq. The incoherence of Stevens,
Esq., is accounted for by the fact that he starts
his plot in a lunatic asylum, and allows the doctor
in charge to carry on a mad career of crime until
the very finish, when he is brought to justice by
the Unknown, who has been gibbering around all
the evening in an advanced stage of mental
disease, brought on by the doctor’s unscrupulous
behaviour in shooting him through the back and
throwing his dead body into the Thames, pre-
vious to confining him in a cold, damp den
of darkness. Such a combination of mis-
fortunes accounts for the Unknown losing the
run of himself, so to speak, but he is tolerably
well known to everybody else except his sister, a
gentle young creature with a turn for picking up
stray lunatics and giving them board and resi-
dence in her elegantly-furnished home. The
sister is another obstacle between the doctor and
those “ estates ” without which the modern drama
would fall with a sickening thud. A scheme for
burying this tender blossom alive, hi the tomb of
her ancestors comes under discussion, but the Un-
known recovers his mental balance in time to hand
his sister over to her lover who has hitherto been
gazing helplessly at these conspiracies through a
penny pane. After which the Unknown probably
gets his whack of the estates, and the villains are
hanged, or something similar. Mr. Alfred
Dainpier and the slender Lily endure most of this
agony with patient resignation, while the faithful
Baker and the inevitable Boothman assist to a
large extent. Furniture and effects are on the
usual Alexandra scale of florid splendour, and the
whole distressing affair appeared to afford fearful
satisfaction to a crowded congregation.
* -X- X #
The Silbou-Stirk combination, with whose
deeds and photographs readers of The Bulletin
arc pretty familiar, made another big splash at the
Opera House on Saturday. The Stirk portion of
this lissome entertainment is a supernatural reve-
lation to Melbourne, and when Mr. Charles S. had
engineered himself and sister round the place on a
(single wheel, the city fell into a fit of astonishment
germinating in loud hysterics.
The Hilbons and their coadjutors recited the poetry
of motion with all the old effect, although public
faith in the peril of Mr. Walter billion s double
somersault through the air was rudely shaken by
an accident that sometimes happens to the best
regulated acrobats. He missed clutching his
brother at the first attempt, but, instead of being
killed on the spot, lie merely fell into the net with
a benign smile, and made a second attempt, which
duly came off.
* * * *
The little cherub who watches over the
Triumvirate in Melbourne is cutting things very
fat for that opulent firm just at present. Miss
,Jennie Leo's “Jo” goes strong and well at the
Princess’s, and the “ Bells of Haslemere ” are not
likely to toll the knell of the Grundy and Pettitt
composition for some weeks to come. Yet its
vigorous and sustained senselessness grows upon
an unsquared critic worse than opium-smoking.
The fate of any unknown playwright, who had the
hardihood to take such a drama to a manager and
ask him to mount it as “ The, Bells of Haslemere ”
is mounted —well, the fate of that man must re-
main a matter for gory conjecture. Messrs.
Gordon and Brunton are the real authors of this
purely scenic success.
* * *- *
A Diorama of Scotland, assisted by a lec-
turer and a free distribution of brick villas and
sacks of coal, took up the running at the Victoria
on Saturday night, but the change from “Good
Old Mary Ann ” to a diorama was so great that a
lot of the usual “ boys ’’ were afraid to enter be-
cause it seemed like going to church, and the at-
tendance was a grievous falling off. The diorama
is a pleasing picture, however, and alleged to be
50,000 feet long from start to finish. Gifts are
also pleasing things, and the possibility of tumb-
ling into a brick villa stocked with coals for the
next winter, together with the chance of being
asked to take home a pianoforte, ought to fill the
multitude with an earnest desire to roll up and
catch the gifts as they fly. Arrangements
of an unalterable character will force Harry
Rickards to tear himself away from St. George’s
Hall shortly ; but he is accumulating such a pile
of well-gotten gains in the meantime that the spirit
moves him to give a joint benefit to Messrs.
Jenkins and Leete, on Friday (17th), as is recorded
with pomp and circumstance in another paragraph.
The Lynch Family are making melody through
the suburbs; and something remarkable is about
to happen at the Waxworks, including three Beau-
tiful Queens, who were married to a barbaric
monarch when they were nine years old. The old
man is dead, we regret to say, and that is how Ids
reliefs came to be exhibited with other freaks of
nature in a shilling show.
ii:- * *
Charles Warner has just finished one of
the most successful seasons known at the Theatre
Royal, Adelaide, the performances given having
been varied and well-chosen. “ Captain Swift ”
was a success beyond expectation, and had to be
repeated by special desire. “ The Streets of Lon-
don ” and “ Macbeth” were given to big houses,
and Warner benefited in “ School for Scandal ■’
before an immense audience. Brough and Bouci-
cault’s Company, including Anson, Titheradge,
Boucicault, and Miss Ennson opens in “The
Squire.” Tommy Hudson does good variety busi-
ness at Garner’s, and Jo Jo and other eccentrici-
ties bring in the dollars at the Town Hall.
-*• -;lc- -*- -;i:-
The Noachian jokes and nigger-minstrelsy
of the Government printers eased the doubts of
many who feared their surplus energies were being
expended in the development of the book-trade.
The monthly show of the G.P.O. Dramatic and
Musical Society brought fond hearts and three-
storied hats from all the suburbs, and sent them
home in a condition of exhaustion from prolonged
floor-stamping.
# -*- *-
A writer in To-day sums up a description
of the death of Washington Irving Bishop at the
Lambs’ Club in NeW York thus Wise
What a picture for a club-house? in- New York ! A
dining-room dripping from the revel; an atmosphere rank
with tobacco and the fumes of meat and drink; a table
covered with befouled dishes, a chair upset hero, there a
broken tumbler, on the door a puddle from an overflowing
wine-pail, soiled napkins, and a stray fork sticking up-
right in the carpet. And on a couch, hot with the heat
of a close room, a wretched lit tle mummer dying in a
trance, after having made his mummery for the company,
most of whom had stolen away iiv time to avoid complicity
in the tragedy they had aided to forward !
Twelve months before, Bbbop foreshadowed his
end. Stretched at full length on a deck-chair of
an American mail-boat with a taro-patch fiddle in
one hand and a huge cigar in the other, he said to
the man who writes this “ That last night at
Honolulu nearly finished me. One of these days
I shall be howked out of bed and carved by some
d——d ass of a doctor before I’m dead on the off
chance that he may get his name up by discover-
ing that my inside is not made the same way as
other people’s.” And his wife and mother still
assert that this is what happened.
*m * *
The Bulletin never heard of any prima
donna except Madame Melba being “indisposed ”
when required to sing before Queen Victoria
Patti ne’er would be asked in vain,
But Melba’s a little Republicaine.
She picked it up, don’t you know, at the Melba
Presbyterian Ladies’ College, where she was
educated ! Oh, that wicked Ladies’ College ! I ie,
fie ! Turning out opera-singers. Go away and
hide your face in your apron, you naughty col-
lege. Yon had better put away the longer and
shorter catechism. You little hypocrite of a col-
lege ! The girls are all agog. Yon have got
another Melba studying there, and a Mrs. Ban-
croft, and Letty Lind, and Essie Jenyns, and a
Nell the Californian Diamond, and oh ! “Not
if we know it!” scream the reverend committee.
“ We have turned the place inside out—ransacked
it!” Ah ! but so you said when Melba was there.
Turn human nature out of doors and she comes in
at the window.
m * *
John Lawrence Toole, the representative
English comedian, comes to Australia, partly
under the pressure of severe domestic affliction,
for a change of scene. Strange to say, comic
actors are the funnier the more miserable they are.
Instances of this will abound in the recollection
of every Thespian. A man acts funniest when his
wife or child is dying at home. It may be because
his thoughts are other where. “Go and see
Grimaldi!” said Doctor Abernethy to the melan-
cholic patient when the latter first consulted him.
“Alas ! doctor,” replied the poor, sick man—l am
Grimaldi.” Ten years ago Johnny Toole’s home
was one of the happiest in London. His attec-
tions circled round three objects—his son, his
daughter, and his wife. Successively they have
all been taken away from him. Coring I'rank
Toole died at 23, a promising young professional
man—a doctor, if we remember aright. I hen
Miss Toole—a young lady of bright intelligence-
died last year, almost on the eve of her marriage—
and was soon followed by Mrs. Toole. And now
Toole is alone in the world, save for such devoted
friends as Irving and the Bancrofts. He will show
us The Don, The Butler, Caleb Plummer, Undo
Dick, Podgers, the Artful Dodger, Paul Pry, and
the inevitable Spriggips, of “ lei On Parle Iran-
cals.”
** % *
William Beverley, who painted transform-
ation scenes for Drury Lane pantomimes while
childhood was maturing into middle age, laid
down his eloquent brush for ever, on May 15th,
and the golden-winged angels of his fancy bore his
soul to the Halls of Eternal Bliss.
The dullest of heathenish Turks,
Impassive and cold as an icycle.
Would thaw upon seeing the btirks
Ride, four at a time, on a bicycle.
And when on one marvellous wheel,
Two travelled through space like a comet,
That heathen would probably feel
"Twas time to get home to Mahomet.
At Poverty Point.
Signor Majeroni and his gifted wife are likely to depart
for the Cape shortly. Anyhow the Signor has received a
pressing invitation from that arid region. ( ,
I learn from America that Minnie Palmer is “ athome.
I hope to goodness she will stop there.— Hawkshaw.
The Darrells opened the new theatre at Rockhampton
on 26th June with George’s evergreen classic me sunny
South.” To quote the local Thunderer, the peGoim-
ance was as brilliant a success as even the most sanguine
could have desired. From floor to ceiling the theatie was
crowded, and the accommodation was insufficient foi me
large audience that assembled.” Darrell s luck <mntni ,
for he succeeded in backing the double, Reck P -
Cup and Handicap, and next day with the proceeds he
purchased a large slice of Mount Morgan.
Pat, Feenev, whose death, at the age of 38, was referred
to in last Bulletin, died poor, although for years h s
income was among the highest on the comic
literally drew in with one hand and threw out withthe
other. One benefaction of his which deserves mention
was a gift of £2OOO to the Irish Famine 1' und ot a tew
years ago.
Florence Menk Meyer, the Australian pianiste, has re-
turned from her Russian tour, which was, it is saw, a
brilliant success, ending in Moscow with a perfect ovation.
Rubenstein was present at her last concert in Beilin ana
graciously admitted the perfections of the kangaioo.
Kimberley, South Africa, is a happy hunting-ground
for opera. It is reported that the receipts on the opemre,
night of Searelle’s Opera Company amounted to over ioUi.
The “ Private Secretary” has done an immense business
in Brisbane. The Darrell Co. have played to so-so busi-
“ Jimmy” Moore, Jas. Allison, and Jas. Scott (the latter
manager for the Maori Football Team) have gone into
partnership, and will soon shed the light of their piesence
upon JN'.Z. The three Jays.
Will. Whitburn’s parody on “ Killaloe,” entitled “ Wool-
loomooloo,” was written by Lance Lenton, and, strange to
say, made a big hit in Melbourne. The classic (?) suburb s
world-famed, .
Bland Holt and his company are doing a. big business in
Newcastle.
The Borani Bros, have postponed their departure for
England, having accepted three months’ engagement from
Mr. Frank Smith.
The Cogill Bros, are performing overland to Melbourne.
J. Savile Smith and Frank Hardy are now, era route from
England with a theatrical company.
The opera of “Pepita” is to follow “Yeoman of the
Guard ” at the T.R.
J. R. Greville, who for over a generation has trodden
the Australian stage (and made a fortune on it), has, \\ ith
his wife and the younger members of his family, arrived
in England.
The Finkelstein is shaking the corncobs out of the hair
of the scrub-farmers at Bundaberg. She has appointed
the 29th for reviving the Sunday-school memories of
Governor Norman and “lady” at Brisbane, and will
bombard Sydney later on.
The stage-hands at Melbourne Alexandra have pre-
sented Renno, the mechanist of Mr. Dampier. s flourishing
show, with an illuminated address.
“ Dick ” Thatcher is about to be tendered a matinee
benefit at one of the Sydney theatres.
Opposition show to the Marble Man —The “ Pickled
Youth.” One goes and the other comes.
A new four-act play called “ The Burglar ” has been pro
duded at the Park Theatre, Boston, The Sydney burglar
does it in one act.
To be read with feeling, but not too slow :
’Tivas an actor old on a winter s night
Thro’ the icy air and sleet,
His form was bent and his locks were grey,
And his shoes were full of feet I
—Mui’.kan.
Major Dane and his nasal twang are in Western Austra-
lia just now.
Henry Irving tours America under Abbey and Co.’s
management during 1891.
George Coppin was blandly enjoying the performance of
his Gordon Bovs’ Brass Band, when he was delighted to
find a little Master Macready among them. “ A little
Maoready !” exclaimed George. “ What memories you
bring up, my boy. When X, was your age I played the
fiddle, and great Mister Macready did the acting.”
Irving Bishop was buried in Greenwood Cemetery,
N.Y., under a pile of floral offerings, including one from
George Francis Train.
Chas. Warner’s next move will be N.Z.-wards.
Louis Braham, late of Hisoocks’ minstrels, has travelled
from New York to London, and from thence has got back
to his old stamping-ground, the Kimberley diamond-fields.
“Look! here come Mark Foy and Antony Hordern,”
was the reading of a certain actor during a rehearsal of
“ Julius Caesar,” at Her Majesty’s. Which irrelevancy
evoked the stern displeasure of Georgius Rex Rignold.
The irrepressible Leopold Jordan, who used to be on the
reportorial staff of Sydney , D.T. , has scored a win with
several of his songs in New York.
Henri Kowalski was a fellow pupil in the Paris Conser-
vatoire with George Bizet, the composer of “Carmen.’
Bizet, who had previously met with a failure with his first
opera, died a fortnight before the production of “ Carmen,”
which opera has immortalised his name.
Miss Flora Graupner, who is a native of Victoria, is
capable of singing both in legitimate and comic opera
with success. Which is not always possible with most
artists.
The warm rays of the sun are eagerly availed of by the
habitues of the Point these cold days.
Old L. M. Bayless, husband of Mary Gladstane, is now a
railroad “scalper” in New York.
William Horace Lingard is said to have made £60,000
since he was last in Australia.
It is hard now-a-days for a young man to come to the
front. The bald-headed men get the seats first!
Hobart has two good amateur dramatic companies—
the Gaiety and the Derwent. The Gaiety might be very
much better if it would only abandon its ultra-swellism
and recognise the fact that there are as good fish in the
sea as ever were caught. Comedy is its strong point—it
has not got to tragedy yet. The Derwent has not so many
social potentates in it, but better actors.
Neighbours’ children barrackin’ through fence. Little
girl (proudly): “Ah ! our uncle’s on the stage. He shifts
the chairs and tables.” Fact.
An Adelaide critic says the fault in Nellie Harley’s sing-
ing is the “emission of voice.” What is she to do with it?
Ellen Terry performed before Queen Victoria at Windsor
the other day, and the Queen gave her diamonds. And
yet Ellen has had several Elective Affinities ! Irving is not
to be knighted—because he has had an Elective Affinity !
Two budding authors, calling themselves Tip and Tony,
published Joe Thompson’s Life in pamphlet form, years
ago. Tip was Byrne the actor, Tony was Dan Barry the
actor and manager—the ideal Shaughraun of the Back
Blocks.
Dion Bouoioault remarks that, in the course of his life-
time, the sense of decency has shifted from the ear to the
eye. The public nowadays resent a double entendre, but
applaud an exhibition of the nude, which would then
have been received with amazement and reprobation.
The papers have been saying that a Chinese drama takes
nineteen centuries to play. That is a barbarian’s false-
hood. Chi Yan gives the run of a night’s performance as
1 tragedy, 1 hour; 1 farce, one-half hour ; and 1 opera, 1
hour. The Chinaman is therefore slightly ahead of the
Australian theatrical manager.
The Melbourne Shakespeare Society is poorly attended,
though Dr. Neild, as President, always turns up in full
evening dress, with white tie. It is curious that while
Miln used to be the clergyman at the Chicago Unitarian
Church, the pastor of the Melbourne Unitarian Church,
Rev. A. M’Oully, used to be an actor. We have seen it in
print, too, that the Rev. John Reid, secretary of the
Shakespeare Society aforesaid, is an old actor,
When the Prince of Wales dined at Middle Temple Hall
recently the band of the Grenadier Guards, by particular
request, played the Hairless Apparent’s favourite tunes,
“ Two Black Eyes ” and “ All very fine and large.”
Mildred: “Oh, no, mamma; he can’t be an actor.”
Mamina: “ But he is, my dear.” “He can’t be, I’m sure.
He’s living with his wife.”—Life.
A new book in Melbourne Public Library is a history of
the Edinburgh Theatre Royal. Barry Sullivan acted the
Duke of Orleans, in “ Richelieu,” there in 1841. Fifteen
years afterwards (1866) Henry Irving made his first
appearance there, as the Duke of Orleans, to Barry Sulli-
van's Richelieu.
For the purpose of further keeping her name before the
public Madame Marie Roze has announced her intention
of refusing all floral offerings tendered her on the stage.
What a saving-in money this will be to her husband, Mr.
Henry Mapleson !— Exchange.
Mrs. D’Orsay Ogden is a niece of Sir James Ferguson,
formerly Governor of N.Z.
George Collins Levey on the International
racket, at Buenos Ayres, and as modest as ever. Asks
the Government for a show-ground and only 750,001)
dollars. ,
There ,is a player now in Australia who, at various
times, has had the cheek to introduce to the public as his
wives no less than five different women—not one of whom
s yet dead, so far as people know.
| IThe New-Yorkers say that Nellie Farren wears the finest
diamonds ever'se'eii On the stage there.
J. R. Greville and wife, now in .London, write that
they have seen Irving-act, and have not been impressed
Toolc’s Theatre they describe as the smallest inLondo"
A novel fire-escape has been patented by
Mr. Thomas Ross, of Sydney, and subjected to
severe tests with much success. A strong sash-
cord is double-rove through a break-plate of gun-
metal, which curies a sling fitted in a swivel-hook
at the end of a short chain, and stands a breaking
strain of half a ton. It is fixed inside the window
and the occupant of the room has only to get in
the sling and lower away. The invention will be
found of equal value in eloping with the landlord's
daughter and cash-box, or avoiding any of those
unpleasant incidents which sometimes originate in
the delay of remittances from home.
The charge of embezzlement preferred
against Mr. Hugh C. S. Hiddlestohe, the well-
known cricketer, came as a surprise to the athletic
world. The N.S.W. Registrar-General, in whose '
office Hiddlestone was counter-clerk, states that
the defalcations attributed to the accused
amounted to £‘0250. Much sympathy is felt
in a wide circle for Hiddlestone’s wife, whom
he only married but a few weeks ago. One
thing is now certain, the N.S.W. Registrar-
Generaßs office is a sink of iniquity and wants
cleaning out with a rake. The evidence, which
would be given before a commission empowered
to examine, upon oath, all the officers of the de-
partment and all those persons who have
grievances against the department, would, from all
we hear, come upon the public like a thunder-clap.
Dear Bulletin, —In your issue of Satur-
day last you confounded “Billy ” Brookes (put in
an “e,” please), of Brisbane, and S. W. Brooks
(no “e”) of the same place. This is painful.
“Billy” is a white mam His voice, purse, and
influence are always given to the cause of the
struggling or oppressed. He is one of the
warmest friends in Queensland of the Irish
people and their efforts towards freedom.
He spoke very happily at the Dillon meeting
and got a most cordial reception. His atti-
tude towards Mr. Dillon, as distinguished from
that of our half-hearted Irish snobs, was very well
put in a tiiot of his own at one of the committee-
meetings. It was proposed to send a drag and
four, manned with representative sympathisers
(Billy Brookes’ name was mentioned) to meet
Dillon at the wharf. “I shall gladly go,” said
Billy, commenting on the proposal, “ but in our
own buggy, /don’t need to be dragged there.” —
Yours, Banana Skin.
The Boy Politician.
Ml!. J. P. T. Caulfield, the “Bo^ Politician,”
than whom there is no better advertised man in
Australia, left Iris native home at Tylden, near
Kyneton (Vic.), at the mature age of 10; started life
as”office-boy to a lawyer : gained experience in
drapery, grocery, leather and tobacco stores, and
looked in, in a casual sort of way, on the oil-and-
eolour business. At thirteen Ire managed a
country post-and-telegraph office, and when he
abandoned this sphere of industry it was to
engage in the study of statesmanship, and earn
the sobriquet of the “Boy Politician.” At
fifteen he began business as an hotel and general
agent in Melbourne and prospered in that capa-
city ; by-and-by lie removed toN.S. Wales, bought
the Lithgow Mercury, libelled so many people
that he was sued by none ®f them, and stood
for the representation in Parliament of Hart-
ley, where he was narrowly defeated by the
popular Mr. John Hurley, whose election was
in a great measure attributable to the candidature
of a cantankerous third person, Dick Inch to
wit, who was brought out to defeat the B.P. 01:
his own Radical ticket. Mr. Caulfield having,
sensibly enough, abjured politics pro. tm.i.
insofar as they interfere with is
now Sydney’s leading hotel-broker. He confines
himself at present to stating the anti-prohibitionist
case in the Press, and is the author of two per-
tinent and suggestive questions—(l.) Why,
if you grant cheap Australian wine licenses do
you not grant cheap licenses to sell Aus-
tralian beer? (2.) What, in the event of liquor-
prohibition being enacted, is to happen to
the Australian wine - industry which at
present seems destined to become one of
the greatest industries of the world ? There is no
banc without an antidote. Therein no antidote
without a bane. Boy-Politician Caulfield "as
born to state the ease for the publicans. Not to
put too fine a point on it, his political views and
his abilities as a newspaper controversialist, and
as a platform, speaker, have marked him out as the
Great Apostle of Rum.


A Chance for Barmaids.
riIHE Proprietors of WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
have offered a Reward of Fifty Pounds
(£5O) for information that will secure convic-
tion of anyone
Filling WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS BOTTLES
with any other Liquor
and Retailing same over Bar. The Penalty
under 28 Victoria 9 is Two Years’ Imprison-
ment.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Fetters promptly
attended to by QTTTTTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiifuta.” Hold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sura you get the genuine.
P RAN CIS LON GMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne.
A Word in Season.—Housekeepers may rely
on Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder for
ensuring their Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry. & c .,
light, wholesome, and digestible. In regard to
this preparation, “protected by Royal Letters
Patent, and guaranteed absolutely pure,” are no
idle words, but the hall mark of excellence and
purity. As may be expected with an article that
has found favur in the eyes of the public, imitations
of Williams’ Yeast Powder abound on every hand,
and purchasers are requested to ask for the
Genuine Williams’. Sold by all respectable
Grocers and storekeepers at Gel. the Half-pound
Tin.
Pepper And Salt
A Sydney evening paper solemnly prints
this in an appendix to one of its cablegrams on the
“Irish Question”: —
M'Dermott was at one time a journalist in Brooklyn*
At that time he was noted for his immense command of
blasphemous language. He was on one occasion seized
with an attack of facial paralysis whilst swearing. Nothing
discouraged, he was accustomed during his convalescence
to write down oaths on slips of paper and pass them to
those whom he wished to address.
Yes, and that just reminds us. We were on the
same paper with M'Dermott—he as editor and we
as sub-editor —and we remember that when his
mouth got paralysed and he took to writing curses
he wrote so much blasphemy that in a week he got
writer’s cramp in the right hand. Then he used
his left to set down objurgations, and in two days
his left hand also became utterly useless. Then
poor M'Dermott could only think curses, and it
was pitiable to witness the manner in which the
blasphemy used to endeavour to escape from his
eyes. After trying to blaspheme with his eyes for
a little while he got paralysis of the brain, and
then we left suddenly. We were such a fine liar
that we thought we’d go and join the Evunnooze
staff.
Tjca/ve Jo />asf AJte/-o was a ees/ain.
ma/t'* Me Oum/> o/tnyenui/y u/JonJn's
Jieact was e*eeec/my yrea t.
/jn et h* JiacJ a. sortj
And he united /ns eye. * said
Lo. 1 lui // roat h/ni
And he coated // m tn /// //lie //amt
teen to t/te so/es of //s fee A
Andf/tnc/nj A //ft /n cc tut/tv/i/i
///tic A /a/o/tr carr/ed Z/t/n to /he ( i ty
THE MARx/EuUOuS
BLUE BOY
FOUND IN THE HORSTAALIAN BUSH
HERE -NO CHANCE (.IVEH
Bill* B<>\'
A nd he seAhim ut>
>V /n ,f htKOiter /here icr/ea
Arne*»,cu,y o/ //„ „, /Sf men maryeu , d areu/Zy ( t ,f\
otters c/,cS sco// *Sa,c/ y?,.,/, <A , s ocf/atc/‘
And // a o ted /tot/<?' A '///
SP /ha / /)( f/fiC/ Us///t /us
ya/n% m/o a fat country
\?"Ji .“"Se/nm % dorters mere
seya.rc(,,iy M*s r/uity, > 4,« ramp, * a,*
a/- mar rrrr un/* f/,, s day.
f
dr/
The Shah, the cable says, was brilliantly
entertained at the Guild Hall last week, and when
the proud Premier had talked six columns of
tommy-nonsense about dear old England’s peace-
ful policy and overflowing affection for everything
Persian (especially cats and rugs) it seems that the
fcjhah indicated by a movement of his head that he
assented to the views expressed by Lord Salis-
bury.” The bejewelled old image nodded, and by
accident no doubt—
St. Helena, not the island home of the
Great Napoleon, but the site of Queensland’s big
convict depdt, is also used as a dirt and rubbish
repository by the insanitary municipal fiends of
Brisbane. The steamer Mary, locally known as
the “Dirty Mary,” every morning takes down a
cargo for sepulture on the island. The inhabitants
of the place, chiefly Recidiyistes, have risen and
protested against this dumping of physical as well
as moral refuse on their shores. For concentrated
srnellfulness and palpable hygienic atrocity Bris-
bane is miles ahead of even Melbourne : —
A creature signing himself “ Conscience”
has forwarded a £1 note to the Victorian Customs’
Department, stating that he diddled a collector
out of a sovereign in 1868, but he has recently
turned Christian (doing well at it, no doubt) and
would have liked the collector to have had his
money back, only the poor man appears to be
. dead. The collector died without finding grace,
very likely. However, “ Conscience ” sends along
his godly “ quid ” all the same—tvyenty-one years
after he stole it (money doubles itself at compound
interest in 15 years at only 5 per cent.., mark
you)—in the blessed hope that the collector’s
widow may have it. The widow has got it, and
let us all shout “ hallelujah !”
From “The Thoughts of a Queen,” by the
Queen of Roumania :
An excellent housewife is always in despair. One
could often wish the house less orderly and more
peaceful.
The fire boils the kettle ; but the kettle extinguishes
the fire. Do not expend your warmth upon the un-
grateful ; they would extinguish you.
“WHEN PADDY GOES MARCHING
HOME.”
It is said that payable gold has been found in
Ireland, and a large number of Irish are expected
to flock back to Ireland to share in the benefits of
the discovery:—
When Paddy goes marching home again, Aroo 1
Aroo!
Oh, won’t the Saxon thrimble then, Ahoo ! Ahoo !
The landlords will not get a cent.,
The divil a bit they’ll pay the rent,
They’ll all get stone-blind drunk, when Paddy
Goes marchin’ home. (Divil blame ’em).
When Paddy goes marchin’ home again, Home
Rule !
He’ll take some quecrish notions then, Bedad !
The boys of Ballarat’s Brigade,
Who fought behind the Great Stockade,
Will “ buckshot ” make those boys afraid
When Paddy goes marching home ? (No, begorra!)
When Paddy goes marching home again, Killaloo !
They’ll make a change in Ireland then, Ballyhooly !
They know the joys of freedom’s reign,
And all will strive with might and main
To break the cruel tyrant’s chain, when
Paddy goes marching home. (Look at that,-now!)
Parkin lias started his itinerant Imperial
performances in Melbourne, and the Aegus has
taken him to its mildewed old bosom at a most
preposterous “interview.”
Touch the harp gently, O ! petty Park in,
And sing the songs toadies adore;
The Aegus will print all the twaddle you spin,
And probably ask you for more.
’Twill please Duncan Gilles and dull C.M.G’s.
Who play the Himperial game,
Though decent folks scoff at such creatures as these,
You can cable their “ cheers ” all the same.
Then touch the harp gently,
0 ! pet-ty Par-kin-n-n, &o.
Touch the harp gently in Melbourne Town Hall,
As you touched it at Sydney in June;
The Tory gang will into ecstacies fall,
And try to beat time to your tune.
You are paid to sing grovel, O ! petty Par-kin,
To blow about Britain and such,
But as the whole scheme is so wretchedly thin,
We don’t think it matters —not much.
Then touch the harp gen-tly,
O ! pet-ty Par-kin-n-n, &c.
Touch the harp gently, O ! pet-ty Par-kin,
With your loyal Imperial paw ;
That popular organ, the old Bulletin,
Is drowning the noise of your jaw.
Yet never forget to keep earning your screw,
Then the Aegus will bless you each day,
Which fact, kept by sensible people in view,
Must undoubtedly “ put you away.”
Then touch the harp gen-tly, &c.
SHAH-PSHAW!
The Shah he sat in his garb ornate
As guest of the great Lord Mayor ;
One after one did the buffers orate,
But still at the mountains of costly plate
The Shah did nothing but stare
(Any flush on his cheek, we must beg to state,
Was caused by municipal fare).
They “ blew ” about this, they “ blew ” about that,
They told the most sinful lies,
But calm, at the table, the Persian sat
(Big diamonds gleamed in his heathen hat),
Like a dolly with china eyes,
And his hands were crossed on his carcase fat
(Though that is our own surmise).
Lord Salisbury’s words to the Shah address’!
Oh ! that noble of high degree,
He buttered with care the speechless guest,
He mentioned how England loved him best,
And a lot more fiddlededee
(The point of that yarn, if the truth’s confess’t,
The Shah didn’t seem to see).
He told how Hingerland ruled the main,
Did Salisbury’s marquis proud—
How the power of Persia she must maintain ;
But the Shah still sat'like an image insane,
Nor glanced at the bloated crowd
(Had we been there at that banquet vain,
We should really have groaned aloud).
Then he hinted at Russian intentions base—
Which is part of the Tory creed,
And the Marquis has come of an ancient race—
But never a look on the Shah’s old face
r Betrayed he was taking heed.
(1 his, we have noticed, is often the case
With men when they overfeed).
Lord Sal. concluded, amidst the cheers
Of soldiers in tunics red,
Of aldermen, senators, snobs and peers ;
And the tumult rang in the Persians’ ears—
’Twas sufficient to wake the dead
(The Shah, who’d been dozing you see, my deal’s,
Awoke when he nodded his head).
THE BALLADE OF THE "DIRTY MARY.'
Balmy and fresh blows the morning breeze
Down the winding Brisbane River ;
The early sailors sniff it and sneeze
And murmur and spit and shiver,
For down the stream with full head of steam
Breathing perfumes that never vary,
Through the harbour gate with its precious freight
Comes the awfully “Dirty Mary.”
The fraudulent bankrupt dreams in his bunk,
On the sea-girt St. Helena,
Of the halcyon days when he revelled and stunk
Of Eau de Cologne and verbena ;
But wakes to find that his vision of joy
Was a dreamer’s vain vagary—
As the first bell rang for “ the rubbish gang ”
To discharge the ‘Dirty Mary.’”
When evening wind thro’ the mangrove blows
O’er the graveyard of dreams that are over,
The busted bank-clerk, holding his nose,
Sighs for odours of hay or of clover.
A soap-foundry atmosphere reeks rather vile,
And a Chinkie’s backyard ain’t a dairy,
But they’re Paradise both to this horrible isle,
And that clipper, the “Dirty Mary.”
Here’s a song of conscience-money,
Which is very, very funny,
Relating to a party who’s commenced to find the
_ Loan!—
This pious young beginner
Was for twenty years a sinner,
Holding someone else’s sovereign which he ought
to have restored.
His pulses used to quicken
When he thought about the “thick ’un ”
That came to him through carelessness on someone
else’s part;
He’d toss it up with pleasure
In his wicked hours of leisure,
And a sense of sin committed never dawned upon
his heart.
He ate, and drank in plenty,
And was merry until twenty
■Years had flitted o’er his unregenerate head,
After which he joined the Harmy,
And with spasms of alarm he
Wished he hadn’t sneaked that money, though
the injured party’s dead.
At night a horrid spectre
Of the dead-and-gone collector
Would glide into his bedroom, looking very, very
black,
When this sample of salvation
Threw off beads of perspiration,
And couldn’t sleep for thinking he must pay the
money back.
So he sent a “quid,” not waiting
To do any calculating
In the way of compound interest on the capital he
stole ;
Though this generous behaviour
Shows that “ conscience ” loves his Saviour,
We will bet another sovereign that he hasn’t saved
his soul.
A Great Legacy.
What it is; and What it has Accomplished.
“ Sire,” exclaimed a man in the homely garb of
a mechanic, to Richelieu, Prime Minister of
France, as he was entering his Palace—“ Sire, I
have made a discovery which shall make rich and
great the nation which shall develop it. Sire, will
you give me an audience ? ”
Richelieu, constantly importuned, finally ordered
the “madman” imprisoned. Even in gaol he did
not desist from declaring his “ delusion,” which
one day attracted the attention of a British noble-
man who heard De Cause’s story, and developed
his discovery of steam power.
All great discoveries are at first derided.
Nine years ago, a man, yet under middle; age,
enriched by a business which covered the United
States, found himself suddenly stricken down.
When his physicians said recovery was impossible
he used a new discovery, which, like all advances
in science, had been opposed bitterly by the school-
men. Nevertheless, it cured him, and out of
gratitude therefor he consecrated a part of his
wealth to the spreading of its merits before the
world. Such in brief is the history of “Warner’s
Safe Cure,” which has won, according to the
testimony of eminent persons, the most deserved
reputation ever accorded to any known compound,
and which is finally winning on its merits alone
the approval of the most conservative practitioners.
It cures diseases by removing the cause, cleansing
the fountains, and enriching the blood. It gives
strength and vigor to the digestive and muscular
system. Ninety-three per cent, of all diseases
which afflict humanity arise from disordered
kidneys. This is shown by medical authorities.
“ Warner’s Safe Cure” has a direct action on the
kidneys. It is a food as well as a medicine for
them ; it is restorative ; it is healing ; and Nature,
when allowed her full play and scope, will cure
nearly all disease if the organs named are intact.
“Warner’s Safe Cure” cures congestion of the
kidneys, back-ache, and all bladder and urinary
difficulties. It prevents stone, removes dropsy,
and is absolutely the only remedy that dissolves
and expels from the system uric acid, of which
there is a quantity secreted each day from the
waste and debris of muscular activity, sufficient,
if retained in the blood, to poison six men. To its
presence in the blood can be attributed all those
sudden deaths which are set down as heart disease,
apoplexy, and paralysis.


Diugmaii’a electric soap, a cleansing
iivediuni which is warranted to whiten anything
>ut a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance iu the Australian market,
it will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of, ‘ elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well m the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lanes, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
i • , “tbour; indeed, if it will perform half
vnat is claimed to be within range of its powers
itsintroducticm into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Kven body says and what everybody says must be true
that PemeU’s Snow white Patent Holler Flour is the
best in the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N. 8.—0 T two hours from Melbourne.
Oh, those comps. ! They had it in the
Melbourne Evening Standard that the Board of
Health held a “ Ballet ” to decide whether the
plans for the new Bijou could be accepted. O, you
funny rascal !
There is an aboriginal in Queensland, who
has worked for ten years for the same boss, owns
seven township allotments, speaks English
fluently, and is as sharp at a deal as if he had
been born in Petticoat-lane. Finally, his boss,
who is a bachelor, has made his will in his favour.
Ever since 1840 a fierce feud has existed
between the two N.Z. cities of Auckland and
Wellington. The N.Z. Colonization Company,
whose operations were confined chiefly to central
N.Z., endeavoured by every means, fair and foul
to have the capital fixed at Wellington, but the
first Governor, Captain Hobson, decided on Auck-
land. The Wellington paper used to call Auck-
land “ Hobson’s choice,” and Hugh Falwasser’s
paper—a curious specimen of typography printed
on a mangle—retaliated with such epithets as
“Raupo City,” “ Earthquakeville,” and had a
standing item of “Southern News” to the effect
that the Cook’s Strait village had not yet been
blown away. More than 20 years afterwards, by
the treachery of one of Auckland’s representatives,
Wellington became “the Empire City.” As a
matter of fact, in the days of sailing vessels,
Auckland was not central enough for the capital;
and the writer remembers once hearing the late
James Macandrew say (he sat in the N.Z. Parlia-
ment for over 30 years) that it invariably took him
five or six weeks to journey to Auckland from
Otago, and on one occasion, when going to Parlia-
ment, he had to reach the metropolis via Sydney—
a tw T o months’ journey in a fore-and-aft schooner.
John M‘Ewan & Co,,
AUCTIONEERS,
Us ./ss, 3ST JL3I -/V Gr "fcu» 3XT “JL* S ,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page. List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &e.
15-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List Businesses for Sale issued Bally.
All Lists posted FiUiiS on application.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Tories love their native country,
because they own it.
Now Zealand pays its Upper, as well as its
Lower. House of Parliament.
Eleven out of forty-six Germans natural-
ised in Victoria last year are engaged in running
pubs,
Ilev. Griffith, father of the leader of the
Queensland “Liberal ” party, is Grand Master of
tire Orange Society in the North.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are
said to be substituting boys at half-a-crown for
men at 6s. per day as engine-cleaners.
-Justice Smith, one of the Commissioners
on the Times forgeries, has recently had the rents
on his Irish estates considerably reduced by the
land court.
The N.S.W. loan of three and a-half
millions floated last week fetched 6s. 8d. nett less
than the previous aie. Six and eight. There are
two attorneys in the Ministry,
A sign of the times. At Ipswich (Q.) two
public-houses were recently closed under the Local
Option clauses. Unsuccessful application was
immediately made for their registration as clubs.
Ten thousand a year is not considered a
sufficient return for the services of that intellectual
personage the Marquis of Lome as Governor of
Victoria. Lucky the man who is his own ap-
praiser.
The beneficence of British rule in India
was instanced recently, when six Sikhs were sen-
tenced to be hanged for the murder of a man who
turned up smiling while the case was being re-
heard on appeal.
David Gaunson has been banqueted and
blessed with a purse of 300 sovs. by his South
Melbourne admirers. David lost his Parliamen-
tary seat at last election, but he has got one year's
salary all the same.
The Victorian railways rolling-stock is
coming to grief all over the place, but nobody
seems to enquire whether the defective carriages
are those made in the colony, or imported from
England in their extreme old age.
Democratic Melville, M.P. (speaking of
one Colonel de Wolski): “ What is the nationality
of this man.” Tory Bruce Smith, N.S.W. Minis-
ter of Defence, “I have come to the conclusion
that he is an English gentleman. ”
Mr. William Stephen (Freetrader), M.L.A.
for Redfern, after his return from a visit to the
Melbourne Exhibition, assured a Sydney press-
man that he was astounded at the progress Vic-
toria had made under a system of Protection.
Thus courteously the Australian Star
(Sydney)
The Georgites fill the places of the monkey and the
mule in the political zoo., having all the eccentricities of
the former animal and all the obstinacy of the latter.
Duncan Gillies recently stated that the
Victorian Government would advance money for
irrigation works “with and without interest.”
The shire councils have unanimously decided that
they prefer to take it “ without” if Duncan doesn’t
mind.
Controversy has arisen as to the meaning
of Postmaster-General Dan O’Connor’s “Let us
pray,” reported to have been interjected at the
end of a speech in the N.S.W. Assembly last week.
It is now believed that Daniel really said “ Let ns
bray!”
In a letter on “Arming the Sydney Con-
stabulary,” Politician Kelly epigramatically says
“ Be ready to fight and you will have no fighting
to do.” Bosh, Kelly, and no more true of nations
than of individuals. “ The means to do ill deeds,
makes ill deeds done. ”
Wollongong Argus says ; —“ We hold over
our leading article and other interesting matter till
next publication.” Same issue contains a long
article on “Trade Restriction,” by the everlasting
Pulsford. Ye gods! For such things arc the
golden words of the country editor slaughtered.
Dr. Bowker, M.L.C., is afraid that pay-
ment of members will introduce a lot of illiterate
men into the N.S.W. Assembly. That evil is not
1 ikely to be intensified. One Legislative councillor
has made half-a-dozen abortive attempts at spell-
ing “January,” and a member of the N.S.W.
Lower Chamber spells trouble without the “ o.”
Thadeus O’Kane slates the Hospital Com-
mittee of the Towers for an “illiterate and ignor-
ant crew.” He futhermore observes :—“ The
Orange vote on Charters Towers is as great a
terror as the Irish vote in New York. ‘ Confound
both their houses ! ’ What is Young Australia
thinking about ? Cycling, horse-racing, rinking,
gambling, everything but politics and public life.”
r Purkes’ game wasn’t worth the candle.
Ihus the Central Australian on his trip to
Bourke■
The whole thing was a political stratagem ; ineffective,
because insincere ; and despised, because too often prac-
tised. One thing it shows, and that is, that we can expect
to witness a storm in the near future, the principal feature
of which, we predict, will be the sinking of Barometer
Rarkes below zero.”
No suitable suite could he found in the
township on which to bore for water until the
landlady of a leading hotel, overcome by the dis-
trict M.L.A.’s blarney, presented 40 x 40 feet of
her inheritance for the purpose. Then the local
paper took a hand in the game by marniala-
ding the local member for being “ever ready
to sacrifice time and money in promoting the
interests of his constituents,” This was in
Dalby (Q.).
Judge Windeyer (N.S.W.), in his long-
winded and angry reply to the Minister for Justice
re the case of Reilly v. Hincksman: “For my
conduct as a Jvidge I am responsible only to both
Houses of Parliament and Her Majesty the
Queen.” What about Heaven and the Public ?
Now let the free-born Britons yell,
From belted earl to swiper;
For though the lady takes the Fife,
They’ll have to pay the piper.
Melville, M.P., favours the suppression of
“ Sunday concerts where foul and filthy songs are
sung.” Now the song that is “foul and filthy”
on Sunday can scarcely be accounted “clean and
cleanly ” on Monday, and therefore it is as desirable
to prevent its being sung on one day as another.
The worst feature in the “ People’s Tribunes ” is
that they no sooner rise in the world and squat
down in fat Government billets than they become
terrible sticklers for Propriety, in season and out
of season—and from that to defending the “ sacred
rights of Proputty ” is but a step.
In the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly the
other day, Hutchinson, member for GlenPenes,-and
a poetical Pharisee named Alfred Alien 'publicly
thanked Heaven that they were innocent of
classical learning. However, we have all met the
ignorant man who glories in his ignorance while
pointing out the dreadful crimes, such as forgery,
committed by persons who are able to write. We
expect nexU to hear some great “ statesman ” get
up in the ,’Ouse and recommend amputation of
both arms at the elbow-joint as a remedy for
forgery, and the expurgation of the alphabet from
schools as a preventive to the dissemination of
obscene literature.
The dons who have been sitting in Con-
ference in Berlin to settle the affairs of the
Samoans for them are said to have decreed that
the Malietoa the Germans carried off shall be
THE AMALGAMATION OF THE LEGAL PROFESSIONS: THE
PROFESSION’S FUTURE COAT OF ARMS.
brought back and made king again. If they had
asked the Samoans what they wanted they would
have been told that “hands off all round ” was
the sum total of the blessings asked of than.
Mataafa is a king every inch of him, and has
shown himself capable of putting things to rights
among his countrymen if let alone. It remains to
be seen how he will like to be put aside for the
weak fool who, when his throne was tottering
before the Germans, appeared on the scene and
kicked it over, .nearly drove his own followers into
rebellion for the sake of a smug-faced Tongan
woman whom Samoan etiquette would not let him
marry. Genealogy gives Malietoa the best right
to be king, but sometimes Nature does not give
much heed to genealogy in fashioning men, as cer-
tain bright specimens of British noblemen have
shown us.
Where are now the “merry Brokers ”
I remember long ago ;
Glibly singing out quotations
Ere the market’s tone fell low ;
Or in boomtimes’ merry morning
Ere the “market” went astray,
Ah ! indeed, their occupation’s
Ear away, far away,
Where is now the underwriting,
Where the crops of bonus shares,
Whore the jocund all offloading,
Where the bland prospectus snares?
Is the boom prospective distant?
Will it come some other day ?
Or for ever laid in limbo
Ear away, far away.
Some may dream of hours more restful
In their less ambitious days,
Ere the counter they deserted
For the golden paper chase ;
Gone are fond anticipations
Of retirement’s early day,
And that little trip to Europe’s
Far away, far away.
EXCHANGE.
Personal Items.
John Davies, M.L.C., was 50 years old
last March.
Daudet is writing a book which will be a
study of nervous maladies.
Labouchere says that lengthened military
training conduces to shortness of temper.
It is a curious fact that not one of the de-
tractors of the poet Burns has accused him of
thrashing his wife.
At Spurgeon’s Tabernacle they have been
praying for “Tummy’s” conversion. This is a
tougher contract than the Australian drought.
Sir George Grey is old-fashioned in nothing
but his hats. He wears a very wide-brimmed bell-
topper of a style that was fashionable forty years
ago.
Oliver Wendell Holmes is a great author
and only a mediocre doctor. Yet he has made
more money out of his patients -than he has, out of
his books.
A certain “ great ” “jour-
nalist,” runs-a: piggeryas’Ayb’JUas a paper. Ills
two businesses get mixed tip sometimes, we notice.
Hogwash in both.
Like Parkes, Swinburne and Morris,
A. lb A., have been writing verses on the baby,
and a London daily remarks that tlih cult of the
baby is becoming a literary nuisance. ,
After all it was not G. R. Sims whom the
Duke of Cambridge tried to throttle. It sims to
have been another journalist entirely, which shows
what a mistake it is to trust in any news coming
fia San Francisco.
M. W. Magill, who arrived in N.S.W. in
1813, and who established the first nursery garden
in Australia, died last week in Sydney, lie ac-
companied Allan Cunningham on some of his first
otanising expeditions.
Bishop Moorhouse has pronounced for
cremation. Chuck up the sponge, ye Resurrec-
tionists. When Moorhouse is cremated there will
be a big Sensation. All his brains and bulk will
go into 4lbs., whereas a good big baby weighs
141bs.
Two poets dined together at Hampton
Villa, Balmain, Sydney, one day last week. One
was a C.M.G. and the other a G.C.M.G. The
front name of each was Henry. After dinner
they compared verses of one another’s Written 40
years ago.
The gorgeous personage in a red coat all
over medals, who promenades in front of Sydney
Post-office and majestically waves people off the
steps, is not the Postmaster-General. We mention
this in order to prevent any misunderstanding on
the part of people from the country.
Lord Arthur Pelham Clinton, of Boulton
and Park notoriety, is still in the flesh, there seems
reason to believe. His death was announced
shortly after the great expose ; but, after all, he
appears to be identical with a well-known teacher
of music somewhere south of the Equator.
Dear Bulletin, —In Tam worth, the other
day, I noticed a picture of Sir Henry Parkes
with the two top buttons of his waistcoat nnbut
toned. I also noticed a picture of Mr. Gladstone—
the two top buttons of his waistcoat also were
unbuttoned. Which of these illustrious men is the
plagiarist? .
Washington Irving Bishop, the thought-
reader, started in life as a clerk in a drug-store.
He had been married four times and divorced
three. His last wife was one of the three divorcees.
Our old friend, Mr. “Jubilee Juggins”
Benzon, has fixed the price of his book, “My
Experience,” at ten shillings, and expects to sell
50,000 copies. He has bought his experience
dearly and wants to sell it to the best advantage.
He has just admitted on oath as a witness in a
money-lending case that he lost a quarter of a
million on the turf.
•Some years ago the English Courts de-
prived Mrs. Annie Besant of the custody of her
daughter because she was an avowed Freethinker.
And now' she has been elected at the head of the
poll for one of the largest constituencies on the
London School Board, and has a voice in the
education of nearly a million children. The clock
of the world moves on.
Miss Ackerman, a delegate from the
Women’s Christian Temperance Union of America,
who wears cow-hide boots, and is now lecturing in
N.Z., tells the story of a little girl who said that
“ God made Eve by taking the backbone out of
Adam.” Miss Ackerman improves on this by
declaring that woman has retained the backbone
ever since, particularly with regard to the temper-
ance question.
John Smith, born in Lincolnshire, 1796,
married in Sydney, 1.823, died the other day at
Bel more, aged 93. He was the first man in Aus-
tralia to work a pair of horses in the plough, and
turned up Sydney University paddock when it
was Grose’s farm. His widow is now 83 years
old. Sire was not long ago an intelligent witness
in a Supreme Court case and walked three miles
after giving her evidence.
As already stated. J. L. Purves, Q.C., was
narrowly defeated in the last heat of the Victorian
chib billiard handicap. Orr one occasion, when ho
occupied a similar position at the Athenaeum Club,
lie, in the august presence of Duncan Gillies,
Langton, Sir John O’Shanassy, and a great num-
ber of the “chosen people,” including little
“ Bennie,” now the Mayor, reduced three cues, his
own property, to matchwood. That was in the
“ seventies.” He may not be so choleric now.
Mrs. Eliza A lute, supposed to be the first
white woman who ever set foot in the Burrangong
district, died the other day at Penrith (N.8.W.),
aged 78 years. She left behind her 25 grand-
children and 35 great-grandchildren. Fifty-two
years ago her husband, Mr. John White, perished
from thirst in the Stringy Bark Ranges, about five
miles from where the town of Young now stands.
Wild dogs used to scour the district then, and
they appear to have devoured the unfortunate
man’s remains. Nothing was left of him but his
bones.
Mr. Charles Ue Boos, P.M., has just
retired from the N.S.W. Civil service at the age of
over 70 years. After smelling powder as a member
of the British legion in the Carlist war of 1835-0-7,
Mr. De Bees came to Australia, just 50 years ago.
He was in the service of the Victorian Govern-
ment as shorthand-writer for several years,
and since 1856 has been connected with all
the principal newspapers of the two most popu-
lous colonies. Mr. De Boos has gone outside the
path of journalistic literature, and written an his-
torical. novel, entitled “Fifty Years Ago,”—
dedicated, by the way, to the late Mr. John
Fairfax.
Sir Julius Vogel has recovered the use of
his legs, after six years’incapacity through gout.
He is, however, still very deaf. When he was Trea-
surer of N.Z. a year or two back the other members
of the Cabinet had to positively shriek to enable
him to follow their deliberations. “ Green ” press
correspondents used to be taken to a corridor
handy to the Cabinet-room by the knowing old
hands, and were asked to listen to the Ministerial
quarrel over the Financial Statement or whatever
was then uppermost. In one case an exceedingly
verdant journalist (lid wire to his paper that the
dissensions in the Cabinet were such that a com-
plete break-up was imminent. Premier Stout
caused an indignant denial of this to be tele-
graphed, but as next week he had the walls of the
Cabinet-room padded with sawdust, it was evi-
dent that he “ tumbled ” to the whyness of the
report.


Self-Government for Western Australia.
"It is proposed to grant Self-Government to Western Australia, England reserving the right ‘to dictate upon all matters concerning the exclusion of Emigrants.'"
J. BULL: “NOW THIS ’ERE IS WOT I CALLS SELF-G UV’MENT— ONLY I INTEND TO KEEP TIGHT HOLD OF THIS BIT OF RED TAPE."


\
%
A/
CMISTIE- ~dolD/Vq CASS-
If 'M ftprZi
‘PS4; P4*
£DiTOK J Rce l
%
/V £
/*ni
/H
m
/
~o
1 5,
t
#'
/ - „ n,f mtfif-
n Vou a U/tIW
doprdear/M r
krf:#/**9%9 fN
' * Wo il*t vy
¥ys-
bP*
,0% . /f H
hl‘ o/^
**l'
y /* a r c t-/?*<?'?secc
I fafirfiK Oliqr&yrf'jr
, CUty awkward h/f/akp «//f' TAOS' /-rrvTrrr a/f
'#& '*v **yz
Vy/ffi %;//!/ j//q-ccT~ f/Tk fa fate ft 4**
Tpfp/~ fdd &T*P /pfi //Vof-dear.
tire crufi 0/ our coast y
rusty . ~Jyf>///rfsy rust/ Its a
Sufro/ fit 'fats tyf? ?"* s %*r f
P'&r.
H
7je ed/foro/rfp c 'Jydnw D f
Offer u/ee fee
/ ?s u/r } > - of-Coufa/rv rf/'sfe/c/s fas
. d/scoret-ecC tfctr " Tobacco, c<j/pe efc
fo-rfi fo Co??fic/-/op a / «// fa/it (cJfr&f-
fffeo eo///<f fp %f a p P-rsfiPc /■ zfeOJOa/cf
Sfe.y jfaaf CcJfioa./ff*/'O/K/t} Of af'/fOOJ/000?
ofa/fa fs'OO-Tracfo
To our op Tpo T?/ocTr up .
Things in General.


“ HOG’S HEAD ” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
E. 13. WHEELER & CO,,
205 Clabkxce Street,
s y o Kr ei y.
COUIAL DEPOSIT aud DISCOUNT im.
82 KING STREET. SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follows :
3 Years
12 Months
(i Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
S per cent.
0 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELV, Manager.
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
.'Also E ™ a ’ W retire. R«i«h, Blnthner, Collar!, and othara
-t»st;ey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
“ Duncan Gray cam’ here to woo
Ha, ha! the wooing o’t.”
The Earl of Fife, aged 40, to the Princess Louise
of Wales, aged 22.
The House C om-
mittee of N.Z. Parlia-
ment have decided that
members’ grog-scores at
Bellamy’s (the Parlia-
mentary refreshment-
room) shall be paid
weekly. N.Z. Bellamy's
is a great institution.
It is the biggest drink-
shop in We 11 ingt o n.
Seymour George, Sir
George Grey’s nephew
by marriage, when
Chairman of the House
Committee, used to groan
over ‘ ‘ Johnny Collinses ”
that were good wholesale
value for 10d., but Vin-
cent Pyke used to say,
“Keep up the stan-
dard of the liquor and
you'll have no fights.”
Bellamy’s is used not
only by members and
pressmen and house
officials, but by “ every-
body who is anybody.”
Any respectably-dressed
citizen who wants a good
honest drink at under cost
price trots hurriedly
into one of the waiting-
rooms and asks the
orderly for a member he
knows to be at the other
end of the town at that
minute. Then he pulls
out his watch and'eurses,
and winds up by touching c
the omnipresent electric r
bell-nob—and there you a , a drink for sixpence
that you couldn’t get anywhere else for ninepence.
# # *
Oh, good for the bile of a good old Demo-
crat ! This. To see that big photo, of Speaker
Davies on the Collins-strect Block. How smug !
Riches exude out of him. They run down his
face, like the oil from Aaron’s beard, and all over
his gorgeously-gilt plastered robes. Could poor
old bush “Stew Wan” Lalor swank in robes like
that ? Poverty was branded on Peter’s face,
Faugh ! Peugh ! Civet, good Apothecary. Ah,
here is the nice man, the ladies’ man, Davies, soft
as down. He doesn’t walk -he ambles.
# # #
Last week, at a church-bazaar in the city
of Sin, Sweat and Sorrow, they raffled a £lO note
for £22 12s. fid. This, at any rate, was honest
and straightforward compared with the usual pro-
ceedings at church-bazaars. When a man buys a
£lO note for 125 per cent, above its value he knows
exactly what he is getting for his money. The
lovely-worked chair which is raffled for 30 guineas
is an abject swindle in comparison with the godly
tenner.
* * *
The expression of confidence in Postmaster
Tulloch carried at the Madgwickian meeting at
Branxton was a-one-for-Tulloch, two-for-Deasy,
M.P., affair,
* * *
It was up North and he had spent all his
money at the church-bazaar. However, turning
to his guest, he inquired with lordly air : “ By
the way, have you a shilling, old chappie ?” Old
chappie; “No, I haven’t, but I have a half-
sovereign ” (producing same). “Ah ! that will
do as well ’’ (tossing the coin to barman) : “ here,
Muggins, nine shillings change, if you please, and
look smart about it. ” Old chappie (interrupting
hurriedly): “ No, you don’t—nine and sixpence
change, Muggins, if you please.” Tableau : They
don’t speak now.
# # *
Two milkmaids and two sailors. Guileless
simplicity unaffected by the climate of Newcastle
(N.S.W.), wheedled into knocking the bottom out
of the moral law in eloping with Jack Shelloo, the
model of all the manly virtues handed down by
the late Tom Bowline. Never more will tbe
family cow be belted over the head with the
roping-stick, or the two hearts on a single skewer
be pricked in Indian ink and vermilion on the
brawny chest. They are married ! All four of
them,
• # *
The acme of cheek has been reached out-
side of Parliament, after all. A noted old
“soaker,” who was up before Melbourne court,
the other day, for his customary offence, upon
being asked if he had anything to say for himself,
entered a bitter complaint against the arresting
constable, who, he said, “ smelt so strongly of
drink that it made him sick.” Mr. Lawrence
Debenham Paget Davenant will please go up top.
## y #
Sir James Lorimer, the Victorian Minister
of Battles, has been wounded in the region of his
military magnificence by Colonel Price, who called
out the Mounted Rifles all of a suddint, without
first consulting the ruffled sugar-dealer. They
■ actually talked of court-martialling Price for play-
ing at soldiers on his own responsibility.
* * *
Melbourne policeman’s evidence in vagrancy
case : —“ Oi found this woman last night, yer Wor-
ships, cur-r-r-ld up on a door-shtep in company wid
Constable Kelly.” The Bench elevated itself on
end, and its eye stuck out fearfully as it bellowed :
“ Wha-at ?” “Oi mane, yer Worships,” continued
“Princess Louise of Wales has been presented with a water-colour by Mr. Hern, the water-colour artist, formerly of Sydney,
on the occasion of her marriage.”The picture is to some extent allegorical, and represents a princess going in to dinner, followed
in regular order of precedence by her poodle and her husband.
the witness, “that Oi was in company wid Con-
stable Kelly.” Sighs and general reaction.
* # *
That the insidious odours of Smellbourne
have got a strong hold upon the affections of the
residents was instanced last week, by the case of
a carpenter who hanged himself because he couldn’t
prevent the local Council from running a drain
through his little bit of freehold proputty. Any
Melbourne man who objects to the course of true
drainage running smooth deserves to be hanged.
We suspect, however, that this misguided carpenter
merely anticipated the inevitable by a few months.
Typhoid is in every nook and corner of Melbourne
now, and another warm summer will convert that
great place into a Marvellous City of the Dead,
with a black flag flying atop of its Town Hall to
warn people to escape while there is time.
* # *
A man described as “Her Majesty’s Boots”
was charged with assault and battery at Melbourne
City Court the other day. It transpired that he
blacked boots at the hotel named after Vic. Regina.
** , #
In Sydney the Marine Board have reduced
the rate at which ferry-boats go and the Com-
missioners the rate at which trams go. What now
is wanted is some authority to reduce the rate at
which bank-clerks go.
* * *
Male human nature is threatened with a
universal return to knickerbockers. The “ bike ”
man must be at the bottom of it.
* # #
There is a friendly society in Sydney
called “ The Kangaroos, ” which holds fortnightly
“ bounds ” where “ marsupialities ” are indulged
in. These latter, The Bulletin trusts, does not
include “ going on the wallaby.”
* * *
Here is a bald-headed chestnut. When
Dr. Anna Potts was in Sydney she said at one of
her lectures that there was a great deal of illness
resulting from sin in the highest circles of Sydney.
This called forth the remark “Potts Point ! Potts
points at you.”
*- * *
We regret to state that our respected con-
temporary, the Pekin Gazette, is not as truth-
ful as it ought to be. Recording some floods on
the Yellow River it remarked that “the city of
Weischih was in danger of being swept away by
the flood when transfigured forms of. the river
deities and spirits suddenly appeared, and the
waters at once were calmed.” Thefo ought to be
room for the man who “ did ” that flood on the
staff of Sydney D.T. when the next burglary at a
judge’s house comes along.
: X :
The burglar-scare brings the Insurance
fiend into action. A N.S.W. office issues policies
indemnifying householders against loss by
burglary. Encouraging local industry.
* # *
Dhuleep Singh, who still continues to read
The Bulletin, having failed to bounce the
Kohinoor out of the Queen, has sought surcease
from sorrow by marrying an English woman
named Wetherell. If the new Mrs. Dhuleep
Singh is built in accordance with the plans and
specifications that usually govern the construction
of womenkind, the Queen will have a rougher
time over that diamond than ever she had before.
* # #
N.Z. must be full of peers lying perdu.' A
claimant to the Dukedom of Buckingham has
arisen in Christchurch, and the papers relative to
his claim are already in the hands of a London
solicitor. And, apropos of this, old Pearce, an
Auckland blacksmith, who some years ago made
an unsuccessful attempt to establish a claim to the
Derwentwater estates, died recently.
# * #
A little paper called Monthly News,
headed “the Lord is My Shepherd,” is issued in
connection with St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
and the current issue contains the following :
It has been found necessary owing to want of funds to
make some alteration in the daily services at the Cathedral.
The choral service hitherto held at 4.30 pan., will be re-
placed by a service in the side chapel at 3.30 p.m.
In connection with this notice it may be stated
that the Cathedral authorities have just discharged
all the adult paid choristers, also the blind organ-
blower and his assistant, on the pretext of want of
funds, and there is now no longer any music at
the daily services. The Dean lives up the line
somewhere or other and lets the deanery for £2OO
a-year, notwithstanding that there are a whole lot
of people who think he ought to keep house for
his curates in the off-handed apostolic style of
Dean Bromby, of Hobart.
* * *
A Sydney man in the furniture trade, the
other day stood up in an oyster-saloon and ate 12
dozen of big oysters right off. Having paid for
the oysters, he offered to wager that he would eat
as many more if his boss would pay for them.
* * #
An exhibition of pictures rejected by the
Royal Academy is a recent London novelty.
What is wanted now is a newspaper to publish
rejected contributions. It might be called the
Failure. By the way, there are already lots of
such papers in Australia, but they don’t know it.
# * *
They have got a new idea in English
sassiety. They give parties at which people don’t
dance or eat —only talk. Programmes, aggra-
vatingly like dance cartes, are handed to the
gentlemen, but they are merely lists of recondite
subjects on which the men are expected to dis-
course to the lady guests. Five minutes is
given to each topic, and at a given signal the
males change the topic and the partner at the
same time. And what are the ladies doing, pray
—don’t they talk ?
* * #
The latest definition of a time-worn phrase
is illustrated in Georgc-street, Sydney. Pork
sausages, cooked in the shop-window, are served
up inside under the style and title of “a long-felt
want.” The cooked-sausage man has struck a
patch, and this is just where another L.F.W.
comes in. If there is no underground obstacle to the
introduction of “ tanglefoot ” at a sausage soiree,
then may the colonial wine license be extended to
cover colonial beer ? They who dread the danger
may shun the risk, but sausages don’t synchronise
with tea as well as with swankey.
* # *
A woman was brought up before the Mel-
bourne City Court the other day, charged with
sleeping in the Cathedral. The clergy will be glad
that it is an indictable offence to sleep in church.
# * #
Now it is proposed to take down the
Pyramids because they draw such a horde of
loafers ! Ho hurry up and take your passage bv
the mailboat.
* # *
Old Doctor Singleton says a poor and re-
spectable woman cannot get a bed in Melbourne.
Positive fact.
It is cabled that Viscount Dunlo, son and
heir of the Earl of Clanoarty, who has only just
attained his majority, has at a London registry-
office married a music-hall singer ; the happy pair
have now started for Australia. The newspapers
head this item “Married Beneath Him,” but in
the long run it will probably be found that it is
poor Dunlo that dunno—he is, likely enough, as
green as grass, and she is as smart as they make
’em. The Bulletin bestows its blessing on the
enterprising little woman and her noble husband,
and trusts yet to see her footing it lightly to the in-
spiriting strains of Frank Smitn’s music at Sydney
Alhambra.
% -* #
Ah Adelaide paper says there were 400
“ thruppennies ” and 200 sixpences in Principal
Rainy’s collection-plates at evening service. In
illustration, perhaps, of the old adage that “it
never rains but it pours.” Allowing an hour for
the Presbyterian sermon and “ sawm,” £lO seems a
lot of money—and a free pass behind it, too !
* # *
The story goes that a certain Sydneyite,
who has been making ducks and drakes of tilings
lately, has “ cut his stick ” after investing heavily,
very heavily, in jewellery.
# # *
The ancient and dishonourable order of
The Sack has been recently conferred on a number
of members of the Windsor Castle household,
owing to the discovery that the contents of the
Castle cellar were in systematic progress of transfer
to certain pubs, in the neighbourhood. There lias
been a run on those pubs., but the liquor was no
better than usual. It is suspected that they had
merely been supplied with the liquor that Her
Majesty serves out to C.M.G.’s when they go to
see her.
Mr. N. Christopher, of Deniliquin, is,
perhaps, the most envied man in that proud city
just now. He has a turnip in his window weigh
ing 231 b. “ There’s plenty of people in the town
who'd give their heads for it,” he says.
Editor Bulletin.—
Sir, —The Yearbook of
Professor Kerehoffs and
his report to the French
“Association pour la
propagation du Volapiik ”
show that the language
has advanced greatly dur-
ing the last year. The
number of societies for its
propagation has increased
from 172 to 265. The
number of works pub-
lished for the study of
the language has risen
from 134 to 316, written
in 25 different tongues.
Twenty-five newspapers
now circulate either
wholly or partly printed
in Vola- piik. The num-
ber of graduates in
Volapiik has increased
to 1600, of whom three
hail from N.S. Wales and
two from Victoria. While
the language is of most
utility for carrying on
trade with other
countries, having different
languages and dialects,
still it may be worth while
for us in Australia to
study it. For our defences,
military organisation,
and material may turn
out to be as rotten as they
are stated to be. In this
case how very convenient
it will be to be able to
converse and trade (free ?)
with our conquerors, from whatever part of the
world they may come !—A. W. Bateman,
“Sydney to Croydon” is a modest little
twinkle of travel, by a N.S. Wales M.L A who
onvr :„ u „
T,v a , rtfoll J ° U P hls sleeve > but hides his
mentity badly under the pen-name of “Saltbush.”
Containing much valuable and some novel infor-
mation, it also fixes the locality of sundry pretty
“JjL 6 £ rth ’ fires 1 a moral shots that
nave never been properly rammed home, and
ta “malMi"' 4 “‘Zkl
whole it is geara.i'eed pure for My
tion, subject to the approval of the Brace, Bit
a,|fl b' aclaw! Society. _
A N.Z. commercial traveller played a
mean kind of bottomless practical joke on a brother
of the road the other day. They had been fellow-
travellers in a steamer to Auckland, and the same
boat also carried the colonial hangman, who had
dashed off a fresh corpse a few days previously at
Napier. When the travellers arrived at Auckland
they carried their samples to the same hotel,
where the one was well known while the other was
a stranger. The landlord, having heard that the
hangman had arrived, asked the joker if he had
to o 'the'riVsS' that’s
him. Isn’t he an ugly brute?” The story spread
and hundreds visited the hotel to stare and scowl
at the alleged executioner, who, for his part, could
not understand why he was followed about and, at
the same time, shunned so much by the people
about the hotel. The joke soon leaked out, bub
not before its author had taken his departure and
the victim is now following hard on his tracks,
Stroke my beard gently, my pretty Louise,
I’m bald as a baby above ;
I’m rather too plump to go down on my knees,
My princess, my child, and my dove !
My heyday is fled, while before you are spread
The roses and raptures of life ;
When my grave yawns in view, honour bright,
little Lou.,
Will you play flighty tricks on your Fife ?
Will you ever become like the old ’un, Louise?—
Your princely and portly papa—
Short-winded and rubicund, squat and obese,
Or graceful and sweet, like your ma?
Will you turn out, my dear, the proverbial grey
mare,
Like your gran’ma or Chamberlain’s wife ?
You’ll be quite young enough, when old age takes
Macduff
For a second edition of Fife.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against- Deposit of Deeds,
and all the.'usual banking business transacted.
1 he following are the
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years
12 Months
0 Months
3 Months
latcs of Interest allowed
... ■ h. 1 , per cent.
... 8|- per cent.
... 7h per cent.
5| per cent.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One pee
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglia & Co.,
1 & (I Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It .is . the greatest success of the
age.
High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “ By Appointment.”
Hors lord's Arid Phosphate,
THE MOST EFFECTIVE
Nerve-Food and Tonic yet discovered.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
How He Died.
Phartebs Towers, the Ballarat of Queensland,
has' no public park or gardens. The one break m
the barren beauty of its surroundings is the
Cemetery, the quartz-gravelled walks of which
,,,,,, the rendezvous where leisure and fashion m-
eonsmiously faint themselves. Over a recent
irravo in this necropolis a simple board has been
frected which —but lot the idyll be told in im-
mortal song
When Esau Higgins died
We found, lying by his side,
A shiny little, tiny little, baby sort of gun,
And moreover —which was horrid—
We discovered in his forehead
A hole which seemed to indicate the way the trick
was done.
The aforesaid Mr. Higgins
Lived on Charters Towers diggings—
Lived and died there just last summer of a self-
inflicted shot :
When the mercury is mounting
Bast all ordinary counting,
O ’tis merry on the Towers when the blood and
brains are hot.
When a digger’s throat is burning,
And a diaphragm is yearning
Bor a course of irrigation with strong liquors of
all sorts,
Never nectar tasted finer
Than beer going down a miner, _
And his thoughts are all intent on pints when not
absorbed in quartz.
Love of beauty and of liquor
Made poor Esau’s heart beat quicker,
When his nightly stand was taken at his fav’nte
public bar;
Bor a maid of fickle fancies
.Stood there, shooting smiles and glances,
Where the liquids and the glasses and the shiny
brasses are.
But a solid man must he be
Who would strike the heart of “ Shebe —
That buxom, black-eyed Hebe, of mature and
ample charms,
Whose gospel, touching diggers,
Is good Scrip-tnre writ in figures,
Ere her pliant waist is yielded to the cincture of
strong arms.
But why prolong a story
With a moral stale and hoary ?
There were sellers, but no buyers, for the Higgins
preference scrip;
She rejected him, with scorning,
One bright, blazing, sultry morning,
And also stopped his credit by denying him a
“ nil).”
And then, as has been stated,
Hot, thirstyvrand checkmated,
He fondly grasped the handle of the pistol that he
bore — 1 r
Opinions differed whether
’Twas thro’ liquor or the weather,
But he shot him self at dinner-time ; we planted
him at four.
Bor excuse these painful'topics—
Habeas corpus in the tropics
Means box your corpse and bury it for sanitation’s
sake;
You can’t bring back the lustre
To the rigid eye of dust, or
Warm dead ears by howling like the Irish at a
“ wake.”
So we laid him in God’s acre,
Where the festive undertaker
Comes with melancholy countenance but profitable
aims ;
Where the dwellers on the Towers,
In the sweltering noontide hours,
Come for serious recreation and to peg out private
claims.
“ Another good man busted
By the barmaid that he trusted,”
Was the legend we indited on a board above his
shaft,
Whi h was pious, but a “fairy,”
Bor the facts were quite coi \trairy.
Since’twas Shebe “ trusted ” Esau for the liquor
that he quaffed.
The Glebe tragedy has furnished more
blood for the Afternoon Bennett; likewise an
opportunity for adorning it with a statement that
the money placed in the hands of the wretched
wife and mother “by the Evening News re-
porters was alike a surprise and a joy.” That’s
about what it would be. The ad. is ‘ ‘ neat and
tasty. ”
Mr. James Miller, of Mooloolah (Q.) writes
to The Bulletin respecting an earthquake he
predicted over twelve months ago, and avers that
ivhen it does occur the relics of a past age will be
turned up about latitude 3(> south, longitude 1771
east, and that it will probably come along shortly.
We had not received it up to time of going to
press.
Hypnotism has become very conspicuous
in Europe of late. It has been used in the place
of chloroform for some time in surgical operations
at Paris, and when, in a recent murder case there,
it was charged that the murderer had hypnotized
the victim and forced her to kill herself, public
opinion accepted the possibility of the fact in a
way quite remarkable.
The member of an American State Legis-
lature who had been annoyed by his neighbor’s
hog, introduced a Bill compelling the owner of the
prescribed animal to keep him within the limits of
a pen. The Bill passed, and went up to the
Governor for his approval. To the surprise of the
members and the chagrin of its sponsor, it was
returned with his veto. When asked for a reason
he exclaimed : “I don’t believe in the bill in the
first place, and if I did, I wouldn’t sign a bill that
spelled hog with a big H and Governor with a
little g.”
“ I take my stand on this public nostrum
and defy ’em all !”—Melbourne alderman.
Says the Cooktown Independent : —“ It
is probably a compliment to the Independent to
be coupled with the Sydney Bulletin in Post
Office misappropriation or misdelivery.”
We are Protectionist to the back-bone,
but we like “colonial beer” so little that we feel
inclined to oppose any alteration of the tariff that
will make English beer cost more than a shilling a
bottle.
It has been surely coming for a long time
past, and a brain that was never vigorous has now
reeled and toppled over in consequence of the re-
turn of Protectionist Schey for Redfern. The
day after the election the Noose, as though loftily
indifferent to the fate of its party, dismisses the
struggle with a weak half-column of head-lines
and wash terminating in a tarradiddleof “revela-
tions ! ” and returns to its wallow. The San
Francisco Chroniole is tapped for a colunm-and-
a-quarter account of what a really sensational
bloodletting and exit ought to be, thus :
MURDER AND SUICIDE.
SERGEANT MffiONALD KILLS ETHEL M. ANDERSON AND TAKES
Ills OWN LIFE.
Waiting a few moments after the last shot, May Collins
threw the bedclothes from her face, and then the awful
spectacle met her gaze.
With a shriek she sprang from the bed and rushed down-
stairs, clad in but a single garment.
A Chronicle reporter was soon at the scene. On step-
ping into the room a most horrible sight was presented.
The dead girl lay just inside the door, clad Only in a red
flannel chemise. Her body was huddled in a heap, with
the head on the threshold of an open closet door. Her
lovely auburn hair fell over her face in a dishevelled
mass, and was clotted with the blood that had flowed
from the ghastly wounds in her head and neck. Her
once pretty face was dabbled with blood, and the expres-
sion of fear which had come upon the features at sight of
the murderous revolver was frozen there by death.
And this tale of blood and underclothing is illus-
trated (!) by a woodcut of the young lady, and one
of the murderer in his regimentals. Now, Mister
Bennett, what have we in Australia to do with
Sergeant M‘Donald and the woman he shot ? Can
it be that Sydney just now has not enough blood-
shed to suit the tastes of the peoj>le of Woolloo-
mooloo ?
SHf STfAufTH mss
I A PAIR OF P»FTEfNS
PLE/\s£ rex'’
Principal Rainy is a
very cautious prophet. In
his address at Sydney on
“ Presbyterianism in Scot-
land ” he said : “At the
bottom of my heart there
lurks, and is likely to re-
main, the persuasion that,
when all Church systems were
merged into one,” the suc-
cessful system will be
“ wonderfully like Presby-
terianism. ” When the pigs
begin to fly, when the Land
Bill passes, when the parsons
work for nought, and never
ask for passes. But haven’t
we heard the principal’s idea
in another shape —“My doxy
is orthodoxy ; everybody
else’s is heterodoxy. ”
One of the fathers of the Melbourne stage,
at the old Queen’s, was Dick Capper. He was
mechanist at Drury Lane. Theatre, London, in
Lord Byron’s time, and knew Edmund Kean well.
In Melbourne Capper combined mechanism with
acting. He got a benefit at the Theatre Royal
when over 80, and acted Shylock in a scene from
the “Merchant of Venice,” also Dr. Flail in the
“Irish Tutor,” with his old friend Jimmy Sim-
monds as Terry O’Rourke. We believe Jimmy is
still going round in Sydney in green goggles.
Simmonds instructed the celebrated so-called
“Boy Girl” for her appearance at the Bijou
Theatre, Melbourne, as Katharine in ‘ ‘ Katharine
and Petruchio. She was called the “ Boy Girl ”
merely because she cropped her hair for a wager.
But to revert to Capper. For many years he
lived by the Plenty River, in the mountains of the
Plenty Ranges. Here his old theatrical reminis-
cences combined with the strange natural scenery
to inspire him with a long series of original 5-aet
plays. There is a volume of them in the Mel-
bourne Public Library. They are drolly magnilo-
quent,fin blank verse, treating of ancient Babylon,
Nineveh, and Egypt. One is “ The Mummy
Makers of Egypt.” He makes fun out of Mr.,
and Mrs. Sanchoniatho, comic characters. The
vein of these plays is quite original. It is amusing
how the stage-carpenter appears through all, with
copious directions about flats, cloths, grooves, flies,
and all the other technology. He wrote a lot of
plays which were never printed—altogether about
20 pieces—and lived to be about Bfi.
“ The police deposed that the parties actu-
ally had the audacity to open a disorderly house
opposite to two (Carlton, Melb.) churches and
next to a parsonage
Go out and ask the first old theatrical
pro. on the Sydney Point or the Melbourne, “ Did
you know Charley Miran ?” He will reply, “ Did
I know him ?” Then will come a racy budget of
anecdotes. Who was this Charley Miran at all ?
He seems to have been the Admirable Crichton of
the old Australian stage. We fancy we saw him
act once with beetle-browed Burford. I here is
always a typical sort of man for every period.
Everything gcod of 30 years ago is fathered on this
übiquitous Charley Miran. We’ll evolve his life
some time. Charley was a sort of Gil Bias on the
stage, a laughing philosopher almost amid starva-
tion at times. Sam Woolfe knew him, poor Sam,
who was said to have been in the Balaclava Charge
and caught his death of cold through sleeping out
in Sydney Domain on a fearful winter’s night.
Ted Holloway and all the old school picture Miran
to us as a genius. For swallowing sides of Bacon—
that is to say, learning parts of Shakespeare—no
one could come near him. Like Billy Hoskins, he
could reel it all off. Charley Miran meandered
through the world of Nesbitt, Shearcroft, Morton,
King, Coppin, in times as they used to be, G. Y.
Brooke, Kate O’Reilly, Kate Warde, Con. Warde,
Bob Dale, and all those. Miran was a gorgeous
lounger. He seemed, to walk in and out of tneatu*
cal companies as he liked, handsome, clever
Charley. He would do you offhand Hamlet,
Rob Roy, Idol of the Mountain, Dumb Boy of
Manchester, Charles Surface, Jim Baggs, &c. We 11
fetch up Charley from the shades where he basks
with Daddy Rogers, who would insist on Charley
to back him up in the “Road to Ruin” or the
other good old pieces.
In a recent article,
headed “The Rubicon
Crossed,” the organ of the
“Trade” in Sydney likens
the position of the Licentious
Victuallers in connection
with the Redfern election
to that of Hannibal when
he forded the classic stream
mentioned. Now we always
thought that it was Julius
Caesar, not Hannibal, who
really crossed the Rubicon,
on the occasion indicated,
but we are willing to defer to
a classical scholar so eminent
as “ Jack” Conway. How-
ever, if an African is to be
dragged in to pad an article
intended for Sydney publi-
cans, Peter Jackson would
be far more effective than
all the pirates ever turned
out of Carthage.
“ Don’t flatter me !” as the Earth remarked
to the anti-globular theorist.
Joseph Symes’s Liberator Company is
wound up. Journalists run in all shapes, but no
man can successfully edit a paper without the in-
stincts of a journalist. Now, Mr. Symes has them
not. We have read a good deal of his Liberator
writing with pleasure and profit. At the same
time, we could always perceive that the paper
wouldn’t gee. It was too slabby, flabby; it laid
on your hands like a damp, dead fish. Symes
wrote too much with his constantly-recurring sig-
nature, We know not whether this Was vanity, or
imposed on him by the nervousness of the share-
holders. He kept on flogging dead horses, dead
dogs, kicking dead lions. He could not
make the' people he attacked read him. Now,
if you only know how to turn things round, the
man you attack is bound to read you. You lay
bird-lime for him. Your paper sticks to his
fingers. He craves for it like a boozican for a
pint. By hook or by crook he must have it. He
may have to read it on the sly, but if it costs a
guinea for a penny rag it must be got. Now, we
confidently assert that Bishop Goe and Arch-
bishops Gould and Carr didn’t read St. Joseph,
as Mr. Symes once facetiously called himself. The
man has made his mark, nevertheless. We are
only picking out one weak side of a strong man.
Another joint in his armour is a want of tact. He
splits his party in two, then widens the rift by his
violent language and writing, instead of being
conciliatory. Yet he is a powerful wedge. His
Sunday evening lectures draw a crowd in his big
new Hall of Science, Victoria Parade.
The Victorian police regulations take the
cake for supernal idiocy and cruelty. There are
1130 of them, including instructions as to how a
constable should act in the event of getting his
feet wet. If his dinner goes the wrong way he is
immediately to catch himself by the nose, and
charter a brother officer to pound him on the back
with the Government Gazette while he (the
sufferer) recites the 154th section of the Rabbit
Act. In regard to the mess rules, all officers in
charge of stations are directed to examine the
provender of the men and see that it is up to
standard as “ regards and quantity, and
sufficient to support the men in the execution of
their arduous duties. ” One unmarried constable,
the sole support of his widowed mother and his
sister, applied for leave to have his meals with
them in order to save expense. The application
was refused, as such a proceeding was considered
subversive of discipline. Another insult to the
supposed decency and cleanliness of the force is
contained in Regulation or rather Spasm 340,
This extraordinary production reads as follows :
Each man is to provide himself with a box according to
the regulation pattern, and a sufficient supply of under-
clothing, and the sub-officer will be held responsible for
the men’s underclothing being changed sufficiently often
for cleanliness.
The idiocy of the foregoing is almost on a par
with its lack of grammar. Fancy one man in-
specting the underclothing of another man !
It was at the Right Honourable the
Speaker’s banquet, in the Queen’s Hall of Parlia-
ment House, that the Acting Mokanna of Victoria
dropped into poetry as follows :—“ Speaking in
this noble hall for the first time I may perhaps be
permitted to congratulate you on the beauty of
the building in which your proceedings-(here the
distinguished company unhitched two buttons of
its representative waistcoat and softly sighed for
more champagne) take place. It would seem
indeed—so subtle are the unconscious influences of
our surroundings—as if no unworthy or unpatriotic
thought could ever take shape within these stately
halls.” Now, a number of the Victorian senators
can’t shape any thoughts wortli mentioning, so
whether they are sitting in stately halls or on the
“dummy” of a tram-car, makes no difference.
But if any of them can produce a thought un-
worthy or unpatriotic (according to the gospel of
Sir William C. F. Robinson) it’s pretty certain
they couldn’t give it lip at a Speaker’s dinner,
because they would be thrown out before they
were half through. Nobody knows this better
than the clean-shaved Wobinson. And as Wobin-
son is a bit of a musician in his way, we’ll trouble
him to set these verses to worthy and patriotic
music:—
Ah, what consummate impudence,
Oh what audacity is here !
How dared those wicked people start
In such a moral atmosphere,
And flaunt their naughtiness before
The face of every church frequenter ?
They surely never thought that that
Would prove a paying business centre.
To “ The Petrified Man of Cow Plat.”
Certain scientific sages
Class you as a of Ages,”
But I wouldn’t like to tell you all the horrid things
they say;
So to turn your recollection
In a different direction,
Let me ask, between ourselves, now did you often
“ damp your clay ?”
Now you needn’t be offended,
But it’s often been contended 1
That you never really did possess a single sign of
life,
And although I do not credit
Such a rumour, still they said it,
And they hinted that your only parent was a
carving-knife !
And, to make a slight digression,
There’s a singular impression
Got abroad —you know how scientists will differ
and will-lie—
That the man who said he found you
There with worms and things around you
Was defective in his vision—had a cast, sir, in his
eye!
Pray excuse my seeming boldness,
But you take the cake for coldness,
So I’ll skip before I get the sort of chill you've gut,
old pard.
Wish you’d clear this gloomy mystery
About your previous history,
For if you’ve even been alive your case is very hard .
FELIX AUST.
IN STATELY QUEEN'S HALLS.
Good Governor, thy neat conceit
Was shaped in a vice-regal sense;
None doubt that, as you sat at meat,
You felt that subtle influence,
And, gazing on the gorge' us scene,
Remarked aside : “God save the Queen !”
Sure, all around the festive board
You saw, attired in swallow-tails,
The chaps who dearly love a lord
And dote upon the Prince of Wales ;
For ne’er a democratic sinner
Gets asked to an Official dinner.
No word “disloyal ” ever falls
From lips at any Speaker’s feed—
Each guest within those stately halls
In Hingland’s cause would shed his bleed;
Much silver plate and plants exotic
Make vulgar minds derned patriotic.
And when with fiz. discreetly brought,
Each glass is kept supplied by stealth.
None there could think unworthy thought—
No, no, they drink the Guv’nah’s health;
Perhaps for “ Cheers ” some toady calls,
That.fairly shake those stately halls.
Good Governor, thy neat conceit
Distorted facts with craft prepense ;
The building where the big-wigs meet
Exerts no subtle influence;
But to the men, themselves, we trace
The influence that haunts the place.
“Unworthy thoughts”—what are they, pray?
“ True loyalty ” —what means it, Gov. ?
Your thinkers most “unworthy ” may
Most loyal be to One above ;
The “traitor’s,” or the “patriot’s ” worth
Is fixed in Heaven, not on earth.
You work your old Imperial biz.,
Your old Imperial song you sing—
The men opposed to Power that Is
Are “ traitors,” and they might to swing.
Bah ! can you name a patriot
Who didn’t fight for what was not ?
And yet, alas ! it seems indeed
That in big halls, at costly spreads,
The men who meet must be agreed
Before “ What Is ” to bow their heads.
The Nation e’er the piper pays,
But Tories call the tune he plays.


Amusements.
JJJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; coiflmeiicing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of tli6' Great Popular Drama,
13ST THE K AKTKS.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
. J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Cinder the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
General Manager , .. Mr. Mayne.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING* JULY 18,
Another Grand Production
BY THE
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company,
First time in Australia,
JT oaepli’s Sweetheart.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 pan.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
■JVHEATRE ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace,
COMPLETE and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
OF
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Maokay’s Hotel.
New opera house,
Kino and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
SIGNOR ROBERT HAZ O N.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS
of
Jsa: A. R I T A. IST A.,
Produced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR PRICES :
Dress C rcle, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stal’s.
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
JOE DAVIS Business Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to C p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate-Fare, id.
£• Y C L O RAMA.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... From 10 a.m, to 10 p.m.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 iv m.
Admission, Two Shillings; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CY CLORAMA.
NATIONAL AGRICULTUR.IL AND INDUSTRIAL
ASSOCIATION OF QUEENSLAND.
Annual Exhibition.
1089
BOWEN PARK, BRISBANE.
August 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24.
Judging Day: TUESDAY, 20th August.
Opening Day : WEDNESDAY, 21st August.
IN addition to the Valuable Prizes given by the
Association, a large number of Special Prizes
have been donated for Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs,
Poultry, and Farm and Dairy Produce.
Members Tickets (price £ljs.), Prize Schedules,
and all information promptly forwarded on appli-
cation to
ERNEST A. SMITH, Secretary,
156 Elizabeth-street. Brisbane.
IJIO THEATRICAL COMPANIES.
SIUGLETON SHOW.
THE LARGE HALL of the MECHANICS’
INSTITUTE, Singleton, is Open for Engagement
on the Show Nights, viz., WEDNESDAY and
THURSDAY, the 14th and 15th August next,
For particulars apply to
THE SECRETARY
Mechanics’ institute,
Singleton.
Port Jackson Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
John Walker Proprietor.
Under entirely New Management. Only
Best of Liqudrs Supplied.
Mr. Shroeder’s establishment, corner of
Hunter and Bligh streets, is replete with all re-
quirements of a first-class livery and bait stable.
A splendid assortment of everf description of
buggies, dog-carts, &c. Horses for ladies a special
feature.’ Riding-habits furnished if desired. Mr.
S. undertakes to turn out everything from his
establishment in superior style. Ci vility warranted.
Amusements.
JJfcITE SKATING RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies,
Here you are sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission - - - One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455.; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 80s. Roller-
bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4’ extra.
Skates,-retail, at 20s. per pair : wholesale, 17s. 6d.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons carried free.
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
TyrETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK,
Harris Street, Ui.Tijlo.
tSF Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station-.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony.
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.- Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, 6d., Skates,
6d.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Od.
7.30 to 10 p.m. —Admission to all, Is. ; Skates, Gd,
THIS EVENING (THURSDAY), 18th JULY.
Grand Skating Carnival and BalL
Carnival Tickets of 24th May available.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pvrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
HJOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR
Under the patronage of Lord and Lady Carington,
—IN—
Aid of the City and Suburban Hospitals.
EXHIBITION BUILDING. Prince Alfred Park.
Opening Bay, September, 1889.
President, Lady IVlartin; Vice-Presidents, Lady
Harley, Lady Allen, Mrs. Belisario, and Mr.
James Devlin; Honorary Treasurers, Alfred Allen,
Esq., M.L.A., John Street, Esq., M.L.A., andE.
B. Lark, Esq.
The Honorary Secretaries, TV>wn Hall, would be
very pleased t 6 have the sympathy and .support of
the general public and to receive names of persons
willing to assist by miscellaneous Gifts, however
small, either in Paintings, Photographs, Books
(new or second-hand), Perfumery or Cigarettes,
any hand-painted articles, Plain or Fancy Needle-
work, Presents of Dolls, &o. Prizes for the “Art-
Union ’ and Gifts for the above to be forwarded
addressed “Hospital Bazaar and Village Fair,”
care of Miss M ‘Kay, Sydney Hospital, Macquarie-
'street, who has kindly granted us storage room.
Promises of help with Flowers, Ferns, &c., Fruit,
Home-made Preserves, Confectionery, Cakes, or
to Dairy and Refreshment Stalls, please communi-
cate with
MRS. ALFRED ALLEN, \ Hon.
MISS JULIA BELISARIO, / Sees.
Town Hall, Sydney.
Miscellaneous.
rpHE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
£lOOO for 10s. Gd.
The Sandhurst Mechanics’ Institute
Art Union.
First Prize, £lOOO ; Second Prize, £500;
Third Prize, £2OO.
597 Other Prizes, Total Value, £2705.
The DRAWING will positively take place at
SANDHURST, on 31st July next.
r Remember, a FORTUNE for 10s. 6d.
Tickets, 10s. Gd., may be had from the general
agents, Messrs. CRAIG and AITK EN, George-
street, Sydney, or NICHOLSON and CO. S,
King and George streets ; J. Kirby, J. W. M.
Clarke, Booksellers, George-street; H. Wallace,
49G George-street; Priddy and Co., George-street,
Brickfield Hill ; T. C. Drew, 256 Pitt-street;
Alexander and Farrow, Levy and Scott, Tobac-
conist, Oxford-street; and at Newcastle, from A.
D. Robertson, Tobacconist, or from
J. H. CURNOW, Secretary, Sandhurst.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss'by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
, ■ _ , > Secretary.
.‘AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
Read ! Read ! Read I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Al l Inn- Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price ~ One SHilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane; J. 11. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
Hrient gquarc ]|lue,
Extract of Soap,
||inegar,
&c., &C., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery ;
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
J~JIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
* Not calling at Colombo.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is Un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked throitgh
to India, China,; and Japan. Cargo and patCels
will not be received after 3 p.ttl. ort the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried oh hy powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 8000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-.
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows<
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS isshed at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-placo.
H. D. POSSE L,
Acting Principal Agent.
JJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
.Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1803.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Aoenth,
5 O'Conuell-Street.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Buliktin Office.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Skow-white
Paiem Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Furniture, &c.
N
EWTON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room- side-
board, dinner WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
I ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented,
pc
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. Wc can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices,
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im'
mense Variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
[Ill
mu
a.
ill
*rALN IT I 1 FALL
VV FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
iilg Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
| Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ĥ
Drawing-room
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Nkvvton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIRE and SOHN.
CARL RONTSCH, L. NEUFELI) and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMP.
ħ
Austrian bent
wood
FURNi T U R E.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING- MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. eaeli.
NEWTON and LAMB,
EAS V CHAIRS for Parlour, Library w Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
s
R
ELF-AD JUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb,
h
XJ ED ST EADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ĥ
SPRING MA T-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13. (id. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. (id.; Washstands, from 12s. (id.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, ' from £3 10s,’;' Clothes Horses, from
10s. (>d. J Writing Tables - , with drawers, from 50s.
N
EWT O N
ANT)
L A M B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS*


Prospectusi
, A THE-
Oilberton Cold, Silver, and Cem
Mljf TXCJ SVMHCATI'j
QTJEE TsT SLA ZEsT UDi
(To bh registered us a Limited Liability Company.)
In 6000 Shares of £ld,
Of which 1500—termed Contributing Shares--are
now offered to the public on the following terms;
viz;:—
£1 on application, £4 on allotment, and the balance
~ w further calls of 10s; at intervals of hot less
than one month;
The formation of this syndicate is simply a pre-
liminary step towards the flotation of a larger com-
pany on the London or Colonial markets, on a basis
which should afford a return to EACH syndicate
share (£10) of the amount originally subscribed,
and a further interest representing about £lOO in
bash and paid-up shares in the* new Company.
Provisional Directors :
REGINALD C. ALLEN, Esq. (Messrs. Allen
and Allen, Solicitors.)
iION. EDMUND BARTON, M.L.C. (late
Speaker Legislative Assembly, N.S.W.)
H. MONTAGUE EAITHEULL, Esq; (Messrs.
Iceton and Eaithf all, Solicitors.) .... ,
EDWARD GRIFFITH, Esq. (late Geiieral
Manager Royal Bank of Queensland.)
tIEORGE C. LOtJ&HNAN, Esq. (Messrs. Mac-
dennott and Loughnan.)
JOHN NEWTON', Esq. (Messrs. (.V Newton
Bros, and Co., Sydney.)
Solicitors:
Messrs, ALLEN and ALLEN, Phillip-street.
Bankers :
BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Temporary Offices ;
NORTH QUEENSLAND IN VESTMENT
COMPANY,
7, Post-office Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE GTLBERTON GOLD, SILVER, AND
GEM MINING SYNDICATE
Is formed for the purpose of takihg over
The following
COED AND SILVER MINES,
Situated in the famous
ETHERIDGE DISTRICT, NORTH
QUEENSLAND :
Lease No
Ingleheim ... Gold
Cosmopolitan ... Ditto
Caledonia ... Ditto
Homeward Bound Ditto
Tweedside
Ditto
Mountain Maid... Ditto
Chance
Light of Asia
Lotos
Ditto
Silver
Ditto
220
225
241
239
238
229
227
M.S.
M.S.
Acres.
, 8
. 8
. 5
. 5
. 7 :
. 5
. 5
. 20
20
\.nd also acquiring (under experienced direction)
MINERAL LEASES
Of recognised value either from working miners or
the CroWn.
THE GILBERT RIVER GOLDFIELD oc-
cupies a prominent position in the history of Aus-
tralian mining, and is acknowledged to be one of
the richest reefing districts in Queensland ; while
the properties above enumerated stand among the
very first in the record of auriferous fame,
Gilberton is situated in about latitude 19deg.
15min. south, and longitude 143 deg. 4min. east,
distant 247 miles west by north from Townsville,
with an elevation of about 3000 ft. above the sea
level.
Even under the adverse conditions of crude
crushing machinery, the gold claims of the Gilber-
ton Syndicate have been proved to yield rich re-
turns.
This assertion is readily substantiated by refer-
ence to the following list of a few of the crushings,
as reported to tire Mines Department by the
Gilberton Gold Wardens, and extracts from the
Brisbane Courier and Queenslander news-
papers
CERTIFIED CRUSHINGS TAKEN FROM GILBERTON
GOLD LEASES.
“ INGLEHEIM.”
“ Has crushed 20 tons for 208 oz. of gold, and plenty
more at grass.”
A small parcel of 6 tons from No. 1 Ingleheim“ The
tables look Al, and are expected to yield lOoz. per ton.”
“ Eight tons gave 40oz. smelted gold.”
“ 04 tons gave 30oz. gold.”
“51 tons gave 540 z. gold to ton.”
“25 tons gave 1730 z. 9dwt. gold.”
“ Up flic Tea Tree Gully is the Ingleheim No. 1 South;
and 1 and 2 North, in full working order, raising extremely;
rich stone ; two others in proximity, one of which is called!
the Good Hope, from which the prospectors crushed by
hand-machine 530 z. gold froml2cwt. of stone.”—Extracts
from Brisbane Courier.
“ COSMOPOLITAN.”
“ Taken up by Messrs. Tulloh and M‘Monk, turned out
very rich stone. It will he remembered that a crushing
from this claim yielded 121 oz. from 74 tons of stone ; 0
tons 13cwt. gave 20oz. 9dwt of gold.
“ CHANCE.”
“ 101 tons gave 5720 z. 3dwt. of gold.”
“ Raising splendid ore, the richest quartz I have ever
seen in Queensland ; 70 yards west of the Chance another
reef is raising good stone.”— Brisbane Courier.
“54 tons gave 480 oz. gold. It is reported that the
Chance (Mount Hogan) is equal to 9oz. per ton.”— Queens-
lander.
“ On the Chance line there are five claims, besides the
P.O. I have seen nothing that reminds me so much of
Gympie as a peep of the prospectors' paddock ; they have
taken a good deal out of this claim.” — Brisbane Courier.
“ The Chance prospectors have just crushed 2 tons at
Bismarck’s Hand Machine for 40oz. gold. . . . The
Chance and Gilbert reefs are in what is termed “ slate
formation,’ and are easier worked ; besides, they have a
great deal more gold in the stone. Indeed these two
claims should be a pile to the lucky shareholders.”—
Queenslander. >
“ HOMEWARD BOUND.”
“ 284 tons gave 1530 z. lldwt.’”
“ 54 tons gave 2500 z, 17dwt.”
“ tons gave 30oz. gold. The machine then broke
down, and balance of stone sent to Mount Hogan. The!
above was part of 35 tons awaiting crushing at the mine.”-
—Queenslander.
“ It is a well-known fact that by putting in about half-
a-scqre of men 40 to 50 tons of stone can be raised weekly.”
—Brisbane Courier.
About 30 men are actively employed, and a
considerable quantity of stone is now being raised.
The following telegram from the manager of the
local bank (who is acting as honorary representa-
tive of the Gilberton “Syndicate) was received on
June 17, 1889)
11 Had assays made Homeward Bound, Tweedside,
Ingleheim, Cosmopolitan, with following results
“ COSMOPOLITAN —GoId, 2oz. 4dwt. ; silver, 2oz. 2dwt.
“HOMEWARD muiKl) Gold, Uioz, 7dw!. ; silver,
1470 z. 13dwt.
Prospectus.
“iWBEDSIDE— Gold, i7oz. Idwt.; silver, 13oz. 7dwt.
“ INGLEHEIM—GoId, 440 z. 9dwt.; silver, 13oz. Idwt.
(to the ton).
“ No gold showing (Id naked eye) in any of the stone
assayed, except little in Tweedside.”
Followed by a later telegram, dated July 8;
1889 :
“ TWEEDSIDE and HOMEWARD BOUND LOOKING
VERY GOOD.
“ INGLEHEIM ALSO LOOKING WELL.
“Raising stone from thfeSfe claims similar to that which
gate such excellent reported in my wire 17th
ultimo.”
The principal deadwork on the mines has been
Virtually accomplished, and gold-bearing stone is
now being raised. At the present time there is mi
effective crushing machinery within a distance of
100 miles, and consequently the eiiormbhs cost
of carriage—even With the richest stone —i 8
simply prohibitive; However, a perfect crush 1
ing plant of English manufacture (the property of
the Gilberton Queensland Gold-mining Company),
replete with all modern gold-saving appliances*
IS NOW IN COURSE OE ERECTION IN
THE VERY MIDST OF THE GILBERTON
LEASES, and it may be expected that the stone
raised from the Homeward Bound, Tweedside and
Ingleheim Will receive careful treatment about
next October, when rich returns should be ob-
tained. The expenditure hitherto borne by the
owners of these properties has been very large,
BUT THEY ARE STILL WILLING TO
WAIT FOR A RETURN UPON THEIR
GREAT OUTLAY UNTIL THE LARGER
COMPANY INDICATED IN COMMENCE-
MENT OF THIS PROSPECTUS IS
FLOATED. Nb better proof of the boha-fides
bf the whole undertaking can be evinced than in
the disposition of the £15,000 provided by sale of
the 1500 contributing shares. Of this sum £12,000
IS RESERVED FOR WORKING EXPENSES
of the several claims dating from February 1 ;
THE BALANCE OE £3OOO PROVIDING for
the cost of equipping a party, (consisting of a
leader, surveyor, men, horses, &c.) to take up the
mineral areas deferred to On Agate Creek and else-
where, together With expenses of flotation and
brokerage The proprietary is merely relieved
from the heavy working expenses until the
batteries are employed on the stone and in return
they virtually cede a quarter of their interest —
NOT RECEIVING A SINGLE PENNY OF
THE AMOUNT NOW BEING SUBSCRIBED.
Any ONE of these very valuable leases might
have been floated into a separate Company at an
amount far in excess of the whole nominal capital
of the Syndicate; but the course now shadowed
out of forming a consolidated holding must com-
mend itself to everyone who has had experience in
public mining companies. The cost of manage-
ment, as a rule, absorbs the bulk of the returns.
The individual mine necessitates a mining manager,
legal manager, engineer, amalgamator, secretary,
board of directors, officers and offices —an enor-
mous handicap on the richest company. With
the consolidation of the Gilberton Mines these ex-
penses will be minimised —a central and complete
crushing plant with chlorination works ; one
general manager (for whose services a high salary
could be afforded) to supervise the entire workings
of all the leases : one directory and legal manager
would suffice, and make the individual cost of
management a light impost on the gross returns.
Once the properties are thoroughly opened out
there never need be a complete cessation in the
output of stone; for, whilst some of the claims
will necessarily be occupied from time to time with
dead-work the others will be producing stone to
keep the stampers in full swing.
REPORTS.
The leading Gold Wardens of Queensland —
P. V. Selheim, Esq., Captain Tdwnley; Howard
St. George, Esq. ; F. Gill, Esq. ; the late G.
Elphinstone Dalrymple; and Richard Daintree
(Government Geologist)—have all expressed them-
selves Arm believers in the exceeding richness of
the Gilberton Reefs. Unfortunately their posi-
tions in the Government service preclude publica-
tion of their opinions. Special reports, however,
may be read in the pamphlet prospectus, which
can be obtained oh application at the office of the
North Queensland Investment Company, 7 Post
Office Chambers.
Besides the leases enumerated, arrangements are
already made to take up adjoining areas, and also
to secure a large area of land on Agate Creek, near
Gilberton, which there is strong grounds for be-
lieving is both auriferous and diamondiferous,
practical geologists having recognised there a dia-
mond drift similar in all outward appearances to
the African Veldts.
The bed of Agate Creek is composed—as the
name would imply—of agates, which are found
there in thousands of tons. Precious stones are
said to exist, and one of the earliest gold commis-
sioners had in his possession a diamond of the first
water, alleged to have come from this wild and
nearly unknown region.
The Hon. W. O. Hodgkinson, late Minister for
Mines in Queensland, recently wrote as follows :
“ If similarity of strata, associated with mineral deposits
and general characteristics, argue anything, then so far as
information of such nature goes (and it went no further
to lead Hargreaves from California to the Turon), Agate
Creek holds out inducements for a vigorous search for the
‘ King of Gems,’ and may hide in its rushy coverts more
than one Koh-i-Noor or Star of Light.”
This opinion from one of the shrewdest miners
and practical geologists in the colonies, backed up
by a similar opinion expressed by the late Mr.
Richard Daintree (the first Government Geologist
of Queensland), should carry certain weight, and
possibly with proper gem-saving appliances valu-
able discoveries may be made.
Immediately the syndicate shares are all taken
up, a properly-equipped party will take possession
of ground already marked out, and good reasons
exist for believing that diligent prospecting will
lead to some startling results.
A private prospectus of the Gilberton Gold,
Silver and Gem Mining Syndicate was recently
issued, there being 150 contributing shares of £lOO
each. Owing, however, to certain representations,
the Directors have now reduced the single share
to £lO, increasing in like proportion the contri-
buting number.
There are comparatively very, few contributing
shares available, and the Provisional Directors
wish it to be distinctly understood that
Shares will he allotted in the Order of
Application.
APPLICATIONS for SHARES may be sent
in to the Secretary, Mr. S. L. LISTER, office of
the North Queensland Investment Company, No.
7, Post-office Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney; or
through the following brokers :
Messrs.-Maedermott and Loughnan, 317 George-
street, Sydney.
Mr. W. G. Anslow, 135 Pitt-street, Sydney.
M essrs. Moreton and Griffith, Queen-street,
Brisbane
Prospectus.
Mr. A. S. Fotheringham, Royal Exchangej
Adelaide.
Mr. A. Saunders, 100 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Mr. G. H. Cooke, Broken Hill.
As the applications come in, so will the allot-
ment be inade, due notification of which will be
forwarded tb each applicant.
A cheque at the rate of £1 per share Ittiist accom-
pany the application. The Company is virtually
floatedj a large number of shares having been
already taken up before the issue of this Pros-
pectus;
SPECIAL NOTICE.—In view of .there existing
strolig objections with some investors to accept
liability on the contributing shares of a company,
01 the trouble attendant upon payment of calls,
arrangements are now made for the disposal of 200
paid-up shares, each £lO, less T per Cent; £1 per
share on application ; FINAL payment bf kS Gs.
bn allotment.
to HotMng!
AT THE
CHICAGO CIGAR STOEE,
348 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Ftefv Doors from G.P.0.)
Each Subscriber on our ss. Consultations select-
ing a Placed Horse or Man will be entitled to
Select a Double Melbourne and Caulfield Cup,
for which events we will lay £lOO to Nothing !
Our Dividends are the Largest in Sydney.
ss. CARRINGTON HANDICAP SS.
F. Marti neef £5 11 0
T. Bishop 3 13 6
Our Consultations are carried on in a most legiti-
mate manner, and we feel sure by so doing we
shall gain the public patronage-.
Books Open on Hurdle and Steeple at handwick;
V.R.C. G-.N. Handle and Steeple, Derhj and Cup;
and all the forthcoming events.
Now Open: Consultations on Moorefield Races.
We have the Finest Stock of
Imported Havannah Cigars and Tobacco.
Note the Address:
LEW BEITTON,
348 George St., Sydney
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
o
•O
K)
NEW
Phonegraph,
Pocket
a most wonderful Invention. 80,000 sold in New York-
City in two months. Full set of appliances, together
with full instructions, on receipt of Money Order for
Five Shillings (55.), addressed to
ELECTRIC MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
LIMITED,
6 Willmott St., off George St„
Sydney.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account .... ~.. £230,000
Reserve Fund .... .... .... .... 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities .... .... 311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .... ° Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office •••• 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Brandi Offices
fN.S.W.: Liverpool, Periritlf, and Burwdod,
(Victoria: Lara.
Rates* for Fixed Deposits over £BO :
7i per cent, for 3 Years
7 ~ 12 Months
(> per cent, for f! Months,
B „ 3
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
JT. S 3. 3?'. Cowell,
JSIOOO FOR 10s. 6d.
/"NRAIG & AITKEN, 6SO and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydiiey,
Have been appointed General Agents for the
Sandhurst Monster Art Union.
First Frize, £1000; Second, £000; THircl, £2OO
IN ALL, 600 PRIZES, VALUED £2*705.
SBEXTO x FOR x TICKETS x x OKTCE!
To be Drawn at Sandhurst on 31st July.
See “Daily Telegraph,” “Evening News,'’ and other portions of this paper.
&
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.
(Opposite G.1’.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA,
CORRESPONDENCE
“Nathaiidi ”: Marly tiianks for your trouble.
You have an excellent idea of sketching’, but we are not
in the horror lino. By the way, when we first looked at
your sketches we took the j’s.P. for prisoners Au-
stralian Nationalist ” : Thanks, but we have already dealt
with the subject exactly from your standpoint
“A.A.0.”: The Australians are acquiring a twang, are
they? Well, if they are, thank heaven, it isn’t the twang
Of the Cholly and the Chappie, who has no “r’s ” in his
alphabet. When people began to talk differently they
haVe o'onimenced to think differently..lnquisitive”
(Melbourne): (1.) Head The Bulletin regularly and then
you will See olir reasons for not glorifying the people irt
question. (2.) We can’t give yah the names, (k) Tilt:
Bulletin* is an Australian paper ...“Scribe” (WilliaiiiS-
town): The Gordon monument at Melbourne is intended
not tb commemorate the virtues of the man who taught
poor boys—it is designed as a Jingo monument, as a stone
in the structure of Imperialism, as a tombstone of the
g’lories of the Soudan expedition. You don’t find the
Argus staff promoting,statues to men like Wilson Gray
or Peter Lalor, who really did something for our
liberties “ Dunwoodie ” (Brisbane): Yes. Please send
along—carefully attending tb condensation . “'8,0.8. St.
John Smith 1 This is too funny. What are yob giving us ?
....“ Walter Serrle ”: So long, as Supreme Court Judges
(who always “ stick to their brother judges”) are utterly
irresponsible, and so long as they are allowed to exercise
despotically such tremendous power —so long will the
newspapers grovel to them, and wink at their tyrannies.
“Marcus Bast”: From a Democratic standpoint all
elections should take place on one day, and that day
shotdd be either Saturday or a general holiday, the former
for a choice. Further, the polls should be open for at
least ten hours. Saturday may be awkward for the shop-
keepeis, but Monday is a deal more awkward for the work-
ing man “ W.A.L.”: The crudely-executed frontispiece
in question is stolen from a French illustrated paper...,
“R.W.S.”; You say we “cannot eXpect much.” We
don’t; we never expect anyth'ng. In the matter of punc-
tuation, you may follow the example set “ Eric Rite” :
Will let you know when it comes “ J. G.” (Shepparton) :
At the Government Printing Office....“ Tod S.”: We
recognise the golden opportunity you missed. Don’t
worry about it. The big squatters from the Never-Never
have been badly broken up by the drought, but they will
be around agahi when the grass grows. Your theme is
hackneyed, but you hove literary taste ~ “N.S.W.”:
The religious papers, which “worry because singers in
church-choirs do not all believe in the words they warble,'•
are painfully fastidious. They will next find cause for
tears in the fact that all preachers do not believe in the
words they preach. Then they will become introspec-
tive, and will waste away at discovering that-they them-
selves do not all believe in the words they write....
“A. Neville and Co.” (Adelaide); Photo, received with
thanks “Alastor” (Maryborough, Q.): Your chestnut
burnt.... “Republican ” (Kedfern): If an oath of allegiance
is to be extracted from the defence forces of Australia, it
should be an oath of allegiance to Australia and not to
England or any other Foreign nation... “ H.A.” (Curra,
N.S.W.): Thanks for this kind enthusiasm. We are try-
ing humbly to hold the balance between the Pope and
King Billy.—(Numerous letters held over).


Tobacco, etc.
IT IS
A Pact Indisputable
THAT AT
Craig & titan's
NEW SOUTH WALES
BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
you can get everything required for fitting
your saloon IN’ any style at a small advance
on London and New York prices, or they
will fit up your saloon at short notice
Prom £lO Upwards.
o
A Largs and Varied Stock
OF
Hairdressing 0 Cliairs,
MIRRORS, HOT-WATER URNS,
AND
Saloon Furniture Generally.
h
Razors, Scissors, Combs, Brushes,
STROPS,
Fuff Boxes and. Fuffs,
WIG BLOCKS,
WEAVING STICKS & SCREWS,
PLAIT-MAKING MACHINES,
Curling, Pressing, Pinching and other Irons,
HAIRDRESSERS’ STOVES,
Shampooing Taps, S tempo ting Basins & Apparatus,
Haircutting Cloths,
SALOON TOWELS, NECK BRILLIANTINE,
Shaving and Clothes Brushes,
Antique Oils for Lime Juice and Glycerine,
Hair Elixir,
Pure Bay Rbnm, Razor Hones, etc.
1
Razors & Scissors Ground & Sot
FOR THE TRADE.
— ■+
Town and Country Hairdressers are informed
that ice engage competent Assistants (thoroughly
tried men) without delay.
Wholesale Agents for the Celebrated
: c
Razors & Scissors.
CRAIG & AITKEN
IMPORTERS OF EVERY KIND
OF
Tobacco, Cigars ui Cigarettes,
And have an Immense Stock of
Tobacconists’ Goods of every Description.
Wholesale
Agents
for
/Army & Navy Tobacco & Cigarettes
| T. C. Williams’ Golden Eagle Tobacco
j Vulcan Tobaccos and Pipes
[Uiy Sweetheart Cigarettes
Country Orders, enclosing P. 0.0., attended to
without delay. Any Goods not in Stock at once
procured.
♦
Note our Address:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
(Next to Priddy, the Hatter),
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and Importers,
680 »V 683 (iKOBGi: STREET
. (Between Liverpool and Gonlbmn Streets),
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
A non-union man —A bachelor.
Cum grano Sala —The Marble Man.
Strong eyidence—Medical testimony.
The cremationists are not succeed ng as well as
they hoped to do. The people generally are so intent on
earning their living that they do not have time to devote
to the question of urning their dead.
Mrs. Winter, of Church-street, Deptford,
London, is a person who is likely to be an object
of public attention for some time. At an inquest
just held upon the body of a boy entrusted to her
care, it came out that Mrs. Winter insured the
lives of twenty-twopersons in the Liverpool Victoria
Friendly Legal Society. Five of them died, and
Mrs. Winter received d2s. from the-Society.
Pearls is the Mouth. - White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtaind by the
daily use of Rowland s Odosto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teetn and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowland’s
Macassar, Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowland’s articles
off chemists.
Special Advertisements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
■42 Margaret Street
Between George and. York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, “M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a'.m. ; 2.t0 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
Special Advertisements.
E. C. EUEY
ĥ
&
&
<3
6
G*
<e>
a
o
V
£
&
&
&
*2
*
&
&
&
o
o
v
*
£
o
£
o
<b
*
ft
O
O
v
<2?
<3
&
<C N
*
O
390a GEORGE S T
BYDNBY.
■
teisSiPM
■» ~ --• ■! :'|l ■■■jlr'i- i;,-,'.;.
;
tit
'rr%-
u■: !':! r‘" i::
i-v
111
M
aw
■R
iPH
“uSHIoTiiJJIfI-EiliJ- B'flaißCE-S- uuuuv.
Tlae Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK! JUST LAKUIPTG-.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDWEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(V)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines: Peerless Gloss, Satin Polish, Nubian
Klneking, Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
1)11. RICHARDS.
ROOM 2
L-TI
CONSW
ramp
aUMllllßiMßllllimwim
n« RICHARDS-
iImm
Ml
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happiness than any other class'of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
bicod, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wu-apper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence This
book will prove a valuable c'mpanion, and even
ihough you be perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
tome poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant
ONE FOUND IB SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wil
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
jn the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.
Mr. De Potts Point: “Pm afwaid our
poor friend G wafton is losing his mind.
He’s getting awfully careless of the
nr st impawtant mattahs. ”,
Mr. De Toorak : “ Ya-as ; I noticed th’
other day he had fastened his collah
with the righthand side uppermost”
Mr. De Potts Point: “Worse than that!
I actually met him to-day—and on the
Block, tilin'*, of it ! —without gaiters!”
■ — Adapted.
Lynch Law—The Queensland Emigration
Act.
A Mr. Fronde, of Dublin, has “offered
up ” a prayer for the Prince of Wales, in which he
ventured to supplicate that ‘‘ere he be called upon
to wear the Crown of England, he might be led
first to lay hold of the crown of everlasting
righteousness.” Any conscientious pencillcr will
lay the double event —at, say, a thousand to one.
A. man was murdered at Wellington (N. Z.)
lately. When the coroner’s inquest was held
“pieces of newspaper-—which had been used by
the murderer as wadding —were found in the wounds
of the deceased.” This is the most remarkable
instance we have come across of a man having
information injected into him. The worst of the
matter is that the pieces of newspaper found were
torn from a journal the deceased had refused to
subscribe to.
Aphasia, in a most extraordinary form, is
at present under treatment by Dr. Charcot of
Paris. A Frenchman, aged sixty, learned English
through living seventeen years in North America,
and then Spanish after his marriage with a Spanish
woman. He lost his command of these languages
in the inv ;rse order. First he was unable to speak
Spanish, then English went from him, and lastly
his native tongue, French. The affliction was
ascribed to the soften'ng of the left lobe of the
brain, and by a methodical practice in conversation
he regained his normal ability, recovering the
languages in the order of French, English, and
Spanish.
When asked if he had any objection to the
transfer of a hotel-license in court one day last
week, a Melb urne inspector answered : “Yes,
there is an objection ; the police all report too
favourably of the applicant -
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white,Patent
Rom.br Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to he had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
A smart inspector that, by Jove !
He seems to know his marks—
A wily, wide-awakeish cove
And “ up to ” peelers’ larks.
He knows well that that publican
On whom no peeler drops
Can hardly be a square old man
Because he’s squared the “ cops.”
A “ cop ” that’s squared is never square —
In eyesight he’s deficient,
And this inspector is aware
He’ll never see sufficient
To suit the law, and, though most men
Find glasses a redress,
The peeler takes to “ glasses ” when
He’s wanted to see less.


Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Sporting.
Adam Bede’s
Benevolent Consultations.
“all the year round.”
Twenty years before the Public.
Melbourne Cup Programmes now ready.
One tenth of Adam Bede’s commission on all
future events will he devoted to charity.
NOW OPEN
July Handicap,
Run at Rosehill,
JULY 20, 188!).
ill
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH
m
FIRST HORSE ... £lOOO
SECOND HORSE ... 000
THIRD HORSE ... 400
Starters, £000; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided among.-1 them.
Events Now Open:
Spring Handicap, August 24—4000 at 10s.
Hawkeabury Handicap, Sept. 14 —4OOO at 10s.
Metropolitan Stakes, Sept. 24—20,000 at 10*.
Caulfield Cup, October 19-20,000 at 10s.
Melbourne Cup, November 5—50,000 at £l.
„ „ „ 20,000 at 10s.
„ „ „ 4,000 at 10s.
A.dLaxu. Hetie’s
Is the only fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever Vie divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to ensure safe
delivery, and must enclose stamps and envelopes for
reply and result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
Address —
“ ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
ħ
Square & Compass
CLUB.
ss. Consultations. ss.
, An unlimited number of members
FIRST HORSE ... 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE ... 30 per cent.
THIRD HORSE ... 20 per cent.
N.B.— The-Square and Compass Club closes all Con -
imitations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race—thus showing the
bona fides o! the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
Are posted can be visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the Sunday
Times and Referee following the races.
Motto: “ Fair and Square,”
| W ° Look at the Dividends we have paid on the Don
caster Handicap :-RUssley, £95 3s. 6d, ' Plutarch, £7
2s. 9d.; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. 10d;
CONSULTATION ON EVERY EVENT.
Note the address of the original—
Square & Compass Club,
Care op M. Pal m,
056 GEORGE STREET 656
COLONNADE.
‘•TATTERS ALL’S”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racsj through-
out the year.
See Evening News “ Brevities ” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “ Tattereall, ” care cf Geo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
’ CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, d;
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Rear and
Opossum Skins, &e.
AUCTIOUEEBS.
QZtA.RU SA.LBSMEN - .
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLA.REKTCE SI*REET, SirDNEY
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGGIES, FHIMBI MSM,
PONY CARTS, &&
filpfess & Lumber Waggons*
—% —
Harness for Buggies and Waggons,
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
if!
■
ONLY
“'/A
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
crops by F. W. Saywell, of 6
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the market. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
cne who does, anl obtain the best
article iow before the public.
Wholesale and Retail from
F* W* Saywsll & Co M
0 Park Street,
S Y D FT E Y.
Phonographic
Vitws Portraits
V \
bin'll
t*
(A
\\
y C
Jr
JOjytWES
iM&r ss, islands
316.GE0RGE1S
i SYdHeY.
Ms
X
LICHTNER & CO.,
318 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBA.STB.
Photographic
Materials
AND
Chemicals
FOR
Professionals
AND
Amateurs.
IMPORTERS OF
l>t' '| il ' • ; |
*»
: |
* !"
1:.,.;- i
fm
..M
inntnnmn
mm****
-2-
Cameras.
AMATEUR
OUTFITS,
Dry Plater,
Magic
AND
Enlarging
Lanterns.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue.
Beale & Oo.’s New Warehouse.
A;
.■ <5l. -i
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES !
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless inarch of invention has enabled ns
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply- ,
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying-
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
I or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
i or fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets ; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or ruching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. Yon may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a bok-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered,
tVe have a special word for husbands; When the day’s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, t hat which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the Only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost ! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
; garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
j larged, but ought, to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do wo waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to he
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists avd Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
t. Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.


Western Australia: the Coming Colony,
Now is the time to Invest your Few Founds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands!
The eyes of the world are now on WESTERN AUSTRALIA, where recent Rich Discoveries of Gold, Coal, Silver, Tin and other Minerals have been made, and with RESPONSIBLE
GOVERNMENT (a certain! ty) it may, with truth, be said-- 4 4 AT LAST SHE MOVES !” Be wise in time! Call on the W. A; Agents*., (Ck W. JJent ca Co.), and secure an allotment nior
near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get it almost given yoh. Numerous Properties for Sale to suit Large and Small Buyers, by nd cates, &c., from £lO to £20,000
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED. _
119 a Street, Sydney.
Governin'"t Advertisements.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 15th July, 1880.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the Conveyance of
Mails between Queanbeyan 'and XTriarra, Bolivia
and Clive, Ulladrl la and Kiola.
Tenders will be received up to the 7th proximo,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
July 16, 1889.
ENDERS EOR PUBLIC WORKS AfcD
SUPPLIES.
Eor Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Wotks and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Wednesday,
July 31,
Cottage for Farm Attendant,
Hospital for the Insane, Callan
Park
Roofing Hospital for the Insane,!
Parramatta
Alterations, Lockup Gaol, Casino
Repairs, &c., Training-ship, V ernon
Bridge, Pound Creek, Tumberumba at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Shed at Wharf, Tweed
River Heads, and Placing Piles'
(fresh tenders). |
Repairs, Fencing, &0., Post and l
Telegraph Office, Booligal
Additions, &c., Bailiff’s Cottage;
Domain
Bridges, Murrumbidgee River, at
N arrandera
Bridge, Apsley River, Fitzroy-, August 14,
street, Walcha at 11 o’clock,
Erection of Dispensary, Hospital
for Insane, Gladsville
Additions Gaol, West Kempsey
Additions Gaol, Wollongong
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia-Cont. No. 1 (time ex- Wednesday>
tended) | August 28,
B, ;!^ e ’. l . )ai :!! n ! Rn ; f v r k. at 5o o' at 11 °’ clo “ k -
Wednesday,
nia (erection). —Cont.
(Time extended)
Supply and Erection of Pumping Wednesday,
Engines, North Shore (contract Nov. 0,
No. 56) at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Department of Mines and Works,
Brisbane, 13th June, 1889.
TO ARCHITECTS.
NEW MUSEUM, BRISBANE.
COMPETITIVE DESIGNS are invited from
Architects for the New Museum proposed to
be erected in Brisbane, to be sent in on or before
Ist September next, addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Public Works, Brisbane. First prize,
£250 ; second prize, £lOO ; third prize, £5O.
Conditions, with Plan and Levels of Ground,
can be obtained on application at this Office, or at
the Public Works Offices, Sydney, Melbourne,
and Adelaide.
R. ROBERTSON,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Business Announcements.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GTJNSLEBi’S CAFE,
160, 162, 164= Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler's Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J. F. Gunsler, 100, 102, and 104 Pitt-
street.
J. F. Gunsler .. General Manager.
CHUBB & PRA.EUER, Photographers,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“ I'm |>ire Galleries,” 48‘f A 484 George Street,
(over Beale's), SYDNEY.
%—
■tttE have much pleasure in making reference to the
'' favorable notice of The Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on Us within so short a time, We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in all
and trust to merit a continuance of the same
good opinions and favours.
Note our Moderate Prices:
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visite, Bs. Bd. per Doz.
fy Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &c., a
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
Moderate Charges.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OB'P CROWN STREET.
Manufacturersof allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited.
Medical.
-ITfrU.. SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
— MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS;
Nc:. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : From ll a.m. till 4
■II I
-p
\ * (• -
wcru^ 1
Dr. H. Ewart Fletcher.
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher's Tr aiiae oh “ Nervdus Complaints," their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to show
a method counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early hfe, overwork, irregularity in Opting
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study Of* tttese
diseases, and has treated a large number (Of Cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before, the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood! that he
reserves to himself the right (f refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willing to
give a Written Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz., Dizziness,
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Cons.i .ation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, .Vc,, &c., should send for tins book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same.
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish toanfer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher's treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise wjll be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover postage.
Consultation by Letter, Free,
Address in first instance :
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O., Sydney.
Private Resid* nee : “Clonmel,” Waverley.
PULVERMACHER’S
World-Famed Galvanic Belts,
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.”
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST AND SHIPMAN,
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I NR EE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
I Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RAB0NSK1, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 706, Sydney.
ows
k-EMBRO CATION
a
; '<
V V
m
Miscellaneous.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
ZET.
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
pipes.
ĥ
PIPES.
THE BEST 1H THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents ;
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
331 Clarence Street.
First Prize —MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHKINO
MELAOHRINO I
MELAOHRINO ('
MELACHKINO
MELAOHRINO J
M, Melachrino & CO,, Cairo,
SITPLY
All m Courts and Embassies of Envoi »;
ALL TMK
Leading British and Continenfal Clubs
and Regimental Meaner
—Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best*.
Sole Agents:
WARREN &: ROIVN,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public Supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 6 Cigarette V.. Sr>/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
~ No. 8 i, C«/- i) <7-
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carnage,
will receive prompt attention.
Boots and Shoes.
ħ
h
ĥ
FASHION,
FIT, and
FINISH T
JUDGE + FOR + YOURSEUVFS.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
The Finest Hand Sewn
Boots and Shoos
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
Tlie Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
37 6 .GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, »Ve„
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the piincipal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mt.it-
• chants, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
,Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
. To’ Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. —A Quantity of Second-hand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
EOR SALE.— Second-hand Quad-Demy
Folder, by Harried ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Business Announcements.
WALTER IHIOIPIE,
(Tenoral Merbhant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
("'tOXSK! NHUNTS,-of alM’RODUcKl Live Stock, etc.,
J received and realised in the best nuykets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all (foods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
• Speciality.—Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold ox Commission’. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE,. Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Fann, Liverpool, N.S.lY.
aJf €3 JE3Z -JST
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Pottles, Coolers,A\ him
Buckets, Baker's Cart Covers, Horse Pngs, Nose Bags.
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cab Aprons. Send to or call at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral Resources
are being opened pop, and property is hardening in
value ,
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
The Capital City.
§
Allotments right in the City!
F r o m £33 !E3 n. c Itl •
Allotments close to the City,
From Ten Pounds each Lot.
Good Land. -Well Situated. Easy Terms.
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JOHN LAWLER
.A. TsT ID SO ISPS,
G08, G10, G12 George Street
SYDNEY.
Bedding 1 and Wire Mattress
MANUFACTURERS,
UPHOLSTERERS
AND
CABINETMAKERS.
The Largest Stockholders
OF
GKE UNTIE IR^X.
FURNISHING REQUIREMENTS
IN ALL AUSTRALASIA.
Telephone No. GG,] [Established 18G0.
COACHING EXTRAORDINARY.
£20,000 Spent to Amuse, and Interest the People.
Since 11th October, 1880, Mr. P. J. Rumney’s
“Wonder” Stage Coach,
has covered no legs than 163,595 English miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. IluMNKY intends to run
it again this year between Hatchett’s Hotel,
Piccadilly, and the tine old Cathedral Town of
St. Albans. The Trip is one that no intelligent
colonist visiting England ought to miss, as it will
rejoice his heart, purify his blood, and enlarge his
views of English scenery and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book :
]VEr. F. JT. Rumney,
The “Wonder” Coach,
HntdidTs Hold, Piccadilly, London.
Bend for Price List and Circular r
AUTOMATIC
“ NO TENSION ” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS LIGHTEST RUNNING,
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH
Sole Agent; ll!d!!l!.!d\ HITE & CO., 416 George Si.. Sydney.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company ■
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - <£500,000-
Sydney Office ;
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices:
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices: ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
Six „ ... 6
twelve ~ ... 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
R’JSSIjZjZi MAHS -TALL Manager.
£he Anglo-Australian investment,
finance & Land Company, Ltd,
Capital r aid-up .. .. £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
H;ad Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.R.
Vice-Chairman : F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office ..31 Lombard Street, F..<
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mills Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
&ST" Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, hearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMIES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
< Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, IS7U.)
CAPITAL ... .. £200,000.
Sydney Office:
301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. BillsAisooufifed daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Offiea; 46 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
f'old hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
but unworkable and unpayable by the old process ■
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlori nation, together with a complete assay and
analyticalTabatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
I*or further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
Patent Unbreakable Saddle
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Factory and Office —245 Oastleeeagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
New Premises, 245 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive prompt attention.
ter None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
Ca nt ion. —The Sole Eight of the above Patent
having been purchased by the undersigned, Sad-
dlers and the 1 ’ublic generally are cautioned against
any infringe uents of the same.
For Keen « 'a. tent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Kin utl i
F. O. Hedemann, \
L. 0. Henderson, /
Trustees
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Holler |pour and grain gtorea,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Okku k: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(hear King- Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
ANVABDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
- AND ■;
“ Special Recommendation ” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
Le o JSTJZk. R. O <Gf WYKT,
General Business Sc Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(.opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
GNAT-hT-TST.
Miscellaneous.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted.
J > Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest arc allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .. 10 per cent.
12 Months .... 9 per cent.
0 Mouths .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
OTUDY ECONOMY
k and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. S.ULLI V AJjl’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Hotels.
TRAMS PASS
EVERY FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
31
■■■
J.A.WILSON
PROPEiETOB
.G.WXLARE
The PALACE HOTEL, EOITHKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is-
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been,finished, is situate in the heart :of the. city, in close proHmity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of - Amusement and Churches. l It contains'
Three Hund-reii MasnifLcent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
»t3* Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.' These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel-in the Colonies. . ’.
tW~ TWO PASSEFTGEE OTIS LIFTS
)-(
Ladies’ Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms*
)_ (
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. updo 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos, Cook & Son, Tourist 'and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms z Sinsle 3ed.room, 2ss. 6H, per KTight.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel f
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained' on .appiicationjto the,. 1
MANAGE R, 3?al'ae:u Hotel, Melbourne.
' CLA KEN.DON ' MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales. V 1 : “•
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers,; Private- Dinners,-Evening Parties,- etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining ree/iercAe
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sfe’a and : surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkr to make her
visitors comfortable arid her Hotel the best in t he colony.
2V3li*s. JESZiXXji3^tX3XrS“X B E!]E : t, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JjONG’S imperial hotel,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample K«»m
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hope l,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success/
of Modern Times. \
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Diseases
( are On ruble.
3VER. H. E. HUGELMAKW,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
00 XVI Mil AM STREET, MELBOURNE*
Any sufferers unable to call can: write for a list of ques-
j tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
j any distance.
j Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
[ known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
| and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
I complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
| you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[copy.]
. Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. B. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, hut
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my,previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state,'and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’/
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was,
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that T , was'
suffering from Ulceratbd Luhgs or Consumption; and that
I was quite incurable. During the time 1 was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts .of blood and matter
from my lungs,, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to opjisuit you,'
which I did in March, 1885,’when you greatly’astonished’
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature Of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having soundedAf examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told.me
that you could guarantee to. cure, me upon a definite:
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse ; expectorating - very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely,left me, and Ibargained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all, expected' I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my-com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as l ever did.:
I am sure that people diseased and suffering, should avail-
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up, to die.-—1 -remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August,: 1886, at.
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE. ,
Notice.— lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
sof being Effected.
Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “In "lit and Idle,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY, ;
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
B EDITS INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges, of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
*T. IF* E 3R. IFSL'IHS,
(Successor .to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr BE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured;
Hours of Consultation:
9 to 11 a.m.f 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S "X" 33 IKT 23 Y.
Business Announcements.
R. OONTEY and C 0.,
SAW MILLERS,
d Timber Merchants Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE, ■
T ARGEST Stock of Orbgax Pink and Colonial Timber's,
'■G Sashes, Doors, &e., in Queensland.
Builders’, Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders nr m ~tiy‘ despatched
P. C. MICHOLIiS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners ■& Pastrycooks, , :
City Buildings:
736 G-eorge Street, . r 73&
HA X I\£ AKKE] T. !
Steam Works ;
617, 619, 621, 539, 54-1 KARRIS STREET,
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.


?•
K
d
o
o
,N
i
a—
/Vcents .
DELISSA i PHILLIPS
3i<s Barrack Street.
MUSICAL.
TJATENT SCALE INDICATOR, for Pupils Learning the
-C Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
Business Announcements.
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town Ssc Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Fish Frozen in Solid Blochs of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fisn.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
. fish desired.
ICE GRATIS I ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Hallway Station, packed so as to
carry to any 'part of the colony, for gs. (id. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ordor for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works —
Kensington. S*., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
.Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at aH Grocers and Storekeepers.
HIBBLE & COMPANY,
—SIGN WRITERS—
AND
ART DECORATOR
22 Castlereag-h Street,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
1)
a J
X
tc
i
NO
A Lovely Skin
Mothlng is known to science at ail comparable
to the Cuticura Remedies in their marvellous
properties of cleansing, purifying and beautifying
the skin, and in curing torturing, disfiguring, itch-
ing, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin, scalp
and blood, with loss of hair from infancy to age.
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beaulifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula.
I have had a most wonderful cure of salt rheum.
For five years I have suffered with this disease. I
had it on my face, arms and hands. I was unable
to do anything whatever with my hands for over
two years. I tried hundreds of remedies, and not
one had the least effect. The doctor said my case
was incurable. I saw your advertisement, and
concluded to try the Cuticura Remedies; and
Incredible as it may seem, that after using one
box of Cuticura, and two cakes of Cuticura
Soap, and two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, I
find lam entirely cured. Those who think this
letter exaggerated may come and see me and find
out for themselves. GRACE P. HARKHAM,
Korth St. Charles Street, Belle River, Ont.
Cuticura Remedies are absolutely pure and the
only infallible blood purifiers and skin beautifiers.
.'IN
TED with the loveliest delicacy is the skin
bathed with CtmcURA Medicated Soap.
I have been afflicted since last March with a skin
disease the doctors called eczema. My face was
covered with scabs and sores, and the itching and
burning were almost unbearable. Seeing your
Cuticura Remedies so highly recommended, con-
cluded to give them a trial, using the Cuticura
and Cuticura Soap externally, and Resolvent
internally, for four months. I call myself cured,
in gratitude for which I make this public statement.
CLARA A. FREDERICK, Broad Brook, Conn.
I have suffered from Salt Rheum for over eight
years, at times so bad that I could not attend to
my business for weeks at a time. Three boxes of
Cuticura and four bottles Resolvent have en-
tirely cured me of this dreadful disease.
JOHN THIEL,
1875 Second Avenue, New York City.
The box of Cuticura that you sent me sore 5
months ago did me so much good that I will sci d
for another box, believing that it will cure me of a
skin disease with which I have been troubled for
eighteen years.
FANNIE 1. JOHNSON, Amsterdam, Ya.
Bold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
23c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
;Kg“Send for_“How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIM
PLES, blackheads, chapped and oily skin
prevented by Cuticura Medicated S ap.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Australian Boxing.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
The last two or three years have witnessed
what some would call a glorious revival of the
noble art of self-defence. At one time the P.R.
was the leading institution of the sporting world,
occupying a position similar to that now allotted
to the turf, and noblemen and statesmen not only
patronised the “ fancy,” but actually fraternised
with the leading pugilists. That flabby monarch
George the Fourth was often seen at the ring-side,
and there is a tradition that he once encountered
areal prize-fighter, but perhaps this story is on
all-fours with the tale about his command at
Waterloo. Chiefly through the cheating and
blackguardism of pugilists the Ring fell into dis-
repute in England, and much the same thing hap-
pened in America. Jem Mace, finding the game
unprofitable on both sides of the Atlantic, resolved
to try new fields, and the result was his visit to
Australia and the founding of a new school of
boxers. But the P.R. was popular here long prior
to the arrival of the Norwich Gipsy. Tom Curran
and Harry Sellars —the latter a stout black of Afri-
can blood who some years ago ended his days in a
benevolent asylum—had fought their battles, and
even as far back as 1840 “ Bungaree,” the son of a
soldier stationed in Sydney, was thought so much
of that the inhabitants of Sydney actually sub-
scribed for the purpose of sending him to England,
where he was matched against the redoubtable
Johnny Broome for the championship, while, later
on, Bill Sparkes met old Nat Langham, who
gained a chance victory over Sayers; but in both
instances the Australian was beaten. There is
very little doubt, however, that Mace’s influence
on Australian boxing was more than considerable,
and his former residence here is revealed by the
manner in which our men spar.
• • •
At the present time our boxers are ex-
periencing ” a boom,” just as our cricketers and
scullers nave already done, and as our racehorses
may do very soon; and people are beginning to
inquire whether Australia is going to appropriate
the championships in this as in other departments
of sport. Encouraged by Jackson’s success, num-
bers of young men are crossing the Pacific by every
boat, and Slavin recently left for England. But
it is hard to believe that Jackson’s successes will
be easily repeated. Australian light and middle
weights are probably inferior to the best men of
the same class in England and America. Ben
Seth, not at the head of his department in the old
country, rather easily disposed of Jack Hall and
Murphy, undoubtedly our two best light-weights,
while young Mitchell proved himself superior to
our men of the medium division. If Australian
boxers are to gain pre-eminence, it must be by
means of the heavy-weights Jackson and Slavin.
Of these two men, we believe the former to be the
better boxer, though as a ring-fighter Slavin pro-
mises well In a ring-fight on wet turf, Jackson’s
legs, and perhaps his courage, may give way; but in
a boxing-match on the boards it would now be idle
to deny that he is well nigh invincible. He is tall
and strong, with a tremendous reach, and possesses
a panther-like activity which is really marvellous
in so big a man. He can use both hands well, and
being one of the Mace school his straight left
gives him an enormous advantage over those
modern • boxers who rush in and depend
on the right hand for a chance knock-out.
Compared to the clever West Indian, the
strong and savage Slavin is very slow ; more-
over, when excited, he is apt to forget all style and
go for his opponent in rough-and-tumble fashion,
as shown by his encounters with Costello and Jack
Burke. When Slavin defeated “ Buffalo,” as the
cute Yankee, who has settled in Melbourne, is
called, he had the advantage of fighting on turf,
to which the American was totally unaccustomed.
When they met on boards the smaller man more
than held his own. Slavin had the best of his re-
cent encounter with Burke, but then he was
favoured in several respects. The ring was of re-
duced size, and the so-called Irish Lad foolishly
forced the fighting instead of keeping out -of reach
and wearing out his opponent, as a smaller man
should always do. The success of Jackson and
Slavin, whatever it may ultimately amount to,
will depend as much on the present dearth of good
heavy-weights as on anything else. Though .Jack-
son possesses a combination of boxing attributes
seldom found in so big a man, it is likely enough
that he would soon have gone down before such
heavy-weights as Wormald or O’Baldwin, who
were clever as well as strong, and who could take
as well as give punishment. J ackson’s American
opponents have hitherto fought for the head. Now
it has been recognised, from the days of Moly-
neauxto those of Bob Travers, that “niggers” were
always invulnerable in that part, and the rule of
the “profession” was to fight for a black-man’s body
and throat. Unless we are much mistaken it was
by pursuing a policy of this kind that Farnan was
so successful against J ackson. It must, however, be
borne in mind that Black Peter has immensely
improved since he encountered the South Mel-
bourneite. He has gained both in strength and
cleverness, and his recent victories must bestow a
certain amount of self-confidence and courage,
which count for a good deal; while any opponent
who attempted to punish him about the body
would have to run the gauntlet of his undoubtedly
dangerous left.
• • •
Since boxers, with the aid of Captain
Morse, of the Alameda, seem destined to become
an article of Sydney export, the reader may like to
know how they are raised. It cannot be too em-
phatically asserted that a boxer, like a poet, is
bom—not made. Scores, even hundreds, of young
fellows yearly join classes and receive instruction
from broken-nosed “professors,” but it is not from
these that the champions are recruited. Occa-
sionally an amateur joins the professional ranks
and acquits himself creditably, but sueh cases are
exceptionally rare. The life of a real professional
pugilist (by this we do not mean the many showy
feather-bed champions now on view) is an arduous
one, and the man who would succeed in it must be
thoroughly inured to hardship. As a rule the
champion pugilist has a small beginning and little
tuition. He is generally a hardworking youth,
who puts on the gloves for purposes of re-
creation, and acquires a reputation in his own
circle after having settled a few little disputes in
what is termed tne “good old English fashion.”
Some “professor” comes into contact with him,
tries his mettle, and if he sees promise in the
novice takes him in hand and imparts a polish —
only a polish, remember, for Nature alone can
supply the material. After instruction and train-
ing, tne novice, who usually works at his ordinary
occupation, whatever it may be, all along, begins to
spar at “ benefits ” and on such occasions. Should
he continue to acquit himself creditably, he is
matched against an opponent of apparently equal
calibre and his future career as a boxer altogether
depends upon himself If defeated on his first
public appearance ho probably forsakes the roped
arena. First appearances are the most trying,
since the boxer, like the actor, experiences stage-
fright, a feeling something akm to first-fire funk
on the battle field.
# # *
It must not, however, be supposed that
the novice jumps into fame, popularity and fortune
all at once. Like men in other callings the boxer
has to pay his footing and serve his apprentice-
ship. We may read in the advertisement columns
of the papers or on the posters on the hoardings
that the Coming Slogger and the Shining Pet are
to box at a certain hall for £25 aside and the gate.
This looks liberal enough as a sporting offer, if it
were only true, but it rarely or never is.. No stake-
money probably has been deposited and the gate-
money is taken care of by the proprietors of the
halls, who content themselves with giving the
winner a sovereign or two and the loser about half
as much. Of course, if the boxer has established
a reputation, he can look after his own interests —
nay, may be able to dictate his own terms. But
few of them can do this, and the majority are de-
pendent on those who promote these exhibitions
and contests, and who, we may be sure, make a
big profit as do other monopolists out of those
under them. Many of the leading pugilists are
merely puppets in the hands of speculators who
run their “shows,” and it is on account of the de-
mands made by these latter that there is so much
difficulty in arranging matches. Only a small
proportion of the stakes we read about are ever
deposited, and not all the matches are genuine.
This has a natural effect on the boxing. A novice
may exert himself even when there is no money
staked, as he is unsophisticated, and has, more-
over, a reputation to make. But the old stager is
wiser. He gets through his allotted task with as
little inconvenience as possible—to himself. Not
very long ago a championship encounter took place
somewhere between Cook’s River and the North
Pole. There was no stake involved, and the terms
offered to the loser were rather niggardly. Now,
the man who was likely to lose did not think it
worth his while to stand several rounds before a
powerful opponent and get well “ hammered ” for
such a paltry sum. Peeling that he must lose, he
resolved to do so as quickly as possible. Exposing
himself, he allowed his opponent’s right to land on
the jaw. The hit was not a heavy or well-timed
one but down he went. A sensational knock out,
everyone said, and it was some time before he
opened his eyes. All were satisfied except the
few who recognised the sham. Such things a: e
not of unusual occurrence. The reader may
inquire why the press does not expose such mal-
practices. Well, for several reasons. The average
reporter, even the sporting reporter, knows little
about boxing, cannot discern a “double lead-
off ” from a “ side step,” and depends on boxers
for his information, and, even if he did know,
there are reasons why the deception is not exposed.
Should he be cognisant of what is going on, inter-
ested parties very likely secure his silence. Nay,
did he throw a light on these affairs, he might get
himself into trouble. Boxing exhibitions are
largely advertised, and it is against the policy of
most newspapers, nowadays, to incur the dis-
Eleasure of advertisers. In fact, just as Vincent
Irummles’ plays were written to suit the pump
and such “ properties,” so many Australian jour-
nals are conducted to suit certain commercial
nstincts’l
•• ' •
It is a fallacy to suppose that glove-fights
are unattended with brutality. _ An eminent Lon-
don authority, not unknown in Australia, has
declared that he has seen men suffer more in a
modern glove-fight than ever came under his ob-
servation during twenty years’ experience as ring-
reporter in the old days. Formerly, after men had
fought for some considerable time, their hands
gave way, and became incapable of administering
much punishment. The gloves, however, protect
the fingers so that the fists hold good much longer.
Then, again, a man could, in the old days, drop
down, and finish the round when he was merely
touched, and when he fell it was on the soft turf.
Nowadays, a man must stand up for three minutes,
and, when he falls or is knocked down, he cornea
into contact with hard boards. Moreover, the
gloves now used are so small as to affor. 1 no pro-
tection to the person who is struck. Indeed, a
blow from 2oz. gloves is really more severe than f
it were delivered with the naked fist. A bruise is
always more painful than a shallow cut, and even
in the old ring days the seconds were accustomed
to lance bruises so as to allow the clotted blood
to run free. Yet a blow with small gloves pro-
duces a bruise, while one from the naked knuckles
generally succeeds in drawing blood, unless it is
so delivered as to be of little or no harm.
• * *
From the outside the profession of pugilist
seems a lucrative one. We hear of boxers being
matched for fabulous sums ; some of them we
know “ draw ” as well as a star-artist, and they
are sought after by some of the highest in the
land. In England Sullivan was introduced to the
Prince of Wales, while both he and Kilrain were
on the most intimate terms with a rich section of
the so-called aristocracy. Jem Smith and Charley
Mitchell are the pets of the patricians who leaven
the London Pelican Club ; while here in Australia
both Slavin and Jackson experience an amount of
hero-worship never accorded to Adam Lindsay
Gordon or Marcus Clarke, and, for one man who
would pay half-a-crown to hear a lecture by Pro-
fessor Huxley, at least a hundred would sacrifice
that sum to witness an encounter between second-'
rate pugilists at the boxing-halls. We actually see
the champions drag their brothers from honest
toil to join the “ profession,” so at first sight all
looks well, and, no doubt, many an honest fellow
wishes to exchange hard “graft” for the showy
existence of a bar-room warrior. However, all is
not gold that glitters. Like every other calling,
that of a boxer consists of prizes and blanks, the
former being few and the latter many. A
long residence in Birmingham and London,
in which cities the “ fancy ” is strongest,
is sufficient to convince one that pugilism
does not pay. The rank - and - file make
very little, and in their old age—aye, in their
middle age—become pitiable objects. As soon as
the first flush of youth has passed they become
useless as boxers, and their pampered tavern exist-
ence unfits them for their former occupations, if
they ever had any. Even those who are successful
are not much better off. When they succeed,
success turns their heads, for they find themselves
in a strange position, and the money is quickly
spent on women, drink, and flatterers. One in a
hundred is careful and prudent, and he generally
manages to make use of his unfortunate brethren.
A gentleman—may we say nobleman —well-known
up Wagga way, has said that one-half the world
lives on the other; as regards pugilism, one in a
hundred makes a fortune out of the other ninety-
nine.
* • *
The private cnaracter of the pugilist, or
boxer, cannot be sacred, considering that he is a
public character. According to the worshipping
reporter, he is a kind of Admirable Crichton, or
at least a respectable citizen. No doubt some
may be classed under the latter category, but they
are exceptions. Even these avoid contamination,
not because of their being boxers, but in spite of
it, for the business is undoubtedly demoralising.
In America, the inevitable six-shooter keeps the
pug. in order, while in England his own blaok-
Sardism puts his calling under the ban of the
v. Even the most respectable pugilists we
know of never rose above the level of the public-
house and the betting-bag. We have known some
of them get six months under the “vag.,” while
it is not so very long ago that one was sentenced
for rifling a drunken man. Nay, one of these who
are now upholding the “honour of Australia ” (?)
at the other end of the world has been flogged at
the triangles down in Woolloomooloo. The
patriotic natives who are athletic-mad and justify
their craze because our champions advertise Aus-
tralia should feel proud of this fellow, since, stripped
in the ring, his scarified back will at once remind
spectators of the existence of Botany Bay. We
have known one eminent boxer earn an honest
living by acting as “ chucker-out ’’ to a quack
showman. In fact, bullying is too often a part of
the pugilist’s profession. Not so very long ago,
when it was decided by certain toadies to stifle
public opinion at a certain meeting, who were more
ready to drown the people’s voices than our friends
the boxers ? To those young men who would like
to emulate the deeds of Tom Oribb and John L.
Sullivan we say “ don’t,” for the mercenary boxer
must give way before enlightened public opinion;
in fact, the present boom is beginning to collapse.
There is no use in advising the public who support
the game. Carlyle has told us of the preponder-
ance of fools in this world, and the cohesion exist-
ing between fools and their money is too well-
known to be mentioned here.
Somebody is endeavouring to make out
that Beaconsfield did dote on primroses. We
don’t much care, anyway, and if buttercups were
his favourite flowers we shan’t turn' dizzy. On
second thoughts, we think “The Buttercup
League” would read doosid appropriate and all
that sort of thing, doncherknow.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
\ ,i\X f!
m
k 1 *
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELTO
mVK\
Nr-.
\
A NEVER FAILING CUBE FOB ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NBBVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0.0 and
This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
KERVOUB DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
an ,i a ii weakness caused by indiscretion. 1 aims in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 day a
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying lor them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to way address on receipt of a 2d stamp fut
SurasVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Sox 916, G. P. 0., Svunky.
«
Life Preservation,”
Or. J. 0. LLBWIBLLTK,
SPECIALIST,
10 LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE.
THIS Work is a Mbdioal Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
•loesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. fid. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Co., 4 A'Beokett Street West, Melbourne.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
P* n+ i r.y\ f The Public are requested to notice the
VO'lLwawU 1 words, r«w s Celebrated Eve
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Bose) on Dark Blue
'* r ound, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist.
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISOS. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
N
XRV O U S
DEBI L I T
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST an
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free o
receipt of a Id., stamped self-addressed envelope, contair
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, whic
are a guaranteed cure. Price, 2s. 6d. per course. Sen
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “ Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late OovwununiT
f< Analyst
V “I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenio and have
to report, after a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon :— “ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from ray cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 3s. ; I4lb. ss. fid. ; 561 b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
<*>
PATENT
PILLS.
n
&
&
$
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
■offerer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes. ifled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
‘ Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bexciiam's Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers every where.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
tUCALYPTE 0 1LSa.
Victory Ointments
COLEHane & sohs
•r u
THE TREE OF LIFE.
HV&S&tLIg
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AW A.RDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Gungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euoalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundka.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —227 Elizabeth Stree t
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations,
UST PUBLISHED
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rules
are worth iis weight in gold. Send your fall
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next Six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Streor,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
A most Unique Work on
SUBJECTS.
CONSULT
ffl
OORE & HOGG
ft
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cJfthe Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, 00BBETT8 BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.8ULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sentonreceipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-The Sydney Bum.etin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. nbscription (payable strictly
in advan'e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
’’’he Bur.LETfN will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.'
ess Announcements
£2O BUCKBOAED BUGGIES £2O
BEST IX THE WOULD
for £2O.
ħ
The Largest foach-
Worhs in Australia.
No. 45—' Turnout Seat— £3s.
COPE <st NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH B'RIgl^NE.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address; 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY-
“ For Flaming a Picture Neat and Well.”
w x r x
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-* t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal *- otel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheanest in ihe Colonies. >h tos., Engravit gs,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gi'ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
peoia! attention paid School Drawings Plush
work asi eciality. Inspection invited.
MANUFACTURERS
&IHfOBTEAS or
HATS CAPS I
438CEORCE S T
3VDNEY
ffpposiTt Lastetlirv
1:
*
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and AitkenO
AST L£ i SO Ns
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
m
p,VCH’s
W*£/i Waring
f * <y
POWD£H.
manufactured bv
'James ChannoA/ J/arbovrS*
•.Sold. by all S'lcc.iy'vd 4 J~ SoreAatf>e/-a
Business Announcements.
- ——
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
wf*
<|UU|
IM
mt v.:
L«
r„.v>
UUill*^H|tH(;
IBxtOiSr
!^Uli<iililil t n.likJnj<illTU^
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents ;
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“ BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand ” offered
tor sale without these corks and capsules »ill be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrat rs of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Poster and Sons.
Ask for kupper’s elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &(., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 171 SUSSEX STB MET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
m
WOCN
Wtl
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St ), Sydney.
.JOHN C BO w HEN Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting Rouse is cm ducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience i on ial y
=R*-nnl-prt.
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait/ etc.,
supplied. SS" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
I*'” livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co. ’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON' MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from !M»s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
X
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
liondon Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
h
MASON
BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 SENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, Clilna and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES , BEERS <k SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and "Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R* LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
WITTES, x SPIRITS, x IB IE IE lE£ S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Roe’s and Wise's (old Cork) Whiskies.
iiKNNEssv’s, Kartell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.H.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes, jggp’ All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
s£fyolesale ami Single Bottle l)epai|tments, 783 anil 784 Qeurge-st., Syilney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sous.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
nXTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
wallaoOrothers.
SATIN
“_)CADI*S’
t: HlLOB£ pJ 'l
Xf»UNKS*fcC»C
> •*., <
/X£7h#yn} G
boston
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
A warded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, ISBO
Berlin, 1877 FraiitfoiT., 1881
Paris, IS7B Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884.86, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every boWe.
Beware o? Imitation:.;.
This Blacking is in liquid form ami is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, altiuTud
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
ENU I N E SWEDISH MADE
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. _A_. IF 1 _A_ LSTE D T,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street,'London, they are
spurious.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOE. SALE. A Quantity of Seeondrliand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. Eor full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
E. p. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA,
tw IZKTSIPIBOT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
at the
Wbrtheim Sewing Machine Depots
IN
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
' Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swans ton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
. 59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
ST A WELL
ECHUCA
BEECHWORTH ...
HAMILTON
W ARRN AMBOOL
GALE
MARYBOROUGH
Swan Street.
... ... ... Chapel Street.
... ... ... Sturt Street.
... ... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Store*
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Struct.
... ... High Street, opp. Golden Age Hotel.
m
Fo^
AIR
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
o
A PDKE, NON-GHXTTY TOOTH PoWDEK. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS'
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE d^iw.o.
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting 1 , &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Worlds,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,"
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
li. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 5(3.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
Agents:
Victorian A. BENJAMIN, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
Tasmanian FITZGERALD BROS., George -street, Launceston.
Queensland J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.
