

MjU fuu
lot
Fry’s Matted Cocoa.
J. 8. FRY A SONS, Bristol, Loudon and Stonst.
“ An ordinary cap contain* more active properties of malt than a phi of the beat Ale or FMm. — Luron,
W OTNGIERE V O
. *- , \-£ v , ■ ■- -• . ■■
A Present Worth Giving the
A Freehold Block of Land
IN'
On payment of £\ a duly executed Transfer of the Land under Torrens handed to Purchaser.
Building !ites
PEI! BiOCL
WM
~a'?sS»k!
■
kUUiTIUO PHfllO-EMa Cfi * BftinO* C T
View of Cuubch and Parsonage from Sovfrkigntown.
Make your Children
Freeholders,
and give them
A Stake is the Const??!
Plans, Pamphlets and Full Particulars sent Post Free to any Address by
BOYD anil KIM, 96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
HXSON4SONS
c
&
9.
o
V
V
fc’lß ROGER]
t
Q
3
IXSONS
E
XOBLSIOR HOTEL, 0 HARTERS
TOWERS.
Beeond Briok Hotel Building Above
alto*ted corner of Gill and Ohnroh Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured
—not merely relieved—and we can prove what we
say. There are no failures and no disappoint'
ments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also
cures all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPA-
TION and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION,
relieve distress from too hearty eating, correct
DISORDERS of the STOMA OH, Stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as pearly perfect as
it is possible for a Pill to be.
gold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON ... Sole Proprietor.
PILLS.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
larputes all other* forlta laating and natural
fragrance.
Tnaaa Gold Marat*
PARIS.IB7B, CALCUTTA.IBM,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIF ANNE I YLANG YLANG
BTEPHANOTIB lOFAFaNAX
and other well-known Perfume* ar.i an
equalled lor thair delightful and lasting odour
AtUnaun'a celebrated
BAU DE COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for 1U atrengih and delightful
fragrance It 1» far auperior 10 the numerous
compound, aold under the .ame name
Of all Dtalert, and o' tht Hanumciurtr,
JAB AfKINSiiN,
as OU> Bomb Brar.iT. Rondo*
Cl6trexa.c3.on. Hotel,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
JEk. served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
bore also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can i > » ■ably make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti hm vided. Table
de BOte at I o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilmins rj&a to make her
rial tors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
M‘LEAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
6
IRONMONGERS
512
<p
H/
o
«b
ţ
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o.
imam teast powdee
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBS ITUTB FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TBA-CAEES, PASTRY, ftc.,
AM
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Teast Mr.
FOR THE TOWN. THE BUSH, AND THE SBA.
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLD IN TINS AT 04. THE HALF POUND.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLUNS STREET EAST.
■nbscribsd Capital •
fsld-np tod Accrued Ospitel
Deposits Received -
Advances Made
total Income
Tear ending
Oct, 188 ft.
£180,426
61,630
03,681
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
. £360,000
120,000
261,600
247,840
. 461,086
Tear ending
Oct., 1887.
, £431,126
206,686
891,366
807,828
. 707.990
Tear ending
Got., 1888.
£680,000
251,015
1,123,949
625,826
2,048,951
Deposits received at following Ratesl2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent, j 8 months, 6 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to
who wish to secure INTEREST
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR . ~ 1
this F RANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
twelve FITS per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AKFIB rUKDS for Borrowers. TERMS LIBERAL,
gs
JL
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£|AN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of Is. pc
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum 1s paid over to their holders In Cash.
The holders of tne First Issue of these Shares received In October,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rat a of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHM JTIM 10, MJP., J.P., - - Chairman,
WILLIAM DOHKBTT . Aotln«-Socr«tarr.
»
Federal Coffee Palace,
CORNER OF
ZETlrxgr <2z Collirrs Streets, MolTooTame,
Containing 500 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL PINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chtf, assisted by a civil and obllfftng staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
MUUT PORTER ALWAYS SN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
Gaorgc Cohen - " Manager.,


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—Ho 465.
SATURDAY, JA YU ARY 18, 1880
Price, Bd.
The Yawning Guv’nah and the Yawning Grave.
"His Excellency remarked that had he known before ho left England that such a duly would be placed in his hand, as having finally to decide apon such question,
no power on earth would have induced him to come to the colony." -Governor Carington's speech to the deputation which begged a repriere for Louisa Collins.
“I HAD NO IDEA I SHOULD EVER BE CALLED UPON TO DO ANY THING RESPON SIBLE. I THOUGHT THE POSITION WAS TO BE PURELY
ORNAMENTAL.”— Translation of the Gubernatorial remarks aforesaid.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians,”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREBT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ■■■ ••• 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Dimness Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or say SOOO xvords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” ivill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
tee are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office T wenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12, 1889.
Dropping to Pieces
The Parkes Ministry now endures merely
until the breath of public opinion can get
accesi to puff out its flickering existence. It
is guttering down in the socket, and is offen-
sive to the nostrils of the people. An odour
of corruption has been disseminated by it
from its fiist illumination. At the outset
this was tolerated, and even extenuated.
By a multitude of credulous persons it was
hoped or believed, and by a coterie of in-
terested individuals it was Insisted, that the
ill-flavour of the earlier period would be suc-
ceeded by a development cf sweetness and
light. There has been no sweetnes?. There
has been no light. On the contrary, the
darkness has deepened and the effluvium has
inter sified. The people of New South
Wales, alarmed by the financial flounder-
ings of the Dibbs-Jennings combination,
and disgusted by the childish bickerings of
the Jennings-Dibbs Cabinet, thought that
any change must be for the better. They
threw memory aside and chose to be forget-
ful of the history of the precedent Parkes
Administration. They refused to remember
that that Cabinet expired, as the existing
Parkes Cabinet is fated to give up the
ohosti, smothered by the appearance of
jobbery which spread abroad and around it
a stifling miasma.
* *
Now, however, dormant recollection begins
to re-awaken. The electors of the colony,
shaking off the soporific Influence of a de-
praved dally Press, intent upon tubor-
dlnatlng everything to the interests of the
traders'’ with foreign factories, begin to
recall facts which they repent that they ever
permitted to escape their recollection. They
commence to perceive that the journals
which should have been their honest men-
tors and remembrancers, have drugged
them with suppressions, and ho cussed them
with decoctions of Foreign—falsely called
Free —trade. Ihose who have observed
the fluctuations o! events political in New
South Wales during the past ten years
can easily decipher the Impending con-
sequences of this awakening. When next
the electors have access to the polls
they will inflict upon their betrayers a
crushing chastisement. As it has been, so
it will be. Parkes will have to sneak into
Parliament by some obscure back entry,
while his creatures, his sycophants, his
tools, will be rejected and scouted wherever
they venture to affront the people with their
candidature.
• • #
Nothing perhaps could have occurred
more apposite for quickening the reviving
memory of the electors than the sinister
prominence achieved by Mr. John Davies,
C.M.G. M L.C., in connection with the latest
and crowning incident of the Ministejial 1)1-
fame. That honourable and decorated gentle-
man la absolutely a creature of ill omen.
Whenever he achieves especial prominence
whenever he is perceived to emerge demon
slratively from the twilight obscurity to
which he periodically retires, the appariiion
presages the death and generally the damna-
tion of an administration. He flits across
the political sky ever when it grows murky,
and his dismal flutterings seem ever to add
intensity to the gathering gloom,
John Davies and the Hornsby scandal,
John Davies and the Holt-Sutherland
road-making business revive unpleasant
memories of John Davies the Exhibition
C.M.G. and the Exhibition diamond-ring
scandal, and of John Davies and the Coc-
nanbara-hat episode, with the farthing valua-
tion placed by a jury upon the damage then
done to thereputa.ionof John Davies When-
ever, in fact, a Parkes Administration
is on its death-bed, and ihe hour of disso-
lution is looked for, the premonitory
presence of John Davies becomes apparent.
This oily gentleman, Companion of St.
Michael, Sb. George, St. Henry Parkes
and St. Cooky Burns, appears to discharge
the functions of banshee to Parkes Admlnla
trationp. He is about now In fullest and
moat intimidating activity. The Bound of
him makes hideous the night which darkens
around the moribund Cabinet, And even
the John Davies banshee is not the sole
symptom of tho approaching event. All the
usual presages are present. Oa this occasion,
as in precedent demises, the corpus vili of the
administration has began to exhale premoni-
tory odours of decay. The damps of death
bead its brazen brow and diffuse around an
odour of decay and corruption.
• * ♦
On the last occasion the air was tainted by
the North Shore Bridge soar dal—an alleged
conspiracy to confer upon a Government
House gang, a contract to construct a bridge to
North Shore on terms which would have been
equivalent to a right to loot the Treasury.
Now there have been a series—ever Increas-
icg in intensity—of similar symptoms. First
there was the purchase of the A.S.N. Co.’s
wharfages : a purchase which did not add
one foot to the accommodation for shipping,
but extricated an influential proprietary
from a difficulty iu realising on a property
unsuited for subdivision and too costly to
readily find a single purchaser. Next there
was the notorious bargain for the purchase
of another patch of land in the same quarter,
a mysterious business in which the diddling
of a too trustful country was conducted with
the precision of the operations of a mecha-
nism of clock-work.
# * •
This latter now historic transaction
was but one item in the Ministerial
mortal symptoms. The quacks of the
Foreign-trade daily Press administered pal*
iatlves for it, suppressed the evidences of
putridity and drove the disease deep into
the system. In due course it broke out
more virulently than ever in a tram-grab
conspiracy, at the flavour of which the public
was still holding its nose, when a fresh and
still more offensive eruption—the Hornsby-
Holt-Sutherland exposures—fairly broke
down the public capacity for endurance.
* * *
Nothing now remains for this wretched
Cabinet except to writhe and wriggle in a
death-agony, more or less protracted. Its
last hours promises to resemble those of
Louis XV. of France, dying of small-pox,
while sometime courtiers shunned the
carrion they but yesterday grovelled before,
and ceased to disguise the emotions occa-
sioned to their stomachs by the mere
proximity of the palace-enshrined feculence.
• * *
But courtiers, when they turn their backs
on a expiring sovereign, direct their faces
towards the countenance —already assuming
augustness —of the heir and successor. The
case is different in the present instance.
It resembles rather the fate of a dynasty,
and Involves the abasement of all the
adherents of the ruined house. If, by
any device, the present New South Wales
Administration could be maintained in
existence, there are numerous adherents
who would support Its flavour. It owes,
Indeed, Its present exlsteucs te the repulsion
exercised by its apparently Inevitable suc-
cessors. While the continuance In power cf
the discredited Cabinet of Parke* and his
present colleagues appears past endurance,
it is felt that there is little to attract in the
prospect of the substitution of a Dibbs
administration.
The present Opposition Is scarcely more
esteemed than the Ministry with its
following of servile and Impotent ad-
herents. For months past the Govern-
ment has been existing on the demerits of
its official successors. The accession to
power of an administration constituted from
among the members at present in Opposition
is regarded by few persona, no matter what
their fiscal creed, as a positive benefit to be
struggled for. It bears, at best, the aspect
of a lesser evil. This is a most depressing
dilemma for any community to be confronted
with. Upon Mr. Dibbs, leader of the Op-
position and consequently, by prescription,
the next Premier, the country centres no
affection and bases no expectation. The
personnel of the supporters from among
whom Mr. Dibbs may select oolleagnea is not
rich in men from whom any remarkable
things beneficial to the colony are popularly
txpectcd. Of those who have not hitherto
held portfolios, few, if any, have given indi-
cations of the mature judgment and superior
Intellect which mark coming men. Amongst
the i x-Ministers there is scarcely one who was
not when invested with Ministerial functions,
a more or leas dismal failure. It is only when
people have recourse to the poor expedient
of Instituting comparisons that any feeling
of comfort is experienced. It is perceived
at once that, despite his past record in that
capacity, Mr. Dibbs himself would not be a
disadvantageous exchange for Mr. Burns
as Treasurer. This is especially the senti-
ment just now when Mr. Burns, who was
held up to admiration as a phenomenon of
political integrity, even though he might be
but mediocre as a financier, has come to be
regarded as quite a remarkable financier so
far as allowing his private property to be
enhanced In value at the public cost can give
evidenca of esoteric ability, bat in tho same
connection ss quite a delusion in his other
quality.
« « •
Again, the electors can scarcely conceive of
any shuffle of the cards which could bring to
the top of the pack a Minister for Minas
who would not be an improvement on
Abigail of Australian Banking Company
celebrity ; a Minister for Justice who would
not be less of an anomaly in that position
than Mr. Clarke ; a Minister for Education
who would nob be a whole intellect ahead
of Inglis, of no-fires-for-children cele-
brity ; of a Postmaster-General who would
not be at least threepence a nobbier
ahead of Roberts ; or a Minister for Works
who would not be at least as much superior
to Sutherland as a pantomime clown is to
a pantomime pantaloon. As for the Attorney-
General and the new Minister for Lands,
the public care little about either. Mr.
Simpson is chiefly known by one event in
hia record, when, as a District Court Judge,
he inflicted a preposterous sentence upon a
man for an unmannerly display of hia religi-
ous opinions—a sentence bo absurdly out of
keeping with the spirit of the age that it was
immediately nullified by the then Executive.
Since this episode Mr. Simpson has been
known merely as a successful lawyer and as a
nominee legislator—the last refuge of two
Administrations destitute of an Attorney-
General.
t • *
Mr. Bbunker’s record is clean. But he
has the misfortune to pose, or to be posed,
as a fly in amber amidst the other elements
of the Cabinet, exciting chiefly the senti-
ments generally aroused by the encrusted fly
—of surprise as to how he came to be there.
And he is at a disadvantage also in
being held up to admiration as a desirable
Minister more because of his “squareness”
than because of any ability. People are so full
of the sudden and semational collapse of the
traditional political integrity of Hornsby-
Bubns, that they are indisposed, for the
moment, to accept placarded virtue without
investigation and test. They reflect, naturally
enough, that Mr. Brunner merely occupies
the position which Mr. Burns has just
vacated, and they are doubtful how things
may turn out in the end. Taken as a whole,
in any case, the Parkes Administration is in
a stage of decay so far advanced that its
condition has become apparent to the dullest
senses throughout the community. And
when matters have reached this condition
with a Ministry, it never fails to fall to
pieces within a very short space of time.
"God Save the Queen."
The latest outburst of Victorian loyalism shows
that that noble sentiment still preserves its pristine
freshness, and continues to rejoice in luxuriant
vigour as of old. Its roots are fixed deep down in
the heart of the nation especially when the
nation has been dining liberally at an agricultural
banquet, and rises, clutching a bottle but half
unconscious, to sing “God Save the Queen” with
insane variations and a chorus of “ Tooral looral-
layand amid the debris and broken pie of a
thousand public dinners there is heard the spirit-
stirring intimation that Britons never, never shall
be slaves. In times past innumerable Britons and
British subjects have had cause to shed doubt on
this lofty moral observation, but the observation
still remains in excellent working order, and,
practically speaking, is as good as new. A few
days ago, however, Mr. Patrick Hunt, of Kil-
more (Vic.), attempted to ascertain whether there
was any substratum of truth in the famous
chorus, and got nearly killed in doing it ; and on
top of this the local Advertiser rises to express
its indignation at the debasing wickedness of the
man who would attempt such au experiment. The
following are the bumpkin journal’s feelings on the
subject :
It is a well-known fact that JMr. Patrick Hunt enter-
tains no friendly feelings towards the throne of England,
and he has, on more than one occasion, exhibited his dis-
loyalty, but at the luncheon at the agricultural show last
week it was very marked. When the chairman proposed
the toast of the Queen, all present, with the one excep-
tion—Mr. Pat. Hunt —rose and sang the National An-
them, but our Home Rule friend stuck tenaciously to his
seat, despite the numerous hisses and gibes directed at
him for his unbecoming and disloyal conduct. So indig-
nant were some of the guests, that they hurled all manner
of missiles at the head of the offending disloyalist, but all
to no effect.
From this it is evident to the commonest under-
standing that the Victorian loyalist is a persua-
sive animal of great logical abilities. Broken
glass and flying bottles are the gentle means by
which he seeks the conversion of a dissenting
brother, and his highest ambition is to drivel at
an agricultural banquet with one hand grasping
the table and the other holding a half-brick. By
tacit consent, the Victorian loyalists have adopted
that imbecile, cretinous, goitred rhyme yclept
“ God save the Queen ” as the shibboleth of their
faith ; they howl it forth in Parliament when they
have voted down any proposal which does not
savour sufficiently of devotion to the dear old
mother-land ; they scream it at public meetings
when they have thrown the intrusive Republican
out of the window ; and they bellow it at the
gatherings of the grandmotherly Australian
Natives’ A s sooiati in, as a fitting conclusion to an
evening spent in denouncing everybody who is not
prepared to lick the boots of the whole Royal
family as a liar and a serpent and a
crawling, battered reptile; and by these judi-
cious expedients they have made the broken-
backed old anthem the symbol of sycophancy and
human abasement, and have turned a rhyme,
which in itself had nothing particular the matter
with it but irredeemable foolishness, into a party
watchword and a signal for violence. As the
natural result of this policy the Republican or
Nationalist who joins in the National Anthem
gives away his principles as much as the Orange-
man who sang “ The Wearing of the Green ” in
the days of Irish insurrection, or the Yorkist
who wore the red rose of Lancaster in the stormy
times of Henry VI Ths red rose, in itself, had
as little political significance as the spavined,
glandered hymn of modern days, but nevertheless
the Yorkist who wore it was banned at sight by
his own party, and, thanks to “loyal” cranks and
“ loyal ” sycophants, the time has almost arrived
when the Australian Republican who swells the
chorus of “God Save the Queen’ deserves as bad
a fate.
» i
Having adopted this particular shriek as their
own especial property, however, the bounceable
“loyalists” of Australia are not content to keep
it to themselves, but consider it their proud privi-
lege to force it with bricks and violence upon their
political opponents. The spectacle of from twenty
to fifty cowardly and half-inebriated turnip-
growers heaving glasses at the head of the
solitary dissentient who refused to grovel along
with them is a noble example of that liberty
of thought and speech which the Anglo-
Saxon is always ready to grant to everybody who
thinks and speaks the way he tells him to. The
Inquisition, against which every true Englishman
is bound to rave, was run on precisely the same
principles as Australian loyalism, but it was more
scientific in its arrangements and more methodical
in its operations. The dissentient of its day had
his head enclosed in a curious iron shell of elabo-
rate workmanship, and when the screw at the
back of the machine was turned the chances
against the prisoner retaining any vestige of his
original convictions for more than ten seconds
were about a hundred to one, even taken at the
lowest computation. But unluckily the iron shell
and the screw have been mislaid and have gone to
rust, and so the “ loyalist ” of Victoria is reduced
to preaching his stagnant faith with empty bottles,
hob-nailed boots, clubs, stones, mud-pies, and
other irregular implements of warfare. In this
respect, more than in any other, the utter con-
servatism of loyalty evidences itself. The Aus-
tralian groveller of the 19bh century believes, in
common with the Egyptian groveller of the days
before Abraham was a boy, that he has a right to
make every man think as he thinks, and that the
shortest way to change an opponent’s convictions
is to smash him on the head. The Queen-wor-
shipper of the Murray and the cat-worshipper of the
Nile stand on the same level and clasp hands
together across the gulf of Time. The man who
bowed himself before onions and beetles built up
a great theory of human conversion, and the man
who bows himself before Looh adopts the theory
and frankly admits that in all the 4000 interven-
ing years he has invented nothing better. Ever
since man existed he has gone about clubbing
other men who refused to adore his fetiches, and,
to all appearance, he will keep on doing so to the
end. The naked savage who had not yet dis-
covered the use of fire went round with a stone
axe to square accounts with the malcontent who
refused to acknowledge the authority of bis chief,
and though the chief was merely the biggest
savage of the tribe, and his royal prerogative con-
sisted in the right to sit on the driest spot and eat
the largest grub, the principle involved was just
the same. The naked savage of 10,000 years
earlier, who had not yet learned the use of speech
or the way to make the stone axe—even he had
learned the meaning of “loyalty” and gibbered
angrily from his tree at the insurrectionist who
cast doubts, by means of gesticulations with his
feet, at his cherished creeds; and the dog-headed
baboon, from whom he traced his descent in turn,
heaved cocoa nuts at the other dog-headed baboon
who had cast off his allegiance to the head of the
tribe, and levelled disloyal aspersions at the reigning
monarch —the large monkey at the top of the cliff
—and had expressed his feelings on the subject by
assuming a contradictory attitude with his tail.
Erom the ancestral ape of these primeval days
it is a long stride to the “ loyal subject ” of the
19th century, but the similarity of character is too
remarkable to escape notice. Each invariably
attempted to crush dissent by throwing something,
and if the founder of the family threw straighter
than his descendant it was merely because he had
the advantage of sobriety on his side. Each
laboured under the impression that the one whose
missile hit hardest was necessarily in the right,
but the parent ape did not perjure his soul by
writing elaborate drivel to the papers about the
rights of liberty, freethought, and free speech, and
then straightway deny those rights to everyone
who refused to think and speak as he did; his
attitude was one of simple defiance and he stood
or fell by his principles with his drawn cocoa-nut
clutched in his right hand. For the sake of
honour and honesty it is a pity that the Victorian
monarchist has so far fallen away from the faith
of his ancestors. Whatever faults these antique
progenitors might have had they did not add
hypocrisy and lying to their other sins, and though
in their ignorance they endeavoured to prop up
the various articles of their brief and simple
mcral code by throwing things they never dreamt
of denying the right of their antagonists to throw
things back again. But if Mr. Patrick Hunt, of
Kilmore, had been so rash as to aim a bottle at the
crowd of “ loyalists ” by whom he was assailed he
would probably have had good cause to compre-
hend the awful decadence of the human species.
The moat prominent ear mark of the modern sup-
porter of the throne is his intense desire to break
someone else’s head and his habit of calling on
the police when anyone threatens his own ; and
had Mr. Hunt been only a shade less forbearing
with his cowardly opponents he would probably
have been crippled for life and then sentenced to
six months’ imprisonment on a charge of assault-
ing half a-hundred rowdy agriculturists while
engaged in the lawful and peaceful avocation of
heaving bottles at his head to make him sing
“ God Save the Queen.
The New South Wales Premier has refused to
allow Mr. Miln, the tragedian, to deliver a
lecture on “ Church and Stage ” from the stage of
Sydney Opera House on a Sunday evening, which
he was previously permitted to deliver in Brisbane
on the “seventh day.” The Queensland Govern-
ment believe in Sunday lectures, but object to
Sunday concerts, while the New South Wales
Government “ syndicate ” dote on concerts and
are down on lectures. What we want to find is a
Premier who does not allow private predilections
to interfere with public business, and who does
not adroitly mix his private business up with his
administration of public affaiis. We shall never
find him—at least not in Australasia.


The Bulletin is distinctly of the opinion
that about 50 per cent, of tbe women of Australia
can’t cook. This opinion is dragged from us by
the frequency with which the Christmas plum
duff turned out to be a Christmas plum-duffer.
Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite obbtom hods*).
Directors i
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
B. O. V. BROUGHTON, Esq.; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations In addition to all usual banking
business.
Intbbbbt on Deposits :
18 months 7 per sent.
6 ... ... ... 6 „ ..
8 „ - «• "• ® ,i ■■
T. ». Richardson - - Managing Director.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
It Makes Us Tired
It makes us tired to hear the gush that is uttered
about the necessity of maintaining the dignity of
the law—and all the rest of the hackneyed pleas
which were put forward as quasi-reasoning against
remitting the death penalty in the case of Louisa
Collins. The majesty of the law is just one of
those fictions with which the law abounds
Louisa Collins was, if guilty, just about “as
bad as they make ’em,” and in this regard we
cordially agree with the reverend editor of the
Melbourne Telegraph who came out on the
second day of the new year with a column
and “a turn” demanding that Louisa Col-
lins should be hanged. In passing, we may
say that we don’t s?e that the affair was any con-
earn of the reverend one’s at all, but he has
spoken, and, like his merciful class, he has spoken
in favour of the death-penal by. It is one of the
astonishing things about these soi-disant Chris-
tian clerics that they invariably take the inhuman
side of any question when there is, or can be
manufactured, an inhuman side. They can all
always remember that old Hebraic text that has
been the excuse for so many legal murders:
“Whoso sheddeth man’s blood by man shall his
blood be shed,” and they can, with equal facility,
forget Christ’s injunction to forgive even to
seventy limes seven It used to be the rule that
if a man earned his living as a butcher he was re-
garded as unfit to sit on a jury, but we are willing
to wager that, take them men and men about,
and on any given question which involves
or might involve the death of a fellow-creature,
the scribbling clerics would be found ten times
more solidly united in favour of the death penalty
than would the butchers—in spite of the training
of their trade, and its familiarity with blood and
death. Was there ever a despotism in this world
that lacked its priest to give it the blessing of
Heaven? But how does this “majesty of the
law” sbine in the Louisa Collins’ case? Say
she did poison her two husbands and we have as a
quotient a cruel, brutal, and conscienceless woman.
Granted: then the majesty of the law says—
what ? Try and reform her, try and change her ;
try and make her a good woman ? No, no, no.
Kill her, pass her over to the next world. Sim-
mered down, this is what the “majesty of the
law ” says. Written, the thing is repulsive, but
what is the fact ? Don’t let us be misunderstood :
we had no particular stock in or pity for Louisa
Cqllins —for her we do not ask sympathy,
though perhaps we do feel a lot of sympathy
for the children who have been socially
hanged on the same scaffold, and socially
buried in the same grave with their mother.
We are only illustrating “ the majesty of the
law ” and the wisdom and logic underlying it In
its native simplicity it is a beautiful thing. The
mere fact that it utterly sets at defiance any con-
ceivable purpose of the Creator, as the Creator is
ostensibly regarded by a professedly Christian
community, does not appear to mar its beauty at
all. When Louisa Collins was “ swung off,” to
uphold the “ majesty of the law,” when civilisa-
tion had once more shirked a problem which
Providence had given it to solve (remember, we
speak from an orthodox standpoint) in civilised
and reasonable fashion, and Mrs. Collins got rm
the other side, and in the presence of that Deity
whom the clerics profess to revere, what would
the Deity do ? And what do or did the clerics
want the Deity to do? If the Deity follows their
example, or their line of logic, then Louisa
Collins has gone—and we may as well look the
brutal fact square in the jaw—straight on to
tell. There is no dodging the point. Either
that has been Louisa Collins’ fate, or the whole
line of the logic, wisdom, reasoning and majesty
of the law is wrong—one or the other If it is
tight, then the swinging off of this woman
means consigning her-tO sheol —“legalized, but
murder all the same. The farce of putting a
clergyman in her cell to minister to her to defeat
the law’s majesty, etc., etc., is too apparent to
need argument. But is it not also an insult to the
Almighty ? Is it not blasphemy ? Think of what
it means, its object and its logic, and what is the
result? It tells the Deity that while Louisa
Collins is not fit to live here below she tr ay be, or
may be made, fit for Heaven,
——
The Two Paths*
That extremely lucky young man, B. R. Wise,
htis lately made a public profession of his belief in
the dootiines of Henry George. Is Mr. Wise, in
this matter, sincere, actuated by conviction, or
merely by a strong desire to dish the Protec-
tionists ? Has the rapidly advancing shadow of
the giant Protection, rudely thrown across the
New South Wales Treasury Benches, driven him
to seek disguise in borrowed plumes, or has the
old war cry “Free Ports” so failed in potency
that a new one of “ Free Land ” must be adopted
in order to stave off ruin ? Apparently. Let us,
howev. r, remind him that the path of reform once
en k efed on, the wayfarer who gets mentally out-
stripped will be trodden underfoot by the
eager ever increasing multitude of advanced
thinkers. Like Henry George, this gen-
tleman stands at the parting of two ways
—one leads onward inevitably to State
Socialism, wherein capital and labour, as ic&ll as
land are nationalised ; the other way leads back-
ward through defeat at the next general election,
to gradual absorption by the fine old-crusfced-port-
wiae Tory party, from whose influence Mr. Wise
has tem{ orarily disengaged himself. If he con-
tinues long in his present fra-v e of mind, its only
legitimate goal is a further dcc'aration of belief in
the abolition of hll monopolies, and the investiture
of all Nature’s forces in the hands of the entire
community. If alarmed at this proipect he turns
tail then political extinction, allied mayhap to
professional distinction, awaits him. ihe young,
earnest, honest and intelligent cannot long find a
mental resting-place in land nationalisation; it is but
a m°agre insoalment of the mighty reforms which
are necessary, including possibly the total abdition
of State interference That Mr. B. R. Wise,
like another late political convert, has not
thoroughly studied his position we firmly believe;
that a closer study will shake his equanimity, his
strong self-confidence, is almost certain.
Fronde and Norman.
•Frouhe has written and published another ela-
borate" outpouring on Australian politics, in the
course of which he says that Sir Henry Norman
is just the mau to “know what could or could no
be doae to restore the influence of England. We
can’t quite make out whether this is meant for
praise or not, but anyhow we trust it w comet
Sir Henry’s extensive knowledge of the things
that cin’t be done is a oood feature in his char-
acter, and if it is coupled with an equally deep
insight into the persons who can’t do those things,
it may prove very useful, but most Governors ge
their A impressions mixed on these points. Poor
Musgrave came out with an extensive knowledge
of the things that could have been done if he bad
only stayed away, and the blighted Blake got a
tolerably distinct idea of the things which he
couldn’o do, combined with those that might have
been done to him it he had come within fl»t iron
range of Brisbane, but neither seemed to be much
the better for the knowledge. The chief qualifica-
tion of a Governor now a days ia that he must
know pretty well how much to know, and he
must also know very accurately how not to know
too much, but srmehow very few contrive to
strike this happy medium. About once in a cen-
tury Australia is blessed with a Governor who
understands when he ought to cultivate a judi-
cious stupidity and when he should be naturally
and inherently ignorant, and about once in five
centuries it ia favoured with cue who fully
understands what can’t be done, and who has
carefully read up the things that haven’s happened
in the past owing to the sagacious reticence of the
men who didn't do them, and has profited by the
want of information thus acquired- But, as a rule,
the viceroys of Australia have a little knowledge
and don’t know what to do with it, and trouble
has always resulted in consequence. We fear —
despite |Froude's eulegium—that Sir Henry
Norman belongs to this class. Froude, who
possesses the copyright of more valuable and pro-
fitable ignorance about Australia than any other
man living, asserts that he “ knows what can be
done,” and this evidently means that he intends
to do something which Froude didn’t stay long
enough in Australia to find to be impossible for
fear of being killed while nursuing his investiga-
tions. Possibly, when Queensland reaches for
Norman’s hair, he may acquire a better insight
into the pircumstanpesj.which are not likely to
come about, and as he retreats in a borrowed
canoe down the Brisbane river at midnight on the
day of the revolution it may dawn upon him that
his ideas about the restoration of “ the influence
of England ” were not quite so reliable as he
imagined, ij,nd then he may go home and slaughter
Mr. Froude— but speculations of this kind are
empty and unprofitable at the best. We will
await results.
Auld and Cauld,
The letter of the Rev John Auld, Moderator of
the Synod of the Presbyterian Church to the S.M.
Herald on the case of Lousia Collins, very
fairly represents the warped manner in which per-
sons who are unable to rid their minds of cant,
look at such question*. In the first place the
Rev. “Jock” declares his thorough agreement
with “ Dawvid ” Buchanan who had previously,
wi’ more vigour than good taste or discrimina-
tion, metaphorically declared his desire to have a
few drops of the blood of this miserable woman
sprinkled on his door-posts This preliminary
disposed of, Mr. Auld proceeds to state that
The case of the woman taken in adultery, oonsideiing
that the penalty was death by stoning, without trial, was
just such a case in which mercy might well plead to have
life spared. But the case of Lousia Collins is different.
So it is. Different, because there was no doubt
about “the woman’s’’guilt, some doubt about hers;
alike, because the penalty, in each case brutal and
publicly demoralising, was the law of the land, and
because many clamoured, then as now that “ the
law should be permitted to take its due course.”
Again, different, because the ‘' GoD-man ” who
adjudicated in the former instance dealt merci-
fully with the accused, declaring that only the
guiltless should throw the first st .ne ; while in
the latter Mr. John Auld, the presumably im-
maculate, who thus impudently steps into the
shoes of the lowly Galilean, is prepared to hurl, if
need be, a whole quarryful of missiles at the head
of an erring sinner. Then the cold-blooded Cal-
vinist spreads himself out and shrieks
Has it never occurred to t hose who urge the plea of
sparing her life, because “time may soften her heart,”
tnat the sparing of her life might, and in all probability
would, have quite the opposite effect ? 1 for one have far
more hope of the unhappy woman’s repantenoe woile the
death sentence hangs over her, and wnile tne prayers of
the Christian people are being offered up on her behalf,
than I would have it the prospect of; life were again
opened up to her.
Without proceeding to inquire as to whether a
repentance thai is only made certain, because
sudden death affords no opportunity of a relapse,
can really be sufficient for salvation, it stems in-
disputable that lime softens some people’s heads,
while very < ffectually hardening their hearts.
♦
Chinese and Wages
The Northern Miner (Q.) objects to Chinese on
moral, social, and intellectual grounds, bus not, as
the editor of that journal emphatically protests,
on “ the lower grounds that they compete with
white men and reduce wages.” A statement like
that is, to us, very much like an attempt to get up
an argumentative medley. It may be possible to
chop some logic about it, but “the lower
grounds ” will keep always there, and will, unless
ohe logic be chopped very small, cover the whole
area of practical discussion. The badness of the
Chinaman, socially and morally, is the outcome
of his low wages Pay Britons at the same rates,
and unless they rise and throttle their masters,
they will sink to the same level, socially and
morally, as Cninamen. As regards intellect, the
Chinese, as a race, are by no means objectionable.
Those Uhinamen whom we reject, are, it is true,
intellectually low, but that again is because they
have been so ground down by constant work and
siarvation pay that th c y have not had means of
knowing whether they have intellects or not.
Every point of difference between British and
Chinese workmen comes finally down to differences
in wages If Chinamen will to-morrow refuse to
work for less wages, man for man, than Britons,
and will refuse to work longer hours, the head and
front of the objection to their presence will dis-
appear. Sir Henry Parkes, when mounting the
popular wave in New South Wa’es, made much of
the ethnological difference between Chinese and
Britons, but his object in doingso was to bolster up
Foreign-trade. The only difference between work-
men is the different wages they are willing to tike
Where the same wages are insisted on ethnologi-
cal differences count for nothing. Where the men
of any country are satisfied to work at lower rates
than the ruling ones, they and the men who demand
the ruling rates are farther apart than ethnological
differences can put them If Germans and French-
men worked uniformly at lower than Australian
rates, the movement which has started the Chinese
back to China should go on till Frenchmen and
Germans were started back to France and Ger-
many. The Frenchman and German who demand
the same rate of wages as the Briton are, though
ethnologically foreign, closer brothers of his, in
his life-struggle, than are the British-born or Aus-
tralian-born blacklegs who are willing to take less
pay. Under the bond of equal pay, a sense of
equal rights, equal responsibilities, equal duties to
one another, is established, and, however great
the ethnological difference, this sense will unify
them and set them as brothers against hostile
attack. As an outcome of the Chinese not having
demanded full wages, they have been thrown out
of the wages market altogether, and have fallen
into nameless vices and degradations which,
had they been united with their sturdier
fellow-workers, they would have been saved from
But the vices and degradations spring from the
debasement of their condition. They flow from
the fact that neither in China nor Australia bad
they learned that labour has rights. Hence, they
were huddled into corners, and the more they
were huddled the more pestilential was their in-
fluence. So throughout the whole of the Northern
Miner’s medley the wages question is found to be
the bottom question, the "lower grounds” the
real grounds.
♦
loch’s Speech.
Herb followeth an extract from Governor Loch’s
valedictory speech to the moribund Victorian
Parliament:—
A happy accident gave the Legislative A'sembly an
occasion o( testifying its iwslty to the Crown whin it
supported the right of the Crown to appoint Governors cf
colonies on the advice of Her Majesty’s responsible Im-
perial advisers. The enthusiasm with which the news of
this debata was received in the House of Commons is a
significant proof that these communities were never more
closely linked or dearer to England than they are now,
when they are practically free to determine their own
destinies. ’
Such were the words put into Sir Henry Look’s
mouth by the ineloquent per verier of truth who
acts as literary gentleman to Duncan Gillies.
Had he compiled the speech with any regard for
facts it would read something after this style.
“ When the Queensland Government successfully
disputed the right of the Crown to inflict ex-
Policeman Blake upon the youngest and most
democratic of these communities, the Governments
of New South Wales and South Australia availed
themselves of the happy accident to endorse the
bold policy of their sister colony, and thus take an
important step towards Intercolonial Federation
Immediately upon an announcement that Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen would submit to the Victorian
Assembly, a resolution in harmony witn popular
opinion throughout Australia, the sworn adherents
of the old soldier who represents Her Majesty at
Melbourne took measures to work up a hollow, or
holler , display of ‘loyalty.’ Mr, (may I so far
anticipate as to say fiir) Duncan Gillies, Premier,
placed himself in communication with Mr. L. L.
Smith and other coalitionists on both sides of the
House, the result of these negotiations being an
almost unanmious burst of ‘God Save the Queen ’
when Sir Bryan O’Loghlbn's motion met with
that defeat which the indifference of Victorian
electors to the character of their Parliamentary
representatives had rendered certain The en-
thusiasm with which the news of this coup de
grovel was received in the House of Common* is a
significant proof that the English Tories had be-
come seriously alarmed at the attitude assumed
bv the rest of Australia, and that the Mother
Country congratulated herself upon the fact that
one, at least, of there communities has no apparent
desire to determine its own destinies The en-
thusiasm referred to was shared by Lady Loch
and myself.”
*
Too Much “ Party.”
It is a melancholy fact that whenever any subject
of large human interest comes to the surface in
New South Wales a number of professional poli-
ticians jump at it, not with the single purpose of
furthering what is good in the cause, but, as the
public are often tempted to judge, principally and
sometimes solely to aggrandise their own political
repute or damage the character of their Parlia-
mentary opponents What looks like an illustra-
tion of that fast was seen at the meeting held in
favour of the condemned woman, Collins, in
Sydney Town Hall on Thursday of last week By
its constitution the meeting took the outward
form of a party demonstration. The platform
was made to represent that solid phalanx of ex-
tremists who in Parliament oppose themselves
like a tap-rock ridge to each and every determina-
tion of the Ministry. This happened through
design, accident, or the superior humanity
of those who worked the meeting. Whatever the
cause the result was inj arious to the interests in
which the meeting had been called. Those in-
terests should have been regarded as paramount,
as the only ones, on the occasion. When men saw
that their presence on the platform would in
evitably confer a purely party character on the
proceedings they should have stayed away. The
question, as handled, struck many as being an
effort to reverse a decision come to by the Parked
Government, because it was such a decision, as
much as to have the death sentence of tin woman
commuted. As a consequence, the influence of
Government supporters was withheld. This was,
we say, in circumstances of such moment, a miser-
able struggle for a party triumph or as miserable
an exhibition of tactical inefficiency. Further re-
flection on the constitution of the meeting
tends to deepen distrust in the sincerity of its
appeal to have the woman saved. The chair-
man of the meeting was not popularly re
garded as a man who has put mercy, or even
justice, to criminals in front of every othfr con
sideration. When first the writer met Mr Dibbs
in political life that gentleman was at the head of
a big crowd which was on its way to Government
House to obtain from Lord Augustus Loetds,
the New South Wales Governor of the day, a
commutation of the death-sentence passed on a
couple of youths whom a Parkes Ministry had
decided to hang. When the Mount Rennie
youths lay waiting for the gallows, Mr. Dibbs'
position was consolidated among the advocates of
hanging by paragraphs—mark you, we do not for
an instant say that Mr. Dibbs was in any way re-
sponsible for those paragraph - in certain daily
papers intimating that Mr, Dibbs, who was about to
resign, would not retire from office until the scaffold
had claimed its prey. To the present day, Mr. Dibbs
has not repudiated these paragraphs, or denied
that he was one of the most active factors in the
then Cabinet for the enforcement of the extreme
penalty—on alleged criminals whose trial was a
disgraceful farce. In that case, we say, the public
character of the c:lony was more deeply tarnished
than in > he case of Louisa Collins. Then, however,
Sir Henry Parkes was in Opposition, or ia effect
so, and Mr. Dibbs was in the Government. Doss
any country in Christendom afford a more
deplorable spectacle of the apparent prostitution
of every claim to the exigencies of party
than that afforded by the contrast of Parkes
and Dibbs then and now ? Parkes, the opponent
of the Government, was then the man of mercy,
the man who saw that public duty demanded that
the letter of the law should be set aside and the
criminals be spared, and Dibbs, in the Govern-
ment, wjs then the man of inflexibility who said
that the hv should be upheld and the lives sacri
ficei. Nov, the opposite games are played ! Is
not this theatricality ? Is it not the conduct of
hard-cheeked cheapjohns? Bat there were other
things that damaged the influence of the meeting.
Mr. Melville is reported to have argued that
“ mercy could be granted on the ground of doubt,
if on no other.” Now, what did this mean ? If
doubt existed, as he held it existed, mercy was
not what should be pleaded for ; justice should
have been demanded. We don’t care to dwell
longer on the faults of those who gave the meeting
of Thursday a party complexion, but deplorable
as their action was the inaction of these who
stood apart, because of party feeling, was, in our
mind, more deplorable still. These latter declined
to extend a hand to help what we choose to regard
as the cause of enlightenment and civilisation, as
by doing so they might confer prestige on their
political opponents. It is vain to look for true-
heartedness, not to talk of noble-mindedness, in
the public life of New South Wales while the
spirits of opposing parties are thus jealous, ran-
corous, and mutually malevolent.
♦
At the foot of an “ad.” emanating from the Pro-
tection and Political Reform League of New
South Wales appears a sentence which states that
“Mr. B R Wise’s Freetrade letter in Tele-
graph of the 21st December, appears to have been
written for the purpose cf drawing a herring
across the track, in the same desperate manner as
drowning men grasp at a straw.” This is as
beautifully Hibernian as Boyle Roche’s famous
utterance—“l smell a rat, Mr. Speaker, I see it
floating in the air ; but I will nip it in the bud.”
That an imported red herring should juggle with
straws in order to escape the octopus-like grip of
a drowning Foreign-trader is nob one whit more
astonishing than that illogical and illiterate per-
sons shcijld eternally thrust themselves into public
n' lice as champions of a cause which their ill-ad
vised support is calculated to damn.
From 1752 to 1832 the English House of Commons
sought to commute the punishment of death in
certain cases to imprisonment with hard labour,
but right along the whole period the House of
Lords resisted the movement and cast out the
Bills, on the ground that they were “ innoya-
tions.” Sir William Meredith, Fox, Burke,
and most of those who left brilliant names behind
them, worked for commutation, but so solid was
the opposition of the representatives of brainless
wealth that their work was vain. In 1784, 51
persons were hanged in London, in 1785 97, and
still the advocates for hanging resented bitterly
any proposal to alter the law. When one nowadays
reads the arguments of these participators in the
national crime cf killing, one feels oneself in the
presence of exactly the same kind of mental and
moral force as is revealed in the pro hanging
articles cf the Argus, SM. Herald, and the
“religious” press, headed by that miserable organ
of Sunday-clothes piety, the Melbourne Daily
Telegraph.
The New South Wales Prison Commission report
that the lowest-time ration of the present prison-
scale is insufficient for sustaining strength and for
the performance of labour, and that it would not
appear that the very low ration which provided
only half-a-pound of meat weekly has had, judg-
ing from the continuance of re-convictions of the
class of petty offenders to whom it was allotted,
the deterrent effect contemplated. The Commis-
sion also report that —
The practice of allowing prisoners awaiting trial, and
prisoners sentenced to imprisonment only, to provide
their own food, as permitted by the present regulations,
should be discontinued, and a'l rations for each prisoner
be supplied by the establishment, according to our pro-
posed scale.
In other words, debtors will in future, should the
commission’s suggestions be adopted, have to live
on prison-fare and they will be debarred from re-
ceiving any food which may be sent them by their
friends. Also, an accused (bub not necessarily
guilty) man who has been refused bail cr cmnot
find bail-security will, prior to his trial, be treated
in the matter of food like a convicted criminal
Truly a Botany Bay reform ! The Oommisnon’s
proposal, before it is carried into < ffect, will have
to be ratified by Parliament, and surely Parlia-
ment will not sanction a retrogressive scheme
which is a direct infringement of liberty and looks
very much like a mere attempt to save officials a
certain amount of trouble.
♦
According to a cablegram lately published, “ the
Pall Mall Gazette objects to the surrender of
haP-a million miles of country in West Australia
to 40,000 people.” It is very good of the Pall
Mall to take an interest in the matter, and no
doubt we should be pleased to learn that that
journal is keeping its eye upon this Continent.
But, all the same, we would be glad to know what
in the whole earth the Pall Mall has got to do
with the matter. It doesn’t own West Australia,
and, consequently, it doesn’t surrender anything.
England doesn’t own West Australia, either.
All it possesses in that colony is a certain privi-
lege by which it is able to prevent the people go-
verning themselves, but as its authority does not
go much beyond this it has only a vested right to
keep things in a hideous muddle without being able
to put them straight. England surrenders this
right because things are getting so sultry that if
it doesn’t knock under something will shortly
happen, and under these circumstances the
Gazette has no cause to get into a perspiration.
And while we are on this subject we may mention
that we object to the “surrender” of the Pall
Mall to its present proprietor. We don’t know
who he i« and we never saw him, but we
have exactly the same claim on the Pall
Mall that England has on West Australia
—namely, the right of discovery—and we are as
good at objecting as anybody. Bng’and, in com-
mon with a score of othtr countries, discovered
Australia when it belonged to someone else, and
we discovered the Pall Mall— the copy we found
on top of an ash heap—under similar circum-
stances There is a lot of logic in this view of the
subject if it is looked at properly.


Over 18,000 bushels of rice were grown in
Queensland in 1887.
Edward G. Millard, author of the “ Pet
of the Prairies," a bush poem (to be found in
Sladen’s “ Century of Australian Poetry ”) blew
out bis brains recently at Nnrandorn (NSW)
Unlosfl certain officers of the Australian
military forces give whisky a rest and take to
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine they won’t have much
backbone by the time the enemy comes.
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, Mf. MAT LARDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Aooount Book Manufacturer, &0., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List of Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Card*
and Panoy Oooda. InapeoMnn Invited
[?]
84h Maequarie-street North, Sydney, Jan. 9tb, 1889.
Dear Mooeabinda,—-
11 hear that a quite important female member, or vulgar
fraction, of Melbourne’s bon ton always speaks of her
unfortunate help as “my message woman.” A real Irish
brogue converts “message” into “maseage,” so bon ton
labours under a ildioulous impression that the help is a
medical rubber engaged to keep her employer’s liver in
good working order. The obliging lady, I hear, rather
affronted Mrs. by saying, “If you want a massage
done, my dear, jou can always have the loan of my
woman.” Mrs. , who concluded that her fair friend
was mispronouncing a French term as usual, replied that
she was enjoying the best of health, thank you. Two
gentlemen visitors discreetly scrutinised the pattern of
the “ droreing ’’-room carpet meanwhile.
Talking of Melbourne sassiety, it was genuinely dis
tressed to hear of the death of Mrs. Donald Wallace,
which occurred last Wednesday. Nobody expected such
an event, nor was his wife’s condition sufficiently alarm-
ing to keep Mr. Wallace from attending Flemington
races on New Year’s Day. But there came a sudden
change for the worse, and the poor lady was summoned
away ere she had touched the “thirties.” It is not two
months since pretty Mrs. Donald’s blue eyes sparkled
with delight at Mentor’s victory for the Melbourne Cup.
She had a sunshiny presence, and the racing world
(which judges women by “ points ” as it judges horses)
always considered her the belle of Flemington Lawn. Of
course you know that Mr. Wallace wooed and won his
bride in Queensland.
Speaking, last week, of Sir Julius Vogel being proof
against the blandishments of Mrs. Gordon Baillie (may
her oakum pick easily!), I forgot to mention that our
own Sir “Jack” Robertson’s aged heart was equally in-
vulnerable. The bold knight told Mrs. G.B. that she was
“ a humbug”—and meant it. As a rule, when men call
us humbugs they only want us to threaten to pinch them
hard if they dare to say such a thing again.
I felt inclined to weep when Clara, who always seems to
get secret advices about the umbrella-trade “at home,”
told me that very short-handled parasols will take the
place of husband-beaters next season. Evidently, the tall
hat must disappear from cur midst along with the
beloved “beater,” or else women will have to carry their
head-gear in their hands, as English rustics often carry
their boots, when they go walking.
I notice that the everlasting American reporter has
been interviewing Nellie Farren. He describes her face
as “ not maddening beautiful, but piquant and chic to
the last degree,” and looking “about ”26 years of age.
“ About ” is very kind indeed.
Besides the theatres there are few public amusements
in Sydney at present. The dresses of Miss Kate Bishop
and Miss Emily Fifzroy in “Youth" are almost as in-
teresting to many a girl among the spectators as the
piece itself. The former, in her first costume of blue-
green plush over white corded silk, green bonnet, and
long white gloves and sunshade, looks peifectly lovely,
and no less so in a second one tf pale buttercup-yellow,
and yet a later ball-dress of similar hue, the latter having
a long trail of yellow roses acre si the front. Miss Filzroy
looks very charming in her long train of Nile-green silk
and in her ball-dress of pale pink. In the dress-circles of
the theatres white has been the favourite colour during
the week.
On Saturday there was a smaller display of red by the
hutteiflies of the Block, and at the various pleasure re-
sorts, and a great deal more blue, white, and pink.
Blouses are now the only wear for children, and those
In Indian muslin with smocked yokes are the prettiest
things possible. Bows, with floating streamers, are
much worn at the back of hats.
Although the grievances of governesses are a worn-out
theme, I cannot help telling you that an accomplished
acquaintance of mine who had answered an adveitise-
raent from a lady in the country who wanted a governess,
was much disgusted at being offered £25 a year to go
into the interior of Queensland—far beyond Rockhamp-
ton 1 And then, save by special agreement, an employer
is not bound to pay his governess’s expenses both ways,
and if she does not stay full 12 months he very rarely will
do so. It is to be hoped that shorthand and type-writing
will come to the rescue of numberless poor drudges of
teachers who now have to take what they get and be
thankful.
Just to prove the tenacity of purpose possessed by the
majority of our sex, I must let you know how that letter
of Marmaduke Brown’s was discovered. His wife told me
all about it, but of course you will not mention the cir-
cumstances to any one. Mrs. Brown thought she had
reason to feel jealous, and determined to set her doubts
at rest, so watched her opportunity.
After tea, the other evening, Brown produced an im-
mense package of circulars. These, he told her, were
most tremendously confidential communications, to be
enclosed in envelopes and addressed to Muldoon's town
and country clients. “Of course, dear,” said
Brown, “it will take me a long time to get
through this lot, so don’t wait for me. Go to
bed early, you look tired.” She went to bed soon
after, but bad not the slightest idea of going to sleep—
never felt so thoroughly awake in all her life. From her
room she oould only see part of the wall of the sitting-
room, where he was engaged writing. (This piece of wall
forms the brickwork of the domestic drama.) She could
not see her husband, but heard the pen travelling at a
furious rate for an hour or so. All at onoe she noticed a
change in the sound of the writing. She knew he had
finished addressing the envelopes, and was writing
Uie letter she wished to vet possession of, Pre-
gently he brought a light into the room and stood
looking at his sleeping wife tot a while. Apparently
satisfied that she was sound asleep he walked softly back
to the sitting-room. Unluckily for himself he placed the
o-.hdle in such a pc sition near the lamp that his shadow
was clearly defined on the wall and could easily be seen
by the exultant watoher in the next room. She saw him
gather up the envelopes containing Muldoon’s circulars
and make a big pile of them on the table. Then he took
up the letter, wrapped some circulars round it before
placing it in an envelope, atd finally put it very carefully
in his left breast pocket. This dot e, the shadow retired
from the wall, and the substance, Brown, took possession
of a spare bed in his' wife’s room. Before retiring, he
spread the coat containing the love-letter on the quilt, just
about where his feet would locate, put the rest of his
apparel on top of that, finishing off with a heavy overcoat.
End of the first act. Suspense. Half-an-honr elapses
between the acts. Midnight. Mrs. B. waits till several
silvqry fnores are wafted on the silent air (“He sleeps,
my traitor sleeps quietly slips out of bed in the pale
moonlight, and essays the task of getting that document
into her own hands. After an awful amount of manoeuvr-
ing, she succeeds in gettirg the coa*, extracting the
letter and replacing circulars and envelope in his pocket.
The problem now was how to get the coat and other
clothes hack in their original position on the bed. Happy
thought! she would bring a spare blanket to the rescue.
As she expected. Brown woke up just as she had all tne
apparel ranged in proper order again. “What are you
doing ?” he asked. “ Only putting another blanket on
y our bed, dear. The night is much colder now,” she
replied., .
Only half-satisfied, Brown tried to go to sleep again,
but could not succeed. After a while he addressed his
wife again. “My dear, would you light the lamp? I
think I’ll have a look at the paper.” “My dear ” did as
requested and brought part of the Herald. “ I don’t
want th ! s. Bring me The Bulletin.” The paper was
on the dressing-table, and as she walked up the room she
could see him (in the looking-glass) stretch his hand
down to ascertain if that precious letter was safe.
That was all he wanted the light for. Convinced that all
was safe, he fell asleep again and did not wake till morn-
ing. By that time Mrs. B. bad read the letter several
times. It was worth all the trouble she had to get it, and
was written to a six-foot creature with a North of Ireland
brogue. Brown's face was a study the next morning
J. R. ASHTON,
PRESIDENT OF THE ART SOCIETY, SYDNEY.
when he discovered the envelope he was about to post
contained nothing but circulars.
Yes, dear, the bustle is doomed. I notice that Mr.
Topsy-Turvy (filbert recently said : “ I abhor bustles, im-
provers, tight-lacing, and all such abominations, and
think that woman’s dress should fall in natural folds to
the figure. The heroine of my new play is an unconven-
tional young lady, and in designing the costumes which
she wears I have endeavoured to contrive dresses as such
a person as my chief character is would be likely to
choose.”
The adorable being who proposes to un-Smith me some
day at the hymeneal altar, has, I perceive, just learnt
that wide pantaloons have come into fashion in England
again. If your “ future ” is a lank dude like mine, he
will be glad to hear it. So just let him know if he doesn’t
know already.
Have you seen this, in the Evening News?— •
TITATRIMONIAL.—The attention of those who wish
-L'-*- to find suitable partners is respectfully directed
to Matrimonial Register, personally conducted by Mr.
, late London Matrimonial Gazette. Strictest
seoreoy observed. Post free 13 stamps. Box ,
G.P.O. Department of Railways, Sjdney, 20th De-
cember, 1888.
I feel quite excitedly curious about this item. Can it
really be true that Mr. Eddy, the new Commissioner for
Railways at Sydney, is projecting a line to Matrimony ?
From Fiji oomes to me the following “ I must tell
you my little story to prove the ’ighth and ’autiness of
our aristocracy. At our late Agricultural and Industrial
Show lately held in S , a lady exhibited a cake made
of dessioated rumalas (sweet potatoes) wbioh attracted a
good deal of attention, especially that of His Excellency.
One of our ' leaders of fashion,’ on being asked what she
thought of it, replied : ‘ Think of it 1 What do you think
my people at ’ome would do with it if it came on their
table ? Why ! they would spit on it, so they would !”
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Gathering of Ghouls.
Louisa Collins has been finally wiped out, and
the parsonical multitude which howled for her
blood now congratulates itself on her end, and
opines that, though she was not good enough for
earth, she may have been quite satisfactory
material to be pitchforked into heaven. The
“ sensation ” for which the Sydney newspaper
man pines was duly supplied, and the evening
papers came out with a solid average of eight
columns of horror apiece, and a couple of disgust-
ingly-smudged portraits thrown in. The whole
miserable story is dished up afresh to be piled on
the dead woman’s grave ; and the News, with its
customary hideous taste, adds on one or two grue-
some anecdotes, tending to show that Mrs. Col-
lins amused her leisure hours by poisoning her
own infant and the infant next door, and by try-
ing chemical experiments on her lodgers. The
dismal narrative is further lightened by the tale
of a totally-unnecessary Chinaman who, at some
far-off date, died from opium-poisoning in the
house which was afterwards occupied by the
doomed Andrews, and, hail time and space per-
mitted, the enterprising journalist would probably
have travelled back into Australian anti-
quity and rounded off his tale by a dark-
some catalogue of the black cannibals who
once clubbed their gins on the shores of
Botany, and the black infants who were impaled
on spears in what was afterwards Michael I’eteli
Collins’ back yard. Finally, when the tale rf
horror began to grow thin the following slab of
fine writing about scenery and other things was
inserted as light reading for the sons and daughters
of moral Australia :
Since the sensational proceedings the local gossips have
re-named the spot, which now, in its own particular
vicinity at all events, is referred to and spoken of as
Arsenic Flat, the title being doubtless suggested by the
fact that arsenical poisoning was the known cause of the
death of Louisa Collins’ victims. The residence is one
of two semi detached weatherboard cottages on the It fo
hand side of the main road from Sydney, and externally
has a comfortable appearance, despite the scattered and
desolate surroundings. About a mile from the Sir Joseph
Banks Hotel, Botany, on the same road, is a small bridge
crossing a dismal swamp, and a few yards further along
the house stands by the roadside. Amos’s Pier Hotel, at
which Mrs. Collins obtained intoxicating drink fre-
quently,. is three doors off. By daylight, no fault could
be found with the situation, except, perhaps, its loneli-
ness ; but, viewed at a late hour of the night as it was by
our reporters, a mere fitting scene for the accomplishment
of a tragic act could scarcely be imagined. In front of,
and separated from the house by only the road, a split-
rail fence, and a few feet of scrub, the waters of the bay
were idly washing the sandy shore, and the continual i ip-
pling and gurgling of the rollers washing in from the broad
Pacific made the place more lonely and the scene more
gruesome by this break in the stillness. Scarcely a
breath of wind was stirring, but what little breeze was
moving sent a plaintive murmur through the leaves and
branches of the adjacent scrub, which stood out in pro-
minent relief to the glare of fires in the rear of the cot-
tage. Further away still from Botany proper are the
brickyards with the numerous waterholes, in one of
which, it will be remembered, the murderess threatened
to end her life just previous to her arrest. All around,
but widely scattered, are numerous cottages, mostly in-
habited by fellmongers and wool washers, and the occa-
sional glare of a light from one of these cottages, reflected
upon the whits walls of others, added to the ghastly ap-
pearance of the scene. It was in one of these scattered
tenements that Collins mot his cruel death.
The Star, with its ten columns of incoherent
misery, goes one better than even this gruesome
record. The Spar’s horror-monger evidently
lacked that taste for the picturesque which marked
the rival ghoul-hunter, but what he lacked in this
respect was more than made up by the copiousness
of his antiquarian research. Not content with
spreading himself on the life and death of Louisa
Collins this seeker after truth revels in the his-
tory of hanging in general from the age of
Haman to the present era. Hanging in the stone
and bronze period of its earliest development,
banging in the coarse, unhangmanlike manner of
the Dark Ages, strangulation as influenced by ad-
vancing civilisation, and finally slaughter as a
fine art-all are dealt with in detail, and
an occasional side glance at the axe and
block, the guillotine, burnings, dissections, dis-
embowelments, stoning, crucifixion, breaking on
the wheel, flogging to death, and other cheerful
subjects tend somewhat to relieve the damnable
iteration of too much gallows. Poor Louisa
Collins. She probably did a lot of barm while
she was alive, but the sermon which the evening
press has presched over her remains is ten times
worse for the moral sense of the community than
all her crimes, whatever they may have been.
Julian R. Ashton.
In this issue we give a portrait of Mr. Julian R.
Ashton, who has for many years occupied a fore-
most position in Art circles in the Australias, and
is now President of the N S.W. Art Society, and
a trustee of the N.S.W. National Gallery. Mr.
Ashton was born at Penzance, Cornwall, England
on January 2D oh, 1851, and losing his father when
he was 15 years of age, he was placed by his
mother in the Engineer’s office of the Great
Eastern Railway. Here he remained for
six years and devoted his entire leisure to
painting at South Kensington. He had by
this time become so imbued with a love of art
that he detei mined to follow it as a profession,
went to Paris, and after studying there for some
time began to draw for illustrated books and then
to paint. He achieved considerable success as a
painter, exhibiting in most of the exhibitions; in-
cluding the Royal Academy. He came out to
Melbourne in 1878, and after a residence in the
Southern metropolis for five years removed to
Sydney where he has resided ever since, and now
worthily fills the highest artistic position in New
South Wales.
Denmark is the champion suicide country;
Two hundred and eighty Danes in every million
die yearly by their own hands. Hamlet, therefore;
was not the only “ melancholy Dane.”
Some hysterical women in London are
endeavouring to raise money for a publib memorial
to the Whitechapel victims. Faugh ! “ Sacred
to the memory of Long Sal.” “In loving memory
of Fat Mag.” “ Hie Jacet Doll Tearsheet.
Erected by her sorrowing fellow countrywomen. ’
Bah ! and likewise ugh ! Has Danyellism spread
to England ?
No. 36 of the Picturesque Atlas of
Australasia, Just issued, is in many respects the
most interesting number of the series. It deals
exclusively with “ Insular Australasia,” under
which head are included New Guinea, Fiji, the
New Hebrides, and New Britain. The principal
illustrations, “ Mail Steamer leaving Auckland,”
“ Port Moresby,” “ Levuka,” are quite in Mr.
Schell’s best style, and some spirited pictures of
island life are from the pencil of Mr. R. Atkin-
son, a young artist who has made a name for him-
self in New Zealand.
A very fitting memento of the centennial
year of Australia is a handsome work, “ Victoria
and its Metropolis, Past and Present,” by Alex-
ander Sutherland; M.A., a copy of which in two
tastefully-bound volumes has just been forwarded
to us by the publishers, McCarron, Bird and Co,,
of Melbourne. The work contains over 1000
pages, and is profusely illustrated in a style that
has seldom been equalled in these colonies. The
first volume is purely historical, and is written in
a graceful, readable style, while much careful
research is manifest in the corroboration of the
facts. The second volume is largely devoted to
biographical notices of residents in the colony.
The printing of this elegant work leaves no room
for criticism and the binding is superb.
The bungle made in carrying out the exe-
cution of Louisa Collins is an insult to the most
cherished traditions of our first families, and an
act of sacrilege against the memory of the proud
pre-eminence occupied by old Botany Bay in the
noble art of hangmanship. They stood her on the
scaffold, but on this occasion also the great six-
barrelled Freetrade gallows refused to work (they
can’t even run a good gallows under Foreign-
trade) and so Nosey Bob and his new assistant
had to drive the bolt back with a hammer —an
operation which occupied about a minute and a-
half. When the drop did fall, the p rk nearly pulled
the woman’s head off. The sheriff’s c fficial report
states that the execution was “ fairly successful.”
“Fairly successful” is excellent. Had her head
come off altogether it would have been a “com-
plete success.”
Bill Pain, of the Royal Hotel, Gtndagai,
relates an incident of the execution of Mrs.
Brownlow, at Goulburn, 30 years ago - the execu-
tion at which the condemned woman suckled her
child on the steps of the scaffold. Mrs, Brown-
low had the sympathy of all the countryside. Her
husband had not been true to her, and the killed
him in a fib of ungovernable jealouty. It was
generally believed that she would be reprieved,
and one day, when Pain was at Campbelltown
with the mail-coach, an official document ad-
dressed to the sheriff was placed in his hands.
The news got about that this was the expected re-
prieve, and there were great rejoicings amongst
the townspeople. Bill’s heart was full at the
good news he was to take to Goulburn, and he sent
the horses over the road at such a pace that the
journey was accomplished in the quickest time on
record. “A reprieve I a reprieve !” was shouted.
But, no! The administrators of the law of
N.S.W., ever heartless and unmerciful, ever
shackled by the fetters of grisly precedent, ever
out of step with the march of civilisation, had
sent up a death-warrant instead of a reprieve.
On Saturday night last a debate took
place in the Protestant Hall, Sydney, between
Mr Rose, the Protectionist lecturer, and Mr.
Foxall, the President of the N.S.W. Land
Nationalisation League, when the former affirmed
and the latter denied, “ That a policy of Protection
is more likely to increase and maintain a high rate
of wages than land nationalisation, with its
natural corollary, Freetrade.” Why such a
peculiar question should have been selected for
debate is best known to those Freetraders who,
seeing that they are losing ground, are endea-
vouring to enroll the growing “land-tax” party
under their banner. That Protection can be
widely beneficial while the lands of the country
are closed to the workers is not evident; while
that Land Nationalisation will benefit all, if our
ports are thrown open to slave grown grain, im-
ported shoddy, and cheap-labour machinery, is
not likely. The Protectionist champion, who is a
practised debater, had the best of the debate so
far as the making of points was concerned, but he
altogether failed to show that Freetrade is the
natural corollary of Land Nationalisation ; while
Mr. Foxall, who has George at his fingers’ ends,
as signally failed to show the antagonism between
Protection and the “ single tax,” or that the latter
would accomplish all he claimed tor it.


A Sleive Tonic
horsford's acid phosphate.
■Dr. James Black, L.R.C.S., Primroaa Hill, Cockburns-
path, Scotland, aaya: “As a nerve tonic 1 know nothin*
like it. it srivee me trreat satisfaction."
Q AIBTY THEATRE.
This and Every Evening.
Mr. Frank Lincoln Mr. Frank Lincoln
Mr, Frank Lincoln
Mr. Frank Lincoln Mr. Frank Lincoln
“ A whole show, boiled down.”—Stab.
Prices : 5s , 4s, 3s. & li. Box Plan ab Nicholson’s.
L. T. LOHR, Manager.
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer, strentothener,
and curative on earth—Dr. Soule’s American Hop'Ktbers.”
“ Kidney and urinary trouble u universal, and the only
safe and sure remedy is Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters—rely on it."
£JOOGEE
PALACE AQUARIUM.
Mobs Stab Abtists !
SATURDAY NEXT ! IS* <ST SATURDAY NEXT !
At 4 o’clock, on the Stage.
The Wonders of a Century ! Supernatural and
Physiological Marvels !
T
II
E
DONALDSON
T
H
E
BROTHERS !
Demon Contortionists,
N.B.— Leon Donaldson positively without moving his
feet turns his entire body and faces the opp:site direction.
The Medical Faculty Dumbfoundercd I
MT Wait for Coogee Trams to the Doors.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’a Sxow- whits
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality le exceptionally good and the price very low
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Hands Across the Sea ”p. 14,
Her Majesty’s.— “ Youth”
Criterion.— “ Hans the Boatman ” „
Haymarket Music Hall —Harry Rickards „
Gaiety Theatre. —Frank Lincoln
Mr. Charles Arnold gazas firmly in the
eye of the upright citizen at Sydney Criterion,
and “Hans the Boatman” is having a dizzy
time. This hatless but sympathetic dweller
in tents has a tendency to grow upon you con-
siderably on an extended acquaintance, but he is
startling at first because the simple, yet reason-
ably clean child of Nature does not grow in Aus-
tralia. The pilgrim who has struggled through
the dead waste of existence under the gladsome
Southern Gross is practical and flab footed, rather
than dreamy and soulful; he does not babble
in poetic strains about the lakes, and the
mountains, and the wide, blue, treacherous,
uncertain, joyous sea, neither does he waste his
affections upon any other of the leading features
of Nature —not if he knows it. To him the far-
stretching wilderness is a dashed brickfield that
he has got to get across somehow before he can
get to the adjective public-house, and, thanks to
this habit of thought, he regards Hans at first
sight as some kind of amiable but disintegrated
lunatic, and believes that his real object in life is
to sell his dog at a high price. Also, he suspects
him of having stolen the animal. After awhile,
however, the pathos of the situation begins to
grow upon him, and finally he feels that he must
go out and butt a policeman or else make some
poetry about the wattle, failing which he will
perish from suppressed emotion. Mr. Arnold,
it may here be mentioned, is from the rising
grounds of Switzerland or some other uneven spot
on the map of Europe, and his broken German-
English is consequently all his own. He was the
original Tony Faust of “My Sweetheart,” and for
several years Minnie Palmer used to coax him
nightly to put his arms round her waist and state
that she was “real nice.” The one awful misery
of John Rogers’ existence in these days was the
dread that Mr. Arnold might die or be embezzled
or bitten by a dog or something, and that his
unique part might have to be filled by a red-
headed man whose feet turned outwards and
whose hair stood up as if it had been gummed,
and accordingly he engaged Mr. Roberts to be a
duplicate Tony when required, and gave him
strict instructions to keep his tongue bang-
ing out till he caught the accent. These
orders were duly attended to and Roberts
tracked Arnold wherever he went, except when
Arnold suddenly faced round and tracked Roberts;
and, finally, the two men grew so much alike that
they were bailed up by hotelkeepers and others,
and compelled to pay for each other’s drinks. The
part of Tony was created by Mr. Arnold, but that
gentleman’s double struck Australia first and
looked so exactly like the other man that the two
will probably be remembered in these parts simply
as the man with the dog and the man who wasn’t
supplied with that animal. Such is fame. These
reflections make us feel tired.
♦# * *
We have no further public observations to
offer at present concerning “ Youth ” and “ Hands
Across the Sea.” Both attract crowded audiences
every night, and under these circumstances our
humble curse upon their dire stupidity will be
withheld until it can make itself heard above the
din. Some day, possibly, we may find the author
of these twin dramas lying asleep, and then he
will be awakened by cur dog biting a large hunk
out of him. But for the present our revenge can
wait,
## # #
On Saturday evening Mr. Martin Simon-
sen’s company opens at Sydney Opera House
with “II Trovatore,” the “ Bohemian Girl ”
to follow on Wednesday. A powerful stack
of talent will be on hand to support these
and other productions, but still we fear that
the company has a rather large row to hoe.
A good many people have got tired of the
Opera House since the vice-regal patronage be-
came scarce; a good many more have grown
weary of the “Bohemian Girl,” and another lot
are too exhausted to pretend to understand
Italian any longer. These three circumstances
are a heavy handicap.
Mr. Frank Lincoln Is putting in another
week at Sydney Gaiety, and any Cornstalk who
wants one night of unutterable mirth to look back
upon in future years ought to make an intelligible
note of this circumstance. Harry Rickards has
reached his eighth week at the Haymarket; he is
still alive. A large importation of donkeys, to be
used for riding purposes on the beach, has arrived
at Coogee Aquarium, and the mysterious person who
is perpetually advertising for a missing brother
would do well to go out and see if the lost relative
is there. Mr. Aginton, the champion skating-man,
is also at the Aquarium, bub he keeps himself
aloof from the new arrivals, and maintains an
attitude of reticence The series of Wednesday
evening promenade concerts at the Crystal
Palace, York-street, are fast becoming a favourite
institution, and, to a certain extent, the gloom
which so long overshadowed the amusements of
Sydney is beginning to lift.
** * #
A horrid suspicion that “ Sinbad the
Sailor ” would take root and flourish at Melbourne
Royal, has now deepened into a dead cert., under
which circumstances there is nothing left for the
wounded spirit save the hollow consolation of an
abortive protest against what must be. The
gilded splendour of “ Sinbad ” appears to have
been laid on extra thick with a view to preserving
its glitter against the ravages of time, and in re-
spect to bounding fairies and other supernumerary
foims divine, this spectacle gathers grace as it
goes aLng. Miss Mary Weir, a promising
nymph premiere dances some of Letty Lind’s steps
with a little of Sylvia Grey’s style, in fact
the whole pantomime js built up with reminis-
cences of the late Gaiety boom, interspersed with
clever trap door business and sundry topical songs,
which are indelible stains upon the weak imagina-
tion of whoever wrote them. It is understood
that several brains united in this gruesome task.
Many inane pantomime precedents, however,
have been departed from on the present occasion.
The Triumvirate are guiltless of any particular
designs on the infant population (probably because
the young idea hasn’t any money to invest in
seats), and the harlequinade is » othing but a
silent advertising medium ex bet ding over a brief
15 minutes. Ib is a decent piece of dumb show,
as far as ib gof s, bub when a clown won’t inquire
“How are you tomorrow week the time has
arrived for that ancient institution to be abolished
and swept away with the ripple of joyous laughter
he no longer provokes. As a fond father itself
The Bulletin beseeches Johnnie Gourlay to re-
mark “ Here we are again !” just once, for the
sake of auld lang syne.
*# # #
Away at the Princess’ a number of hunts-
men are still invading Squire Bantam’s premises
at an hour which ought to be the middle of the
night, with a view to sounding the horn so gay.
In other respects “ Dorothy ” remains about the
same as it always was except that some of the
original company got more out of their parts than
some of the present company, and the present
company are generally preferred in consequence
of their undoubted falling off. At the Princess’
there is a young creature whose seeming mission
in life is to faintly suggest how Essie Jenyns
might have looked in comic opera. The
young thing has also adopted a warble of
a deep, rumbling, family-vault character, which
may be intended to show how Miss Jenyns could
sing if she felt so indisposed. Miss Dampier’s
sad and weary baritone likewise keeps green the
memory of “Another” in the “World against
Her,” and that dyspeptic drama is dragging its
weight of woe through a tenth successive week at
the Alexandra, with every prospect of holding on.
## # #
“ The Private Secretary ” fills Melbourne
Bijou with howls of joy unconstrained. The
reverend gentleman is in imminent peril of murder
and sudden death at the hands of Uncle Har-
wood, whose efforts to chuck the shepherd off his
mortal coil call for police intervention. Mr.
Simonsen closed an ill-appreciated season at the
Opera House with a benefit on Saturday night.
Madame Simonsen gave an expansive rendering
of the name part in a scratch performance of
“ Maribana.” Sir ’Enry Parkes and Dan. O’Oon-
nor looked on at the fray.
** # #
CRher Melbourne shows are well aa could
be expected, including the poor old Exhibition,
which is get Ding quite lively in its declining days.
The fury of the elements prevented Sebastopol
from being taken very often last week, but Pain’s
army renewed operations on Saturday, when
another glorious victory resulted.
** # *
Miss Ethel Grey’s dramatic and comedy
company, at latest advices, was still pointing
towards the wild and rowdy West. It swamped
Cobar at Christmas time, and during that larky
though somewhat imbecile season when S. Claus
is supposed to get down chimneys and perpetrate
other ghastly improbabilities, it got on the blind
side of the inhabitants and took all their coin
away. It next struck Nymagee, a place without
any population, situate 441 miles from anywhere,
and made a pile out of the absent inhabitants,
and it now rdosts in the dusty steppes of Bourke.
Miss Ethel Grey has, meanwhile, undermined the
reason of a widespread district, and her represen-
tations of Sophie in “ Pink Daminces,” Moya in
tha well-worn “ Shaughraun,” Mary Melrose in
“Oar Boys,’ and various other things have led
to much incoherence in the bullock-driving press.
** # *
That delicate flower, Harr Bandtnann,
has returned to New York, after playing “Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde ” in London until the trea-
sury became a hollow sepulchre, and the British
public began to bint ominously at dead cats. He
is now employed in explaining to the American
public how it all came about. According to his
story, Henry Irving and a number of other
English stars who were interested in a rival pro-
duction of the tame piece, paraded the front of
bis theatre with clubs and pistols and drove away
the admiring crowds who wanted to pay their last
cent rather than not see Bandmann. This all
looks so hideously probable that it is a wonder we
did not think of it before.
** * *
Emelie Melville left for London by the
Orient. Signor Verdi was also on the list of
passengers.
#* ♦ *
W. S. Gilbert says he would abolish tights
on the stage if they were only worn to enhance
the attractions of a leg. “A R isalind,” said the
playwright, “may wear decent tights, but they are
necessary for the part. But what I object to are
the rows of ladies’ tight-clothed legs, which are
merely worn, in my opinion, to gratify the eyes of
the young gentlemen in the stalls. In the old
days, when 1 wrote burlesques, I was glad enough
to get my pieces produced; but, having no
authority, I had no choice in the matter. When
I came into power I was told that burlesques
without legs meant ruin. As I have told you, I
consider our Savoy pieces burlesques ; was 1 right
or wrong ? ”
Miss Nellie Farren confesses to 40 years,
but Madame Clara Sffiumann, the world-re-
nowned pianist, has just been keeping the sixtieth
anniversary of her first public performance.
** * *
Mrs. Beecher Stowe’s authorised bio-
graphy will contain the whole inner history of
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” but there will be no men-
tion of Carrie Swain and the tank.
## # *
They were playing the burlesque of
“ Faust.” Mephistopheles was fat and scant of
breath—all too huge to get through the trap that
led him to the infernal regions. To be brief, he
stuck. Fiends below tagged at his legs ; friends
above pounded at his shoulders. All in vain.
And then from the gallery came a voice, “ Here’s
comfort, boys; hell’s full!”
#* * *
Professor Bartholomew, the Yankee para-
chutist, intensely dislikes ladies’ schools. At
Melbourne he dropped astride the roof-tree of
one, and his balloon caused the inmates of another
to go into hysterics by falling close to one of the
bedroom windows while “ the young ladies .”
*♦ * *
The Mnrkans are up in arms because
Mary Anderson has become “so English, you
know.” Tha chief counts in the indictment
against her are that she habitually resides in
England; that she visits America for the purpose
of coining money ; that she comes with an
Eaglish company; that she affects an English
manner; that she wears an Eaglish or Scotch
ulster ; that she doss not like America or anything
American ; and that the universal Yankee nation
therefore must “ go back on her.”
♦* # *
Mr. G. C. Mila, the exponent of the
heroic in the Shakespearian drama, declares that
“ attacking the critics is like firing a cannon-ball
into a mound of porridge.” This, as we understand,
is a covert hit at “ Dawvid ” Buchanan’s bulky
person and Scottish origin. In the sacred name
of whisky and the Shorter Catechism we ask
G. O. M. to desist from this kind of thing.
*# # *
The next sensation at Bondi Aquarium
will be a representation of the landing of Captain
Cook, with real aboriginals in real aboriginal lack
of castume and a makeshift Captain Cook in
powdered wig and knee-breeches. The Bulletin
suggests, as an additional attraction, a show of
relics of the great navigator, and we present the
idea gratis to the Bondi management. How
would this look in a displayed advertisement: —
Lump of Chalk,
Used by Cook to mark his appreciation of Australia as a
white man’s country.—Lent by the incarcerated chalk-
fiend.
Pistol,
Used by Sir Joseph Banks to start the first Botany Han-
dicap with.— Lent by Neville Forder, Esq.
Bottle of “ Square-pace,”
Found by Syd. Bnrdekii’s father at Botany HO years ago,
and supposed to be one of Cook’s dead marinas.—Lent by
Sydney Burdekin, Esq.
Skull op Captain Cook when a Boy,
Dug up by Daniel O'Connor, Esq., Fellow of the Royal
Society of Resurrectionists. Mr. O'Connor pledges his
word that this is neither the skull of Spider nor Daniehy,
but the veritable skull of the navigator.
Skull of Cook, Aobd 50,
Found in an ancient cooking-pot amongst the archives of
the Kingdom of Hawaii — Lent by the Sydney Catering
Co.
Certificate,
Signed by John Davies, C.M.G., M.L.C., and Sir Henry
Parkes, asserting that though Cook landed at Botany Bay
he never bought any land there on the Macnamara lease
principle. This dooumsnt, besides its archaeological value,
is in its way unique, being worth the paper io is written
on. —Lent by the Holt-Sutherland Commission.
Cook’s Mother in-law’s Mangle,
Lent by the Sydney Steam Laundry Co.
Humming Top.
Made from the main-to’-g’an’t sail rowlooks of Cook's ship,
the Endeavour—guaranteed to hum .—Lent by Sir Henry
Parkes.
Verbatim Report
Of the remarks that fell from Captain Cook when he first
smelt the Bondi sewer, also Phon-graph of Curse uttered
on same occasion.— Lent by Sir John Bobertson,K.C.M.G.
the great cursiologist, author of “ Objurgations for
Leisure Hou r s,” “The Antiquities of Anathema,’
“How to Cuss with Celerity,” and the novelette “ The
Mystery of a Hansom Cabman's Imprecation."
Minutes of Evidence
Of a Parliamentary inquiry into a charge against Captain
Cook and Sir Joseph Sinks of having endeavoured to pur-
chase Australia from J ohn Haynes, M P., for €43,229,836 ;
like wise daguerreotype of John refusing to sell bis country.
—Lent by the member for Mudgee.
N.B.—A tooth of Captain Cook will be given to each
vi-itor. * Captain Cook had 350,000 teeth. * Hon.
Gsorge,
“ Tha Great Vance,” one of the early
fathers of the English music-hall stage, came to
an appropriate end while in the act of singing a
“ comic ” song at one of the minor London halls.
He was probably roaring forth an idiotic chorus
when he fell dead. Vance attained the zenith of
his fame about 22 years ago, before any men pos-
sessing real comedy powers had taken up his par-
ticular line of business. Salaries were but
moderate in those days, a fact to which the de-
parted Great One made pathetic reference when
the writer last enjoyed his chuckle-headed society.
“There were no ‘ twenty-five pounds a week for
three turns’ when I made my name,” said
Vance, who hadn’t wit enough to understand
that his precious “ name ” was made in the dark
ages of comic vocalism by the aid of canary coats,
purple pints, a pair of stays, and a ton of dull
impudence.- Nevertheless, this old timer—who
was an out-and-out fraud, even among music-hall
performers—made much money and saved some of
it. A considerable percentage of the Englishmen
in Australia must have sampled Vance at some
time or other, for the new chum has generally
“ seen life ” before he comes out here to regenerate.
And most of the Englishmen aforementioned will
receive the tidings of their old hero’s death with-
out a shudder. Nathless, a new chum sends us
the following:—
Williann, the parachutist, had a very
“ high ” old time —in the balloon we mean.
*# * *
Lydia Thompson, now playing in Mel-
bourne, has been a burlesque actress for “ close up
40 years.” A thing of beauty and a girl forever.
One man the less of that once famous few,
And Vance —the very man whose name recalls
With “Jolly Dogs ” and “ Walking in the Zoo,”
The palmy days of London’s music-halls.
“ The Pal o’ Mine ” —we’d give the list if needs,
But belt of all he sang, in mellow tones,
With modest air, in dainty widow’s weeds,
The virtues of “ The Late Lamented Jones.”
And then George Lsybourne—George was ever
game—
All slap dash style and sly impromptu “biz.”
When “ Champagne Charlie ” was a household
name,
In lively verse immortalising “ fizz.”
When ‘ 1 Bravo George ! ” the vary roof would
raise,
At George’s fooling, patter, pranks and nods,
While modestly acknowledging their praise,
His “ I Deserve It ” ever fetched the “ gods.”
Oft at the “ Canterbury,” “ South,” or “ Pav.,”
We’ve waited George’s “turn,” e’er done too
soon ;
Anl roared the chorus, many a time we have,
The “ Mouse-Trap Man ” and “Up in a
Balloon.”
Old songs are like old friends, one’s mind they fill
With thoughts of Home, nor time nor change
impairs,
When some old barrel-organ, faithful still,
Grinds out their quaint and old familiar airs.
But songs and singers both must go their way,
And to the lumber of the past belong,
And every jolly dog must have his day,
As every famous singer and his song.
Melbourne.
WILLIAM E. IMESON.
"Whatever is, is Right ”
Thk following correspondence speaks for itself •—
Cablegram to Bulletin News Co:—“Mexican
priest-slaughter yarn all flam. Lie merely sent to
see what S.M. Herald would say about it. Please
wire their comments.— Rodriguez d’Alva, El
I'Iaoional Office, Mexico City.”
Cablegram from Bulletin News Co. to D’Alva,
El Nactonal, Mexico :—“ Herald says in leader,
Wernment, not even that of Mexico, would
shed blood in such a wholesale manner unless it
was considered _ that a terrible example was de-
manded in the interests of the State.’ ”
Cablegram to Bulletin News Co, .-—“Just as I
thought. Had |em properly. They are always
prepared to Justify any act, so long as it is com-
mitted by constituted authority.—D Alya.”
The death-rate ia so abnormally high at
Croydon (Q.) that the life-insurance companies
have _ instructed their agents to issue no more
policies.
Lord Lucan, just dead, weighed everything
he ate. If he had weighed everything he did the
' Gallant Six Hundred ” would not have been
cut to pieces.
Lady medical students are certainly in
earnest. At the recent London University exa-
minations _ they took 10 out of 19 passes with
honours ; in anatomy they divided with the men ;
in physiology they took four out of six.
A business man from the New England
district has already been detained in the debtors’
ward of Darlinghurst Prison for two years. It is
said he will die in gaol, as he firmly refuses to
swear the only affidavit which could give him
release.
Soma extraordinary revelations have been
made in connection with the proceedings of some
of the lan 1-investment societies in Melbourne. In
one case two of the directors have been compelled
to refund £4400 which the shareholders considered
they had no legal right to appropriate.
Murkan alligator perjury ;—“ The Indians
on the banks of the Orinoco assert that previously
to an alligator going in search of prey it always
swallows a large stone, that it may acquire addi-
tional weight to aid it in diving and dragging its
victims under water. A traveller being some-
what incredulous on this point, Bolivar, to con-
vince him, shot several with his rifle, and in all of
them were found stones varying in weight accord
ing to the size of the animat. The largest killed
was about 17 feet in length, and had within him a
stone weighing about 60 or 70 pounds.”
Don Juan Anchorena, of Bueno Ayres
(South America), has joined the innumerable
caravan and has left behind him a large pile of
earthly dross. This, he directs, shall be allowed
to accumulate for 300 years—when he reckons it
will total up about £l72,ooo,ooo—and at the end
of that period the pile is to be distributed among
the poor. The Government, however, estimate
that Don Juan’s executors, if they are allowed to
goon in this way, will have the whole country to
divide, and it is expected the testament will be
quashed. If it is not, we would give something
for the right to be a poor man in Buenos ' ”res in
the year 2189. .
This 1s a fine story told by the late Frank
Holl, who had painted portraits of both Glad-
stone and Bright
When Mr. Bright was sitting for his portrait, I
hazarded the remark : “ It must he a very painful thing
for you, Mr. Bright, that after all these years you should
have found cause to sever your connection ?" “ Indeed
it is," responded Mr. Bright, with a sigh ; “ to think
that after we have trodden the same path together,
shoulder to shoulder and hand in hand, we should be
forced apart in the evening of our lives 1 And by what '1
By a bogey that has risen up within him and is beckon-
ing him away from duty and sense—by his own
Frankenstein’s mother. Do you know, Mr. Holl.
I seriously fear that my dear old friend’s mind
has really become radically undermined ? ” When
I was painting Mr. Gladstone, the subject of Mr.
Bright’s portrait cropped up. “Ah 1 ’ paid Mr. Glad-
stone, “ and ho v did you find him ? ’ “ Fairly well; and
he spoke very affectionately of you, Mr. Gladstone.”
“ Did he indeed?’ replied he, sorrowfully; “did he in-
deed? Ah, that was a cruel blow! That after a lifstime
of mutual esteem and of good work carried through
together we should be divided on so clear a question !
Tell me, Mr. Holl"—and here his mouth twitched and his
voice shook with great emotion—“tell me, did you oh
serve anything in the manner of my old friend which
would lead you to believe that his reason was becoming
in any way unhinged ? ’
la the pawky ultra-Scotch town of Dune-
din (N.Z.), the other day, a “ highly improper’’
baby, cetat one month, whose unfortunate un-
married mother had died at the Benevolent Insti-
tution, was gravely brought before the Resident
Magistrate’s Court and formally charged “ with
’avin’ no lawrful and wisible means of s’port, yer
washup.” “Do you plead guilty or not
guilty ?” asked the quaint forensic fossil on the
bench. “Booh-hoo!” replied this improper baby
—this hardened vagrant of four weeks’ existence—
this month-old menace to the safety of society—
this embryo Prado—this Ned Kelly in nubibus.
The magistrate felt that the urchin was getting
between the wind and his nobility, so he took it
dpwn a peg by asking the wee delinquent if him
knew where improper babies went to when they
died, whereupon the enfant terrible pulled the
strawberry-blonde whiskers of the Milesian officer
who was holding him and defiantly banged the
bar of the “deep dark dock” with his sucking-
bottle. “You are evidently incorrigible,” quoth
the magistrate. “The sentence of the Court is
that you be confined for 13 years and 11 months at
Oaversham Industrial School, and may Mr. Tit
chener have mercy on your soul and make you a
good Presbyterian.” This well-timed exordium
melted the criminal heart of the defendant, who
was conducted from the Court shrieking wildly.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Ib more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And la a
Purs Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain WuLFK's.
Mkbsrb. Most & (Jiundon are now shipping to the
Colonies thoir iHS4 Vintage “ Dry-Impcriai ” Cham-
pagne. This is the produce of their own vineyards of
1500 acres of the choicest growths around Epernay. The
'• Dry-Imp6rial" has never been shipped to the colonies
before. It is very dry. Ask tor Mo«fs " Dry-Imperial "
*ti all Wine Merchants
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Llockings, 410 George Street), near King Street.
Wnen next you bake try Pan til a Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be au white as snow.
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man, "Mr Tailor." 154 Kmir-gtreet Newtown.
The Anniversary Handicap.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flushed with the success attending our Mel-
bourne Cup effort, we again invade the happy
hunting grounds of the professional tipster.
The spirit is upon us, for a vision we have seen ;
We have walked among the shadows, with the
mystics we have been,
So accordingly we sit down in a most prophetic
mood
To let you know a little, tho’ a little, straight and
good.
Last night we supped on cucumber, on cray-fish,
stout, and cheese,
Till our sturdy frame hung tottering upon our
burdened knees;
Then we took in heaps of oysters, and onions
pecks of shrimpi,
Topped the mixture up with whisky, went to bed
to dream of —Imps ?
No—of days when we were innocent, and longed
to go to sea,
Of the dashing Pirate Captain we always meant
to be,
Then of captured, shapely maidens with fragrant
lips, dew-wet,
Till one enchantress kissed us and softly mur-
mured “ Pet.”
Her we led through daisied meadows where bab-
bling brooklets ran,
While we gathered flowers in nooklets where had
never trodden man,
Plucked fruits luscious, rare, forbidden, talked of
love, and—skating-rinks,
Of claret-cup and squashes, and of other cooling
drinks.
After drinks, no strange transition, our topic was
the Cup,
And our charmer knew the horses and the jockeys
who were “ hup,”
Knew the secrets of each stable—do not titter, ’tia
no goak—
Who was on the job, who wasn’o, and the speed
of every moke.
Till, impressed by all this learning—bet your
stockings, we are fly —
We asked her for a tiplet, and she winked an
azure eye,
Saying, “ Now, this is a secret, and I didn’t ought
to tell,
But you’re such a popsy wopsy that I can’t refuse
you well.”
Then we hugged and equoze with rapture this
syren of our dreams,
Till she swooned with over ecstasy, and cautioned
us with screams —
“ If I did not love you, sweety, I should leave you
in a huff;
’Era Igo —mamma is waiting—l will write it on
your cuff.”
Then we pulled our cuff down quickly, and she
penned her tip in full,
And vanished like a shimmer— such a parting, it
was cool;
Bn were we on our awaking—all the blankets on
che floor,
While a blizzard from the window went howling
through the door.
Sitting up, we felt so love-sick that we shed some
large-sized tears,
And our eyes so wanted wiping that our cuff got
blurred —all smears—
And thus our tip got messed up ; for our readers’
sakes we grieve;
For ourselves it doesn’t matter, we have got it up
our sleeve
A Gubin has just been left an orphan at
the age of !)0 by the death of his mother, aged 114.
The Maoris don’t believe in hell. How,
they ask, can there be eternal darkness and
eternal fire ?
“ The battles of mankind are being fonght
with the printer’s leaden types instead of the
soldier’s leaden arguments.”—Western Grazier
(N S.W.)
The most collected man of onr acquaint-
ance was James Scott, who was blown up in a
powder explosion at Sandhurst (Vic.) some months
back. He was collected after the accident.
Everyone should read The Bulletin's
“ History of Botany Bay,” by Arthur Gayll, pro-
fusely illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-known
artists, L. Hopkins and Phil May. Price, Is.
During the trial of Palmer, the poisoner,
Sergeant Shee, in his excitement, thumped
his brief on the table, and, in tragic tones, roared:
“ I call Heaven to witness ” Lord Campbell
stopped him with a gentle : “ Brother Shee, had
you not better call someone who could be cross-
examined ?”
Ediman, the embrocaion man, who died
the other day leaving vast wealth, was, 30 years
ago, a bankrupt and had paid his creditors 9s. fid.
in the £ When his will was read it was found
that he enjoined his heirs to pay the 10s. fid. in
the £ dne to his creditors with compound interest
at 3 per cent
The difficulty of satisfactorily applying
differential rater to any class of the community
when travelling on the railways is illustrated by
the fact that hawkers frequently present them-
selves at railway stations with two or three hun-
dred-weight of luggage, and claim the privileges
of commercial travellers.
Ib la cabled that iu Glasgow a young man,
a youth of 10, named Stephenson, arrested for
stabbing an abandonee in the neck and abdomen,
admitted that he attempted to imitate the fiendish
deeds of “Jack the Ripper.” Just in the same
way as scores and scores of murderers imitate (in
however varied a form) the fiendish and well-ad-
vertised deeds of the hangman. When the State
kills, it is a murderer encouraging murder.
Runaway Rudolph Radka.
Nsw Zealand Law, taken “full and bye,” is
the spavined offspring of a nightmare born
in England about the time daylight was climbing
the horizon of the Dark Ages, and which has been
acclimatized and turned out to grass in Maoriland
by the common or hedge variety of political
alleged lawyer. New Zealand Justice is a
cast iron red mule with a squint, and an
aching to kick anything unlikely to kick back.
On September 17 plebeian Rudolph Radka
was committed to Invercargill gaol to await trial
for arson. He was tried a week or two ago, in
December; verdict—not guilty. Not being a
Sawbawth School super, or a Presbyterian
whisky measure in a good position Radka was re-
fused bail, which is the heaven-appointed privilege
of first families who rob and murder. On Septem-
ber 17, then, Rudolph Radka had three months
in which to await trial, with nothing to do but
keep calmly in his little cell, assist the chaplain to
make a weekly examination of the state of his (the
prisoner’s) soul—to see that it kept Greenwich
mean-time—eat skilly, and stretch himself, the
Sybaritic dog, on a luxurious plank bed, and pray
for the fierce Gael with a hind name like M'Gollop
who ensured these gaudy voluptuousnesses to a
man who had done nothing to deserve them. Such,
however, was the low ingratitude of the base-born
Radka that after a few days’ confinement,
finding his cell door open, he lounged out
into - the trackless primeval forest where,
sitting on a tree-stump sucking gum and chewing
Maori babies and other delicacies as they came in
season, he waited many weeks while police and
warders tied themselves into bowline knots search-
ing beneath public-house bars and in the satchels
of cooks for the runaway. A day or two before
date of trial Rudolph, ungroomed but cheerful,
strolled into court, sat down, and regarding the
Judge, opined he’d “take a rub at that there
trial now, if the wenerable bloke in horse-hair
shingles, a-sittin’ there, was ready.” At this,
but we quote from the local press. We
quote from memory, too: —“That energetic and
highly intelligent officer, Inspector Pie, on recog-
MONDAY MORNING AT WINDSOR.
"The Queen has considerably curtailed her
personal expenses to save money for her grand-
children.”-English Paper.
HER GRACIOUS: “DRAT THE BRATS!
MY NOSE IS FOR EVER AT THE
WASH-TUB TO FIND VITTLES FOR
THEM.”
nising Radka, immediately, and with splendid
presence of mind, despatched a message for the
Permanent Militia and Volunteers. On their
arrival, the Inspector, courageously assisted by
the local police-force-Sergeant Mutton especially
distinguishing himself by the dauntless bravery
with which he identified the desperate ruffian —
proceeded to make one of the cleverest captures ever
known, even in this land of magnificent climate,
superb mineral resources, and finest natural advan-
tages in the world. The desperado, evidently
overawed by the Inspector’s cool valour and fertility
of resource, and covered by a hundred deadly,
gleaming rifle-barrels, showed the white feather
and made no resistance. He was then securely
manacled with the heaviest gyves out of the
donjon keep, and the word given to march. He
was escorted by the police with loaded revolvers,
while Inspector Dash with the volunteers, sup-
ported by the Permanent Militia, a siege-battery,
and three mountain howitzers, brought up the
rear. The outlaw was thus carried before our
esteemed R.M., Mr. M‘Gollop, whose decisions,
as we have often pointed out in these columns,
display great ‘ judicial grasp. ’ ” There is more of
this deathless poesy, but we forget it. Anyway,
Rudolph told the R,M. that had bail been
granted this would not have happened. Bail was
not granted because the police feared that Radka
would bolt, yet the Icspector, forgetting this in
the natural excitement, assured tbe M’Gollop
there was no merit in the prisoner’s voluntary re-
turn, because “it was perfectly impossible for him
to have eluded the vigilance of the foorce.”
M’Gollop sent Rudolph up for four moons with
hard labour for “prison-breaking.” Now, some
low, mean Radicals want to know what the man’s
crime is, as he was imprisoned in the first place
for a crime he never committed, and hav-
irg been provid by a jury’s verdict to
have been illegally in gaol, he could not
have been guilty of illegality in leaving unmerited
confinement; also they say he did not “ break-out”
of orison—because the door was open and he
walked out. But the sympathies of the right-
minded are with the suffering police, who have
possibly been subjected to mental strain in plan-
ning splendid schemes for Radka’s recapture.
Moreover, this orison-leaving is becoming too
common in New Zealand. Lately, when prisoners
become blase with the diet of prison they just
walk out. This ruffles the profound calm and
dolce far niente so absolutely indispensable to
the development of tone, sweetness, and light in
our warders and constables, and when prisoners
like Jonathan Roberts don’t come back, de-
prives the romantic and poetical reporter of the
chance of working up “ Another Clever Capture
by Detective Bat 1”
Samuel Farrell, jun., an Australian French-
polisher, cut his throat in Sydney last week.
Samuel had been revelling in the jim-jams pre-
vious to this calamity, and became oun of spirits
through not being able to find employment. His
epitaph :
Various remedies have been suggested for
mitigating the woes of Ireland, but the most
unique proposal in this way has emanated from a
Tory scientist, who gravely advocates the aboli-
tion of the potato. La pomme de terre, he
theorises, is a form of food which produces a con-
tinuous craving for change, which, in the ca eof
the Irish, takes the form of “unrestful disloyalty,”
S 3 we may shortly expect to hear of the formation
of a “ Royal Society for the Suppression of the
Dangerous Habit cf Eating Potatoes. ” Branches
in the colonies will, no doubt, follow, but (whisper)
it'll be a brave man who tries to start the concern
at Warrnamboo).
African exploring consists in one man con-
ducting an expedition in search of another man,
who, in turn, concentrates his energies on the task
of finding the man sent after him. They meet at
about the identical moment when a third man
comes up to discover the second man upon which
they all return to E irope together and write books
about finding one another. The hysterical excite-
ment of nations concerning the fate of Stanley
(who goes to the * dark continent ” because he is
miserable away from it) compares unfavourably
with the Christian resignation of churches, which
seldom make much fuss about a missing missionary.
They conclude that Providence arranges all things
for the best, and make the unfortunate disappear-
ance of their dear brother an excuse for sending
round the plate.
The Duke of Westminster has graciously
presented his picture of “ Duns tan borough
Castle,” by Turner, to the Melbourne Na-
tional Gallery. This is the gloomy canvas
which Sir Henry Loch induced the dook to offer
to the Gallery trustees at a stiff price. They
declined the bargain, so it would appear that
Westminster has determined to let his alleged
gem go for nothing rather than not dispose of it
at all. God bless our old nobility !
The Victorian Board announces that the
total number of aborigines now in Victoria is only
a little over 800. But how many of these are half-
castes ? How many of them are as white as
Europeans? How many of them are, in fact,
Irish, Entrlish, and Scotch ? We were once on an
ahoricinal settlement and out of a populai ion of
about 120 there was but one real black. P.S —He
was ourself, We make this statement to antici-
pate the jibes of our con* enaporaries.
Poor Sammy was an artisan,
A polisher was he,
And not a very sober man—
He suffered from D T. ;
He wouldn’t starve, he wouldn’t rob,
So, when he wanted pelf
And couldn’t tret a better job,
He polished off himself.
Aboriginalities.
At the last meeting of the Geographical
Society in Melbourne a Mr. Adcock announced
that there would be shortly published in London
a paper which would show the discovery, in the
very North of Australia, at a spot little known
by Europeans, of a tribe of almost white persons,
numbering about 250, the descendants of an ex-
pedition which left Spain in the Juanita, on a
voyage of discovery in 1682, About two hundred-
weight of gold plates, stamped roughly, and bear-
ing the records of the expedition, were to
be exhibited, along with other relics. This
is a very important statement, but it seems
to us to be rather thin. If these 250 Spanish
settlers really existed they would long since have
been floated into a company on account of the
two hundredweight of gold plates above referred
to. In the course of the late mineral boom every-
thing that was even gilt over was made the ground-
work of some more or less busted syndicate,
and when the supply of gilt gave out yellow-
painted boulders were put on the market, and the
hide of a yellow dog—provided the animal was
buried in a reasonably promising spot-was good
enough to pass for “indications” and was menda-
ciously alluded to as “pyrites.” If these Spanish
settlers ever turn up we are prepared to bet our
boots—of which we have two and an odd one at
home—that someone will at once discover the
place where they dug up that 2cwt. of gold and
will want to float it in 150,000 shares, 10s, fid. paid
up. When 250 foreigners have been sitting down
for 200 years waiting to do a swindle they are apt
to grow dangerous and rapacious and had best be
avoided.
* * *
From the Barvron River a lurid story
reaches us illustrative cf the pleasant little ways
of the back-blocks publican and his victim, the
guileless agriculturist. Quite lately an old
station hand who had been working for several
years without a break, came down to a township
on the river with his wife, intending to proceed to
Sydney. They had a cheque for £l2O with them,
and when they reached the township they com-
menced to knock it down at a “three-bottle” pub.
As the couple were each about 70 j ears of age
they should have known better, but they didn’t.
They were on a regular “old man” drunk for
three weeks, at the end of which time the hotel-
keeper informed them that they would have to
sober up as the cheque had run its course. The
old couple then sold one of their horses to get
something to come round on, and in the midst of
this little supplementary orgie the old man tcok
ill, was sent to the nearest hospital, where he died
and was shovelled away without any inquiry to
speak of. At latest advices, that is perhaps about
three weeks ago, the widow was doing up the value
of the remaining horse and the waggonette at the
same pub. in “chain-lightning ” and “shepherd’s
delight.”
• • •
A squatter in New England had a nasty
selection-dummy man, a peifect beast in his way
of living, whose wooden headed ideas were nar-
rowed down to one tangible fact—namely, that he
was the happy possessor of a very eligible selec-
tion, and all through the kind squatter’s goodness.
In fact, instead of selling out tor a nominal sum
to the squatter when his time was up, he jibbed
at that proposal, and refused to either
sell or shift. So now behold our squatter
gnashing his hair and tearing his teeth at
the perverseness tf a beastly dummy, who,
moreover, has the objectionable habit of bidding
good-day to the squatter’s children when they
pass by his selection to town, and hoping that
their father and mother are quite well, at the
same time using the Christian name of each child
as in the days when he was the station chip and
log-gatherer many years before. It considerably
riles the fastidious eldest daughter when driving by
with a Sydney male friend to hear the old fellow’s
affectionate cackle and “ Good-day, Mary.” Of
course the Sydney fellow, especially if a new chum,
sets the selector down as an ancient relative
of the family and discreetly holds his peace, for
“ These colonials are doosid touchy on these
points.” The squatter now patiently waits for
the old fellow’s last ploughing horse to die and
leave him helpless. Then he will finish up the
old hulk, you bet, and consign him to heaven or
somewhere else in the twinkling of a duck’s instep.
•
Dear Bulletin,— “Scotty the Wrinkler’a”
friend. “ A B ,” may be a pretty fair thing in the
way of liars, but a swaggy I met the other day
takes the cake even from “A. 8.” Listen. It
was on a lagoon in Northern Queensland, and the
sea used to overflow sometimes into the lagoon.
This lagoon was infested with alligators. One
day my friend went down that way for the
milkers, and saw nine of the cows standing on an
alligator’s lower jaw, and licking the saurian’s
mouth. Presently the mouth shut up with a
bang, and the nine cattle disappeared, I asked
him, “ What did the cows go in for ? ’ “ Why, of
course, to lick the salt out of his jaws. You see,
the boss had run out of salt, and the cattle cannot
get along without it.—L.
• •
A Chinese prisoner at Maryborough (Vic.)
Gaol named Long Chew has been fatally chewed
up by a warder of the gaol, and an accommodating
jury have found a verdict of justifiable homicide.
The (Jhow, it appeared from the evidence, had
emptied filth over the warder’s head, and,
true to his name, had taken a Long Chew at the
warder's thumb, which resulted in its amputation
The warder, though a man of peace, could not
a-bear to have the Chow go on like this, so he
gently pushed him down on the floor of the cell
and with almost brotherly tenderness knelt on his
ribs, which, the newspaper-report naively says,
“probably caused the fractures that resulted in
the prisoner’s death.”
• •
Neat perjury from Queensland: “ The
mercury sat on the top of the glass with its tongue
out gasping for a shandy-gaff.”
A planter up in Queensland during the
late drought incurred the resentment of a number
of carriers whom he charged for cane tops used as
fodder for their horses. The carriers held a meet-
ing and solemnly pronounced a curse on the
planter, the effect of which was to be that no
rain should fall on his land for seven years.
That very night the drought broke up, and
the moral worked out by rule of three is :
If seven men curse one man’s property for
seven years and produce three inches of ra n
within 24 hours of the pronuncement of the curse,
how many men cursing in harmory w. uld it take
to give the whole colony of Qu eosland an average
rainfall of 40 inches per annum ?


Everybody says—and what e > erj body sa> s>• ust p ■ rue
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best In the market.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wllo-
ken’s lieaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Bine Mountains, being 1200fs. above sea level.
N.P.—Only *»'• hour* from MnUtonrar.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pbrfumrry Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on this Scent
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
16-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
S6-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed list sf Businesses for Sale Issued Dally,
All Lists posted Free on application.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ireland’s population la declining at the
rate of 60,000 annually.
Mr. C. A. Goodchap will stand for the
next N.S W. Parliament.
Sir William Jtnrois has had enough of
New Zealand. He declines a second term.
The British Civil Service Estimates have
increased by more than £10,000,000 per annum in
50 years.
Premier Parkes predicts that in a few
years there will be ten colonies instead of six in
Australia.
The Victorian House cf Parliament is said
to be very cool. Probably, however, “shady” is
all that’s meant.
There are now hardly half-a-dozen N.S.W.
country newspapers advocating Free trade. Out-
side the Legislative Assembly, the Foreign-trade
policy is dead.
German clerks are workieg their way into
Melbourne offices to the exclusion of native
youths. The Germans are cheaper ard steadier
than the local article.
Dan. O Connor says that the late Dr. Lang
advocated Home Rule for Ireland some 30 years
ago. That’s more than Dan. himself did when
the Redmonds were here ov\yfive years ago.
In the Victorian Parliament, the other
day, Mr. Dow called Mr. Brown a thundering
ass, much to the surprise of Brown. Probably
he had expected to be called something fresh.
Gladstone sajs th&t the Tory opposition
to Home Rule is the result of an inherited hatred
to the Irish people, and is indicative of the feel-
ings of wrong-doers towards a wronged nation.
“Above all,” says the Sydney D.T.,
speaking of the Holt-Sutherland scandal, “it is
necessary that Hon. John Davies, O, M G,,
M.L.0., should be granted an everlasting holi-
day.”
Phil. Robinson writes :—“New Zealand is
the Thessaily of the Antipodes, the Campania,
the Lombardy, the anything that expresses an
overflowing fecundity and exceptional natural
gifts.”
Sir Henry Parkes says that Qaetnslard
owes a debt of gratitude to Dr. Lang, because
he secured separation from New South Wales.
What an admission for a responsible Cornstalk to
make !
According to the London correspondent of
Sydney E. News Mr. Henniker Heaton is
“looked to by the House if Commons for light
and leading in all matters pertaining to Australian
affairs.”
Mr. Gladstone, it is called, considers
Daniel O’Connell the greatest popular leader of
the century, the greatest Irishman that ever lived,
and superior as a national leader to Kossuth,
Mazzini and Cavour,
Mr. R. B. Smith, M.L.A. (K.C.M.G. In
the distance), of the land-firm of Burns, Withers,
and Smith, has been for years the legal adviser of
Mr. John Davies, who happens to be chairman of
the Casual Labour Board.
The bait that trapped Ambassador Sack-
ville was offered to at least 30 other prominent
Englishmen then in the States Which goes to
prove that Her Gracious’s Minister was the
biggest fool in thirty, at any rate.
Pastor R. W. Dale, L.L.D., who lately
visited Australia, asserts that Victoria is the leading
colony, and that her pre eminence of place is due
to the fact that the percentage of Scotch and
Irish within her gates exceeds that of any other
colony.
One of the laws on the Statute Book of
Sardinia, which the Parliament of United Italy
recently wiped out of existence, ordained that the
ass which trespassed on a field not its master’s
should lose an ear, and for a second trespass the
second ear.
Mr. J. T. Matson, of Christchurch, N.Z.,
states that he invested for a client in England
£4OO in Christchurch city properties 31 years ago,
and since then he has remitted in principal and
interest £69,823, and he has over £lO,OOO worth
yet to realise.
An English paper on Pritchard Morgan :
Hitherto he has had no records as a politician, and
though he is elected as a supporter of Mr. Gladstone, it
was evident during bis canvass that he knew very litole
of politics, and was ready to promise almost anything so
long as the seat could be secured.
A Parisian reporter asked Mr. Wilfrid
Blunt: “ Suppose the Parnell letters prove to be
forgeries, will that not re-act in favour of the
Nationalists ? ’ “ Not in the least,” replied Blunt,
“I don’t believe the result of the Commission
will change a vote either way.”
The latest gatble-cram from Britain states
that Osman Digna “wishes to surrender to the
British,” but isn’t able to do it. We also
believe that the Emperor of Germany is anxious
to abdicate in favour of the Sultan of Zanzibar,
but doein’t know how to set about it.
The Emperor of Germany has given evi-
dence of his intention to be a personal ruler by
substituting, in his speech to the Reichstag, “ I ”
for “we.” This young crowned prig says, “I
and my allies and friends, with God’s help“l,
as a Christian ;” “I and the Almighty.”
The N.S.W. Casual Labour Board — alias
Government Job Department—have hung out a
shingle detailing the fact that at present “No
labour will be employed on public relief works.”
Now what is wanted is an assuranoa that no more
relief labour will be employed on private property.
The latest “ Home Rule ” idea is to send
10 magic-lantern shows round the English counties,
each accompanied by a lecturer and pianist. The
views will represent Irish evictions, historical
scenes of the “distressful country,” and the
lecturer while explaining the views will ram home
Parnellite ideas.
Lord Carington says he would never have
come to N.S.W, as Governor had he known the
responsibility in the matter of life and diath.
Surely he must have read his commission and the
Imperial instructions ! Or is the secret a tyran-
nical Prime Minister who will have his own way
or threaten to resign ?
The S. M. Herald says“ N.S.W.
alone still keeps the Freetrade flag flying, but the
number of politicians that are deserting to the
Protec nionist camp seems to show a growing be-
lief that Protection is coming, and an anxious
d rsire not to bs too late in changing sides. These
are the points which, as chroniclers of the times,
we feel bound to note at the present juncture.”
A baautlful instance of British landlord-
ism A landlord draws a revenue from the
quarries, and from the bare rock on which the
quarrymen build their own houses (which he
stipulates shall become his houses in 60 years),
and, not satisfied with that, he charges them an
exorbitant ground-rent for a little bit of stony
waste on which they want to build a school house
in which to educate their children.
The new Turkish Caasor of the Press has
issued a circular to the editors of papers under
h>s control. Article 5 says : “Avoid personalities.
If anybody comes and tells you a Governor or
any other high official has been guilty of embezzle-
ment, maladministration, or any other blame-
worthy conduct, treat the charge as not proved,
and say nothing about it.” Copies of a similar
circular have evidently had a very wide circula-
tion among the Australian daily press.
Sbrathallea Estate, of 1650 acres, distant
two miles from Heidelbarg (Vic ), has been sold
for £234,000 to Hon. C. H. Jamas, M.L C , by
HffVUo^
J 3 ULUI: T I N - B-0 '■* R. P
IN MEXICO.
'THE RISING FOMENTED BY PRIESTS.
ATTACK ON THE PRESIDENT’S
PALACE.
THE GOVERNMENT TROOPS VIC-
| ' TORIOUS.
SEVENTY-TWO PRIESTS KILLED.
TWO THOUSAND INSURGENTS
CAPTURED.
TWO HUNDRED PRIESTS ORDERED
TO BE SHOT.
[,By Cable.]
(raoi: ouu couresi'OXDent).
y) !
I —<
ti-
ll
L
A-
I
0
A
n
TRADE JEALOUSY.
"PROTESTANT STANDARD ” LEADER-WRITER (after reading the
account of the wholesale execution of Mexican priests): “"YEA,
VERILY, THIS IS AS SWEET TO MINE EARS AS THE
TINKLING CYMBAL.”
Mr. Malcolm M'Lean, in whose possession it has
been for 45 years. How much of this vast sum
represents the exertions of the community, and
what proportion is due to the exertions of
M'Lean, we are not in a position to state, but
probably the latter would be amply repaid by the
receipt of one-tenth the above enormous sum.
The Prahrau(Vic.)branch of the Australian
Natives’ Association has solemnly made a minit
in a big, round hand of its grief and disapproval
of the way Queensland has been going on of late
in its dealings with dear old Hingland. We re-
gret this sort of thing as tending towards strife
and the shedding of human blood, and we urge
the A N. A. not to get into a bad habit which
may ultimately lead it into making minutes about
dangerous foreign potentates who cannot be
worried with impunity.
The cat is out of the bag ; the milk In the
cocoa-nut is accounted for, Mr. Dennis, pro-
prietor of the Court and Society Review, Lon-
don, has become bankrupt, and he declares that
the proceedings which compelled him to “ file his
shovel ” were started by a certain Australian now
a member of the House of Commons, who, he
asserts, owes him £5OO for writing his letters and
composing those eloquent speeches which as-
tounded the House and earned for him the proud
title of the Antipodean Cicero.
The Sydney correspondent cf the Mel-
bourne Temperance News says that Premier
Parkes has given mortal offence to the N S.W.
temperance party. The writer speaks of Parkes
as “the arch-seducer of our political affections,”
and says that he has been disowned and discarded
by the temperance leaders. As a champion of
teetotalism his day is done. The temperance
party are sick of his shuffling promises. At the
general election Parkes is to be voted down; the
temperance men will henceforward recognise no
party in their political warfare.
The Times Forgery Commission has
brought into clear relief the fact that the tone of
the Irish Law Courts is more i turdy and Demo-
cratic than that of the English. The members of
the English Bar have crawled cheerfully to the
Divorcs Court autocrat who is president of the
Commission, but their learned friends from Ire-
land have several times ventured upon such
audacious familiarities as criticism of his judicial
conduct and even a joke at his expense. It is
stated that the criticism caused Sir J. Hannan to
“ feel unwell,” He subsequently retired from the
Bench. Was that the joke ?
Two members of the Queensland Ministry
were tramping through the Central District, the
other day, and were interviewed by the usual
agricultural deputation which wanted the earth.
The politicians listened to them courteously, and
lavishly promised that they would keep specu-
lators off rich agricultural lauds as far as pos-
sible; also that they would consider the making
of roads to selected lands one of their primary
duties; and generally that they would keep the
interests of the district steadily in view. It
looked a lot, but when the deputation got home
and sorted it out they discovered that it didn’t
amount to anything in particular, after all.
The two physicians in attendance on John
Bright are homoepathists.
It Is easy for a full stomach to preach to
the fasting. Are you listening, Pastor Jefferis ?
A sign of the times. A pawnbroker’s shop
has baen opened in the once wealthy and bullocky
town of Bathurst, N.S.W.
The Corporation of Bathurst, New South
Wales, which is about £70,000 in debt, bad before
it recently a proposition to pay its Mayor £lOO a
year. It was lost by the Mayor’s casting vote.
A public-house ab St. Leonards, Sydney,
was kept by a person named Blue, who was suc-
ceeded by another named Green, who, in turn,
made way for one White. The original Blue was
a black man.
Speaking of a sermon recently delivered
by Muscular Christian Clarke, the Melbourne
Daily Telegraph says the text was as follows
“And Pilot asked them saying, when wilt ye that
I realise unto yon, Barabhas ? ” • “ Pilot ”is good,
but “ realise ” is simply splendid, and clearly
proves that the land-boom lingo isn’t quite for-
gotten yet.
At the Auckland (N.Z ) Diocesan Synod
Church meeting, Mr. Upton, a local pillar of the
Chuicb, was asked by the President (Archdeacon
Dudley) to add a few lines to a paper upon the
observance of Sunday and the afternoon of the
Sabbath. Mr. Upton wrote as a concluding para-
graph : ‘ ‘ Have dinner, then smoke your pipe, lie
flat on your back on the sofa, and go to sleep.”
Which little sally evoked tremendous indignation.
When Henry George was In England an
adverse critic of his doctrine called it “ a nos-
trum.” At this name Mr. George rose to his feet
in a towering passion, and insisted that the word
should be immediately withdrawn. The offend-
ing speaker was, however, unwilling to withdraw
a word which seemed to him and to most of the
audience to come within Parliamentary limits,
and a fierce wrangle began. At length it trans-
pired that in the American language “ nostrum ”
has a peculiarly offensive meaning, of which its
English defenders had been quite unconscious.
Personal Items.
Shelley’s son Is still alive and Is In his
70 jh year.
The Duke of Edinburgh of retiring
from the Navy.
Lord Macaulay’s only surviving sister,
Fanny, has just died.
Bismarck has been shot at twice. The
Germans are a thick-skinned race.
There Is a likelihood of the resign ition by
Slead of the editorship of Pall Mall Gazette.
Richard Anthony Proctor left behind him
only £l5O for the support of his wife and family.
The Emperor of Germany suffers from
violent headaches, and has morphine pumped into
him daily.
Mr. W. Fehon, the new N.S.W. Railway-
Commissioner, is a North of Ireland man. He
was born at Belfast.
Dr. Youll, the Melbourne City Coroner,
held 420 inquests last year. His sedentary habits
do not tell on his health.
Poet Laureate Tennyson has been so ill
that he had to be carried in a sheet from his bed
to a sofa. He will ba 80 in August,
Bishop Perry, formerly cf Melbourne, is
a Canon of Llandaff Cathedral with a salary of
£5OO a year. The Bishop is over 80.
A sometime prominent N.S.W. politician,
who had an unfortunate weakness for whisky, is
now an active member of the Blue Ribbon Army.
Gladstone Is opposed to divorce. He re-
gards marriage as indissoluble and even in the
extremest cases would only allow judicial separa-
tion.
The little King of Spain has an Irish
governess whose salary is £7OO per annum In
five years she will have a life pension of £5OO a
year.
Mr. W. B. Dailey’s will provided that
Frank Hutchinson should be his literary executor.
Mr. Hutchinson is now going through Mr. Dailey’s
papers.
The family of the late Mr. Dailey have re-
ceived a letter of condolence from Arthur H.
Loring, secretary to the London Imperial Federa-
tion League.
Mr. Julian Salomons, Q. 0., has been
spending his holiday in traversing India, From
his letters Indian travelling appears to be anything
but a pleasure trip.
Kathleen O’Meara, the well-known French
writer on social and religious subjects, just dead,
was a niece of Barry O’Meara, who was with the
first Napoleon at St. Helena.
Thcs Thadeus O’Kane:—“TheNorthern
Miner has survived the shocks of Judges, some
of them half-drunk, and scarce able to mumble
out their ‘directions ’ to juries.”
John Halfey has died suddenly of heart-
disease. He was rich as Crcesus, and had a big
interest in the Melbourne Herald, at the office of
which paper ho was stricken down.
How are the mighty fallen! Mr. G. R,
Sims, Misi Jessie Fothergill (“The First Violin”)
and Ouida are collaborating in the production of a
colossal advertisement for Beecham’s pills.
Hon. Joe Chamberlain’s eldest son la said
to be the very counterpart of his pa. He wears an
eye-glass, sports an orchid, and smiles the same
cock-sure, regulation Chamberlain family smile.
London Daily News says that Kendall
“ was accustomed to weep like anything when he
read his own verses aloud.” The News adds that
“Swinburne has been the bane of Antipodean
poets.” True.
The Prince of Wales has the right of
wearing 123 different uniforms and official dresses,
but as he looks short and fat and bald and com-
monplace in them all there is no balm of Gilead in
the whole wardrobe.
Keeley, the Inventor of the wonderful
motor that bears his name, has been “ jugged ” in
Philadelphia for contempt of court, said contempt
consisting in a refusal to explain the working of
his machine to experts.
Tom King, the ex-pugilist), who died in
England a couple of months ago, left personal
estate of a declared value of £54,472. All this
wealth, which King amassed at bookmaking, goes
to his wife and daughter.
Lord Houghton (Richard Monckton
Milnes) left 30,000 letters behind him, and yet a
man has undertaken to write his life. Houghton’s
daughter married a brother of “Nick” Fitz-
gerald’s, M.L.C., of Victoria.
Miss E. A. Martin, who wro f e a memorial
of Daniehy, is now engaged on a life of Sir Beery
Parkee, who has placed at her disposal a very
large number of documents and is otherwise giving
the lady every facility at his command.
Young Dr. Barrett, of Melbourne, the
other day married Mrs. Pirani, widow of the
clever F. J. Pirani, who was a professor of
Mathematics at Melbourne University. Pirani
was killed during his honeymoon by falling from
his horse.
In Vogel’s novel Sir George Grey will ap-
pear under the name of “ Sir William Bland.”
Vogel doesn’t love Grey, so that the portrait Is
not likely to be drawn from the standpoint from
which most New Zealanders regard their “ Grand
Old Man.”
A. G. Taylor is not yet done with. He lost
his billet as N.S.W. Examiner of Patents, worth
£5OO a year, but he now has a practice in the patents
line worth £l5OO a year. Overtures have been
made to him to write for more than one Sydney
paper but he declines.


A GRIEVOUS BURTHEN.
SIR 'ENERY: “ WELL, MY BACK IS PRETTY BROAD. BUT I’M BLEST IF I CAN CARRY THIS HERE LOT MUCH FURTHER!”


A TALE FROM TIGERLAND.
(TRAVESTIED BY HOP.)
“ It’d a fine morning,” I remarked to my principal howlah as he walked into my hwarjth bearing
in one hand my usual boolkh of steaming thangal pfooht, and advancing to the bunkh on which I lay
(for 1 had not yet fully awakened from the restless sleep consequent upon the exciting events of the
day b-.fore yesterday) he placed the seductive mixture upon a shtoohl beside me, and then, taking
three steps backward, he placed the thumb of his right hand upon the tip of his nose, and, extending
the fingers of the same, he raised the left hand, and, placing the thumb of that against the smallest
digit of the other, he stood thus for a few moments waving the fingers of both hands backwards and
forwards in opposite directions, exclaimirg, “Allah il Allah Bismuth —moorka hoopla, 6jla coop 1 ’
(Allah is the original Jacobs, and all imitations are spurious—it is indeed a fine morning !)
“ Howlah l said, “ if it really is a fine morning, we must go out and kill some tigers ; tell the
lowkvrrh to saddle my bhoss elephant and load my dynamite gun ; take my boots away with you and
clean them, and be careful to empty out the cobra di capello which I have reason to believe has slept
in the right one all tight.”
The howlah repeated the picturesque and
respectful gesture described, and ejaculating
"MOORKA HOOPLA OOLA COO
"I FLATTER MYSELF THAT WE WERE A PICTURESQUE SIGHT!
Kismet howadji ” (right you are, boss) was gone. By the time I had swallowed my thongal-p/ooht
and refreshed my memory by reading a few chapters out of a little volume I always have about me,
entitled “Gems of Scottish Anecdote and Wut, or Incentives to Melancholy,” the howlah had re-
turned with my boots and the announcement that the bhoss elephant was at tlje door and all was in
readiness for the chase ; that Allah continued to be Allah, and it was a good day for tigers,
“ Kismet I murmured and vaulted lightly into the saddle of the hhoss.
I flatter myself that we were a picturesque sight as we plunged into the jungle. The howlahs and
the lowkurrh were on foot atd had orders from me to proceed ahead but within speaking distance and
were to keep a sharp look-out for tigers. The bhoss elephant and myself brought up the rear. ’
'KNAB EB LL’I LLEW!
"HOOIEM KHI '!'
I had twisted the tartan of my clan about my
head, partly to give myself an Oriental look and
partly to frighten tigers. I felt that it was indeed
a good day for tigers, and to beguile the monotony
of the journey to the hunting-grounds, 1 began to
entertain my men with some amusing anecdotes
about them. I was rather pained to find that no-
body laughed, and as I rather pride myself on
being a successful raconteur I was puzzled and
chagiiued, when all at once the lowkurrh, after
exchanging significant glances with the howlahs,
suddenly faced toward me and, after the usual
salute, muttered. “ Oolaka okra sumpha whaka
chin chin f’ (if the big lump of a Howadji desires
to catch tigers, he must hold his tongue).
I apologised to the lowkurrh for my admitted
loquacity and misplaced indulgence of my keen
sense of humour and promised to c ffsnd no more.
No other incident occurred for an hour and a-half,
excepting that the bhoss elephant lost the key of
his trunk, and some delay was caused by the
search for it among the herbage. We were fortu-
nate enough to find it, however, and the procession
was again moving silently along when all at once
the lowkurrh signalled a ha’t, and, climbing into
a ban-yan tree, he made a careful reconnaissance
with a pair of opera-glasses. Suddenly he dropped
them and gave utterance to these significant worts,
“ Knad cb ll'i Hew l"
“ You don’t moan to say so!” T exclaimed,
trembling wish excitement, and resisting the
temptation to ,*• a funny Scotch story that
occurred to me ai. toe moment. “Do you really
see a tiger ?”
“ Bhangsho!" (rather!) was the lowkurrh’s
lar onic reply.
“Khafsedd ?” (where away?) I enquired.
“ Shoolem khi I ” (follow me !) he shouted as he
shinned down the ban yan limb. He then uttered
the usual platitude about Allah being Allah, and
was soon Hying through the jungle with all the
howlahs at his heels, the bhoss elephant and I
following at a brisk gallop. We were chasing a
"THIS REMINDS THE TIGER-SLAYER OF A LITTLE STOREY.”
big tom tiger, and I was not quite certain whether
this adventure would turn out to be kismet or
otherwise.
Presently the tiger got tired of the whole busi-
ness and turned upon the lowkurrh, who had
seized him by the tail, and, uttering a blood-
curdling squeal, he sprang upon the poor fellow
and bore him to the ground with a sickening thud.
The howlahs suddenly fell back and took refuge
under the lee of the bhoss elephant while I stood
up in the saddle. The chief howlah thrust my
dynamite gun into my hand, cautioning me to be
careful, as it was loaded, and then began to fill
hia pipe.
The tiger and the lowkurrh formed a beautiful
and striking tableau at that distance. One paw
of the brute was planted upon the breast of bis
intended victim while he licked the other with his
tongue as I have often seen the harmless necessary
house cat do in Scotland. I was on the point of
asking the chief howlah where was the best place
to hit a tiger when you wanted to kill him, when
I was interrupted by the lowkurrh, who sang out—
‘ Toohs! looks! Howadn, looks! Alla im
nomakwa, sokatowa skeewhang /” (shoot! shoot!
boss : in heaven’s name shoot I Aim here at this
stripe just behind the left ear and mind you don’t
miss him, or he’ll eat the lot of us), and he placed
his linger upon the spot indicated so that there
mi?ht be no mistake. Cocking my gun I turned
to new thoroughly alarmed howlahs and said,
Well, boys, do you know that this reminds me
very forcibly of a s*ory they tell in the Heelan’s
0 Scotland aboDt Allan Ramsay ”
1 [Story omitted here because of its length and
breadth.]
s* At the conclusion of my most amusing story
the howlahs all fell prostrate upon the ground and
writhed with uncontrollable laughter, in which I
was constrained to join. After the vociferous
echoes of our mirth had died away I turned my
attention to the tiger. He was gone I And he
had taken the lowkurrh with him !


»~WISET BOKOfIIA, thfe New Perfume. Mann
factored from th West Australian “Boronia
MegisiiuMiu,” Eulu swywiaif9i Piloe, 3s. 5d.,
63., and 10s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure you get the gennine.
FRANCIS LONGMORB. 138 Bourke-st.. Bast,
High Art Photography.—Pop artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OH A RLE VIONT
& CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oaringtoa
" By Appointment."
Thb 1884 Vintage is one of the beet of this century
Moet and Chandon are now shipping their “ Finest Extra
Quality ” Champagne ol that year (with 1884 branded on
cork and label), styled “ Dry—lmperial." It is very dry,
and is the produce of their own vineyard of 2500 acres of
the beat growths In France. Of all wine Merchants.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1868.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Huslo,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention 1b called to the followla
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBBL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
fflctur6(l
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
BSTBY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves 1 The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con*
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organa now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
*,H.PAUHfiftGQ. Ui
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O.
Society
The forthcoming marriage of an Australian
“ Silver King ” to Miss Letty Lind, of the Gaiety
Girls, is announced by cable. May it please Your
Majesty The Bulletin will strike one of its lyres
—the office is full of them :
The late Kong Meng, in whom, for years
and years, we all devoutly believed, was. it is
now generally understood, something of a delusion
and sham, who hoodwinked alike his private
circle and the financial world of Victoria. When
the quite famous Chinaman’s real and persona
estate was sworn under £lOOO, popular belief - in-
dicated in The Bulletin— credited him with
having made over his supposed wealth to his
family by deed of gift. Now on dit that Kohg
Meng, in all his business undertakings, merely
represented capitalists in China, and that he was
not himself a merchant, but an agent living up to
his full income. Also on dit that the bogus mil-
lionaire took in, and has now “let in,” scores of
his humbler, less-washed compatriots of Little
Bourke street, which district breaks forth into a
heathen gibber (believed to represent cursing and
swearing) when Kong Meng’s name is mentioned.
It is difficult, however, to learn the truth about
any matter in which Chinamen are interested,
and if Kong was no better than the rest of them
it doesn’t signify.
• • O
“ It is all very well to talk of mercy, bub
there is such a thing as justice as well. We have
to look beyond this criminal act, and this criminal,
to the future and to the protection of society. If
Louisa Collins is not hanged, then we can hang
no woman in time to come.” — (Sydney Morning
Herald, January 4, 1888)
Poor Dr. William Godfrey Howitt, of Mel-
bourne, who has just died, was one of the best-
known and most genial citizens of the Southern
capital. His father, old Dr. Godfrey Howitt,
was brother of William the author, and brother-
in-law of Mary Howitt. Ho wit o, the explorer
and police-magistrate in Qippsland, was son of
William and Mary. The Howitts were all
but Mary died an R.C. in Rome only
the other day. Fourteen years ago there were
not two men in Melbourne so alike as Dr.
“Teddy” Howitt and that genial pressman and
clever musician, the late Montague Harvie.
People used to pass Howitt in Collins-street and
say, “How are ye, Harvie?’’ and grasp Mon-
tague by the hand at public assemblies and
exclaim, “ Glad to see you, Doctor !” Harvie
and Howitt were great chums, and when they
walked about together the multitude used to be
bothered. Thirty years ago and upwards the
bouse of Dr. Godfrey Howitt, at the south east
corner of Oollins-street and Spring street, opposite
the “ New Treasury,” was one of the landmarks
of Melbourne. It was as well known as the
Doctor’s broad-brimmed white hat, spectacles and
swallow-tailed coat. The Howitt residence dis-
appeared years ago, and the huge mansion of W.
Campbell, M.L.C., rose upon its site. It was
said that Campbell built the big place because he
wanted to be near the Melbourne Club, where he
played whist till all hours of the morning. For a
long time past Dr. Teddy Howitt has occupied a
high - walled conventual - looking mansion in
Flinders-Lane, near the back of the old home, and
which his father bought in the early days of the
colony. Dr. W. G. H,, like his friend and neigh
hour, Dr. Tracy, died of cancer.
♦ . •
According to the veracious cable, a Phila-
delphia (U.S.) hash-house keeper has confessed to
having murdered a boarder with a large appetite
because he got enraged at the way the victim
went through the victuals. After committing the
crime he cut the hungry man into small bits and
stowed the fragments away out of sight, but they
seem to have come to light again and brought the
aggravated assassin into trouble. The whole story
is a miserable commentary upon the foolishness of
providing lavish dinners in a boarding-house. The
bxll-of fare should be adjusted according to the
mental endurance of the proprietor, and should
never embrace more food than he can see disap-
Eear down the throat of one man without feeling
omicidal. In the present case the unhappy
criminal evidently supplied his gluttonous boarder
with facilities for making a beast of himself by plac-
ingbeforehim large masses of food, and at the same
time he voluntarily sought a crown of martyrdom
by remaining in the room to see him dispose of
V' y
(I%K I : Y>
the provisions, well-knowing that he would have
to boil over or burst his waistcoat with indigna-
tion before the human hog was more than half
through ; and this injudicious conduct has already
cost one life, and bids fair to cost another. Future
hash-house keepers would do well to profit by
the experience of this unhappy sinner in Phila-
delphia. When a particularly hungry boarder
comes along the landlord should ascertain by
means of his mental thermometer how much food
he can see the stranger consume without slaughter-
ing him in a heap, and then he should place this
amount on the table, and say : “Mr. Smith ’ —
supposing, of course, that the person happens to
be Smith, which is likely enough, unless perchance
it chances to be Smytheor Oarington—“ that is all
the dinner you can eat in this house without be-
coming a mangled corpse.” If a hint of this sort
is not sufficient warning, then the blood of the
boarder rests upon his own head.
* • *
At Sydney Town Hall the other evening
Mr. T. C. O’Mara, pleading for the life of Louisa
Collins, endeavoured to show the different posi-
tions occupied by men and women by asking the
audience, “ What do you do when a woman strikes
you?’ “Prosecute ’er,” yelled one of the few
blood-hungerera who were among the crowd.
“Exactly, returned the member for Monaro;
“ and what do you do when a man strikes you ?’’
“ Prosecute ’im,” bawled the Sydney Shylosk.
“ Yes,” replied the advocate for mercy, “ if he’s not
small enough for you to hit.” The shot told.
The gentleman kept quiet during the rest of the
evening.
When Louisa Collins meets her husbands
in heaven who will speak first i
Louisa Collins underwent awful tortures
before she was hanged. After her condemnation
she was watched day and night by two female
warders. Just fancy being watched day and
night by two women !
» • »
If women are to be haugnd, should not the
executioners be women ? If capital punishment is
to be an honoured institution there surely can be
no objection to a couple of the female upholders
of the refining influence of the gallows bring paid
by the State to soap ropes and tie fancy knots and
embroider white caps and carry off the corpses
of slaughtered women, as butchers carry away the
c irpses of slaughtered sheep ! Horrible, isn’t it ?
You have only to go a little into detail —by read-
ing the evening papers, say—to see how refining
an instrument the gallows is.
• •
From Adelaide comes news of the early
call of a sucking clergyman. His ma keeps a
pub., and the times being bad she could not afford
to hire a barman, and so the young cleric was
inducted behind the battlements of Sathanas there
to assist in the “ outpouring of the spirit ”
• * •
Last year in Melbourne 423 typhoid cases
out of 1620 were fatal. During 1887, 477 patients
died out of 1267 attacked ! What is the matter ?
Open drains?
• • •
A clue bo the Whitechapel murderer has
at last been discovered. It is pointed out that he
started business in earnest on the very day after
the London Daily Telegraph abruptly closed its
columns on the great marriage controversy.
• • •
The Sydney Echo describes how a woman
and her husband quarrelled in their bedroom at a
Ballarat hotel, how cries of “murder!” were
heard, and how when the door was broken open
an infuriated female was found trampling on her
bleeding husband with a gory razor in her band.
“ The wounded man,” continues the Echo, “is
stated to be a lucky Broken Hill mine-proprietor.”
What is “luck?” Money, we suppose.
• • *
When the Mexican rising hoax was
sent over the cables, the Argus rose to and im-
proved the occasion by a column of elaboration
and description of “the place where the fight took
place,” till one came almost to believe an Abgus
man saw it. The Argus has not even yet dropped
down to its being a hoax. It has only got to ad-
mitting that “the report of the rising has not
yet been confirmed.” It has to be let down easy
so as not to fracture the ancient eggs in the pocket
of its skirt.
• •
“ Drabbled dresses and ill-tempered men ”
were the moat noticeable things about the New
Year, says a Melbourne paper. Had the editor
seen Parkes’ new trousers ?
• f *
The old man while In Melbourne was
stopping at Menzies’ Hotel and wore his largest
unmentionables. He did it to teach ‘ 1 Marvellous
Melbourne ” that it has not the biggest everything
in the world. It is said that when he appeared on
Bourke-street the people thought he was the
bearded lady with a divided skirt on.
A certain amount of suppressed excite-
ment has been created in a Victorian town on the
Sandhurst line by the conduct of a little darling
of a bride—a flossy-headed angel in white lace and
curls and good principles—who whaled her newly-
acquired human male incubus with a horsewhip as
the party was proceeding home from the wedding.
The cause of the trouble did not transpire, but it
seems that some kind of disagreement arose be-
tween the shy, blushing, joyous seraph and her
new proprietor, and she lifted her blonde head
from his shoulder and let fly at his ears, knocking
him into a shattered hat inside of 10 seconds.
When the party arrived at the bower of bliss
where the lovin’pair were to dream the happy
hours away, a flushed woman and a limp human
ruin were assisted out of the vehicle, and con-
siderable embarrassment prevailed. The cus-
tomary wedding orgies, however, went forward in
a crushed sort of way, and the usual good wishes
for future happiness were offered and responded
to. We trust, for his own sake, that the bride-
groom feels as joyous as the occasion requires A
bride of that kind would probably stamp on her
partner in order to dispel his misery any time he
looked at all careworn, and would get him down
and whale him till he was prepared to state that
he felt perfectly contented and even exuberant,
and even when he was quite cheerful she
might wallop him occasionally in order to keep
him that way. In short, he will have either to be
happy or fly, for the lady has evidently made up
her mind that a contented and serene frame of
mind shall prevail on the premises even if she
has to break everything in the place to bring it
about.
* • *
Melbourne celebrated Christmas and New
Year by enough violent deaths to last London a
whole year.
* » •
The wife of a working man at Sitting-
bourne gave birth to a child, and a fortnight after-
wards she presented her astonished husband with
another. Such a case has never been heard of
before, although there are some very curious
stories in the chronicles of the early Hebrews.
A reverend person named Dale, who spent
five months altogether on this continent, is writing
what he calls his “ Impressions of Australia.”
Here is a hunk of the ignominy which Dale’
visit left in his mind :
Their affection for England is a passion, and it makes
them extraordinarily sensitive to the criticisms of the
English Press and of the least distinguished of English
travellers on Australian achievements, Australian institu-
tions and Australian manners. It also makes them sen-
sitive to the treatment which colonial affairs and the
representatives cf the colonies receive from English
statesmen. They love us too well not to feel keenly when
we judge them hardly or treat them with indifference.
Their affection for England leads them to endeavours
which have in them an element of pathos, to reproduce
under those distant skies the sights and the joys and the
customs of “ home.”
From the above extract it will be evident that
Dale has got it very bad and he doesn’t seem to
be taking anything for it either. During his visit
to Australia the reverend author saw the whole of
Sydney and Melbourne, within the threepenny -
’bus radius, and as much of the intervening country
as he could inspect from the window of a railway
carriage between these two cities, but he probably
considered it unsafe to go further afield lest he
should fall a victim to the atrocious kangaroo and
other bloodthirsty pirates, and consequently his re-
port is rather fragmentary. Still it furnishes a
lot of interesting information, and after reading
it it occurs to us that a similar work cn Europe
for the benefit cf Australians would be of
inestimable value. Any litterateur who has a
couple of months to spare could easily run through
London in a cab and produce an entertaining
volume on the social habits of the European
nations generally, with a glance at Asia thrown
in, and if he took care to avoid those lawless wilds
where the Congregationalists and other cannibal
tribes lie in wait for their prey, and kept
judiciously away from the islands where the
naked Crofter worships fish and boils his landlord
over a slow fire, he might return alive to write
tomes of drivel about the sensitiveness of the Eng-
lish nation, and the other remarkable qualities by
which they are distinguished.
• * *
Whit a hideous thing it must be for
woman to have a quarrel with her dentist result] •
ing in police-court proceedings and the publicaj
tion in the newspapers of a statement to the effect
that she has a complete set of false teeth ! It is
more than hideous : it is ghastly.
• * •
It turns out that Lord Kintore has been
appointed Governor of South Australia simply
because he had to be provided for after the
Queen abolished his office as Captain of the
Yeomen of the Guard with a view to making
economies in order that she may he able to pro-
vide for the Battenberg brood.
• * *
“ Chinese leper found in the centre of
Sydney.” No, John, no cabbagee to-day for us.
• • •
The “loyal” Sydneyites patronise the
£150,000 Soudan donkey at the local Zoo very
badly. The £2O Timor pony earns pounds for its
shillings.
O ! lucky man, whoe’er you be
(A plated sham, or Silver King),
Congratulations warm do we
Across the waste of waters sing;
You are the first (now take our tip—
A level million bet on this)
That ever drew from Letty’s lip
The honey of her maiden kiss.
She ne’er has spooned another chap;
She’s but a novice at the game ;
She never oared a single rap
For any man, until you came
To raise a passion tender, pure,
A love sublime within her breast;
So rare a prize, you may be sure,
Was worthy of a Monarch’s quest.
Then name the day, good Silver King,
Which shall begin your golden age,
Miss Lefity is an artless thing
Who wants to leave “that horrid stage; ”
But should she find her “ wealthy ” mash
Has not a cent to call his own,
Then Betty will provide the cash
And love you for yourself alone.
Blow the horn—the cymbals bang—
Let Louisa Collins hang !
Else no woman —beat the drum —
Can be hanged in time to come.
Hark ! The Herald angels cry—
“ Were not Louie made to die ;
Really, one would have to stop
Putting women through the drop.”
Bang the cymbals—blow the horn!
Man is of his mother born;
Who, that loves the softer sex,
Can object to break their necks ?
Ever since the Bible Flood
Britain has shed woman’s blood—
Tortured, burnt ’em at the stake,
For the old religion’s sake.
To religions old we cling,
Therefore shall Louisa swing,
In accordance wioh the grand
Custom of our Motherland.
Hallelujah ! Bless the Gov.!
Mercy cometh from above.
Justice here is on the job—
Put it there, dear Nosey Bob ;
From your duty never shrink,
Of the future you must think ;
Lots of ladies yet, we hope,
Will be dangled from a rope.
Just to finish off our rhyme—
D n a li “ sympathy with crime ! ”
Awful bad at heart they are
Who’d object to hang their Mar.


COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
piyiDBNBS—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provide THE WHOLE OE THE
W TWTHJE SURPLUS ™ILdLta'.W Com™ S S te™ CSS. li “ < * «***• <*• «• * a*"*"* PULL PARTICIPATION
A correspondent of The Writer, a new
English journal for literary workers, asserts that
literary sweating, as described by Rider Haggard
in “Mr. Meeson's Will,” actually exists. It’s
done in this way A young lady—one miaht
almost say girl—who exhibits some talent for
writing is tak-nup by a speculator in literary
wares, and carefully fostered into notoriety. A
contract is signed, whereby the lady, on her part,
engages to write, under direction, for a certain
number of years for a certain amount per annum,
while the speculator, on his part, undertakes to
gst the books she produces published, noticed, and
talked about. There are one or two young
authoresses at present before the public who have
been so “run” into fame and notoriety, and two
or three others are in course of preparation, and
will in due time be foisted upon the public.
• • •
“ I hope you appreciate the fact, sir, that
in marrying my daughter you marry a large-
hearted, generous girl.” “I do, sir (with
emotion); and I hope she inherits those qualities
from her father.”—Life.
• • *
The wealthy Mackenzie, of Kintail, who
was recently competing with Sir Salmon Wilson
in the entertainment of the P. of W. at Horn-
burg, is a successful Ceylon merchant. The
spectacle of two worthy representatives of the two
leading grovel-colonies engaged in a “loyalty”
competition at a German watering-place must
have been extremely edifying.
• * •
What price this ? (from Age of 31st De-
cember) :
(GENTLEMEN, two, wanted, share room with two
ladies ; taken lor comfort and independence.
Culture, Age.
• •
Zola thus hits off the Pharisaism of the
average Briton ;
‘ What is the literary food which they offer their
well-trained daughters ? Tney deny them the tainted
French novel, and substitute moral—oh, highlv moral 1
—English and American daily newspapers. They are
served every morning at the breakfast table with a
detailed account of abominations and depravities which a
respectable French paper would not print, and I would
respectfully ask if all this sensational news is any the lees
hideous because it is truth, because it is the work of the
police reporter instead of the literary artist.”
Certainly. Did Zola ever write anything in
his life half as brutal as that Adelaide telegram of
last week ?
* * •
The following story of the loves of Victor
Emanuel is from a new book “ Random Recollec-
tions of Courts and Society ’’: —
A source of anxiety to Count Cavour was the king’s
enduriog infatuation for Rosina Yeroellana, the keep r’s
daughter, whom the prince had loved wh-n on y Duke
of Savoy, and, like the son of Predarick the Great, vi-ited
in defiance of his father’s commands by scaling at night
the walls c f the royal park of Eaconigi. After the death
o! the queen the protracted liaison of the king wa< lead-
ing him surely and unwisely to" its consecration by
marriage. Cavour bad endured that Rosina should have
been made C junt-ss of Mivaflori—a perfumer’s title, as
the Piedmontese called it—that all should have been done
for her children s tve legitemize taem, but he could not
reconcile himself to this last eteo. Victor Etna ’it el, from
carelessness or parti pris, had been wilfully b icd to
certain derelictions o' Resina’s, who more than once was
led astray by her lower instincts and the memory of old
associations. Cavour, wi h the assistance of Count Cigala,
Master of the Horse, laid a plan by which the king should
be convinced by ocular demonstration of Rosina’s infidel-
ity. They persuaded Mm to put Her to the test atd abide
by the proofs; he consented at first, but at the last
moment drew back. It was then that Cavour, as a last
resource, being fully persuaded that the prestige of the
monarchy was essential to the furtherance of Ms ulti • ate
scheme of a great united Italy, adjured Victor Emanuel
in the name of the services he had rendered him not to
cause him the most cruel pain he could suffer. The king,
conquered by the fervent appeal of his faithful minister,
promised solemnly that as long as Cavour lived he would
never marry Rosina. Unfortunately, the statesman did
not survive long enough to prevent the union he oreaded
so much. After his death in 1861, having hesitated some
years more, tae king considered himself relieved of his
oaih, a d privately married the Countess de Mirafiori.
Of common origin, without education or particular beauty,
Rosina was non, however, a winked or dangerous woman ;
she suffered the admiration of the king more than she
c jurtsd it, and retained it without any secret motives of
intrigue or amoition. She proved heraelt neitner exact-
ing nor greedy ; she liked him after a fashion, and
infinitely mo'e as time passed on ; she bore the countless
infidelities of a man who reckoned his caprices by
hundreds, with indifference at first and resignation after-
ward, and put forth no claims on his fidelity or his purse.
. . . She cherished his memory with a stubborn, dogged
flde’ity, truer in death than in life, and had already
ordered the wreath of flowers which she sent every year
to ba placed on his tomb with the uniformly short inscrip-
tion, Una Inconsolata, when she succumbed herself.
The relatives of an executed murderer are
suing the coroner of New York for the recovery of
the brains of the deceased.
•
Napier (N.Z) purposes holding a beauty-
show on the lines of that lately held at Baden.
• • *
Mr. John Charles M‘Laughlan, whom
Dailey christened “the Attorney-General of the
Interior,” has started practice in Sydney. He
practised in Orange (N S.W.) for a quarter of-a-
oentury, and made enough money to build a man-
sion. For many years he has hospitably enter-
tained every man of distinction who visited the
great West Law has expanded his heart instead
of narrowing his human sympathies. He is a
smart lawyer, a brilliant advocate, and, above all,
one of the “ whitest ” men in the country.
• * *
Parson Fitohett, who edits Melbourne
D.T., says female murderesses should be hanged.
Perhaps in his other capacity as head of a ladies’
boarding-school our reverend brother thinks ib is
necessary to hang a woman now and then. We
shouldn’t wonder,
• * •
A pair of Patriot O’Brien’s breeches were
raffled at a bazaar at Dublin the other day. The
winner was a lady, and it is said that when they
were handed bo her she asked “if they weren’t
going to give her a man along with them ?”
* * *
The other day Miss Mary Alice Ethel
Doyle passed her first year’s examination in arts
at Melbourne University. Miss Doyle is younger
daughter of the late James Doyle, for many years
sub editor of the Melbourne Age.
Louis Napoleon, in his pre-Impetial days,
and the late Earl of Pembroke were both badly
‘’shook” on Doche, the great French actress*
who created “La Dame aux Camelias,’’ She
did nob know which bo choose, Napoleon, ib is
recorded, pressed his suib bhusly ;—“ I cannob
marry you, because my name does nob belong to
me bub bo a dynasty, nor can I afford bo lavish so
much money on you as Lord Pembroke can ; bub
I can tell you what I will do if you will con-
sent to refuse his suib. I will promise you
never to marry even if I become Emperor,
and I will settle a thousand pounds a year
on you for life now, and make you a Countess
and a millionaire if ever I become Emperor.”
Bub Doche hadn’t much faith in Napoleon’s
chances of being E mperor of the French, so she
“cottoned” bo “Mad” Pembroke in hopes that
he would, in a moment of passionate exasperation,
lay something like half his fortune at her feet.
She went too far, however. Day after day she
would accept his lordship’s invitations to supper,
and always at the last moment send an excuse.
At last, Lord Pembroke one day said to the
late Lord Olanricarde, who used bo tell the story,
‘I am tired of this folly. lam giving a supper
‘o-nighb at Richmond, and I have invited
Doche. If she comes before eleven, I will
give her £lO,OOO, if she comes before twelve
I will give her £2OOO, but if she comes
after twelve I won’t receive her, and if she does
not come at all I will give to-morrow £20,000 to
the ugliest woman in London, and the one our
Doche hates the most—Schaeffer, the danseuse ! ”
Doche did not come to the feast, and Pembroke,
true to his word, presented £20,000 worth of dia-
monds to Schaeffer. The lady was hideously ugly
V
W* **l (,jf
L Without
CAPTAIN ROWAN.
and very stupid, bub she managed ba entangle
Pembroke’s heart somehow, and he gave her all
the money he could, and had not the property
been entailed, he would have given her everything.
A distinguished French family, “De Mont-
gomerie ” (Earl of Pembroke and Montgomery),
the members of which are well known in the
“ high life ” of the French capital, is the result of
this strange infatuation.
* * •
Dr. Harman Tarrant, the well-known
Sydney surgeon and Masonic dignitary, leaves
Sydney on 23rd instant for a tour over America
and Europe. Dr. Tarrant, as has already been
stated, has lately had a big slice of luck—he and a
friend having bought for a few thousand pounds
what is said to ba the best bismuth mine in the
world. It is situated near Bowen, North Q., and
is expected to yield £15,000 a year nett profit.
Yes, that’s queer, very queer. Cardinal
Moran, the teetotaller, who wants bo shut up all
public-houses near R.C. churches, recommending
John Toohey, the big Sydney brewer, to the Pope
for a knighthood of St, Gregory the Great. St.
Francis’ Church, Haymarket, with its adjoining
Temperance Hall, is infested by five pubs., three
of which are kept by the Noonans, Murphys, and
Normoyles. Now, if the Cardinal manages to
get, at all events, three out of the five grog-shops
closed, what is he going to do with the Standard
Brewery a few yards further on ? An unaimed
Cardinal can’t go and rush upon a knightly sword
that he himself has placed in the band of the
valiant beer-maker last Christmas Day. It’s all
very well to do battle with Mickey this or Paddy
that, but when it comes to attacking a Knight of
St. Gregory—well, that old Spanish fool who
tackled the windmill had more sense than to try
that on.
* *
Kyrle Bellew, the actor who was wedded
in St. Patrick’s R 0. Cathedral, Melbourne, in
1873, to Mdlle Eugenie Legrand, lately told a
New York reporter that he was 21 years old and
“mad” when he married Mdlle. Legrand, and
that the marriage began and ended in the sacristy
of the church. He added that after the wedding
he did not meet his wife for ten years, when she
accosted him in the reading-room of the Langham
Hotel, London, and they exchanged a few words.
He has since been divorced from her.
*
Goak by our special Irishman. Bishop
Barry got married despoite all his objections to
th’ mate.
* *
A set of quadruplets born at Wellington
(N.Z.) recently, have succumbed. Not dead, but
gone by four.
* •
n,., ijttt TTjrnrxT * a,,,.
, da u.- U uu- three or four years
of scrubbing, grubbing, rolling, etc., etc., of the
N.S.W. National Park, the trustees of that place
have actually produced the name “Sir J. Robert-
son ”in something green. There must be some-
thing in a name after all, for the broadcast doesn’t
thrive alongside of that titled bit.—Yours, Hawk-
SHAW.
• • •
The Victorian Ministerial party, accom-
Sanied by a number of ladies and friends, went
own bo the sea in the s.s. ‘ Lady Loch” at
Christmas time, and all were taken so dolefully
sick that they were put ashore and returned to
Melbourne by train. The whole of the guests
and the crew of the vessel agree that the popular
impression that Gillies is close-fisted is utterly
erroneous. When seized down the bay he readily
parted with all he had.
The two days’ festivities to celebrate the
coming of age of young Mr. Sewing-Machine-
Singer, cost £4OOO,
The Adelaide correspondent of a Sydney
evening paper still maintains his pre-eminence
in graphic filthiness.
• * •
“ Omega ” writes to Melbourne Herald,
in a spirit of lugubrious sadness, to signify that
he is filled with a great quaking and a harassing
fear for the future of the dreamy females who
’tend church in that latitude south and longitud 6
east, because they use fans in the sanctuary. He
has observed that the Australian female is prone
to prop herself up against the fixtures of the holy
edifice in an attitude of deathly languor, and
wearily flap a ten-guinea fan, and look bored
nearly off her head, and curled into a knot with
violent contempt for tne bonnet across the aisle,
whilst the perspiring parson grabs up great
spiritual weights, and falls tempestuously on
mighty errors, and butts the saw-dust out of
modern scepticism, and rages over the remains
till, in his furious exertions, his surplus adipose
tissue flows over the top of his boots and falls in
large drops on the floor of the church. “ Omega”
thinks the ladies should sit up stiff, and
take their saving grace with becoming so-
lemnity. They should sit in angular, tor-
tuous attitudes, and fix the presiding par-
son with an attentive eye, and encourage
pains in their backs, and stiff necks, and let their
feet go to sleep, and permit the foraging mosquito
to browse undisturbed on the ends of their noses
and on their alabaster brows, and encourage the
agile fly to stream down their backs and trickle
into their ears and otherwise disport amongst
their features, that they may be awake to their
unworthiness and willing to drop off suddenly at
any moment. Whilst in favour of the fan as a
feature of advanced civilisation and a useful
article of furniture behind which to kiss a pretty
girl, we are utterly opposed to its use in church
as calculated to encourage the sweet things in the
choir to wink at the elders during prayers; be-
sides, the style of clergyman now in common use
is eminently calculated to supply wind enough for
all the requirements of an ordinary congregation.
• * a
“Why am I like a pin?” asked Mr.
Wittyman triumphantly to his wife. He ex-
pected she was going to say, “ Because you are so
sharp,” and he was simply paralysed when she re-
sponded : “Because if you should get lost it
wouldn’t be worth while to spend time looking
for you, and because two hundred of you put up
in a bundle wouldn’t be worth twopence. -Ex-
change,
* * *
A gentleman of notoriety In Victoria re-
cently commenced to build a “ splendid place ” on
the strength of a bubble rise in the syndicate
value of certain acres of land held by him. He
refused a first offer of £BO,OOO, and put the an-
cestral hall in hand while he eat waiting for
further unearned increment. Bang went the
boom, the freeholder suddenly became involved in
troubles with his “ paper,” and at the present
moment that crushed speculator is living in the
two roomed lodge intended for the gatekeeper of
the stately edifice which will never be reared. At
one time or another many strange stories have
been told about the subject of this essay, but
whether this story contains any more truth than
some of the others is a moot point and a dark
mystery.
Dean England (R.C.) who has just died at
North Melbourne, was one of the oldest and best-
known of Australian priests. He was a Cork
man. The late Archbishop Goold had a great
partiality for his own townies, and is used to be
said by malicious people that clerics who hadn’t
bad the advantage of coming from the same spot
as Dr. Goold and Father Mathew were handi-
capped in Melbourne. Dr. Goold liked Dean
England much, and the Dean loved Goold (with
two o’s) but was no great adherent of Father
Mathew. The Cork Cai uchin’s teetotal principles
didn’t fit in with Henry England’s ideas of hospi-
tality. The thirsty as well as the hungry were
looked after with-equal anxiety at the Hotham
Presbytery. The Dean’s hospitality was as cele-
brated as the milk-white cob that he rode for years
through the streets of Melbourne, A few years
ago Father England was made the victim of a
surprise-party jcke. Somebody sent out a score
of invitations in his name to cinner on a certain
evening, and at the appointed hour Alderman
O’Brady, and Dr. Lanigan, and Mick Hooligan,
the contractor, and Tim M Inerney, of the
Home Rule Hotel, and Captain O’Shay
(late of the 88tb, retired), and Tim O’Brine,
the attorney, and all the others came troop-
ing in to the amazement of the Dean who
didn’t know what the mischief they all wanted !
However, in a lull in the lacghter and conversa-
tion O’Brady blurted out that he was hungry and
O’Shay hinted that he wanted a S. and B , be
Jupiter! and then the fat was in the fire, but
none before or on it, more was the pity ! But the
Dane wasn’t going to have his fame for hospitality
tarnished-like, so he sent Mick, the man, off to a
restaurant for a cold feed for the lot and cham-
pagne was opened, of which the blackguard who
sent out the invitations drank more that blessed
day than any two men present, including old
Lanigan. Dean was as modest as he was big-
hearted. He was nephew of Bishop England, of
Charleston, U.S.A., the author and statesman,
but was prepared to slaughter man, woman, or
child who vaguely hinted at the relationship. For
some time past Father B. had to be accompanied
by an attendant wherever he went.
LAYS OF LOVE BY A CASUAL BARD.
No. III.
AN ACCFPTANCE.
Darling, if you love me,
Then I’ll marry you,
If you would embrace me
I am ready—Do ?
We will dwell together
Underneath one roof ;
I will bring the beauty,
You’ll provide—the oof.
True, that while I’m thirty,
You are sixty-three;
But you’ll be a second
Mother unto me.
Some one said you would be
Rather in the way,
Still that was a spiteful
Sort of thing to say.
And another murmured,
“ Too dear at the price.”
But a man who’d say that
Can’t be very nice.
You need have no fear, Love,
That you’ll tire of me ;
I possess one virtue—
Amiability.
And, Love, when we marry,
As we hope to do,
Then I shan’t be teeing
Very much of you.


Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George street. In anticipation of
a large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps-
burg Pianos, they have just lauded out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The follow-
ing are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz , check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, au expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
east, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the bass
covered with copper only. The vibrations are
reverberated by a sounding board specially secured
•gainst changes < f t mp°rature, imparting a clear,
full, round, delicious singing tone in marked con-
trast to the tin kettly, metallic sounds of inferior
instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double oblique, the
itrings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
than the old, ftraighb-strung pianos.
4th. AU Hapsburgs are trichord.
6th. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from
the bottom of the case to the extreme top of the
wrest-plank s°curely bolted through the latter.
Compound studs sustain the whole with absolute
rigidity. To at these precautions are necessary
may be understood frt m the fact that the tension
t 4 the wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons.
Thus the rat id mutations of our climate are
resisted and tuning is only required at long inter-
vals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
Curg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Fide as a special safeguard against change. A
srlit Wrest-plank is an unknown accident, to a
Hapsburg.
9tb, Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches. Moths, Mrce, &c. Wire-gauge backs
•re provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearing are secured
in their places by screws, which is a great excep-
tion to the us ial style of construction,
11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
Interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
Or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg,
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache ; the author of
the “ Crown of Thorns, ” and many other noble composi-
tions, banded us the following:—
“Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
“ I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote:
“ Ayant sounds les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de'Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPBEUYES,
je declare avoir etb aussi oharmee que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REM A RQU A BLES. Je les
en toute siucerit6. ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney, 20
Juin, 1883,”
CERTIFICATE.
“ I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.'s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatlv surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of “ Unfurl the Flag ” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Oovmtor or Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE CCftMWRK.
“ The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRArn.
“ The Piano used on the occasion woe a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power. ”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“ The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
Of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone. ”
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ehip. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
" Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29,1883.
“Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the-
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos. ”
HAYDN ORGANS. 1
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Ymm.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of the?e Organs
have been sold. The best Only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent'indiarubber bellpws (which insects will' not
touch), ivory keys, massive oases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY
, Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 G boros Strbbt, Stdnbt.
NO MATTEL WHERE YOU LIVE we will supply you
with Plano, Organ, or Harmonium upon EASY TIMA
PAYMENTS.
QHBISTMAS HOLIDAYS.
]VfEIiACHRINO!
IVfELACHIimO !
This world-renowned Egyptian Cigarette is
made from the finest Yknidqe Tobacco and has
NO Equal. Has now the Labgest Salb in the
WOBLD 1
M. MELAOHRINO & 00., Oaibo,
And 21 Cockspur Strbbt, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy,
WARREN & ROWM,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
Leading Tobacconists In Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily. Fresh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
Jg O N D I AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission,
Is. | Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUOIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
A HAPPY NEW YEAR!
TO-NIGHT,
Mr. CHAS.
TO-NIGHT,
ARNOLD
IN HANS THE BOATMAN.
GRAND MATINEE PERFORMANCE,
SATORD AJV‘ i* 5.X889.
ADMISSION—Ss., Ss., %s. and Is.
Box Office open dally at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
■VTBW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
.131 Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards,
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
COMEDIANS, SINQBBS, AOTOBS, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Evebtthinq New, Obiginal, and Repined,
Doors open 7: commence at 8.
Admission—Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John 0. Leete.
Theatre royal
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman
Immense Success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by
A MOST POWERFUL
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION IN
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts'at Mackay’a.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45,
Tremendous Success of
The Grand Christmas Production,
YOUTH YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH,
PRICES, 55., 35,, Ss., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
G
A S.
GAS.
GAS.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
ŧ
THE ITALIAN BEE 00.,
Fabbamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Oomb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
110 000
B away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbans
Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
Brittenberg & 0 0..
• IMPORTERS,
81 Olabknoe Street, Wynyabd Square,
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
DR. GEORGE ON LEE,
31 Carlton Tkrracb,
Wynyabd Square, Sydney.
Consultation Hours: !• a.at. until 2 p.m.
••Mt Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown. Don't forget
him, Suite to measure foe 41 Is.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers.
Eitli'j Batiag; Fovltrs,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&C» | &C. j &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
Hams STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Western Australia ii the Coming Colon;.
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
*« The very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those places,
where there seems every reason to feel confident tbat sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony Is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gatot to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will he the beginning of a new
era.”—Extract from Governor Broome’s speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£10
£10
EACH LOT.
EASY TERMS. Freehold Land. Torrens’Title.
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result ? A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THU BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthub Gath.
mr rsorvßiiT iiurinmD n
BT
Thb Bulletin's well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Pbiob - ONE SHILLING.
Pei Post, la. Bd. (except Queensland).
AH AfiEHTR.
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
SIGN WRITERS
AND
ART ++ DECORATORS
96 Castlereagh Street,
One Dook from King Street.
£2O
£2O
BUCKBOABD BUGGIES
Regular shipments ol the Beat Blackboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x Bin. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buokboarda with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms: Cash: or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
w
(oJJ&SltidyfclSc)
Sir George Grey has written a Maori love-
story for the N.Z. Hkeald.
The hanging of Louisa Collins has been
such a godsend to the Sydney dailies during the
silly season that they are now busily considering
who is to be hanged during the next Parliamentary
vacation. We shall be glad to receive suggestions
upon the subject from Nosey Bob.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
6ven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing,
teas Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTBNTON BROS.. 11l
Rasssli street. MBLBOURNB
n
BWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS.
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mandtaotobt t
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Farlonr, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
>AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
* sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbing and O’Connell Stbbbth.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPBINQ StBEETB.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable earlv
English designs.— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door; Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Class attached; Pedestal Cufboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB.
O’Connell and Spbing Stbbetb,
ţ
Austrian bent-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Veby Oompibth
Assoetment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
ť
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for oamplng
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. fid.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 6 feet long and np to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d, j BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.: 12x8, 12s. 6d.j
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
ŧ
PATENT
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
186 feet of hanging spaoe
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
t
£JANVAB FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
«)
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Frloe Very Low.
NEWTON A LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPBINQ AND O’OONNBLft STBBBTB.
Lawn and PARE SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustle
Oast-Iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Nbwtos
and Lamb.
/GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chain
VJ Indian Lono-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON A LAMB.
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
165.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Nbwton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Oonnell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Nbwton A Lamb, Importers, O’Oonnell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wive, be*
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. bmi.
NBWTON and LAMB.


THE
Public Carriage Company,
LIMITED.
'to be Registered under the Companies Act
1874 1888.
CAPITAL £50,000 in 50,000 shares oH £1
EACH, payable as follows 2». 6d per Share to
bs paid on application, 2s. 6d. per Share to be
paid on allotment. The balance, if needed, in
calls of not more than 2s. per Share, at intervals
of not less than 3 months.
No application for less than five Shares will be
entertained, and no greater number than five
hundred will be allotted to any one applicant.
Itpon application being received for any num-
b°r of Shares which the Provisional Directors
deem sufficient to enable active operations to be
commenced, it will be in their discretion to call a
meeting of the Shareholders for the purpose of
authorising the registration of the Company.
The Company Will start clear on its ow'h basis,
untrammelled py bonuses or paid-up Shares to
promoters’, and the public may be assured that
it has not bound itself to the purchase of any
cMhting property or interest.
Provisional Directors : 1
Hon. EDMUND BARTON, M L 0.
THOMAS'COOK, Esq. (Scone)
A. C. FRASER, Esq.
E. A FRANKLIN, Esq , C.E.
C. A OOODCHAP. Esq.
L. J HARNETT, Esq.
J. Y MILLS, E q . J P.
Hon R. H. D. WHITE, M.L.C.
Bankers *
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING CO. OF
SYDNEY.
Secretary ;
GEORGE BARBER, Esq.
Office :
382 GEORGE STREET.
Solicitor :
E. HERBERT GROSSMAN, Esq., 40 Hunter St.
Brokers *
THE COLONIAL FINANCE, MORTGAGE,
INVESTMENT AND GUARANTEE
CORPORATION, Limited, 72 Pitt Street.
THIS Company is being formed for the pur-
pose of providing for public hire a superior
class of vehicles; and thus meeting a long-felt and
generally recognised want.
The Company’s aim will be to supply carriages
of first-rate class and character, comprising, in ad-
dition to the styles of vehicles ordinarily in use on
the stands :
1. The Victoria, specially adapted for the use
of ladies on account of its facility for ingress and
egress; and for the avoidance of contact with
dirty wheels, a frequent source of damage to
dress. The introduction of this type of carriage
for hire obviously offers great advantages to ladies
for park-driving, shopping, and social calls.
2. The small, four-wheel cab, which affords
sp»ca for four inside passengers and for baggage
on the roof. This cab is specially suited for pas-
sengers going to and from the railway and
steamers.
3 The Wagonette, in such general use in Vic-
toria, with capacity for family use, thereby avoid-
ing the t eparation enforced by the necessity of
using two or more Hansoms.
4. The square fronted or Brougham Hansom.
Stabling, combining all modern improvements,
will be provided on some convenient site to be de-
cided upon. Id is obvious that the purchase of
horses and their provender on a wholesale scale
for cash can be effected to great advantage.
An apt illustration of the results attending the
operations of a large Company may be found in
the excellent and profitable service of the Sydney
Tram and Omnibus Company, as compared with
those of proprietors of a single omnibus,
lo is anticipated that not more than 10s, per
Share will be called up. Estimates of the pro-
bable outlay and income have been made by an
expert, and, upon these, it appears to the Provi
sional Directors that a nett return of nearly 15 per
cent, on the calculated outlay may confidently be
expected.
It is believed that the Company’s regulations
will ba an assurance to ladies of proper convey-
ance and civility in return for the legal fare ; and
will thus remove the dread they sometimes feel,
when alone, of entering a strange cab.
The Company’s operations will open an avenue
of employment to a large number of the best and
most respectable of the present cab-drivers, to
whom it will also be open by becoming Share-
holders, to secure a co-operating interest in the
success of the Company.
The advantages offered by the Company may be
summed up as follows
TO THE PUBLIC GENERALLY.
1. The assurance of being able to obtain the
use of clean, commodious, and well-appointed
carriages of the types now in use as well as those
above specified.
2 The vehicles will be driven by civil, well-
conducted men, provided with tickets for the legal
fare, whose dismissal will follow any misconduct
or attempted extortion.
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
3. The prospect of a highly remunerative return
on their investments.
4. The participation by themselves in the profits
accruing partially from their own patronage.
5, The business, as it satisfactorily progresses,
is capable of almost indefinite expansion.
Appi.’cation for Shaee3 should be made upon
the accompanying form and forwarded either to
the Secretary, or to the Brokers of the Company,
together with the amount payable on application.
If po allotment is made the deposit will be re-
turned, less only the actual cost of printing,
postage, brokerage, k\ In the event of more
than 50,000 shares being applied for, allotment
will be made pro rata. Where the number of
Shares allotted is less than the number applied
for the surplus will be credited in reduction of the
amount payable on allotment.
Attention is invited to the following extracts
from the Sydney Morning Herald of 3rd and
4th January, 1889
“ The vehicles of Sydney provide a subject for
standing complaint. The complaints made are
that the hansoms are expensive, and are inade-
quate to our needs. The case of “ Visitor ”is one
that occurs every day, and many times a day. If
a family or a party arrives at Redfern, several
hansoms must be taken to convey them to their
destination, and the transportation of luggage, if
of any size, except by van, is out of the question.
It is quite natural, therefore, that complaint
should be made against both the inconvenience
and the cost in such instances. Be a man poor or
rich, he does not feel like paying a crown when a
half-crown should suffice for transportation ; and
there is no doubt that much more money is spent
in Sydney oh hansoms than should be spent for
the accommodation afforded. The wagonettes,
such as are in use in Melbourne and Adelaide, are
most convenient, and are comparatively inex-
pensive, In those places a whole family can be
conveyed to their destination for the same price
that would be paid here by two people for a han-
«om. As far as Our hansoms go they are all right.
They are light, speedy, and pleasant for one or
two people, but there should be a larger choice
afforded the public. The arguments against the
wagonettes are not sufficiently strong to preclude
them from license and use. With our block pave-
ment, as our correspondent points out, the plea of
injury to the streets can hardly be raised ; and as
for heavy grades, there are some grades just as
heavy in Melbourne. If the people make demand
for the licensing of wagonettes, they should not
be disregarded. It is the convenience of the
greatest number that should be sought, and if it
is possible to secure the licensing of other vehicles
besides hansoms, it should be done. In our ever-
growing city the question of cheap and convenient
transit is pressing heavily upon us. We stand a
chares of improving the tram tystem, we are im-
proving the omnibus system, and the cab system
is worth considering aleo. If the grievance is
deep-seated, it will not stop where it is.”
“ It was stated on the authority of Mr. A,
Edwards, the Registrar for the Transit Commis-
sion, that there is nothing whatever to prevent
licenses being issued to the proprietors of four-
wheelers, and quite the contrary, the Transit
Commission has endeavoured to have them intro-
duced here.”
APPLICATION FORM.
TO THE DIBECTOBS OF
lb Fubiic Carriage Companr, Limited.
Gentlemen,
Please allot me Shares in the above
Company upon the terms of the Company’s Pros-
pectus, for which I now enclose £ , being
application instalment of 2s, 6d, per Share, and
I hereby agree to accept the same or any smaller
number that may be allotted to me, and to pay
the further instalment of 2s. 6d per Share on
allotment , as provided by the said Prospectus,
and I authorise you to register me as the holder
of the said Shares, and I agree to sign the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
said Company when called on to do so.
Name
Occupation i
Address
THE PUBLIC CARRIAGE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Received this ... day of.
of Mr the sum of
being a deposit of 2s, 6d. per share upon
Shares in the above
Company.
£
N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
The Chief Justice,
Mr. Justice HARDING, in Chambers.
In the matter of the petition of JOSEPH JUPP
SMALLMAN BARNETT, of Apis Creek,
rear Rockhampton, in the Colony of Queens-
land, Station Manager, praying Divorce
against his wife, EMMA SMALLMAN
BARNETT.
TO EMMA SMALLMAN BARNETT, Re-
spondent, and ALBERT LLEWELLYN
CORRY, Co-respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that by an order made by Mr.
Justice H\RDING in Chambers on WEDNES-
DAY the nineteenth day of December, 1888, it
was ordered that service of rhe petition filed
herein on the fifteenth day of NOVEMBER last
and citation issued out of this Honorable Court
on the fifteenth day of NOVEMBER last
by publishing this notice once in the Queens-
land Government Gazette, once in the Bets-
bane Coukier, twice in the Queenslander,
twice in The Week, once in the Sydney
Morning Herald, twice in the Sydney Bul-
letin, and once in the Melbourne Argus,
newspapers printed and published in the Colonies
of Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria
respectively, and by posting office copies of the
said Petition and Citation addressed to the above-
named respondent and co respondent, care of Mrs.
GEORGE MARKAM, of Tiaro, near Mary-
borough, in the colony of Queensland, be sufficient
service of the said Petition and Citation.
And further take notice that you are required
to enter an appearance thereto at the Supreme
Court t ffice, Brisbane, within six weeks from the
publication hereof, otherwise the Petitioner will
proceed your absence notwithstanding.
Dated this 31st day of December, 1888.
CHAMBERS, BRUCE & M'NAB.
Solicitors for Petitioner,
Adelaide-street, Brisbane.
MRS. READ accepts Engagements for
Amateur Performances. Old woman or
character business. Address, 102 Oastlereagh-so.
MATRIMONY.— A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, gocd-looking, wishes to correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
offer on first-class station in North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X.Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens-
land.
y&N
" They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to ail the other
• Corsets I have tried."
' (Signed) Mane Rote,
PATENT
Siitoul Seam Const
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine YA N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal seam Ooreel, No. 116." In oval.
Three O-old Models 11
•eld by all Draper! and Ladle* Outfitter*
THE
Sjdnej ini Fiorincial land ani Building Co,,
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital ... £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £67,160.
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £39,987
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK.—Withdraw without notice.
Interest, 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs, 6d. a week.
How to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
JTho Best In the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mi! Eilkkiit & Hi,
231 CLARENCE STREET
vvT7
ns
ţ
ME
EVERYWHERE
m
Perdrlau <§& 00.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washkes, Gaskets &0., &o. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
ALLA* A. MARSHALL & C 0.,
Engineees, Ooppebsmiths, Bbass and Bell Founders,
Finishebs, Pldmbebs, Gaseittebs, Ship & Genebal Smiths, Abt & Medieval Metal Wobkebb
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—-11,000 Fires already In use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
BON ACC OF If WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Groavenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
mHIS Magnificent Hotel is now open,
and will be conducted on the beet
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO baa been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. ROWAN, Manager.
m
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
’VINVHSVJL ‘IOiSaOMfIVI
‘'isaoh § ausc-srssiais
i. J :
HorjT'
■ * A nut USE • T* 11 W IMIJUTOWII
I» *=r
ti retain punlO-UW. UL I MUliWl- rtOMi*-
rr*i>rl«t»r.
MSSST-CXi-A-SS HOUSE,
Wines,' French Liquors & Savanna Cigars a Speciality of. Sense. Cuisine fraicaise.
9
0
mt BIILSAIE) TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORS
MUtIABB CUSHIONS, <fea t MADE ON THE PREMISES.
(§M Tables re fitted by ©nr ©wn mesi
«ffiH O €TTIS,IA£LS te stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS St I®WS&
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
% ILlttli jeorgi Streep STOHEY, i.S.Wo 8 ini Sohc Sqnara, MiMCE


Business Announcements.
*r THE OJSTLTr ■«
KOilCll ISSTRUMEST
Direct Supply Association!
r~ ■■■ ■ ■■■■ 1 '
j 658 George Streetp 658
j 658 Colonnadßp 658
| 5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREB*
V '
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying,
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 800 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355,
, „ steel notes ... 60s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
LC
The finest sh iw of A(JCO±tUJtfUi>ics to be seen
n the col onies from 10s. fid. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Acoordeon ... 80s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 355. Od,
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/8, 3/6, 6/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 18s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality s 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
mu mn mis,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Sllverand Copper Strings, 9d., Is,,and Is.3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Bnitar, Cello, Viola Double Bass, lan,
2itbar, k, k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
8/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, np to £l6 16/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
6, 8 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
6, 8 or 7 £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any ol abo' e
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. LI
■truments packed carefully and sent to any part c
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN, Manager
MS George Street.
It la reported that the Duke of Edinburgh
has given £2OO to a hospital in Greece I Git out!
A ’Frisco paper gives an account of the
late N.Z. earthquake, and says “ that the Christ-
church Cathedral, Auckland, was destroyed.”
With reference to this a Christchurch paper plain-
tively asks that its town should get credit for its
own earthquake.
American and true :
In Massachusetts, in 1839, Marcus Morton received one
vote more than his competitor, Edward Everett. During
Governor Morton’s term, a branch railroad from Taunton
to New Bedford was completed, and New Bedford cele-
brated the event by a grand jubilee. The exercises were
to begin at twelve o'clock, and the governor, a Taunton
man, was, of course, invited. Twelve o'clock came, but
no governor. The whole proceedings were delayed, and
the crowd wondered and fretted. Finally, just as the
clock struck one, the missing official appeared, and Mr.
Clifford, who was then the State attorney, and afterwards
governor himself, immediately arose, and proposed the
following sentiment. “Governor Morton, who always
gets in by one ! ”
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kaltdor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Pom, Olaret, Hook, Sherry, Rontlllen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, ho. Unequalled Hlgh-olase Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemlst, near Klng.etreet.*
E. C. ELEY
,o*
$
&
s
#
<3
O'
A
£
S
o
5?
V
0
&
&
o
9
O
v
£
(S
£
o
£
&
&
&
o
rf 8
V*
&
30.
o
0
v
<b
ť
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY.
The Roll Call—“ Ba-ker !”
It la better to dam the rain than to pray
for it.
The local board at Yentnor, England,
almost within ear-shot of the Royal Palace of
Osborne, have refused to pass an account of six
guineas, the amount paid for the preparation of a
Jubilee address to Her Most Gracious Majesty
Queen Victoria. One Tory member said :“ If
they had gone to the back door of Windsor Castle
the day after Jubilee Day, they might have got
bushels of these addresses second-hand at a shill-
ing each ! ”
The machinery of the Groapal must be well
greased to grind well. A South Australian
Wesleyan minister was applied to by the local
Council for rates. The minister of grace sent this
fleshly reply:—
The account for rates on house owned by me at Narra-
coorte is to hand ; will you kindly hold it over, as a
tenant is just going into it, and you will be able to apply
to him for the amount shortly. Don’t ask him for it too
soon, give him a little grace. Don’t mention that 1 asked
you to apply to him lor the rates ; of course occupiers
are always responsible.
The God of Mammon is a most influential per-
sonage now-a-days.
William’s Australian Inseotldd is death te all Insects.
Simple In application—sure In effect. This Is the only
genuine Ineeot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it le perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time moat destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 867 King-
street, Newtown. 'Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bres. (
and K. Prosser &Oo.»
t>
M
S’
T
O
II
T
/Ice nts,
DELISSA * PHILLIPS
* 3 & *5 Barrack St reet.
CM AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STOREY.
It
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Jones’ iangr Headlines,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FA&LEIBH, NETTBEIM & Co., Tamers and leather Merchants,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland. ——
o
A 1«n Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all Details, including Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &o.; and of the following Special Lines : PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanner* Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms.
DK. KICHAKBS.
OM
RO
MSULT
CO
D* RICH ARDS
.s m
This eminent) Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence In their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
sffliot mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. In
stamps he will send secure from observation In t
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private ot
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced Incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
•for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will.be found a list of carefully-pre-
oared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist yon materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All oommunlpa
Mona should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
r Spring Street, Sydney
el Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
tON SULTATTOW FREE.
AN ANCIENT PRINT.
PROBABLY ILLUSTRATING THE ADAM AND EVE APPLE SCANDAL. LIFE.


Business Announcements.
BRUNTO N’S
BOYAL PATENT STEEL EOLL3BB
FLOUR
(1m be obtained thvoaghoat New Sontb Wrlbb,
Queensland, and Vlelosl*.
SYDNEY _ _ 84 Fin Otaißfe
BRISBANE... _ -.Bdwakd Sssiie
MELBOURNE Spbwom Shwbbv
EPPS’S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Medical*
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
Che Greatest Success
of Modern Times.
CONSULT
7 All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Hr, 1, E. EUGEIMN, Coeeeltie? Eclectic,
pgiT.T.nn SPECIALIST FOR ALL CHRONIC DISEASES,
•• WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (frbb) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at opoe what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880
|0 H. K. Kusblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, — This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought ft was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
lor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him lor a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
kings, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines lor a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
yUn from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but alter this crisis I commenced to improve very last.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
A result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
flma (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
ere as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
AS hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die, —| remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton. —THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
Of All Consultations Free. TO,
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
HOT BRING EFFBOTBD.
fjl o SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
x ; X
THEY Treat and Cure all Ohbonio, Nebvous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in ail cases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to aU parts of the Colonies.
Note the Addbess :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxfobd Hebbal Dispensaet,
IS2 Elisabeth Street, Svde Park, Sydney,
FREE
• -iJtaCfllPTIONfi are to
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” tor the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY Mid Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of
this book will bo sent Free, sealed, tor Six Penny
Stamps. Address—
B, WARD & 00„
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
■ope for the Nicholson's Patbntbd Art
yioAL Bab Drums. Cures Deafness In all Us stages, the
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 182
paged Illustrated book containing " Essay on Deafness,'
Illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
tram Doctors, Lawyers. Editors. elo., who have teen
rased by these Drums, and who reoommend them.—Dr
■IOHOLBOV SS William Innr. Psiteeui*
t HOTEL,
OOKNKR ot
ggr MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under she
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
toscaovs
i
*1
jr
“MH
Ladies l Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Lace of Lennon’s Hotel)
Pbofbibtbbhs.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR.
■{ : Y
FOR PRIVATE USB is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in stroner Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order,
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
—. Nine Haircutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Parson’s t d-x©.p>e J SSstllxxe.
TRADE MARE —“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY."
Specially prepared from PIPE FBUTT , and is the best of all Fruit Salmes.
HEALTH-OWING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE ALINE.
-
AuC
In €®meqmm& §f imiMmes TEE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which sum gmlmi&kd dmsms ths L&& <&sd JFefvisss
have t§ request iUmi Awfara M? Sks§ &M hsS&Cs
h&n Sh&ir Sigmfc&m ffkm^
wi&m'j wk&k m ssssk §f SM twigimli WOM CMSTMMS.MiMM
SAUCE is
Ask for LEA imd FERRMMSP Smms, mnd sm Mm* m Lsk*S 0 3'oMb essS
Stopper. Wholesak- and fm? Ssspovi hp Shs Rroprte&m t„ Worm**?; Cross* <ne?
SlmkwfsH, Ltmdotz, / *sttS kp Qvses.vs i sp&fl <osfavs* tsie i 9BigkoSko W&vMk
PHOTOGRAPHY I
'AU
9m
iS
LICHTNEK & CO.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
Cordially acknowledge the satisfactory relationship which has been established between
them and the Photographers of Australia, and so largely extended daring the past
Twelve Months. It will be no fault of theirs if the
COMPLIMENTS of the present EOLIDAV SEASON
are not continued throughout the coming year. They
have now issued a New and Comprehensive Cata-
logue, profusely illustrated, and ask all old friends
to send for one, whilst extending the same invitation
to those we have not yet had the pleasure of meeting.
:++:
A visit to our Establishment will give proof that
we have the Largest and Best Assorted Stock in
the Colonies at Reasonable Prices.
ŧ
LICHTNER & CO.,
{
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
ato
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Assurance Companies.
TUB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE! and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(SBaasvaeated br Act of Parliament. If
No. IB.)
Registered Capital 51,111,111
Paid-up and Subscribed MS,HI
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq.. W.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of Interest -
Foi 8 years - 7 per cent.
For 8 monthi t per oent.
fori you _ Bpetoenl.
for 8 month! _ I per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwardly
Loans granted on Mortgage lor fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONET ADVANCED FOE BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
R«n Office—ll, &Ts HUNTER STREET
JNoTo. NBILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, lII*-
CAPITAL,
Sydney Office,
Corner ol MARKET and YORK STREETS.
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices —10, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by Instalments at very reasonable rates of In-
terest. Bills discounted dally.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS i
8 months, 6 per cent.
I •• 7 ~
U .. 8 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits ol II month
per cent. 6 months I& per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
By order ol the Board ol Directors,
BUSSELL MARSHALL. Manager.
Bulmm AiMuetunSh
AllII i Christmas Hard Series
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THH MOST ABTISTIO SERIES PUBLISHED.
H. King, Photographer, 316 George St., Sydney,
BHTWBKN S.P.O. AND HUNTBR BTRBBTS.
TATTBESALL'B
XOISTEK COISDLTATIOII
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event!
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per*
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery)
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
t
WB CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In«
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
<i tew doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Rank!
MELBOURNE. K
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontage*.
Parramatta and Baas Dot* Riven A nulv
Bniwir o«a* '


BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL in the be it Remedy
(or Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &o. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable !jr broken
IfnnoH, oats, Ac., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Auk for Bosisto’s ''Parrot” brtnd, and
wvoid imitations, which can only <iead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
■|H chemist*. BoaUto's " Parrot ’ rand.
CUT THIS OUT.
IT MAY NOT APPEAR A«AIN.
In order to interest all in the study of the English
language, and as a slight token of appreciation, the
American Hop Bitters Co. has for the large sales in
Australasia of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Ritters, the Company offers One Thousand Dollars
in Prizes, to be given away in (Jold at the close of
the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition.
Ist FRIZE—Six Hundred and Fifty Dol-
lars. —To any person sending the American Hop
Bitters’ Company the greatest number of words made
from the following letters, viz.A, B, C, E, H, I,
M, N, 0, P, R. S, T.
2nd PRIZE—Two Hundred and Fifty
Dollars. —To any person sending the American Hop
Bitters Company the greatest number of words made
from the following letters, viz.:—A, B, C, I, L, M,
N, 0, P, T, Y.
3rd PRIZE—One Hundred Dollrrs.— To
pny person sending the American Hop Bitters Com-
pany the greatest number of words made from the
following letters, viz.: —A, C, Q-, I, N, O, S, T, U, Y.
CONDITIONS.
1. All persons competing for these Prizes must re-
tide in the Australasian Colonies.
2. All words must be plainly written, and be found
in Webster’s or any Standard Dictionary. Words in-
correctly spelt will be deducted from the total.
3. Any person can compete for all or either of the
Prizes, but the Prize contested for must be specially
named.
4. For the First Prize each word must consist of
not less than four letters, and be made out of the fol-
lowing letters, viz.A, B, 0, B, H, I, M. N, 0, P, R,
S, T, (American Hop Bitters). The Second Prize
must be of words of not less than three letters, and
must be taken from the following, viz.A, B, C, I, L,.
M, N, 0, P, T, Y (Incompatability). For the Third
Prize words used must be made from the following
letters, viz.:—A, 0, C, I, N, 0, S, T, U, Y (Consan-
guinity). Any letter in each list may be used twice in
the same word or oftener, but letters in one list must
not be used in making words for another list, unless-
such letter appears in the list of letters for which the
word is made.
5. All lists of words must be forwarded to the
American Hop Ritters Company before the
close of the Exhibition.
G. The award of prizes will be made by a committee
of leading representatives from the colonies of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, South Australia, Queensland,
New Zealand, Tasmania, and Western Australia, after
the close of the Exhibition,
7. Persons enclosing a 2d. stamp will receive due
acknowledgment of their list.
8. In case two or more competitors for any prize
make the same number of correct words, the prize will
be given to the one whose list hi first received.
9. All lists will be filed OftiWthey are received,and
the committee will make awards at close of Exhibition.
10. Each competitor must sign full n®me, residence-,
and postal aildress, at the end of each list, plainly
written.
11. Address all letters to the American Hop
Ritters Company 201 and 203 Spring Street,
Melbourne.
Everybody should use Pemell's latest best Snow-whit*
Patknt Roller Flovr. It is the greatest success of the
a e.
REED’S “MAGIC” MEAL.
THE BEST COMPOUND EVER INVENTED
FOR FATTTENING STOCK AND ]
POULTRY.
Its effects on Horses and Cattle are sstonishing.
When one dose has been administered to the
drought-stricken Bullock of the Western Plains
his delighted owner can stand by and bear him
grow, and Cows, when treated with this com-
pound, become enormous milkers. Its effect
on Horses is no less marveUons The at-
tenuated Gee-Gee with as many points as a
hat-rack, after taking one bag is transformed
into a magnificent animal 18 hands high, and even
the sight of the wrapper has been known to pre -
duce remarkable results. Hens and all descrip-
tions of Poultry also derive great benefit from it.
The supposed recent eclipse of the sun in Cali-
fornia was an optical illusion arising solely from
the stupendous shadow cast by a Fowl which had
been taking the MAGIC MEAL, and many
other equally marvellous results can be quoted
and substantiated on first-class authority.
A. H. PHILLIPS, Proprietor.
17 Victoria Chambers,
OastPreagh-street.
A WAY OUT OF A DIFFICULTY
It is reported from Vienna that an explosive shell was found in a theatre at Malta
daring a performance attended by the Duchess of Edinburgh.
MRS. GADWAY: “FRED, WONT YOU TAKE MB TO SEE THAT HEW PIECE AT
THE CRITERION THEATRE TO NIGHT”?
FRED (who detests theatres): “YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT YOU ASK. MY DEAR. I
HAPPEN TO KNOW THAT THERE IS TO BE A ROYAL HIGHNESS OR
TWO THERE, AND IF YOU WANT TO RUN THE RISK OF GETTING
BLOWN UP, WHY OF COURSE” —(rf course she would not think of going after
that.)
By Authority :
BEADY IN JANUARY ,
Demy Bvo., cloth, 660 pages, illustrated with Maps, Portraits,
and Sketches. [Price, 10s. 6d., including postage.]
Volume I of
11 THE HISTcET OF NEW SOUTH WALES,"
From the Records :
By G. B. Barton, of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-law.
This volume will contain the History of Now South Wales
from 1785 lo 1789, founded on the letteis and despatches
written by Governor Phillip during that time, aod many other
records of great historical interest, never bi f >re published,
which have recently been obtained from the Public Record
Office in London, the Record Office in Sjdney, the collections
of Sir Joseph Banka and others, , &c.
CHARLES P®TTER,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 21st December, 1888
Si
k
m
vj
Z 5
V"
MY SE OBTAIMEB ii IABILLEB UMI @8 HiiiiHiPT TOS ®@!L&
LOVELY SI
iriffifflMfffll complexion, soft, smooth and delicate nook, face, hands and mu cwsbeet be eMafcuii
~ r discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, mot Mss* sltews? ft 1
wmistoM th® skto cannot possibly have assy good effect on it, and by using
ftowlancta’
JCalydor
0 Moling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and arms of all)
W*vcr, remufOß yimpu» ( d{iuvb, armAJiutavuiuD. umiMMuo, w/soma, out-,, icucnn
Dams, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
pleasant. Gentlemen after sharing will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the sun.
lit Is warranted free from any leadT or mineral Ingredients, can be used with Impunity on the
iskin of the most delicate lady or child,
m ®d, and B*. Bdl per hoM*; bottle* 3l‘. half ths use*.
(die at 3s. 3d.,
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL promots* the growth oil She hair, s»4:
iit also sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired people,
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whiten* the teeth, prevents decay, and stvsa u
pleasing fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ arttols*. a£ ®, IHattShJ
Sterdan. London, and avoid cheap, worthless Imitation*.
and Retell A.f'wta—Biuow BtOfl., Md*l> P* issM * 00. - Bydaef *
The Referee.
The disgusted American baseballers have
left Melbourne en route for India, Rome, Berlin,
Paris, London, Dublin, and America—specially
America. They propose to give an exhibition of
baseball in the Colisseum, Think of it —shades of
martyrs and saints—fancy these Americans strug-
gling for first base on the spot where a lion
■chawed off the head of an early Christian, or
making a home run over the spot where two
gladiators fought with net and sword !
* • *
Yes, the great Bas shall Boom exploded with
awful suddenness, and the over'advertised ex-
ponents of America’s national game made their
'dejected departure on January 7. Mr. Spalding
took the “kncck” on New Year’s Day, when
-some 90 individuals sauntered gloomily to the
Melbourne Cricket Club ground and sniffed at a
spectacle which had attracted many thousands of
shillings only a few days previously. Had the
'local press taken less pains to push baseball down
'the public throat, Yeung Australia might have
-endeavoured to discover its beat points and acquire
•a taste for them. Bub, as results proved, pre-
liminary puffing defeated its object by raising
-exaggerated expectations—naturally followed by
■a 'hasty revulsion of feeling. To a cricket-playing
‘community it seems that the first principle of
is a blind swipe which seldom comes off,
rand is generally a “foul hit” when it does.
Therefore the public, who were merely disap-
‘pointed at the first performance of our late
visitors, became irritated when they found the
daily papers publishing half-column descriptions
■of a blind swipe supplemented by perjured pre-
dictions of success for a novelty which had given
)not the slightest indication of “catching on.”
Probably those 12 travelling Yankee reporters
were mainly responsible for the complete failure
of Mr, Spalding’s mission in these parts, nor were
the prospects of baseball improved by the in-
cidental fooling of a vainglorious blackboy
whose trumpery feats of skill appeared to be re-
garded by the Yanks as an important feature of
the show. “ Professor ” Bartholomew, on the
other hand, was a great success, for he, and he
alone, drew 7000 people to the M.C.C. Ground on
the second appearance of the baseballers. A
temporary disablement of the parachutist (caused
by his havirg gracefully descended on the sharp
edge of a six roomed villa) accounted for the ab-
sence of, 6900 spectators from the next
Chicago v. All America match. The strongest
argument in favour of baseball is the splendid
physique of its leading exponent, and maybe the
game will thrive in Australia, shou’d it ever be
born again under conditions less exotic. " v '
• • 5
Australia sincerely hopep that seuller
O’Connor is not able to make a i pache.
« • •
While the lumbal'era w.&re playing to bare
benches at the fashionable M.C.C. Ground, quite
a decent multitude —as times go-surrounded the
East Melbourne Oval on New Year’s Day to see
'Tasmanis and Victoria try conclusions at cricket,
ilf the Utter game is slowly dying, the American
> substitute has already gone off iu a rapid decline.
• ♦
•This sentence —shocking iu sentiment as
iin syntax —is taken from the Argus notice of
New Year’s Day meeting at Flemington :—“ln
nil probability this may be the last chance Sir
Robinson will have of assisting at a
‘great meeting at Flemingbon, and it was there-
fore a satisfaction to the committee in being
• able to provide an interesting afternoon’s racing
) for the delectation of the distinguished parting
•guest.” Ye gods ! we rise io want to know if the
W.R.O. committee told Robinson the Trouba-
dour -that “it was a satisfaction,” &c, cr
'if they made such a communication to the
•Awaus flunkey. And if the Y.R.O. com-
imittee did neither of these things, why does
the Argus flunkey aforesaid assume that they
special and particular importance to the
< delegating of a strange Governor, who never con-
tributed the price of a stand ticket to the club’s
(funds, and is now about to withdraw the light of
i his chemist-like countenance from Australia for-
•ever? Finally, we rise to want to know whether
•the Argus flunkey is a real flunkey who believes
the rot he writes, or is an unwilling instrument of
the cunning policy which strives to make it appear
that the world goes rouni for the delectation of
Her Gracious and all who are put in authority
under her ?
• * *
The poor-box —An inhibition “mill.”
* * •
Bob Whiteside, the N.Z. footballer, and
said to be “ the greatest quarter-back south of the
line,” is coming to Sidney.
» •
St. Leonards, Sydney, boasts of a black-
smith, in active training, who fancies he can
lower Seatle’s colours.
• • •
Small fields went for handsome stakes at
last V.R O. meeting, no more than seven horses
saddling-up for any event, except the Standish
Handicap. This once fashionable flutter was con-
tested by five fancied “triers,” besides a small
crowd of others that were not fancied, and they
all watched the tail of the favourite, Boz, who
won with about six yards of tongue flapping idly
in the wind. Apparently a horse puts its tongue
right out under circumstances which induce man
to shove that piece of solid flesh in his
cheek. Caring ton rather easily beat Montalto
at a stone for the Normanby Stakes,
these Awo youngsters representing the best
form in Australia at the present moment.
The Hurdle and Steeple went to Ballarat as usual,
under the management of Corrigan and Scobie,
who hold a mortgage on this branch of sport in
Victoria. A real genuine coiip was brought off
with Recall for the Bagot Handicap. Little
“ Dunlop” Panders purchased the horse quite re-
cently after its former owrvr bad experienced a
dozen disappointments in b'g handicaps And
now at his first attempt Sanders rode the hi toric
failure home in triumph, to the deep disgust of all
who had their money on in the day* that are past
beyond Recall. Sanders netted £3OOO as a reward
for his genius, and a limited circle of friends were
also on the good thing.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —You have a story of
a Melbourne man who has been offered £2O a
week to whistle through his windpipe. That’s
nothing—’l’ve met a horse who does it -for his
oats. N.B —Tracheotomy has been .performed
on him, and he canoodles on his cannula most
melodiously.—Your', Gkoroe Ananias Wash-
ington.
Joe Thompson made a few thousand opt
of legitimate gambling in the Melbourne land-
boom.
* m *
Landale, ex President of the Cambridge
University Boat Club, is a native of Queensland.
Muttlebury, the new President, is also an Aus-
tralian.
• •
Mister Searle, The Bulletin hears,
threatens that if the people of Sydney say any
more nasty things about him, he won’t row for
them any more. This is indeed an awful pro-
spect.
A burglar has been robbing Judge Win-
deyer's house. Poor devil! (we are now alluding
to the burglar) he was a German and a stranger
in the land, and is now on the flat shell.
Dear Bulletin, —Is it anyway significant
that on the last day Lousia Collins was to live on
this earth the S.M. Hekald correspondents, one
and al', including “Wife and Mother,” cried for
her blood decrying “mawkish sentimentality,”
whatever that may mean, while the D T. correc-
pondents were all the other way.—R CD.
When I first put this uniform on
I said when I looked in the glass :
It’s a thousand to one
E’en if murder is done
That I’ll e’er have to string up a lass.
This I never reckoned upon
When I first put this uniform on.


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MBLBOURE.
Sproerni Baiewat Tmmindb, Sfenqbb Bzbuh.
CTISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
▼ baa lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
*Ol Sad all modern Improvements, such aa Ilf ht,
lofty. and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
»oom, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
tad needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
(Orpasaed tn Australia. Visitors can rely npon
telng called (or early morning trains. Letters
tad telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
Moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR SPKVKK’B
AMEKIUJIN DISPENSARY 48 MARGARET STREET ~
jßstwnn Geerge and York Streets.) P.O. Box 820. Dr;
fptsr <■ a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Sarvard College, D.S, (for oonfirmatlon see New Zealand*
dasette, January 81st. 1886; also New South Wales
dasette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
roars to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
mCIAL DISEASES. Four of these were tn the leading
iaspUals of the United States, which enables him to treat
*U complaints with excellent results. All applying to
kiss will receive hie honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
S positive onre in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
AI6O. His reason for doing bo is this—when there ia no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
la ether words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
s certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
swved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Ms viahea it distinctly understood that he does not ni*im
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
hs claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
dwroughly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
f adding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
v*4 In any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion end advice free to all. Chargee moderate. H. J.
ansa, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and Tork
Streets, Sydney. Poet Office Box, No. 920. Office boon,
IB eon. to 18 a.m.; Bto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
81 to 11 a.m. only.
i I97SEEISV SEXES!
Hi «U Afflicted with Rheumatic Sour, no
Botonauz, aching Pains In the Imm,
Pace, or Head,
WEp raffs* Urn excruciating Pain* when ms
bottle of
DR. 90UTXLA1T8 RHEUMATIC FILLS
*5ll give Instant Relief and Onre In a tew days I
KBs Australian Remedy. No change In diet
raos— ry. In Bottles. Is., Is. Bd., fit., and IBs.
CURB FOB BLIGHT,
ROBB’S CELEBRATED BYE LOTION,":
fib Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy tor Bad
Sgra. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Wight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tss*
Watsnlals from those who have recovered through
Ht« agency ean be teen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sols Proprietor,
1. A tail, flumacentlcil Sunlit,
081 SsonßHSisat, only.
fhff'BSMERIO, MAGNETIC, and ELEOTRIO
Am. JL INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
if Db St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
American Remedy Company. All Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
(Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only, his motto being :—“ Nature cures Nature’s
lecay.” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
four days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides hlm-
»slf In being the only person known in the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
tongue without Surgical Operations of any kind;
!■ fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
incidental to suffering humanity, even when all
teher treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
is cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that you get
nothing but the genuine article. A Fact.—Thin
Is the only Institution of its kind in the World
where all Kinds of Cures are Effected ,with little
at no medicine.
Please Copy the Address —
DR. ST. VINCENT,
&V 7 Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park),'Sydney.
fimsEmieifcfl
&
Victory Ointment*:
IHR TREE OF LIFE. |
Business Announcements.
SKATE ROLLERS.
rpURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best in the Ameil'
- 1 - can market, at the following low prices:—
If to. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots ... $l5 per lot
to. „ „ 10,000 „ ... $l7 „
13 to. „ „ 50,000 „ ... $l2 „
2 to, „ „ 50,000 „ .. $l4 „
Through rate to Australia about $1 50c. per 1000 rollers.
Address—
JOHN T. Lome;,
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicago, Ihl., U.S.A.
ť
ŧ
MAIHinUTUftCRS
ft IMfOUTERS OF
HAtsjAPSit
43fl CEORCE ST
SYDNEY
ft jLa*3ctCers
A
//
488 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN Sc CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, M Pitt*
street, Sydney.
Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL. SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For Its Hygienic Rules are worth Its weight la
gold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Brauns,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per
The Bulletin will be on sa-e every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners In
the street.
AND
£60,000 to Land.
PUBLISHED,
, MANUFACTUREMATTERS
CEOROf STREET
SYDNEY
‘Y PORTtRS Or All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And «t ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
THEORICINAL
AN0^UGHS° NLV
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
IStHE BE3T IMTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL ■
P R I Z E M EDAL
Manufactured byJamesChannom
Harbour S t Sydnev
Sold by All Grocers and Storekeepers
Medical.
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
m mmm—
Are BnirersaHy Ad-
mitted to be wfirth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious And Norrotu
Disorders such aa
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddineea, Ful-
D6M and Swelling
after Meals, Dian-
nesg and Drowsiness,
('old Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Oostireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
Mae Sensations, Ac. Ths first dose will girs relief
la twenty minute*.
Bvary sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Fills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Fear females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humour*, and
betas about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
war soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BXXOHAM’S PILLS have the Large ei Sal* af any
Patent Medicine in the World,
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ef breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BBECHAM’S
OOUOH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helene, Lan-
pash ire, England, in boxes Is. ltd. and 2s. ML each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Maeiwtie
Dealers everywhere.
N 3 directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches : i? I M
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial ana
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. hint
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.*
gOIENOK CONQUERS DISK AS! I
The Snccessfnl Treatment ol
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
Moording to the Laws of Nature and the* • I
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No MOBB MERCURY OB OTEBB NOXIOUN
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., &c.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds, the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,*'
18. FLINDERS STREET, WEST. MELBOURNE/
for the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay. Incapacity lor Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
dltions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If It Is curable, be
will tell you so i If not, he will tell yon also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident ol effecting a
oure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Bofierers can be treated equally veil at a distance
H. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
1 elalm only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed In my speciality.
Note Address*—
nOIEEIHTI XESICAL HSIUOT!,
68, Fundbba Stbbht W., Mmboubne.
Mr Me tonnection wit* any other Medic* Institute in
Australia Box 968. 8.F.0.
FOR SALE. —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
nRSI QUALITY
ui4‘Vi
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.,
CtUicmal Dumber*. Bond-Street. Sydney
Robert butcher * ca
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
603 a GEORGE STREET
{Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In *nd out OS
Bond at LOWEST RATES,
D* RIDGE’S
FOOD
n» INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
S. STEPHENSON
HAS OH BALD-
WINS CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS. VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, tc WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS. STABLE
BUCKETS, fcO.
COOPERAGE.
IBV KENT STREET, and ITI SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Street*
*"*• Knutuli ud WUikm. uroi* vnt
<*HfrIfkM. I
. Beyd’e Beard XUair Md thu. ,
land tom do U on either hold'
'head or bare foot- Faroet
heavy Mouetaehe in from 9 t. .
4 week s and never faOe 30,000*
young men tiready mar full
fitM
•DopyrightoM*
beardt, having iwd lU> 3 phti. No injury, taiOy applied, wMc
in <ffnt. PatkeU, u. 3d. ameh SJbr Si. 64.. potl paid, ten* «4c
mer,Sntfrvm obtervation. i&Smw, IPtm* BougUc, BoU 4M*e
Boa T3O. 0 J’.O,. atancjr. w
WALDBK, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makes,
118 PITT STREET,
A _
a
mint
Marquees on Hire.
jUMSRCLLAS
1 HC-COVEREO.
i
gTUOY
SCOfr&at'S
and
Bar* your Umbrella Knmcw t t
etrrered, and four
ParaaOU re-lined and ma4MHHI
to Kew. •
J. SULLIV^ri
541 George Slrewt
Brickfield HiU, become*
Liverpool and Batburat
P&r*»ol» Etiade to matasi ,-jra
n»»tlT »»■... -rN*
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAI
AND WELL
D BERNARD’S PiOTtJM and Montnma
• Bvobb, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), la acknowledged to be tee Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos*, BngravlngSg
&0., sarefally stretched and monnted. Be-gilding
equal to new. Mounts sat with read gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plash
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
1 F B PRESERVATION!
Db. J. D. LLBWBLBYN,
Specialist,
19 Lonbdam Stems Babb, Mbbbobbbb.
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in*
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Cob*
fidentlal Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid ol
quacks. „
Price per mall Bs. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
00., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
BT


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADI
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21a.
»«• PITT ST., SYUMEV (Near Tatteraall’a.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS “^|
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
• vSv
►■eg
MAfcON BROTHERS,
(limited,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYi>\KV,
Have always in -stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL H RDWAKE,
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORInTnd CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ala.
P. R. LARKIIV
IMPOBTEB OF
or wijs s, s^x«n?s a bbebs &c c., <soo, •»
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’* Dublin W' jgky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
• (old >rk) Whi kies no ssy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
Tht 1 hoicest and ’ Hdest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L,
tS" Thr Be- Pur* and Sh-rry and • ’hampagnes tSt All B ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading b>and- of Bottled Alb and Stout, arrivin'g by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
WMesa e and * n J Bottle departments, 782 and 784 (leorge Street, Sydney.
tar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
nm-cim ladies 1 seWsbmenF boom ad lavaiobi,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A Hobdern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst E-oad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prmce of Wales’ Hotel).
• ft.
CH BROS.’
NEW
r U«*ITU**E WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
M KLBOtJRNB and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WMUm BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Slacks: Oils
OB
EMBROCATIONp
roB
IBS, CiTTU k SOBS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES. GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE |
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Go., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Eedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag Co., B. Hcffnung
and 00., J. Brash, Son and Co., W, H Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bras.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbane : E. Fletcher, Janr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAM, T. 8., 33 Pitt Street, Icdfcis*
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per BottU.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the oiivlieed world vfeas
the healing virtues of these grand medicine# have not seen
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail the ordtaasy
ailments of humanity their beneficient action is at enos
reor-irnised. Fullest directions are supplied for their ns
in every disease IF YOU SUFFER. TRY THEM. Hawn-
factored only at 78 Nsw Oxforb-st., London gf Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pets.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-atreet; London, they art
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THI
Wertliclro.
SEWING! MACHINE iJEPOT*
nr
THE WOLSELET SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE.
PABTORALIBTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time shonld be lost in booking orders for next Season,
AGENTS*
T. ZEZ. a-E3D3Di~S <2z> Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BINTON’S Sliver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market .
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY,
Wholesale Agents s
WOLFF, AB&L & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Hkbb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervona Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Sbu-Odbi yob Nkbvodb Dability aid
Disbasbs. It gives special advice to ail kind of sufferers. Address—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALK
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
S»2B
tide
,l*»*
m
;r
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
<!}.
<3T Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of homological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Kvery Waltham Watch la fitted with “ Logan’s Pa f ent Breguet Hair Ppring," hardened and tempered In form. This
prevents co limr of the halr-sprng. so c mmon an occuTence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained, with “ Logan's ’ celebrated Breguet Springs, the p .tent for same being the exclusive property
of the Ame>ica« Waltham Wa ch Co.
All parts of Walth m " atches are c nstructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected In
any P“rt of the wo> ld wh> re Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in altham. Mass . U.S. v.
Waltham va atcheh can be ob ainod in tiold and Silver » ases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value. • .". Mint assay
Waltham ( hronoOßaphs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation " atches, unsurpassed for elegance ot design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. he ‘ No. 1 'ize ’ just introduce tin Australia is the most exquisite gem of horologioal
achievement, and is the smal est and most p rfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway WaTches are u ed upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the inuian S ato Hail - ays, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltvam w a cheh. Dust-pr of, Water-proof.
Waltham Split -konis • hronoomapHs and Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham W« atoh h, from their manifold a- vantages, are p eferablo to all others.
Waltham Watches are 'old Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
t
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
; Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
