

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
“ “• oarnt zssst
r
have also torwardedto me a report from Captain Joseph, who «.ried one o£ these waters
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day. -Rletoher engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the remit of which shows . that these
“I have also a report of a series'of careful experiments with one of the*ei thj eX p osed again for twenty or twenty-are mmutes, dal not appreciably alter then iates. : M .
nonmagnetic watch. G. J. ELIjERY, E.E.S., Oh airman.
■ained by the' Americas Waltham Watches-at International Exhibitions :
MAIEHEIA IB7S Tour Mae Medalsi Piß§. 1873, Gold Medals -GMYIGSG, Gold Medalj with Two^Special and Tom first;Prisesi MSLEOUME, 1851, Two Gold Was,
mm*m Prise Medals} IWiIMS Mi®, WE Gold Modal,} : MELBOUEHS GENTiNKIAL fflil, l-GSG-GJirot Award, M-Magnetio W aioliss
™" WWUW| • «*! Constitutors a renord , any Exhibitors Horology.
W Extract from the London Hobological JoUßtotr, July. VSB 9i --Th e Great -Northern Railway Company have ordereu t0.75*
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express. ... -....— " —t ——W~
P y - CONTRACT.
The following is a List bl Awards
'N-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.— GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS
—WUwii**"" 4 ™* t , , , J
TENDERS having been called for the 'S? IS ESSf
'RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WiAL|HAA| \/AlLxi A, v purposes WALTHAM WATCHES are used by the Government Railway OfhciaL m New
sssssridSthr«rS,‘Riwcompany,
rjiilE COLONiIT MUTUAL LIFeAsSPKANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
' r- ~n ttiv noT.ONTES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES Sv SM .
• ZlZ^oSonl m December, 1389, and-the Quinrjuenniai Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus,
Fecieratecl Scfnattexs
tiC, k . - AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
OIBOVLAE iSYDaSnEY.
WOOL ami PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Kates, Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bull Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gaseittbrs, Art & Medijivaii Mbtai Workers
ROUES SKATES (any make) with BBASS. »i* WOOHEN WHEELS.
at -x ' r>„ Q Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices— ll,ooo Fires already in use.
8 , Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description m
Irell JSafid Double aA. Valve (W, Fir. Hydrant.. H» and aU apj.l.nnoe..
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Bead, Petersham.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS UR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
y
L S i
I
T C
Mk
A
m v
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET 'Two Doors from ..Market Street', SYDNEY,
HIG 181-O LASS
—IMPORT—
I ZEsT 3D T -A- InT &c O S I IsT A
TEAS
Pocked in Mb. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. Bd„ 9d and 2a per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port m New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence inyited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, November 2, 1889.


511
m
111
K « H
fJW.fI
on mi,i
,iIUHUhi
am
i' j-j■ •
SSpSSs
£
a
o
33
O
ftjw'
5?
SIR ROGER
' i.—
)r
ißi
o
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every. Wise mother will «>«"*
use *.
1j2.. royal pood mills,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
u
Can’t B Beat.”
*‘.CAN’T B BEAT.’
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of ( Heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par tx the t'eople’B
Tobacconist. The old veteran still lead*. Imitators spring
' up but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New! •* Something New !
Th«» £n>arlia){f. “ Can’t. IS IScai " (rei'tefcreU)
Siiioktr's Companion! ns*
containing the folloVitlg :
Ilb. Williams’, blocks
lib. Imported Dark Victory
Üb. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tpnacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H « Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 r igarettes -
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long- Cut, American
'SS&\ Delivered Free at Kediern Station or any Wh«rf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
11 °I" squired can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be a> conimodated. 50
pei cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved 1 Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Sydney.
B.
KITTEN BERG & GO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
-A.TicxKrsoKr’s
Eau da Toilette de Londres,
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften-
ing the skin, and an exce. dingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
0/ail Dealert and of the Manufacturer *—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark~“White Rose” on •‘Golden
Lyre," with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junk.
9,7 ■JK.SIiT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Mercb.an.t.
K EVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
m
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
AU.NOXIOUS INSECTS.
: FLEAS.riI ESBEE T L£S.
jCOCKRCACHES.**''•<*<'• AND IS 4 ,
AT TH £ SAME TI ML QUITE
; HARM lE'. -RbS.-'DCGS,
FOWLS OROTHER
ANltv ALS %’ A
■ y
51
r*
OLD
PbyAIICHEMUSTS
AND STOREKEEPERS
V¥MOjLE.Sfitr.
FELTON-GRIMWADEUC?
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ark for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware'
of the Numerous Imitations.
LEA & PERRI NS'SAUCE
on
Jn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrons
have to request that Pure haserssee that the. Label on every bottle
bears their Signature thus
ff ) «
withatf which no bottle of the original WORCESTER?HERE
SAUCE ts genuine.
■jfitk /*«■ /r 4 9n j P£RSauce, and tee Name-on Wrapper, Label, BottU and
burpper, Wnoiesaie and for Lx peri by the Proprietors, Worcester; Cross* and
Bloekaell, London, &*e„ bre.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout She World.
WILLIAM CAEGILI,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, inter ding
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMON SQUEEZERS, &c., &o.
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
»»
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents —Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 1C- Ko. 50*7.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1889.
Price, 6d.
A Famous Handicapper —Mr. E. T . Barnard.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
PROPRIETORS : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 PITT-STKEET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 1?, 6
Quarterly ... (j
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 tvords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
„f such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling —which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every tveck
for o, year,
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 2, 1889.
Farkes on Federation.
Federation Avould be a boon so Avelcome to
a multitude among the people of Australia
that there will be little disposition to be cap -
tious with respect to the individual who
might be mainly instrumental in securing it.
For that reason Sir Henv Parkes demon-
stration of a reviA'al of zeal Avould be hailed
with satisfaction, Avere it possible to hold
any belief in the earnestness of his purpose
or the singleness of his aim. At the pre-
sent stage of the affair it Avill be prudent to
assume an attitude of reserve and observation
in these regards. The history of Sir Henry’s
antecedent coquettings with the project is not
encouraging. Summarised, it amounts to this:
That Sir Henry Parkes has frequently ex-
pressed himself in general terms as being
favourable to Federation ; that, on one occa-
sion, when in office, ho committed himself
to a defined scheme ; and that, Avhen out of
office, he has uniformly opposed with all his
influence and all his faculties any practical
step to realise the thing he theoretically
advocates. On one notable occasion he
actually helped to prevent the adoption of
the very plan of Avhich he himself w as author.
The various shifts of his position Avith rela-
tion to this matter present a kaleidoscopic
series of incongruities. As if to prove lioav
consistent he can be in inconsistency, ho
makes a fresh appearance to-day as an advo-
cate of a comprehensive and far-reaching
scheme of Federation, while the voice of one
of his leading colleagues, proclaiming the
impossibility of anything of the kind, is yet
ringing in the ears of the people of New
South Wales. Speaking at Paddington,
Sydney, quite recently, Treasurer M‘Millan
pronounced that “Federation Avithout com-
mercial reciprocity must be a sham,” and
that “ the only Federation which New' South
Wales Avill accept Avill be the Federation of
Freetrade.” Of course, Mr. M‘Millan, in
t hus orating, opened his little mouth rather
wider than Nature meant it to be stretched.
A doubtful majority of one Freetrader in the
Legislative Assembly, and a population of
w hom the numerical majority —Ave are speak-
ing now of man-votes, not of allotment-votes
—are favourable to Protection, furnish a
very peculiar reality behind the fancy picture
of a New South Wales which will accept no
Federation save a Freetrade one.
Jf: # #
But putting that aside, there ia an
obvious incompatibility between the New'
South Wales Treasurer’s non-ptmumns and
the Premiers mysterious assurance of
success. There is no apparent improve-
ment in 1880, which Sir Henry Parkes
would be likely to contemplate Avith satis-
faction, upon the situation which in 1880
precluded the possibility of a Federal com-
pact. Reviewing the proceedings of the
Intercolonial Conference Avhich avhs held
during the earlier year, the S.M. Herald
remarked; “In the case of Victoria, how-
ever, the difficulty is at present insuperable.
Mr. Berry, consistently with his past pro-
fessions, says, practically, that lie Avill only
consent to union on one condition, namely,
that the other colonies become converts to
the Victorian fiscal system, or submit them-
selves to Victorian supremacy.” In fact,
Mr. Graham Berry made then exactly the
same sort of declaration as Sir Henry
Parkes’ Treasurer makes now. So that if
the view's of the S.M. Herald as to the im-
practicability of Federation were accurate in
that instance, the impracticability is just as
distinct now. There is, of course, this
alleviation : that Mr. Berry’s one condition
is almost fulfilled. The other colonies have
become converts to the Victorian fiscal system
—with the exception of New South Wales,
and she is in course of conversion. It is
somewdiat grotesque that the only actual
impediment to a complete realisation of
Intercolonial Federation is the man who is
pretending to have the patent right to effect
it. Abolish Parkes, and New South Wales
Avould have a Protectionist Government
within six months : Australia would be
federated within twelve.
# * *
As the case actually stands, w r e regard the
splash which Sir Henry Parkes has chosen
to make as being due to a compound of
motives. One is, possibly, that Parkes him-
self is as honest in his predilection for
Federation as it is in his nature to be with
respect to anything. Another is, probably,
that the passing of the Land Bill has left him
unprovided with any measure or project
which he can interpose to save him from a
straight vote on the fiscal question. Yet
another may perhaps be found in his inor-
dinate vanity leading him to hope, against
reason, that Federation may be feasible
despite the fiscal difficulty, and that he may
be Premier of the Dominion of Australia ere
he closes his career. But the most obvious
and, we are disposed to think, the dominant
reason for his present posturing is a design
to diddle the Protectionists, who have thus
far demonstrated beyond denial to reason-
able men that the key which must be used
to open the door of Australian Nationalism
is in their keeping.
* * *
The reasons for supposing that Sir Henry
Parkes calculates that whatever be the out-
come of his activity it xvill at least succeed
in raising a smoke sufficient to obscure,
during the next session of his Parliament, any
inconvenient issues, are numerous. In the
first place, if the Premier of New South
Wales meant to succeed, he appeal’s to go a
very awkward way about it. Now, lack of
adroitness is not a weakness of Sir Henry
Parkes’ mind. Yet almost the first move
lie makes in an undertaking Avhich demands
aboA'e all things a hearty predisposition on
all hands to agree and accommodate differ-
ences, has been to offer gratuitous affront to
the most potent among the parties to be
dealt with. In reply to a civil enough sug-
gestion by the Premier of Victoria with
respect to the means of achieving his alleged
aim, Sir Henry Parkes sends and publishes
a telegraphic message suggestive of studied
insult and a design to pick a quarrel. He
informs Mr. Gillies that the latter has
entirely misapprehended the case —a message
couched in terms Avhich convey a meaning
that the Premier of Victoria is deficient in
ordinary intelligence. As if to intensify the
irritation Avhich a communication of this
character coidd not fail to create, Sir Henry
folloAved up this stroke by declaring at
Tentertield that if two Australian Govern-
ments set an example in federating, the
others must of necessity follow'. The two
Governments alluded to were obviously
to be New South Wales and Queens-
land, and Victoria Avas equally plainly
one of the “ others ” which “ must ” humbly
imitate their superiors. If the man who
thus comported himself in the initial stages
of Avhat must be a delicate and difficult
negotiation Avere not notoriously an adept in
the art of diplomacy, one might regard these
proceedings simply as gross blunders. But
under the actual circumstances of the case
such a supposition is scarcely admissible.
This method of inaugurating a Federal
agreement must, consequently, be regarded
as indicatiA'e rather of a purpose to rouse an
antagonism upon which the blame of fore-
seen and expected failure may be shuffled,
than of a true intention of carrying the
affair to a successful issue.
* * *
There are other indications which point in
the same direction. In the difference of
vieAvs as to the most advantageous course to
be pursued in order to achieve the object
primarily aimed at, Sir Henry Parkes has
clearly put himself in the wrong. This, avc
apprehend, can scarcely be another blunder.
Mr. Gillies and the Premier of Tasmania
concur in declaring that the most feasible
way to give practical effect to the recommen-
dations of General Edwards with respect to
a Federal Defence Force—which is the
starting and central point of the whole busi-
ness -Avould be for all the colonies to avail
themselves of the provisions of the Federal
Council Act of the Imperial Legislature. Sir
Henr v Pah kes traverses that opinion. But in
so doing, he is not content with candid
reasonings. Ho goes out of his way to
advance statements Avhich will not bear
investigation. Now, we shall not insist that
the Federal Council Act is one in all respects
satisfactory with regard to facilitating a
comprehensive system of Intercolonial Fede-
ration. But, if all parties were resolved to
avail themselves to the utmost of the oppor-
tunities which it affords, we believe it could
be found adequate for all purposes. Sir
Hesry Parkes appears conscious of this.
Otherwise the trouble he has taken to dis-
ingenuously misstate the scope and character
of that Act must be set down as yet another
blunder. Thus, for example, he chose, at
Tentertield, to describe the Federal Council
as a body “which sat at Hobart,” convey-
ing, by this style of description, an impres-
sion that it could meet nowhere else. The
plain fact is that in the Act it is provided
that Hobart was to he the place of meeting
of the first session, and that subsequent
sessions may be held “ in such colony as the
Council shall, from time to time, deter-
mine.” Again, Sir Henry did not disdain
to characterise the Council as “ not an
elective body, but merely a body ap-
pointed by the Governments of the various
colonies ” —as though the constitution -of
the Council were thus stereotyped by an
immutable and essential provision. The
actual state of the case is that each colony
is empowered to adopt any plan it chooses
for authorising its representatives. The
words of the Act are explicit. There is
nothing whatever to prevent an agreement
being arrived at between the colonies that
the members of the Council shall be elected
by a uniform suffrage. The clause govern-
ing this runs as follows : —The Legislature
of any colony may make such provision as it
thinks lit for the appointment of the repre-
sentatives of that colony and for determining
the tenure of their office. Besides these
facilities, provision is included for an in-
definite expansion of the number of mem-
bers. It will be perceived, therefore, that
there is nothing to prevent the present
Federal Council being developed into an
Australian House of Representatives. There
would indeed be no possibility, without a
fresh enactment of the Imperial authorities,
of constituting a second Chamber or Senate.
Sir Henry Parkes apparently clings to the
bi-cameral system. We eannot say that
we share his predilections in that respect.
Australia could, we conceive, manage
very well without sei’vile imitation of an-
tiquated methods of check and balance.
With that single limitation to a single Cham-
ber, the scope of the Federal Council Act is
ample for almost any conceivable Federal
purpose. It is especially and particularly
framed to meet the very contingency which
has given Sir Henry Parkes a reason
for his present activity—provision for
“ general defence.” That is the first of a
series of matters expressly defined as coming
within the influence of the Act, subject to
the voluntary action of local legislatures in
referring those specified matters to the
Council.
# * *
But if there were still any doubt as to the
practicability of employing this Act as the
machinery for managing a Federal army—
if, for example, it were doubted whether it
could deal with the financial aspects of the
matter, it should suffice to learn that among
its provisions is one so comprehensive as to
sweep away all difficulties. It is arranged
that the Legislatures of the colonies may
transfer to the Federal Council “any other
matter which on the application of the
Australian Legislatures may bo referred <o
the Federal Council by an order of Her
Majesty -in-Council.” In other words, there
is nothing which any Australian Legisla-
ture can now do with respect to the colony
to which it appertains, which the Federal
Council could not be empowered to do with
respect to all Australia. The weak feature
of the Act is, however, that powers dele-
gated to it by the several Legislatures of the
different colonies are not permanently vested
in it. The Legislature which delegates its
powers to-day can resume them to-morrow.
In other words the Act makes ample pro-
vision for Federation hut is insufficient to
secure indissoluble Union,
# # #
Wc have already shown, however, that
Union is, even according to Sir Henry
Parkes’ own Treasurer, as in fact it is ac-
cording to a consensus of opinions, out of
the question unless there be identity of
tariffs. The Federal Council Act is there-
fore amply efficient for any purpose which
it is within the power of Sir Henry Parkes
and a Freetrade Administration in New
South Wales to accomplish. It might not,
indeed, he comprehensive enough for the
requirements of the Protectionist Govern-
ment which is sure to come into power at
no distant date in N.S. Wales, and for which
is assuredly reserved, let Sir Henry Parkes
swagger as he may, the patriotic function
of realising the aspirations of Australian
Nationalism.
Material Prosperity and Political
Wellbeing.
At the entrance of N.Y. Harbour stands a lofty
figure typifying “Liberty Enlighteningthe'World.”
Wc do not suppose the sculptor who designed
the colossus or the French nation who subscribed
the funds for its purchase, bad any clear notion of
the function performed by Liberty for the world’s
enlightenment. It must be admitted that the
phrase sounds well, and sound with most people
goes further than sense. To assume that Liberty
has been a beacon, by whose light mankind have
been able to tread their way along the path of pro-
gress, is historically and economically inaccurate.
Freedom is an effect, not a cause. It is a measure
by which progress is gauged, not an instrument by
which it hag been effected. To suppose otherwise
is to fall into the very common error, that indus-
trial advancement proceeds from political causey
whereas there is every evidence, both of
common-sense and theory, that the converse i a
correct, and that the permanence of political
institutions depends on material prosperity, and
progress towards absolute liberty follows improve-
ment in the industrial condition of the masses. It
is curious, though a very natural circumstance
that the subjects of those countries which enjoy
the greatest material prosperity are the most
favoured in respect to political freedom. The
great industrial prosperity of the United States is
the true safeguard of their freedom, and the large
industrial opportunities of the people of Great
Britain permit them to be politically freer under
the Guelph monarchy, and an imbecile House of
Peers, than the French under a republic. How-
ever much we may detest the arrogant pretensions
of the Hapsburgs and the Hohenzollerns, we
cannot disguise the fact that the Austrians and
Germans, even under military despotism, are far
more secure in their personal liberty than were the
subjects of the renowned republics of ancient
times, or than the people of some republics now
existing.
# * *
The truth is, disguise it how you will, the poor
man is never free. It may indeed be argued with
plausibility that the Swiss, the Montenegrins, and
other mountainous people have maintained a great
degree of personal freedom under what must be
regarded by us as conditions of great poverty. The
point may be conceded, but neither Switzerland
nor Montenegro is an industrial community. No
important country can be instanced, where in-
dividual liberty has survived long years of in-
dustrial stagnation. The forms of freedom may
endure after the spirit has departed, but the
cause of material retrogression is also that of
political degeneracy, and hopeless poverty is the
grave of freedom. Like every other term, liberty
is but a comparative condition. No man is a slave
who has power over his own life, and no man is
free whose means of living depend entirely on
another. Great are the benefits which modern
civilisation has bestowed upon the human family,
but it has also inflicted one enormous evil, which
was non-existent under former conditions of
society. To-day the discharged labourer is the
most helpless of beings. The constant subdivision
of labour, while it cheapens the cost of living, un-
fits the labourer to produce anything for his own
consumption. To-day the most advanced worker
of Australia if thrown out of employment, is
more helpless than the savage whom he has dis-
possessed. He can do nothing for his own sup-
port. For this reason dearth of employment be-
comes everyday more serious to the community,
and every wave of depression more harmful than
its predecessor.
Seeing this, it is ridiculous to call a man free
whose very existence depends upon employment
which is in another’s gift. Few men are, there-
fore, entirely free, and in speaking of freedom we
use the term in its restricted sense, as meaning
personal and political liberty. As thus under-
stood, those classes approach most nearly the state
of freedom whose material condition is best, and
who, whether through the accidental circumstance
of enjoying a virgin land as in Australia, or
through successful labour combination or other
cause, are able to maintain their condition against
encroachment. History, both sacred and profane,
teems with examples. “The people waxed fat
and kicked.” is the scriptural form of a great
economic truth. With material prosperity has
ever come the expansion of political ideas, and,
strange as it may appear, an ill-fed proletariat are
much more prone to worship the power of princes
than arc a prosperous commonalty.
* * #
It is very fashionable, especially amongst the
ignorant politicians of this country, to compare
America and Great Britain, in order to show the
advantage of a Protective over aFreetrade policy.
So many diverse elements affect the jxisition of
these countries, as to make fiscal comparisons
more curious than valuable. The matter is men-
tioned because, if the theory that freedom is the
forerunner of prosperity bo true, the United
States, with its robust liberty, ought to show
greatly to the advantage of England. Whatever
superiority there is on the side of America is
nothing, as compared with what might be the
case. The United states, while discarding the
political blunders and the shoddy aristocratic
system of Europe, have perpetuated all that is
odious in the industrial life of the old and
the free institutions of America have not sufficed
to ward off labour degradation and industrial
evils that even now point to a time not far
distant when the American labourer will,
except for military service, be no better off
than his European co-worker. It seems strange
that where the power of making laws is so
completely in the hands of the people, so little
care has been taken to establish the first step of
material well beings- short hours of labour. In
this respect England shows greatly to the advan-
tage of America. In the former country the
period of labour is fixed by statute at nine and a-
half hours daily, while in the States the average
day’s labour is not less than eleven and a-half
hours. The existence of such a difference forms an
extraordinary commentary upon the working of
American institutions, and shows that political
freedom is not inconsistent with industrial back-
wardness. The constitutions of nearly all the
other American States are as free as their great
prototype, but only in the case of Chili, and in a
lesser degree of the Argentine, has material pro-
sperity enabled any of these people to be advan-
taged by their nominal freedom.
# # #
The truth is, material advancement is necessary
or freedom, and no nation which has lifted itself


beyond the initial stages of civilisation has been
able to maintain free institutions, in the absence
of industrial well-being. No amount of political
freedom can of itself beget prosperity, for
material progress is the condition which makes the
possession of free institutions possible. The
fallacy of attributing material ills to social and
political causes is a very common one. The
poverty and degradation prevalent in large cities
are assigned, by social reformers, to drunkenness,
whereas the converse is true. Just as poverty
with its concomitants—squalor and filth is the
fruitful mother of the bodily ills which culminate
in epidemics, so is it also responsible for most of
the drunkenness and vice with which it is asso-
ciated. People are not poor because they drink,
but drunken because they are poor. The
denizens of the squalid tenements abutting on
Darling Harbour and the Haymarket, Sydney,
are not shocked at the exhibition of drunkenness
which is their daily spectacle. If they formulate
any ideas about the matter at all, they look upon
the vice as an ocean of refuge into which they may
plunge to escape from their wretchedness. In
localities where the material condition is better,
loss drunkenness will be found, and less and less
will the vice be found prevalent until the stpge is
reached where drunkenness is shameful. The
people who sit luxuriously intoxicated in the
doorways of Sussex-street or Exeter place or
the lowest slums of Oollingwood are drunk
not because the dram-shops are many, but the
dram-shops are numerous because the locality is
tenanted by people who are prone to drunkenness.
Social evils, for the most part, spring from
material causes, and if poverty were abolished, or,
at least, greatly mitigated, the lunatic asylum, the
gaol, and the low public-house would also disap-
pear.
* * *
The municipal character of Australian politics
is sometimes pointed to as an evidence of the want
of enlarged notions of statesmanship on the part
of our rulers. It is evidence, indeed, of something
far different. We have little else of any moment
worth fighting for, and while the councils of
Europe are engaged discussing the affairs of
Afghan, Egypt, or of any other than their own
people, we, more happily situated, can afford to
leave such extraneous questions unheeded and
give attention to our own condition. That our
politicians have to discuss commonplace matters
such as Land Bills, sanitation, or irrigation, is an
evidence of our material progress, and not of
political ineptitude. /Taking them all in all the
people of Australia are freer, practically, if not
nominally, than any other community; a circum-
stance due not to our inborn love of liberty, but to
our material prosperity. When the Constitution
of New South Wales was brought into existence
the liberty of its people was not greater than that
of the British, while the instincts and political
aspirations of both peoples were almost identical.
Since then we have had the advantage of a much
more generous measure of material prosperity, and
to this one circumstance, we may attribute our rapid
advance over Britain in all matters of political
reform. No sane man judges Australian sentiment
by the Soudan episode or measures the aspiration
of the nation by the imperialistic utterances of
some of the politicians whom accident has placed
at the head of affairs. Otherwise the people of
New South Wales might be thought to be burning
with zeal to defend the Empire, and the Victorians
to be continually in a state of grovel. It is
curious to note, in this connection, that the only
colony of the group which deliberately professes
sentiments out of keeping with its position as a
member of the Australian group, is Tasmania; it
is there also where political ideas have least fructi-
fied and where material well-being is least diffused.
HENRY SIEBEL.
The Rise and Decline of Australian
Sport.
The Australians are a sport-loving people, and
the congestion of population in our large cities
tends to intensify their proclivities. To prove the
former assertion it is only necessary to compare
Sydney and Melbourne Avith cities of equal or,
greater size in other parts of the Avorld. The
capitals of N.S. Wales and Victoria are not so largo
as Manchester or Liverpool, Leeds or GlasgoAV,
Sheffield or Birmingham, and, moreover, are not
the centres of thickly-populated districts, with
cheap excursion trains ready at a feAv hours’ notice
to pour in their thousands, yet each manages
somehow to provide far more amusement of the
kind classified as sport than does any of the cities
mentioned. Liverpool is content Avith two large
yearly race-meetings in the year, the sporting people
of Manchester are similarly served, Avhile Leeds,
Edinburgh, Sheffield, Birmingham and GlasgoAV
have no race-meetings worthy of the name. Other
cities and toAvns such as Bristol and Newcastle,
Plymouth and Blackburn, Nottingham and Preston
have none, or ai’e content Avith one annual gather-
ing. Noav, in addition to the A.J.C.’s, there arc
half-a-dozen racing-clubs in the immediate vicinity
of Sydney, and each of them holds one meeting a
month at least. Last Christmas the city of the
Beautiful Harbour had, excepting Sundays and
nun-secular holidays, nine consecutive days’racing,
and we are Avell Avithin the mark in stating that
the N.S.W. metropolis has on an average two
race-days a Aveek. In Melbourne the turf is still
more to the fore, as Avitness the recent ed lets of
theY.R.C. against suburban meetings.
* * *
While the Liverpool Grand National or the
Manchester Cup is got up for the amusement of a
district equalling in population and exceeding in
wealth all Australia, it cannot be said that as a
pageant, a sporting or a betting event either trans-
cends the Melbourne and Sydney Cups, the New-
market or the Metropolitan Handicaps. Then again,
though the prizes given aAvay are larger in Eng-
land, the added money is proportionately much
greater in Australia. This means that Avhile the
t'lrf in the old country is to a largo extent sup-
ported by the horse-owners the plutocracy and
alleged aristocracy—it is here dependent on the
gate-money donations of the general public.
# # * <—
. Disregarding the turf, many British cities are
the national head-centres of other sports. Eor
instance, Sheffield is the head-quarters of profes-
sional pedesiriauistn ; NeAA uastle on Tyne is. out-
side London, the only town in which professional
boat-sculling is largely practised ; Glasgow and
Leeds are devoted to football; and Birmingham is
the provincial home of pugilism. The present
writer has witnessed -many “merry mills” in
Brummagem and London, yet, so far as his know-
ledge goes, the residents never flocked to see box-
ing or Avrestling encounters as they do in
Melbourne and Sydney Avhen the entrance-fee is
ten times as great. Those Avho have become
enthusiastic over a “Rangers versus Queen’s
Bark ” match at Glasgow, or a “ Wakefield Trinity
against Bradford ” contest in the West Riding,
Avould gaze with astonishment at the big crowds
attending many Melbourne football struggles.
Recent OA ents show that sculling in New South
Wales is more flourishing than in any other spot.
The Sydney foot-runners arc not quite so fleet as
those at Sheffield, and, perhaps, the betting is
not so heavy, but in other respects Sydney
pedestrian ism is unapproached. The total prize-
money in a Sheffield handicap is only £lOO and the
number field yearly never exceeds eight. In Syd-
ney over £BOO has been given in on'e handicap and
large prizes are every week competed for. In
England big handicaps are almost unknown out-
side Sheffield, but Australian bush hamlets often
give away £lOO in prizes for short - distance
foot-races. Like the turf, those other forms of
Australian sport are chiefly dependent on gate-
money.
* * *
When popular taste favours anything beyond
reasonable limits reaction is sure to set in," and
enthusiasm is folloAved by indifference and cold
neglect. Now there are not Avantiug signs that
Australian interest in sporting is Availing and may
possibly be succeeded by an also undesirable
Puritanism. For Avhen people no longer patronise
sport they usually turn to theological pursuits or
to vice _ and dissoluteness. As sport is just uoav
flourishing, the reader may doubt its coming
decay, but as the tide is highest just before its
turn, as the climax immediately precedes the col-
lapse, so there are indications that Australian
sport may soon specify decline.
# # #
Cricket is not so popular as it was ten years ago,
and we may look in A’ain for the idolised successors
of Murdoch, Spofforth, Horan and Blackham,
Trustworthy authorities aver that Melbourne re-
pents of its football mania, and pastimes of corres-
ponding importance in Sydney are beginning to
lose vitality. The most remarkable feature of
Australian sport has been the rapid rise of Sydney
pedestrianism. Yet, Ave have the recent declara-
tion of the father of the game, the Botany pro-
moter, that no more big prizes Avill be offered on
his ground, and the “Monster Consultations”
cannot secure a tithe of the subscribers that rolled
in eight or tweßo months ago. The public now
knoAv all about the inner AA-orkings of pedestrian-
ism, the public haA T e ceased to support it, and bet-
ting men, peds, and gaffers cannot of themselves
keep it going. It must, hoAA’ever, be borne in
mind that at Sheffield “stiff” and “cronk ” run-
ning and “ gaffer ’’law have been thoroughly ex-
posed, yet the handicaps of the blade-toAvn if
shorn of former splendour still hold a command-
ing position. Pedestrianism has merely experi-
enced a change common to other pastimes. Here
professional rowing has not reached theloAv level it
has lately attained in England, but the recent
struggle betAveen Suable and O’Connor did not
evoke so much interest as Beach’s performances
on the Thames, not to mention the still greater ex-
citement connected Avith the efforts of Teickett
and Laycook. Our boxers are now leaving in
shoals for America and England, and there is
nothing to tempt men of the calibre of Mace and
Burke, Cannon and Whistler to come here.
Public enthusiasm over these minor departments
of sport has undoubtedly of late greatly diminished
and their very existence is threatened.
# * *
Charles Lever, in describing a continental
race-meeting, opined that a wealthy class like the
English aristocracy Avas necessary to the existence
of the turf. Noav it is evident that both in Eng-
land and Australia the principal factor in pro-
moting the popularity of racing has been a certain
class of OAvners, wealthy enough to be independent
of the betting-ring. The presence in the field of a
Falmouth, Westminster, White, or Wallace
is sufficient to destroy the best-laid schemes of
leviathans and cash-fielders, and to encourage the
vast army of backers on Avhom racing really
depends. A poAverful, straightforward stable is
of itself enough to preserve the public from the
machinations of the ring. Let such cease to exist,
let racehorses be exclusively controlled by those
Avho are Avholly or partially dependent on the turf
for a livelihood, and the end is near. The “sport
of kings” may for a time be sport only for the
“ kings of the ring,” but its doom is sealed. Com-
menting on the recent Chetwynd-Dueham scandal
Bailey’s Magazine, a recognised authority, says:—
“ Active participation in racing is pre-eminently
an amusement for persons Avhose income is more
than sufficient for their wants, and avlio are suffi-
ciently high-minded to discard altogether the
least thoughts of gain, and sufficiently good
sportsmen to take Avith equanimity the reverses of
fortune. Directly racing becomes a business, men
enter into a contest, from which, in all likelihood,
but few emerge unimpaired.”
# # #
Without going back to the times of John Tait
it is easy to see that, as the great owners drop off,
their places are not being filled. Who has
stepped into the shoes of Messrs. De Mestre,
Pearson, Wilson, and Robinson ? Do the
Coopers, the Clarkes, and the Longs support
the Australian turf as they did four years ago ?
Many other such instances can be quoted, but
where is the prominent owner Avho has of late
sprung up ? The solitary exception is Mr. Donald
Wallace, but it is doubtful Avhether he shall much
longer devote so much attention to the Australian
turf. “ Augur ” recently paid his periodical
visit to the Hon. .James White’s stable, and
while he noticed that the young animals were as
good as ever, it struck him that the “ flower of the
flock ” were bred to English time, and that the
most promising colts now at Kirkham are not
intended for the Australian turf. It is thus made
evident that our leading OAvner and most powerful
and influential sportsmen, should he thoroughly
recover, as all sincerely hope he may, from
his present terrible illness, will, for some time at
least, devote his attention to English racing.
Already his example has been followed by the
Messrs. Cooper, and rumour hath it that at no
distant date the owner of Carbine and Mentor
may sport his colours at the other end of the
AA’orld. In sporting, as in everything else, there is
a tide of fashion, and just as the Champs Elysees
and Hyde Park have for the time displaced Broad-
way as the shoAvground of American plutocracy, so
Newmarket or Epsom may become the Mecca of
our leading racing-men. Then, should oar Avealthy
owners once rub shoulders Avith royalty, it will be
difficult to tear them aAvay from those associations
so dear to the “representative Australian.” With
the AvitfidraAval of these great OAvners the Austra-
lian turf Avill fiave to-depend on betting-men and
the owners and trainers Avho live by {lie game,
and finding combination more profitable than com-
petition generally federate for the purpose of
robbing the public, who may cease to support
racing when they discover the imposition.
*■ * ' *
Breeding racehorses is a risky business, in which
the prizes are feiv and the blanks many. Of the
thoroughbreds foaled but a small proportion ever
stand the ordeal of training, and only few of these
pay for their oats, and it is evident that large
capital is required to, produce high-class racers.
The bookmaker who likes a quick “ turnover ” is
not the man to sink fabulous sums for years in
any enterprise. If thoroughbreds are to be pro-
duced at all without the assistance of large private
stables, it must be by means of stud companies
such as those of New Zealand. And if the public
cease to support racing such speculations will soon
fail to be profitable.
# * *
“Augur” lias recently pointed out, in the
columns of the Australasian, that we have not a
tithe of the amateur riders of a dozen years ago,
and the leading ringmen are now leaving our
shores for England, just as rats desert a sinking
ship.
# * *
It may be beneficial to inquire what effect sport
has on national character and physique. Taking
the most important department first, it is evident
that the extinction of the turf, if it should produce
any important result at all, must be for good.
Racing, as everyone knows by this time,
does not improve the breed of horses, and de-
teriorates the human race, for it is carried on
simply to appease the inherent gambling mania
which evinces itself in various forms from chapel
bazaars and “ heading ’em ” to stock transactions.
Keen obserA’ers aver that the addiction of the
Australians to field sports preserves them from
physical deterioration. Cricket, football, roAving,.
aye, and lawn-tennis, can be cai’ried on Avithout the
gambling Avhich at present mars many Australian
sports. In America athletics are promoted by the
big clubs for the general good rather than to
enrich speculative individuals. In Germany the
State supervises physical education with results
that made themseh es felt at Sadowa and Sedan.
To free Australian sport from the evil influences
noAv surrounding it is a task worthy of a states-
man.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sydney University.
o
o
The Melbourne Cup
o


Deaf Forty Years.
o
The description of a simple remedy, by winch
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY YEARS’ STANDING has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
[?]
546 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, October SO, ISSO.
Mv Dear Moorabinda, —
Now that the gubernatorial mother and infant arc both
as bright as buttons, society, which has been vioo-regally
fasting for ever so long, ought to be propitiated with a
reception or an “ At Home ” or something where it can
wear its new frock and drink tea out of ooroneted cups.
And, speaking of “ At Homes,” I hear that these dread-
ful mob-gatherings, where the unhappy hostess is at the
mercy of every idle woman of her acquaintance without
the possibility of denying the most unwelcome guest, are
about to be abandoned by the “ best ” people. Looked
at from both sides, a fixed “At Home” is a nuisance.
For the visited it is a short imprisonment with bore-
torture superadded, while from the caller’s standpoint, the
wearisome “ At Home ” means that you can never, by
any possibility, find anybody out, and, unlike days of yore*
when the maid’s sententious “Missus is Hout” and a bit
of pasteboard did the trick, now every social pound of
flesh has to be religiously paid—and three calls iu an after-
noon is hard work. So, in the face of all these disabilities,
“ At Homes ” are dropped, and the sound of the mistress’
voice calling in a shrill whisper over the bannisters : “ Not
utJiome, remember, Jane !” will again echo softly under
the entry-door.
In an article on “Calling,” a scribe, signing “ V," sug-
gests that house-visiting be abolished and an open-air
rendezvous substituted, for which the arid, shadeless Oen
tennial Park is enthusiastically nominated. For a regular
rendezvous no place could be more delightful; and it
needs only a good hand to perform there every afternoon.
There should also lie plenty of chairs, for the use of which
a small sum could he charged, and small pavilions might
also be erected, where tea and ices could tie procured.
Then Die carriages would throng and the equestrians and
the pedestrians and the nurse-maids and the idlers, and
we would at last have an Australian Row, and Potts Point
would -encase Jeames iu another layer of hut lofis and the
livery-stable man would run riot in the land. Bui the
chief drawback to thy scheme is that no Row in the world
is composed entirely of women, and on the shores of the
Beautiful Harbour de Smyth is up to his perfumed eye-
brows in adding two and two all day, and tic Jones is
balancing in a bank till a late hour, and so for the purely
ornamental man-of-leisure Park young man, we would
have lo rely on Government House—though on special
show, days we might put the unemployed- into gardenias
and top hats and place them on eminences in rehearsed
attitudes.
Here is a tale that everybody is whispering into your
Sappho's little ear about a certain Melbourne merchant
and his green-eyed spouse. He had to go to London on
urgent business, and lie bade her a lingering farewell and
kissed all the children and waved his hat over the roof of
the cab and otherwise behaved as the best-regulated hus-
bands do, wbileJMrs. B. watched him contemplatively all
t be time. In the afternoon she drove out and met a
friend, who was overcome with astonishment. “Mrs.
Blank! 1 thought you had gone to England!”
“Whv?” was the eager query. “<>b, Toni saw
your husband fussing with a lady’s luggage and,
of course, lie assumed.” She didn’t hear any more
nut drove back homo in a hurry, and when the mail-boat
pulled up at Adelaide the first thing Blank saw was Mrs.
Blank’s head in his cabin doorway. What Mrs. Blank
saw was her yellow-faced spouse, who bad evidently been
leaning far over the taffrail enveloped in an did ulster, play-
ing euchre with a male fellow-sufferer. The situation was
embarrassing. Blank’s eye expressed a scorn he couldn't
reveal, and Mrs. 8., after some lame enquiries after his
health and pressing injunctions not to get his feet wet,
beat a hasty retreat over the side and caught the express
back to Melbourne. That’s all.
There is much anxious speculation iu an Australian
household over the mysterious disappearance of a daughter
who recently departed for Europe on a health-trip. She
arrived “ home ” safe enough, and shortly afterwards be-
came engaged to the son of a “service" magnate and a
speedy wedding-day was fixed. Then the bride-elect de-
clared that before she was six months married she must
just take a run back to Australia to kiss mamma and get
a few straight griffins and a cheque from papa, and the
last letter her parents received was dated London and
named the steamer she would leave by. But the ship
came to port the other day without her, and the London
let ters have ceased to arrive, anil where she is at present
is a dark and fearsome problem.
One would hardly think there was anything new to be
perpetrated in the concert line, but Miss Edward Deane
(1 am glad to hear, by the bye, that her real name isn’t
Edward) struck anew idea on 23rd iust. at Sydney
Y.M.U.A. with a concert given entirely by ladies. Of
course, it was iu aid of a suburban church—that and the
horrible nervousness of the hundred performers were the
only thjiigs that spoilt the show. I liked Miss Jennings-
Braiuly’s (a pupil of Miss Naylor) singing of “Mill He
Gome?'' which was calculated to make any young man
arrive promptly; but I didn’t much like Miss Deane’s
ronduoting with hare hands, nor yet her vigorous wielding
of (he baton, which was very, very manly. The lady
ushers, in white gowns, ran about in frightened groups
and almost expired at the sight of “ reserved ” tickets
but making all allowance for its being a maiden effort
I here is roorii for congratulat ion on the result.
I think there is some fatality about the very “fat” part
of Susan M'Cleery, in “ Held by the Enemy,” produced for
the first time in two years, at Her Majesty 's Theatre, on
26th inst. Miss Ada Decker, if you remember, was calf
like as the frisky Susan ; Miss Florence Stockman—who is
short and very plump, so plump that she broke a chair in
the spooning act on Saturday—ha* a face like Emma
QtoMßbsrt. »n eys-wake up that suggests boot black
ò
Could anything have been move unkind than the joke
some choice spirits played on the mothers on the last
night ? They strolled •from stall to stall and instead of the
usual “Nice Jit tic fellow, •eh T which is the most fervent
masculine expression *>f- approval, they exclaimed, in
chorus: “Here's another little mummy.” “Look at its
ears— they're like fans.” ‘UBy Jove ! what a mouth for a
carpet-bag ” —arid so on, until the incensed mamma showed
signs of a voluble defence of her offspring ; atjd then the
gang moved on and repeated their performance else-
where. It was cruel, and not even the champion’s
mamma was proof against it.
When tlie evening newspaper man or woman gets on to
the subject of •feminine war-paint he, she, or it is hope-
lessly idiotic. Under the dangerous heading of “Spring
Fashions" a certain “Erica” perpetrates the following
for Melbourne Standard ; “ Lustrine is one of the new
materials; it is a v ery silk-like Mpaca, and is certain to he
popular.” Now, French manufacturers have been t urning
out lustrine about as long as any living creatures - except-
ing, perhaps, such ancients as gold fish, ravens, &c. can re-
member. “ Erica,” whether man or woman, has cer-
tainly worn the material as a mantle, bonnet, or hell-
topper-lining a thousand times. Lustrine is best described
as a coarse, much-stiffened imitation of the old English
sarsnet, or perhaps sarsnet was founded on lustrine. One
of the historical tricks of the wholesale “ rag’’-trade in
London is to have a piece of lustrine “ undressed” (which
means being made limp) and substituted for sarsnet.
There, now !
There wasn’t much doing in 'Vice-regal circles last week.
On 21st the Baron attended the third rendering of
“Elijah’’when he got off rather a neat little oration in
presenting Hazon with a gold chain and pendant, on the
receipt of which that gifted musician was quite overcome.
On 23rd lie opened the Rose Show, on 24(h lie lunched
with the gallant warriors of the Rifle Association, and on
. 26th he rode to the Scentennial Park. He left Sydney on
28th for Adelaide to show Kintorc how to steer his kilt in
safety through the quicksands of a Masonic installation,
after which he will return to Melbourne, where he will
remain until after the Cup.
The story circulated at Randwick that top-note Vic-
torian females made their own wagers with the ring and
paid over or received their money at first hand is being
whispered about in Melbourne, and people who aspire to
do the correct thing whatever it is want to know if it
will be the fashion at Flemington this year? What a
queer romance that -was years ago when the pretty Tas-
manian threw her handkerchief at the penciller !
Do you lace your boots properly ? 1 didn’t till an oblig-
ing shoemaker showed me how, the other day. Put your
foot, as much as possible in the heel, which is best done by
hoisting it into a chair in front of the one you’re sitting
in. Draw the lacing as tightly as possible over the instep,
because it holds the foot back and gives plenty of room
for the too-often cramped pedal digits, and lace loosely
round the ankles. Most people—if you notice as I have
been noticing lately—lace gapingly on the insteps and
tight round the ankles, and the result is an “over” on
the boot-heel. And the average Australian can’t stand
that.
Sensible departure discovered in a daily paper;—
1 NY Young Lady Dressmaker who wishes for
JI change of air can obtain the same, with board and
••esidenoe for a few weeks, by working four hours per
day at bazaar work.
The address is Mount Victoria, and the idea is excellent.
Four hours a day at fancy work to a tired frock-builder,
accustomed to treading a machine, would be mere child's
play, while the surplus time would be her own to breathe
an atmosphere not filled either witli the fluff of the work
room or the bouquet of the streets. If such desirable
offers were more frequent we wouldn’t shiver so often at
the clammy touch of Miss Fichu’s fingers or grow de
pressed at her heavy eyelids. But these are selfish con-
siderations.
Have you ever remarked how amazingly shop-girls
fresco themselves ? In a big Sydney drapery the other
day a girl darted out to attend to me and I almost lost my
balance with the shock of her appearance She had tow
colours*! hair longed to Zulu point, a thin, sallow
visage, and two sudden daubs of rouge on either cheek-
bone, like a Dutch doll. To see if she was an innovator I
looked round the shop, and behold! almost every girl had
a parchment face and poppy-red cheeks—the most incon-
gruous of contrasts.
Mons. Kowalski is no longer a lone, lorn grass-widower.
A shipment of adopted children has already arrived, and
madame herself is timed to occur at quite a sudden date
(pretty pupils, who lay bouquets at the shrine of genius,
please note). “Yesterday I vas vat you call bachelor,”
said the genial pianist—“ now I am a family man with an
’ouseful.” By the by, did you ever hear him tell that
little anecdote about “pale ale?”
The second performance of “ Kerry ” and “Our Boys”
at Sydney Criterion attracted a d.c. that had evidently
decided the weather was flue enougli to wear it. A
beautiful gown was of white satin and crepe de chine
relieved with yellow ribbon and daffodils. Miss Hoflnung,
in a stage box, wore decollette white silk with bows of
ribbon sleeves, a sprinkling of diamonds, and a belt-
bouquet of cream and crimson roses. A nice gown
was in buttercup satin draped with cream lace.
There is no dressing in “Kerry”—a play that is
one vast salt sob in widow’s weeds—but Emma
Temple wears a pretty gown in “Our Boys”—a
cream satin well cut and draped, and white sleeves to
match ; while Miss Harwood’s long-tailed black frock in
this act is identical (minus the stand-up collar) with the
one she wore in the last act of “Money.” And Pattie
Browne, as the “ slavey,” wore a smudge across her nose
and an exploded bodice which proves that when a pretty
actress sacrifices her appearances to suit her part she
arrives there witli the same celerity as she does in the
frizzles and rose-powder of happier roles.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The man who gloats o’er witty “pars,”
Will always relish “ Dawn ’’ cigars.
You may live happily without love, but
without Marshall’s Tonic Nervine life is indeed
unenjoyable. * ~
According to Hoe, tpe printing-press
manufacturer, London Timkb has only a daily
circulation of 40,000 copies. |
Queer Sydney advt. :
rpRA LA.—The old man has a new dog ; don’t wear
, new to-morrow. Ha, Ha!
It is cabled that in his address before the
resumed sittings of the TiMES-Pamell Commission,
- Michael Davitt stated that Pigott admitted to his
• servant having confessed to the Times before the
O'Donnell trial that the letters were forgeries.
Pastor Jefferis and Messrs. J. R. Fairfax
and Josiah Mullens represent N.S.W. Congrega-
tionalism at the forthcoming May meetings, in
England. How is it that now’-a-days all the re-
presentative Christians are in such comfortable
circumstances ?
Everyone who is leaving Australia should
purchase, and those who remain should not
neglect to post home a copy of The Bulletin’s
‘ ‘ History of Botany Bay, ” price Is. Profusely
illustrated by L. Hopkins and Phil May, and
replete with information.
In 1885, Sydney Daily Telegraph de-
scribed Sir Henry Parkes as “trading on the
senseless cry that the Education Act was in
•danger,” and added: “This cry succeeded for a.
time# but gradually it came to be regarded as the
cry of a drowning man clutching at the straw of
public gullibility.”
Mr. Inspector General Eosbery told Mr.
Superintendent Read, and Mr. Superintendent
Read told Mr. Inspector Anderson and Mr.
Inspector Anderson, told Sergeant Murphy, and
Sergeant Murphy told the poor old crippled news-
woman at the corner of King and Elizabeth streets
Sydney, to “Move on ”■—and she did.
The Age’s famous Russian spy is again
• before the public, he having, it is alleged, used a
big Melbourne firm badly in a transaction about a
patent for extracting gas from water. The
sufferers describe his system as bogus, but perhaps
lie could have illustrated his process in- the House
of Assembly any night during a teetotal debate
night. I ■ •
At the N.S.W. Rifle Association meeting,
Australia only defeated Ireland by two' points in
the international match, England was only three
behind Ireland, and Scotland only five behind
England. But the Scots had consolation, for
Private Kennedy (2nd Regt,) made top score (88)
in the competition, and also annexed the “Queen’s
prize ” and the championship.
The latest alleged Sydney baby-farmer is
the wife of an undertaker. This is depressing, to
say the least of it. The lady has just been fined
for walloping a baby of twelve mouths and kicking
her while she was lying under a meat-safe.
Inspector-General Eosbery had better devote his
surplus energies to the kicksome baby-farmer,
instead of moving on paralysed female news-
vendors,
The many friends of Dan Sullivan, for-
merly of Brisbane, and late of the Brisbane Cafe,
George-street, Sydney, will be glad to hear that
lie has taken the hotel in George-street, which was
recently held by Neil Matterson. Dan’s old
friends in Brisbane and Sydney may do worse
than pay a tribute to his energy and enterprise in
the new locality he has fixed upon. The altera-
tions and improvements ho has gone in for make
the hotel a new place.
It appears that to Mr. Henry Lloyd, of
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., has by implica-
tion been attributed the much-talked of re-
moval from their street-stand of the blind
Sydney newsvendors. Now, as a matter of
fact, Mr, Lloyd not only had no hand in
suggesting the removal, but he always behaved
most kindly to the unfortunate pair, as they
themselves and the police gladly admit. The
thought of the writer of the paragraph
complained of by Mr. Lloyd was directed not
towards any individual, but towards the great
army of shopkeepers who, as a rule, stigmatise
the competition of street-hawkers as “unfair
to those who have to pay big rents.” Them
is apparently some truth in this, but if the
premises be closely examined it will be seen
that the conclusion is unwarranted. If rents
were not unduly high, the larger opportuni-
ties, the security of the shop seller, would more
than counterbalance the advantage his street-
selling competitor has in paying no rent. Were
it possible in the interests of shopkeepers to do
away with all street selling, does any sensible
; person imagine that they would be greatly bene-
■ fited thereby ? It would increase counter trade,
no doubt, but it would also increase the number of
shops, and, what is of more consequence, rents
would also be increased. Yes, nothing is more
certain than that the increase would be grabbed
like every other increment by the land-holder,
and therefore protective legislation in this direc
Mon is emiently undesirable
ó
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Jack-in-the-Box.”
Her Majesty's “ Held by the Enemy.”
Criterion. “ The Squire.”
Gaiety Prestidigitator Perron,
School of Arts Snazelle.
Cycloram a Battle of Gettysburg.
Darlinghurst Hall Orchestral Concerts,
Palace Museum Reality and Illusion.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ Antony and Cleopatra.”
Princess’ “Little Lord Fauntleroy.'
Theatre Royal “ The Pointsman,”
Alexandra “ The Beggar Student.”
Exhibition Bitldino The Silhon-Stirks, &e.
St. George’s Kali Professor Kennedy.
“ Jack-in-the-Box ” got a good grip of the
Sydney Royal audience on its lirst introduction,
and got what it deserved solely on the merits of
the company and without adding a single ray to
the crown of glory which illumined Clement Scott
by its radiations from G, R. Sims. At intervals
a scattered link of an attenuated plot, too thin and
weak to run an up-country baby-show, crops up
unexpectedly and reveals the melodramatic in-
stincts of the antediluvian playwright who worked
up amateur theatricals for the amusement of the
Israelites in their exploring trip through the
desert. The son of a wealthy Australian—per-
haps a Riverina squatter or a Sydney shoddy
importer, with a luxurious home on the shores
of Our Beautiful, &c. —runs away, scoots, so to
speak, across the sea in pursuit of a lovely
Italian girl who is happily dead, but has left him
a daughter. He appears to have taken nothing
with him from his ancestral villa on the shores of
Darling Harbour but an ‘ ! Australian bowie-
knife," which he carelessly left on the ground in a
wood in England after engaging in a sanguinary
scrapping-matoh with a bloodthirsty organ-grinder
who wanted his w ife. A second organ-grinder
who wanted this one on vendetta business came
by soon after and planted the Australian bowie-
knife up to the hilt in the other fellow’s engine-
room, and the materials are thus all there when
the show begins. The wealthy Australian is in
England looking for his son, and the son is barn-
storming with a lovely grown-up daughter in a
travelling company. Jack Merry weather, who is
also Jack Jenny Lee in the Box, is the sou of the
proprietress and the backbone of the business,
very far gone on the pretty daughter, and with a
little vendetta of his own always in progress as
against Carlo Toroni, the keeper of an organ-
grinder’s den in London, and the scoundrelly
nephew of the disgustingly wealthy Australian
who is prepared to draw cheques for fabulous
sums with less hesitation than a Bulletin para-
graphist bestows on his choice of a cheap-and-
ample-most-for-the-money refreshment, at 1 p.m,
daily.
*= * #
As at least 90 per cent, of the people who
go to theatres pref er laughter to tears, “Jack-in-
the-Box ” will be in that proportion more popular
than “Jo.” Jack gives no provocation to the
sniveller, though a big heart and a kindly nature
are bursting his buttons off all the time. He also
sings prettily and dances well, and when he makes
his escape from the cellar with the girl of his
heart under cover of two wide shots from a re-
volver, he has the audience for all they’re worth.
Professor O’Sullivan, an attache of the travelling
show, is a mate of Jack’s in his adventures,
and an all-round good man. There are some
pretty Italian girls, notably Catarina, whom
everybody seems to want to kiss, when the
scoundrel, Toroni, arrogates to himself the sole
right. And Herbert Flemming, with a good
record, has given the stage no better character
than the fierce, wily, and revengeful Carlo Toroni.
Jennie Lee sings “ Enniscorthy ” well; and Mary
Weir dances the Tarantella as though her life had
been devoted to its acquisition. Roy Carlton, the
plotting nephew, is a mean, contemptible villain
of the type to which English playwrights owe so
much of their success. The larrikin instincts of
the gallery are arrayed against him all the
time; as a sample of clean-shirted, respectable
villainy, who might be a kirk elder in Victoria
or an inspector of the Social Purity Society in
New South Wales, he is too generally vile to enlist
their sympathies. The absence of plot is atoned
for by the almost constant presence of “Jack ”on
the stage and the production and the applause
of a moist and perspiring audience.
* * * ifc
The Sydney tk Cri.” is helping to run time
into eternity with a double bill composed of
“ Kerry ” and “ Our Boys.” The former is a#re-
introduction in one act of that worst of all possible
inflictions, the old family servant—the unctuous
old tyrant who ruled most of our forefathers and
all our foremothers with a rod of iron, and con-
stituted himself—in company with fleas and moral
philosophers—one of the greatest bugbears to
civilisation, one of the most determined obstacles
to human progress. A sufficiently attractive
young widow is created by shipwreck for the
purpose of affording “ Kerry ” (Boucicault
junior) the chance of showing how an old Irish
servitor of the “Ah ! wirrasthru,” and “ Och
hone ” variety was wont to carry on. And the
way he does it, and the style in which he is made
up to do it are plumes of feathers in his best
hat. But away from Kerry himself, the piece
is a high moral education to husbands on
the- subject of how a widow can grieve when
a wife has been properly broken in to the fulfil
merit of the marriage contract as ordained by the
Church and insisted on by the State. Miss Lucia
Harwood knows how to be a widow, and brings
comfort and hope to the doubting heart of many a
loving husband with regard to the possibilities of
what might happen after he has gone. Miss Har-
wood gazed sonlfully forth into the tinted features
of her male audience, and felt that she was doing
her level best in that station of life, &c.
» # *
After which, the gay Shakespearian cur-
tain lifted on the Bntterman’s Horae and the
reception of “ Onr Boys ” from their Continental
trip. The honest, h-afflicted, old Cockney vul-
garian, Perkyn Middlewick, loses none of his
attractions in being introduced by Mr. G.
W. Anson. Neither is the admiration for
Belinda Pattio Browne, which arises like in-
cense to the chandelier, tempered in any
appreciable degree by the smuts on her nose or
the scuffle of the No. 18 boots on her No. 2 feet.
The English aristocracy, as a body, owes a debt
of gratitude to the Champneys, Geoffrey, Talbot,
and Clarissa, for the kindly way in which they


books for country readers
—AT—
20s. for TWELVE MONTHS.
40,000 VOLUMES TO CHOOSE FROM.
The large LENDING LIBRARY (40,000 volumes) of the
Sydney Mechanics' School of Arts
ranow available to Residents in Country Towns adjacent
1° any Railway Station, to which books can be sent under
specially Reduced Rates.
a i argc Catalogue, of 850 pages, giving titles, authors,
ana elates of publication of all the books available, will be
erwarded to any address, post free, for 21 penny stamps.
B'ull particulars as to Subscription and method of ex-
ganging books, etc., will be sent on receipt of stamped
teased envelope, enclosed to the Secretary, Sydney
Mec " an ica' School of Arts, 275 Pitt-street, Sydney,
CYRIL H AVILA ND,- Secretary,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It is the greatest success of the
*g«-
. Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Bold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND W
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IVI. MACLARD Y
Has just, opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Card:, &o. ( &c.,
BUITABI.K FOR
Public & Private Balls. Evening Parties.
Sporting & Athletic Clubs.
Which he will print in any style reipiiml on the sum; i r- r
Notice and at Moderate Rates, fagr A Liiiye Stock of
the best Stationery, including l-’uß.vou Note Rm'KKS and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET." SYX>NEr
(Near W'yujard Street).
present the distressing peculiarities of these para-
sites with the least objectionable side uppermost.
Ohampneys is, however, not the first English lord
who has been vastly improved by direct contact
with Australia, and it is a real pleasure to know
that among the few who have managed to get
away “home” again without coming in contact
with the police-courts, there are some who speak
well of the country when they are able to speak
coherently about anything. D. Boucicault and
Cecil Ward made the best of “ Our Boys,” in the
determination to get possession of Lucia Har-
wood and Emma Temple, and during the next
suburban amateur theatrical season this comedy is
safe for another prolonged term of glorified ill-
treatment. “The Squire” is revived this Satur-
day evening.
* % %
Women flocked in thousands to Sydney
Baby Show to inspect the babies and be seen,
while men went in shoals to see the women. But
while there were so many good-looking babies,
comely mammas were by no means plentiful. Wo
notice that this dearth of maternal beauty strongly
impressed a writer on a daily, who, in a column of
gush, makes but one reference to it in stating that
he “ merely noticed that No. 17 is in the arms of
a pretty young mother. ” We can see that im-
pressionable scribe sending the lady an underlined
copy of the paper, and then calling- round later to
be - beamed on. Most of the lady visitors seemed
to make a close personal inspection of every child—
as the D.T. dairy-produce man neatly puts it:
“ Counting teeth, poking ribs, pinching cheeks,
disputing ages, and stripping legs galore, and
praising them outrageously when they look l ike raw
sausage-meat—which is pretty often. ” The chief
lesson to be gained from the show is that the best-
looking women do not always beget the best-
looking children, that twins are severely handi-
capped in the race for size and comeliness, and
that triplets are weighted altogether out of it.
The declaration of the result, as in Melbourne,
was hailed with much dissatisfaction. One un-
happy father—the same probably who continually
nursed a bulbous-headed boy, on whose curly pate
he vainly and vinously endeavoured to thrust the
small boxer that easily concealed his own un-
developed brain-pan—tearing off his coat chal-
lenged the entire medical board to come on, and
the mothers of two unsuccessful competitors,
finding their comparative merits still officially
undecided, proceeded to blacken one another’s
eyes, in order that the beauty of their offsprings’
might be demonstrated. The show was financially
successful —that it was a highly instructive and
edifying spectacle, especially to those contem-
plating matrimony, cannot be doubted.
#* * *
In spite of the protestations of the Yankee
critic, “Nym Crinkle,” it has not been made evi-
dent to us that “Held by the Enemy” is eminently
exalted above the ordinary British melodrama,
and herein lurks no extravagant compliment to
the latter school of stage-writing. This play cer-
tainly is unique in that it does not introduce to
public notice a single villain—which omission does
not prevent the vexing of the current of true
love—and, on the other hand, contains a novelty
which British propriety could never sanction in
that the consent of a haughty aunt to her
nieces’ marriage apparently renders parental
permission unnecessary. It has some strong
situations, and furnishes several opportuni-
ties for good stage' effects, but is bur-
dened with “ talky ” scenes, chiefly love ones,
whose lengthiness is by no means abbreviated by
brilliancy of dialogue and some heavy stage
changes entailing tedious waits. Why can’t some-
thing bo done in the interest of the ladies, de-
barred from spiritual consolation, to lighten these
intervals by the display of views on the “drop”
after the mode of Snazelle? Esther Stockman,
who first trod Australian boards at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday evening last, is an
actress of the giddy and gushy girly style, whose
business —rather broad for the surroundings—and
marked Southern accent has been familiarised to
Sydneyites lately by Katie Putnam. She is a
bright little woman, already a great favourite, and
will have little difficulty in adapting herself to
altered environment. Emily Fitzroy evinces a
depth of emotional power hitherto assiduously con-
cealed, and Miss Melville, as a haughty and
changeable-minded maiden lady, is as usual equal
to every emergency. “ George ” himself is force-
ful and effective, though more subdued than his
wont. His oratorical mantle seemed to have
descended on Henry Jewett, who somewhat
disregarded probabilities and blemished an other-
wise well-balanced representation in the vigour
displayed by the wounded and fainting “ Johnny”
in his patriotic outburst at the close of the court-
martial scene. Phil. Beck was agreeable as
special,” but he has not the gift of
tongues, in spite of obligations to belong to other
nations, he always remains—an Irishman, and the
failure of his Yankee twang makes evident the
prudence of his confreres in sticking to the verna-
cular. Stirling White, as a dusky-pated, copper-
,fowled “coon,” got away from his nationality for
once and, eschewing buffoonery, made a decided
hit.
iff vif -;U ss
The Saturday afternoon and Sunday even-
ing Orchestral Concerts under the management
of Mr. Churchill Otton, held during the Baby-
show at Her Majesty's, will be resumed this Satur-
day afternoon in Darlinghurst Hall —to the great
delight, among others, of the good people in the
adjacent gaol. No entertainment is more worthy
of patronage ; nothing better of its kind has ever
been introduced to the Sydney public.
At Sydney Gaiety Professor Perron and
Miss Fitzroy give a bright and refined entertain-
ment, which includes various thaumaturgioal
sleight-of-hand tricks, thought-reading, feats of
memory, a “Davenport” seance, mysterious
cabinet disappearances, and other wonder-provok-
'og items. The dexterous Professor, apparently a
German, has a, pretty turn of wit. Miss Fitzroy’s
wmd-reading is fortunately not of the Corkonian
code-signal school ; her attempts at divining
thought are very successful and wholly unaided
by a rushing about of a Stuart-Cumberland
character. She also sings nicely, and is an expert
at cabinet mystification. The country has been so
innundated of late years by frauds travelling on
this ticket that, like some late exponents, these
artists may not receive the patronage they deserve.
Nevertheless, the show is a good one.
-X * * *
Johnny Solomon’s Sydney Palace Museum
is an imposing building, sumptuously furnished
and decorated, and if, on the night of the open-
ing, the exhibits weakened with ascent, that was
probably because all arrangements were not com-
pleted. The prize Sydney baby is now on view.
-M * -;i;- &
At Sydney School of Arts, Snazelle con-
tinues to charm the eye and ear of those who
prefer a quiet and intellectual entertainment to
grease-paint and stage thunder.
df * *
Bondi Aquarium has been strengthened by
the accession of a splendid collection of new seals
—some of them from Manly.
•*- *- * *
It is difficult to say anything new about
the Oyclorama. We might, however, recommend
some of the “Held by the Enemy ” contingent to
visit it in order to get a truer conception of
Yankee twang and military bearing.
* * -& #-
After seven days’ ruinous experience with
Divine William, the Triumvirate decided to knock
off their national poet at Melbourne Royal. This
cruel abandonment of the projected legitimate
season was anticipated in last week’s issue, our
doubts concerning the future being written in the
teeth of managerial announcements that Miss
Achurch would appear in a succession of Shake-
spearian revivals. L'homme propose et le Bulletin
dispose. This journal sniffed upon the advertised
PHOTO- BY JOHNSTONE, O’SHANNESSY & CO., LID.
MISS OLIVE BERKLEY AS LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY.
(At Melbourne Princess’.)
intentions of Messrs. W., G. and M., and they
were changed as though by magic. Saturday’s
production was to have been “As You Like It,”
but when it became evident that nobody did like
it, the management gracefully apologised by
putting up “Led Astray.” Boucicault’s drama
(from the French) has not held the stage here-
abouts for some time now, but most people know
that it is a sentimental story for husbands and
wives—especially wives—in six acts. The trouble
is mostly caused by a lovely literary gentleman
who scribbles a six-line poem in order to persuade
a married woman, possessed of vague longings for
the indefinable, that she wants rest upon his
breast. He must write illegibly, after the maimer
of his kind, because the married female didn’t
seem to recite the poem in the exact
words of its composer on Saturday, but she got
the sense of the lines right enough. Literary men
in general are involved in a life-long struggle to
make botli ends meet. They don’t go prowling
around in the gloaming for any kindred spirit ex-
cept whisky. This fellow is an interesting libel on
a noble profession, however, who gets to the very
verge of leading his dreamy mash astray when an
angry husband—a man with no soul for writing
anything better than cheques—bursts up the guilty
attachment and mercifully refrains from killing
the poet in a duel. The old man pushes his pistol-
barrel almost in that vile seducer’s mouth, but
allows him to escape with his head on, after all.
So the disgrace to literature departs forthwith,
probably to work his unfortunate love affair into a
three-volume novel, or a blank verse tragedy.
Then the husband offers his breast as a place of
rest, and the married couples among the audience-
put their tongues in their cheeks and say it is a
beautiful lesson. The drama appeared to be well
received on Saturday, but the performance was
pretty weak in spots. Air. Bucklaw, who grow B
less interesting with each fresh part, cut up very
poorly as the husband, and missed all his oppor-
tunities in the great duel scene. It was here that
Mr. Charles Thorne used to make' the house sit
right up. 1 Miss Achuroh was a very effective wife, 1
save as regards her irritating voice and occasional
hardness of style. Messrs. Maud Williamson,
also Messrs. Boyce and Owen Harris filled minor
parts well, but a couple of aged countesses were 1
shockingly shaky in their bong-tong. Mr. Sass
excelled all his previous efforts with.a really
masterly presentiment of the stage. A long ode'
in his praise is withheld because “ Led Astray ” is
understood to be coming off on Saturday next to
make room for “The Pointsman.” Tin- Royal
company are seen at their best in this thrilling
railway yarn.
-;-f -* -* -»
“ The Royal Guard,’ which keeps things
warm at the Opera House, has developed con-
siderable fun and bustle since the opening night.
Mr. Edwin Thorne’s humour improves with ac-
quaintance, and the magnificence of his aspect has
a tendency to grow upon the ravished eye. Never-
theless, it is sad to find such a noble spectacle
jumping through a cardboard-window and per-
petrating the hollow mockery of falling senseless
when a small, fat man touches him gently with a
flimsy pole. However, long-expected 1 ‘ Antony
and Cleopatra ” is to restore the classic drama to
its chosen ’aunts on Saturday. Experience has
proved that Mr. Miln can serve up Shakespeare
hot and strong. His Marc Antony in Borne was
a generally admired party, whose old friends are
sure to rally round him when the Eyptian Queen
has got him in her royal grip.
* ifc *
Except that Miss Lilian Tree’s voice has
returned to its best form, there is nothing new to
say about “Beggar Student,” which will eer
taiuly hold out at the Alexandra until th
end of Cup week 5 or longer. The great
acrobatic and educated horse-show booms at
the Exhibition, and Wirth’s Circus is pros-
pering in some unfashionable locality. Pro-
fessor Kennedy, at St. George’s Hall, induces
his subjects to tip the winning “ double” while
they are charged with mysterious influence and
castor oil. The Royal Museum has been made
more than usually interesting by a suicide. One
of the Indian jugglers went forth to an attic and
hanged himself early the other morning, but this
untoward circumstance was accepted with perfect
equanimity by most of the other monstrosities.
The Indian Queens never turned a hair, Mugger-
dammee didn’t trouble to shake his head, the
Monkey Boys merely grinned as usual, and the
“ armless child ” showed no disposition to wring
its hands in grief. The Cyelorama remains beauti-
ful as ever. Pain’s Fireworks start at the Friendly
Societies’ Gardens on Derby night and a quantity
of other shows are probably going on all right.
No careful student of the human form divine will
dispute the poetic justice of the above, yet, for
practical stage purposes, little Miss Olive Berkley
is an excellent boy, all the same. Her playing of
this inordinately long part is always picturesque
and seldom mechanical. Her voice is rich for her
years, and her little bursts of emotion are fresh
and genuine. Miss Graoie Hopkins, a smaller and
younger juvenile, took the character last Satur-
day night, and will give the Olive branch an occu-
sioual rest, but-this seeoud-Lprd is less effective
than the first., • Besides JVJr, Henry Edwards’
artistic performance as! the Earl of. Dorincourt,
there is capable support for the central infant.
Mrs. Berkley, fully realises the haunting adven-
turess who tries’to foist' a wrongful heir upon the
British aristocracy', but is ultimately put do con-
fusion., Miss Ethel W'inthorpe makes a fair
success of the' widowed mother, and venerable
Gladstone gives a very faithful sketch of a tenant,
required to abase himself before the. gilded lord-
ship and sUe for mercy as regards the payment of
rent. The gorge of honest d|mjpcrayy yeses lit this
most grovelling passage in a snobbish play ('which is
a s| den cl id preparative for the v i s it of Henry George),
lint it molts the multitude’ t 6 tears,' hevertheless.
Protest against “ Little Lord Fauntleroy;" is' quite
useless under the circumstances. The play
lias a false} shallow moral. It will fill; the innocent
childhood of Australia with a miserable belief in
the nobility of rank and capital. It is a fascinat-
ing defence of fiddlo-de-dee —but it crowds the
Princess’s to overflowing,
*% * *
Miss Florence Monk-Meyeris- pianoforte
recital was received with much fervour in Mel-
bourne Town Hall. Conflicting .opinions concern-
ing this nice young native’s genius had come across
the sea beforehand, London criticisms being not
very favourable, while the towzled-lieaded pro-
fessors of Europe called her a Liszt in petticoats.
These fun-in ecstatics, were not undeserved. Miss
Menk-Meyer has a delightful method of tickling
the piano, and will please.what the prigs of the
Press, those old women who call themselves
“musical critics,” term “ non -musical audiences,”
better than any artiste heard of late. How pro-
fessional and strictly “musical” audiences will
esteem her talent is of no pecuniary importance,
because those very soulful people never pay fur
their tickets. The only fault to find with Miss
Menk-Meyer, as a pianist, a composer, ora woman,
is her way of fixing up her hair, which we hope tu
see her amend,
* * *
Melbourne was the other day treated to
three lagos in 24 hours. One newspaper critic had
the impudence to say that Nat Douglas acted lage
better than either Miln or Dam pier, two managers !
This is unpardonable. Why, if Musgrove acted
Romeo the Press would find more points in it than
Flemming's Mercutio. Here is an instance.
When poor James Albery’s “Two Boses ” were first
acted at the London Vaudeville the London
Athenaeum g ushed o ver Montague’s managerial part
in the acting, and then added half a line for Henry
Irving’s Digby Grant as “creditable.” Probably
he acted it just as well as when he became a
manager. Then the Press could see nothing in
the piece, but his Digby Grant. Reverting to
Nat Douglas he has been rather sore over Miln
passing him to pick Leake as Othello. In
fact, Nat has been a model of reserved force about
it. Miln ought to give him just one night as
Othello, and, Gadzooks ! wouldn’t Nat go in.
Now Little Lord Fauntleroy,
At Melbourne Princess’ Thea-ter,
Is a wonderful, well-dressed boy
With a pleasing American mater ;
He’s the pride of a bloated earl,
The heir to his lands and money—
But the fact that the lord’s a girl
Is remarkably plain and funny.
Though in knickers mamma bedecks
Her sonny with love so tender,
That boy’s of the opposite sex
And his figure betrays the gender;
They may call the young Lord a “ he ”
And talk of his pluck and muscle,
But its easy enough to see
He was born with a bust and bustle.
At Poverty Point.
Thus Biles, the Thespianf—Miln walks about the front
of Melbourne Opera House looking black as thunder at
the wretched dribble of people to see Thorne in the
“ Three Musketeers.” But what can we expect, with a
piece tumbled on the stage in inexpensive style, and with
a lot of inexpensive-looking actors ! Thorne’s polished
natural style, all the polish of the best American theatres,
contrasts violently with the mouthing and conventionality
of the other actors, figures, for the Waxworks in their
wooden ways. There’s Jimmy t'athcart ramping a-
Mother Shipton, otherwise Cardinal Richelieu. Yet lie’s
the best grinding out the language. Miln talks and
writes about perfect staging as the secret of success. Let
him go to the Princess’s and see the crowds flocking, to
“Little Lord Fauntleroy.” His friends keep sticking
little pins into him, by telling him ho ought to get Edith
Blande to play Cleopatra, instead of Louisa Jordan.
American papers say Mrs. Brown-Potter has abandoned
the American stage on account of Mr. Potter, who is re-
lated to a bishop. We thought it was because she was
coming to Australia.
The promenade concert season opened at Covent Garden
to £9OO. This reminds us that the admirable orchestral
concerts at Darlinghurst Hall, Sydney, are likely to lapse
for want of public support.
A lately-deceased motto-singer remarked recently :
“ You must be an acrobat to be a comedian now-a-days.”
Irving really threatens to come to Australia. If Irving
wants to get a thorough hold of Australia in one act he
need only stand up on the stage of a big theatre and re-
cite “Eugene Aram’s Dream.”
The San Francisco Examinee says some very naslv,
things about Actor “ Ned ” Thorne, which he, in his own
interests, would do well to look up, and, if possible, con-
tradict, AVe presume there is sonic sort of a libel law in
•Frisco.
Sim’s “ London Day by Day’’has made a big London
hit, according to the Hawk. A street arab is the most
effective and best-acted part.
In the new Gaiety burlesque, “ Ruy Bias,” is intro-
duced some fresh business. The prison is fitted up with
all the modern conveniences, and Leslie, ordering brandy -
andsodaby telephone, receives it so promptly through
the instrument that he is deluged with it.
Alice Norton, Maggie Oliver, and Harry Lesion open at
Sydney Standard Theatre in the “ Factory Girl.” It
seems nearly a century since we last sighed over the sor-
rows of Martha Gibbs.
The reception accorded, at Brisbane, to “Dorothy"
should encourage the Triumvirate to more frequently
gratify the northerners’ yearning after soulful music.
Miss Clara Meri vale’s first appearance was not a decided
success, but she was accorded the reception due to a
stranger in a strange land. .
It is cabled that “ Florence St. John has reported having
lost £2OOO worth of jewellery.” “ Has reported” is excel-
lent.
E. AV. Hackney has been singing “ The AA ; hole Hog or
None ” over 20 years in London.
The latest London comic song—“ Don’t put my father’s
whiskers up for sale.” ” ’
Miss Ton Fiukelstein hardly “caught on” in Adelaide
as well as in the more eastern cities. Von Fink, is not
giddy enough for the godly city.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
-s
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday : —First Lady: “ That’s
a sad affair about Mrs. —— eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason ?” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know? It's
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Boer, and the coachman offei’ed to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.’’
(everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell'aSKOw wuitk Paths r BoMiitit H’t/oni is the
best in the market.
GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION AWARDED
SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Invite your friends and neighbours to see you wash
clothes with Sunlight soap. Let them see you’ soap the
clothes well, then roll them up in a tight roll, and put-
under the water and left for half an hour, then taken out
and rinsed. It will be quite a curiosity for them to see a
wash done without the necessity of scalding or boiling a
single piece, no matter how dirty or soiled.
So.mk Spkoiaij Usf.s of tiik “ Sunlight Soap.” —Used in
the Dairy it will keep churns, cheese vats, and milk pans
beautifully bright and clean. Used in the Sick Room it
acts as a Disinfectant. Used in the Stable it will keep
manes and tails clean and silky, and seal sores and
scratches. Use it for washing prize dogs and poultry, and
it will improve them as no other soap can. Use it for
taking out grease spots, and for keeping linoleums and
oilcloths clean and bright. Use it everywhere where soap
can.be used and it will always give satisfaction. If J'ou
prefer to boil the clot hes, remember this soap will give
bettor results than any other.
Use Hatuo’h Baking Powder.
Hughey's Dog.
A STATION SKETCH.
Hughey was butcher on the station, and his
yearned for a dog. Dogs there were about in
plenty, but he wanted something special, and as
the super, was going to Sydney, Hughey com-
missioned him to buy him a dog. “Buy a dog,”
he said, “as can fight. I don’t put no value on
pedigree—l don’t want no pedigree, I want a dog,
get a dog as can fight, and he’ll fill the bill.”
Wherefore there appeared shortly in a Sydney
paper, in the somewhat inaccurate grammar of the
super. :
IV”ANTED, at once, a dog as can fight. Appl^,
’ ’ Bushman’s Hotel.
Next morning the men with dogs commenced to
roll up. The dogs were of all sorts, sizes, and
colours, having only one thing in common—they
each and all looked as if they would tear a man’s
leg off on the slightest pretext. When the super,
went down and admitted them into the bar-
parlour, he and the landlord had to get up on the
table to obtain anything like an unprejudiced view
of the competitors. _ They soon weeded them down
to two, one a villainous-looking half-bred devil,
and the other a pure-bred bull-dog of undeniable
quality, a truculent ruffian with milk-white skin and
bloodshot eyes, by whose noble proportions the soul
of the landlord was much gratified. The other dog,
however, was the better in a fight, be-
cause the gentleman in charge of him said he
thought the best way to decide was “ to let the
two dawgs ’ave a go in, to see which is the
best dawg.” The one-eyed nobleman who repre-
sented the bull-dog, saw that his dog would have no
chance in a fight, but being himself of the pugilistic
persuasion, he tied his dog to the leg of a table
and advanced on the other man with his fists up.
“Suppose me an' you has a go in,” he said, “to
see which is the best dawg ?”
This proposal would have been promptly ac-
ceded to but for the arrival of another man with a
dog—a big brown dog with a coarse, heavy-jawed
head, big round the ribs, fairly long and light in
the legs, evidently as_ active as a cat and hard as
nails. But the previous dog-owners knew him
and apparently recognised that they and their
canines were in the pre-
senceof amaster. “’Ere’s
’Arrison’s dawg,” they
said, “an in corse if yon
want a dawg to fight——. ”
So the super, explained
that that was just what
he did want, and he be-
came the purchaser of the
brown animal, which duly
arrived among us and
was installed as Hughey’s
dog. As he had no tail
Hughey, of course, chris-
tened him “ Stumpy.”
And he could fight. He
‘' counted out ” every dog
in the place the first two
days he was there. His
great activity, combined
with his powerful jaws,
made him a Czar among
tykes. After the first
two days notM dog dared
heave in sight while
Hughey’s dog was taking
a walk. He chased the
kangaroo dogs away up
the paddock, he fought
two rounds with the
bullock-drivcr’s dog, and
would have killed him
only for the arrival of the
bullocky with the'whip,
and as ho was intercepted
in hot pursuit of the boss’s
favourite collie, Hughey
thought it was best to
tie him up. This made
him worse, and whenever
he managed to slip his
collar or break the chain
there would be a proces-
sion of dogs making full
speed for the river, with
Stumpy after them kick-
ing the dust up in hot
pursuit. Once they got
to the river they were
safe, as he was an indif-
ferent swimmer and would
not take to the water. Whenever any traveller or
teamster came along with a dog that he fancied
could fight, Hughey’s dog was always trotted out
to maintain the honour of the station, which he
invariably did with a vengeance.
Soon his fame spread far and wide. Long,
gawky, cornstalk youths used to ride miles to see
him, and a kind of exhibition used to be given on
a Sunday for the benefit of visitors. Stumpy was
chained up by a fairly long chain, and the enter-
tainment consisted of taking a dog, one that knew
Stumpy’s prowess for choice, and then getting
Stumpy out to the full length of his chain, and
giving him a fair hold of the visiting dog’s tail, A
most exciting struggle would ensue. The hospit-
able Stumpy would drag with might and main to
get his guest within the reach of his chain, and
the frenzied excitement in his face as he felt tin -
other dog’s tail slipping out of his teeth was awful
to witness. The other dog meanwhile industri-
ously scratched gravel to get away. Sometimes
he turned and confronted Stumpy, but no dog
ever did that more than once; once was more than
enough, and on any second appearance they would
devote all their energies to pulling away, and
praying that their tails would break." Sometimes
the tail was bitten through by Stumpy, and on
these occasions the dog was, if possible, recaptured
and the affair was started fresh, fair, and square.
If Stumpy pulled the dog into his reach he used to
drag him back into the centre of the cix - cle covered
by his chain, shorten his hold on the tail in a
workmanlike manner until he got him right:
up close to him, when lie would suddenly
release the tail and make a spring for the dog’s
neck. This was a most exciting moment, because
if Stumpy missed his spring the other dog would
probably dash away out of reach, and it was with
breathless interest the assembled crowd would
watch Stumpy nerving himself for this critical
rush. If Stumpy got a fair hold the game was
stopped and the dog released.
One night some dingoes came howling round
the homestead, scaring the sheep in the yard,
frightening the cows and calves and small dogs,
making the fowls cackle and the cocks crow, and
stirring up the deuce generally. It was bright
moonlight, and the big, grey expanse of the plain
lay open and clear almost as day when the men
slipped down to the back to let Stumpy go. They
reckoned this dingoe business would be right into
his hand, and when they got down there he was,
straining at the collar so hard that he nearly
choked. They let him go, and he dashed madly
off into the moonlight in the direction of the
howling dingoes, breathing murder and dogsmeat,
and the men followed at a run, one of them carry-
ing an old carbine. “Lord help the dingo as
Stumpy gets hold on!” gasped out Hughey as they
ran along. They soon lost sight of Stumpy in the
dim distance, and the howling had abruptly
ceased. They ran on until out of breath, when
they pulled up and listened ; a dead silence
reigned, there was no sound of dog or dingo, and
nothing in sight on the plain but the clumps of
salt-bush. “ I expect he’s follerin’ them away
into the scrub,” said Hughey. “1 reckon they’d
better take to the river if they want to keep their
hides outside their gizzards,” said another. They
waited awhile and whistled and called, but noth-
ing came, so they tramped off home. As they
drew near the sheep-yard it became evident some-
thing was wrong; the sheep were “ringing”
wildly, rushing in all direction to escape some foe.
“By Jove, there’s a dingo in the yard,” said
Hughey, and they rushed up at the double. The
carbine was handed to one of the blackfcllows, a
noted shot, and as the party ran up he got a clear
view of the marauder in the yard worrying a
struggling ewe. The blackfellow put the carbine
to his shoulder and was just going to let drive,
when Hughey knocked up the muzzle of the
weapon. “ Don’t fire,” he said, “ it’s Stumpy.”
And so it was. That amiable animal, finding
that he could not catch the dingoes, had come
back to give the sheep a turn. After this he was
tied up at night and only occasionally let loose in
the day time, and on one of these excursions an
event happened which sealed his fate.
Hughey used to kill the sheep for eating, and,
of course, Stumpy came in for the lion’s share of
the waste meat. The men’s cook was a big Dutch-
man, a half-witted chap who occasionally went
religion-mad, and between him and Stumpy there
was a vendetta. Stumpy, you see, had killed his
A “FASHIONABLE” PLACE.
“St. Kilda is getting quite a fashionable place now for equestrianism.” —Local “Society” paper.
dog, and lie had poured boiling water on Stumpy
on the only occasion when the latter visited the
kitchen : so it was not to be wondered at that
when the cook walked rather carelessly, and per-
haps swaggeringly, past Stumpy, who was devour-
ing some sheep’s liver, Stumpy went after him and
bit him severely. The cook went to Hughey, who
was putting the ornamental touches on the ribs of
the dead sheep by cutting patterns with his knife,
“ Hughey, ” he said, “ your tarn tog vas pite me!”
“ What do I care ! ” responded Hughey. “ I
suppose it won’t poison him —did he swaller the
piece ? ”
The Dutch cook looked at Hughey in a curious
way, and walked on. Late that night when the
episode was forgotten, the cook announced his in-
tention of going out to shoot some ’possums.
“Don’t shoot yourself ! ” was the only advice he
got, but he again smiled that curious smile as he
replied ; “ I vill shoot a bossum—a big one,”
Then he set forth into the nig'ht with all the
dogs in the place accompanying him. A couple
of shots were heard down by the river, and soon
the Dutchman came back and put the gun away,
ami went off to the house. He asked for the boss,
and much to the boss’s astonishment said he meant
to leave next morning, “ You can't leave,” said
the boss—“you are under agreement to give a
certain amount of notice—you can’t leave all at
once.”
“ Veil,” responded the Dutchman, slowly, “it
is all in de agreement, but I must go. De stars is
gettin’ very close togedder, and I haf a heap of
preachin’ to do —as soonasdem stars gets togedder
fie vorld vill be purut up and I must go a preach
to the beeples.”
“Off his nanny again,” thought the boss, “the
sooner he goes the better.” So the cook returned
to the hut, and the men heard him packing and
Tolling things at all hours of the night; then he
went out again and quiet reigned.
Next morning he was gone. The men had to
cook their own breakfast, which annoyed them
greatly, and then they went down to the house to
see if the boss knew anything of the cook’s dis-
appearance, and learned that he had given notice.
“He seems to have taken my dog,” groaned
Hughey ; “I can’t see him anywhere.”
Then Hughey went off to the meat-house to get
the sheep he had killed on the previous day. There
it hung, wrapped round by a white cover just as
he had left it. As he took it down he noticed
that it felt strangely light, but he carried it to the
kitchen, laid it on the chopping-block and took off
the cover. Then he found out why it was so light.
In the place of the sheep there lay, skinned,
dressed, and ornamented in true butcher fashion,
the corpse of Stumpy. The Dutchman had shot
him and butchered him the previous night, and
had gone forth to do his “preaching to the
peoples ” for fear of the consequences.
Hughey swore an oath of vengeance, but he
never came across the cook again. The latter got
into a lunatic asylum and spends his days in
asserting that the Prince of Wales meanly cut
him out of the affections of Alexandra, to whom
he (the mad butcher) was engaged to be married,
and in the contemplation of that romantic matter
he has forgotten all about Hughey’s dog.
THE BANJO.
In view of the escape of Clarke and Farrell,
two asthmatic, tottering old Vandemonian villains,
who the other day calmly garotted, gagged and tied
up their only guardian, and then decamped from
Geelong Gaol, that institution will have to be
made prisoner-tight. The present gaol is in strict
harmony with its surroundings. The streets of
the stunted city are gi’een with grass; drowsy
policemen nod at corners, and nothing is awake in
the shops except mice and blue-bottles. Probably
the only two really living men in Geelong and
suburbs, at the time of the escape, were the
escapees, and they may have been imprisoned
chiefly because they seemed to be alive. We
aren't surprised at them running away. Given a
prison whose mouldering walls quiver at a w-arder’s
sn»re, bolts and locks fairly worn through with
the rust of ages, palisades through whose mossy
intervals the goats of theAeighbourhood wander
at will; leave it in charge of a number of ricketty,
wheezing, old dotards armed with guns that
couldn’t go off if they tried, and place within tw
rheumatic convicts who, hungering and thirsting
for liberty and rum by way oi liniment, take
sudden leave of their mouldy and mildewed cage;
and who is to be censured, the man who “ scoots,”
or the somniferous officialism that invited him to
the deed ?
Editor Bulletin.—Sir, —Lef me trouble you
again re Peak Hill. Letters and telegrams are appearing
in the weekly and daily N.S.W. press, and almost without
exception these state that a rush is to be deprecated.
Quite so, hut not for the reasons alleged. There are now
about 1500 men on the ground, and allowing for loafers,
speculators, et hoe genus omne, very nearly if not quite
1000 of these are genuine miners—reefers as well as
alluvial workers. There is space on the supposed-to-be-
payable ground for all of these to peg out claims and
work the field, but what miner is fool enough to try
another’s ground for him, with the prospect of being
ordered off if he is successful ? When I say “ another’s
ground ” I mean that of the leases applied for. Most men
that I know do not object to others doing the pioneering
work for them without pay, and of course the applicants
for leases will not try to stop the reefers, at any
rate until the reefers commence to get the gold. The
applicants for leases are not blamed by the miners, for
the “law allows it.” Where the mischief comes in, is
that these capitalists are taking every advantage of the
law as it stands to monopolise tile field. There is nothing
in the present Mountmorganish N.S.W, Mining Act to
prevent these men applying for 25 acres—and getting it.
Now, if leases are granted to that extent, it must be a
very long time before the gold can be got, because com-
panies, as a rule, keep their works as much together as
possible, and even if they did not, the same amount of
work would not be done under one manager as by a larger
number of men working for themselves. If leases of from
two to six acres were granted I do not think there would
be very much objection, as most miners would then have
a chance. The plutocracy around here seem to think
that the aspirations of working miners ought to soar no
higher than wages—in other "words, than working for
them.—Yours, Moraii.
The “Severed Hand” Again.
Thm Geddes sensation, which is now thrilling th
good people of Brisbane, recalls the “Severed
Hand ” swindle of four years ago in New Zealand
The cases are as like as two eggs—two pretty bad
eggs, of course. Arthur Howard, a railway em
ploye, whose life was heavily insured, went
bathing at Sumner, near Christchurch, and was
alleged to be drowned. An eye-witness saw him
struggling in the water and go under, as if seized
by a shark. His clothes were found on the rocks
and in due course his sorrowing wife took steps t '
realise on the policies of the dear departed. ]>„,?
the insurance people were shy and dallied over the
disbursement of the moneys. Then Providence
thought it was about time to take a hand in the
pool, and one fine morning a severed hand was
found on the Sumner beach with a ring on the
little digit thereof which was identified as that
worn by the dear asphyxiated, and, in fact, had his
initials rudely graven on the seal. But’still the
insurance people were not convinced, and renewed
efforts to find the corpus delicti resulted in
Howard’s capture away north of Wellington
hidden under cunning aliases and disguises. He
is now doing six years in Lyttleton gaol for not
having exploited his little boom properly. Truly
a bungle is accounted more of a reproach unto a
man than a well-ordered crime.
* * *
To revert to the Geddes case, Walter G
Geddes, a son of very well-to-do people, went with
his brother for a swim in the Oaboolture River
near Brisbane. This was way back in the
seventies. He was a bold and beautiful diver, and
so well did he dive on that occasion that he never
managed to come up again, at least not on the
oozy banks of the Caboolture. There was a fresh
on the river that day—a powerful fresh, which, it
seems, whirled the body of W. G. Geddes out to
the mighty Pacific, and on, and on, like Milton’s
Lycidas, until he struck the shores of New
Zealand. And behold there was still lie in him—
yea, very much life—and he who dived as W.G.G.
arose and shook his dripping limbs, and havin»"
arrayed himself gorgeously, went forth as Louis
Brennan and took billet as a surveyor, and ate
and drank sumptuously, and, among other elegant
pastimes, took delight in tooling a four-in-hand.
For years Louis Brennan went on like this in
N.Z., and then dark days fell upon him, and he
drifted to Sydney and thence, in time, to Adelaide,
where lie now resides as inmate of a lunatic asylum!
He lias been identified beyond all shadow of doubt
as W.G.G., and will be extradited to Brisbane in
due course. Of course, it will be readily under-
stood that upon the due declaration as to death
made by others some large sums of money, insured
on his life, w ere paid over to the parents by the
A.M.P. These parents, wealthy people, have
now made an offer of the restitution of part of the
risk with all interest, &c., but the A.M.P. are not
going to let the matter settle itself so easily,
and some dark doings are sure to come to light
soon. By the bye, it should be mentioned
that the brother aforesaid who accompanied him
in that memorable swim has been for some time
confined in W’oogaroo Bedlam. As a friend of
ours says: “The way of the trawnsgressor is
hawd,” and it is precious hard luck on the trans-
gressor when he can’t pull the big money off
without a policeman dodging him all up the
straight.
Iloe and Co., the great printing-press
makers, in London employ 250 men, and in New
York about 1000 during the day and the same
number at night.
Premier Parkes, it appears, wrote leaders
for a suburban paper, which nevertheless created
no extra furore. The Bulletin has often pointed
out that the secret of Parkes’ greatness lies almost
exclusively in his hair. If you were to shave him
the dogs would bark at “ our venerable Premier.”
You can't put Parkes’ hair into a suburban
leading-article.
Dear Bulletin, —A bullocky on the Lower
Richmond has been committed to take his trial for
gross cruelty to a working bullock. The joker
was drawing timber along a fearful road and had
worked his team from about G a.m. to 10 p.m. A
bullock then fell down from sheer exhaustion, and
this humourist built a good-sized bonfire alongside
the brute, which was too weak to rise—even from
a blazing fire ! The semi-cremated bullock is
painfully emaciated, and has the inexpressibly sad
and eerie look of those who are near to the other
and better life. The defendant said in court that
he didn’t like “quwistin’ ” (twisting) the bullock s
tail as he (the alleged man) was tenderhearted, and
that the beast ought to have got up from tire
fire. He added, “ The heat never made the beast
expand & bit!” Mr. Bullocky may possibly get
something which will allow of the expansion of
his intellect and virtues. — Jimmie Pannikin.
A beautiful satire on newspaper special
reporting popped up in Melbourne Herald
lately, in connection with the opening of an
Electric Tramway line at Box Hill, Melbourne.
In the full expectation that Duncan Gillies
would be on the job, the Herald man, writing as
an eye-witness of the function, was rash enough
to get this bit of “report” fixed in readiness:
“ Prom a post erected just at the end of the line
at Box Hill, a red ribbon was attached to the car,
and when all had been seated on the spacious car
(thundering lot of ‘car’ about it) Mr. Gillies
severed the binding cord, and this portion of the
ceremony was completed. ” Unfortunately Duncan
spoilt the narrative by not getting there, but the
Herald man bore this blow with philosophic calm-
ness, and went on to the next paragraph—“ It
was expected that the Premier would be present
to perform the inaugural ceremony, but after wait-
ing, &c., a telegram was received, &c., intimating
that he would be unable to attend.” Consequently
Gillies did not sever the cord, although he must
have done so, because “this portion of the ceremony
was completed when they all sat on the spaciou
car.” It was a strange affair, A veil of doubt
and mystery enshrouds it. Nothing can be clearly
understood, except that they all had a blow-out.


m
m.
INC 6o
9
& Celebrated
o
o
Aurora-. Ind.
a^:r:Bisi*^c&
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and 00., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Oo.«
4 k (5 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
Softcna Uat fret
Culvert Jsotea aTD
Sa»u? ctacftA.
o
U\t
■kctA
j’o't it-tgjft t CC.xt’fc)
ftof *;>>«(«; of.
F. B. WHEELER & CO,,
!M>s Olarrnee (SI'M'JBV.
Personal Items.
Mr. Justice Stephen (N.S.W.) has entered
on his 40th year at the Bar.
Elijah Egeson has a drought of his own
just now. Minister Carruthers has told him to
dry up.
Herbert Spencer lived for 30 years in a
boarding-house. No wonder he’s dying of in-
digestion.
The will of millionaire Watson, of Sand-
hurst, paid the Victorian Government £63,723
probate duty.
Mr. “Bill” Long, the racing man, give B
£lOO a year to St. -Luke's Church, Liverpool*
A r .S. W, although he never visits it.
It is said that Tennyson distributes his
salary as Poet Laureate (£2oo)amongt poor authors.
Sladen is a very poor author, so we presume he
gets some,
Ira Payne, the crack shot, has killed him-
self by drinking two glasses of iced beer. Iced
milk will do the trick just the same if you drink
it quickly".
When Alfred “ adapts ” an English yarn,
he might do it a little more carefully. “ Surbiton
reads strangely in conjunction with Surry Hills
and Redfern.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie and Mrs. Maybnck
are in the same gaol, and every day you see m the
London evening papers all about how Mrs. May -
brick slept last night.
Sara Bernhardt personally superintended
the embalming of her husband, Damala’s, body,
and insisted on arranging his beard and hair as
he wore them during life.
The N.S.W. Agent - General, Sir Saul
Samuel, is to be banqueted in London on the
occasion of his entering his 70lh year. Sir Saul
was 69 on the 2nd October.
John Burns is paid £2 per week by some
of his constituents at Battersea, who, with some
outside help, subscribe that amount under the
title of the “ John Burns’ Wages Fund.”
Harry Parker, original discoverer of
Temora" goldfield, has been killed. He was,
strange to say, sinking a shaft in the old pros-
pecting claim when it caved in and killed him.
Mr. George Milner Stephen, brother to
the Lieutenant-Governor of N.S. Wales, is “ faith”-
healing in London, and has two real live princesses
as patients. Wonder what’s the matter with them ?
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, Q. 0., intends soon to
leave for England for a lengthened period, the
education of his children being the reason assigned.
Mr. Pilcher is extremely rich and above the
temptation of judicial salaries.
The examination in the N.S.W. Insolvency
Court witness-box of Mr. Edmund H. iaylor,
who arrives per Arcadia from Ceylon consigned
to the police, will prove one of the biggest com-
mercial sensations Australia has yet had.
At Tenterfield Premier Parkes wished the
school children “lives of happiness, and, above
all lives of usefulness, honour, and virtue. Smile
as you may, many a bad priest preaches a good
sermon.
Three Governors Carington, Kintore,
and Norman—are booked for the opening ot
Dunedin Exhibition. It is said that the Dun -
edinites intend to ask Kintore to wear the kilt, in
order that they may see as much of him as possible
during his short stay.
Mr. H. W. Nevill, whose connection with
“ Neyill’s Bread ” made his name a household
word “ at home,” has departed this life, leaving
one million pounds sterling to mourn his loss.
He started as a journeyman baker With the
inevitable twopence-halfpenny in his pocket.
When Gladstone was starting from Char-
ing Cross for Baris an American in the crowd
insisted on shaking hands with him. . The Grand
Old Man had his revenge in retorting: I here
are sixty millions of Americans in this world, and
they all regard it as a right to shake hands with
everyone.”
D. J. M‘Gauran was found dead in a Syd-
ney coffee-palace last week, with an empty whisky-
bottle beside him. M'Gauran, who succumbed to
the alcoholic habit in his 37th year, had lately
returned from Western Australia; he was a brainy
man and one of the most accomplished of Austra-
lian electricians.
Mrs. Dargon Piercy informs us that the
poem “Not Understood,” which lately appeared
in The Bulletin as anonymous, was written by
Mr. Thomas Bracken—whose muse is already
familiar to our readers, Mr. Bracken having
directly contributed many excellent sets of veises
to the columns of this paper.
The relations between the Marquis of
Lome and his wife continue to be as follows
“Princess Louise is about to proceed to Manenbad.
Later, she will go to the Lake of Lucerne. _ Lord
Lome will spend the autumn among the islands
off the coast of Argyle.” It almost reminds us ot
a certain distinguished couple now in Australia.
Agnes Robertson Boucicanlt, the divorced
wife of the veteran actor, is pressing her claim
for back alimony. Dion filed an affidavit opposing
her demands, lie says that he is 6< years old,
infirm in health, that he has not been in business
for a year now, and that he is only a dramatic
professor and a litterateur. He declared that he
earned last year only £BOO. He avers that his
American copyrights are of small value and have
only yielded £l2O royalties in 20 months.
Stead’s retirement from the Pall Mall
Gazette is again rumoured; Charles Morley (a
nephew of John Morley’s), now editor of the B.M.
Budget, is named as his successor, it is said by
Tories that the B.M.G. has cost Yates Thompson
£lOO a week ever since his father-m law—Smith,
of Smith, Elder and Co.—gave it him on his wed-
ding day. If this be true, old S. got rid of two
unprofitable investments of capital on the same
day. All sons-in-law are not incubi. Most are.
The editor of a Northern N.S.W. paper
has got the bailiffs in. In a late issue he addresses
his subscribers thus
1 have made every effort to supply you with the latest
and best possible news, and the reward you offer me is the
Bailiff, la this just on your part? Are you going to
allow me to be sold off, when you know you can help me
by paying your just dues ? 1 ask for nothing more * *
You cannot say it is extravagance on my part that caused
this, but 1 say it is neglect on your part, in not paying
what you justly owe.
Says an American paper ;—“ The Mande-
villes* have three young children, but he is bank-
rupt and lives apart from his family, supported
by Bessie Bellwood. Any one can have the
pleasure of seeing her pay fur his suppers in the
public restaurants after the theatre, it is pleasing
to reflect that as soon as an invalid of sixty-six
years pays the debt of nature, Mandeville will be
Duke of Manchester, patron of six livings, with a
seat in the House of Lords, several landed estates
and country-seats, and two or three town resi-
dences.”
A friend of mine (says W. W. Story, the
sculptor-poet), who was giving a large dinner
once, called on old T., the negro caterer, to arrange
the dinner and take the trouble off her hands.
“ Yes, ma’am,” said old T., “I’ll look out for it
all; but fust I want to know who de company is.
Is there any clergymen and them kind a-comin’ ? ”
“Certainly,” said my friend; “but why do you
ask such a question?” “Oh,” said old T., “if
they.’s clergymen and that sort cornin’, you must
get more tj eat and drink. Them pious eats
tremendous ! ”
It has been said that Australian verse is
“redolent of whisky and late hours,” but Dr.
Buckley, tells a story in the Christian Advocate
about his following Tennyson years ago through
South Kensington Museum, hoping to hear him
speak. For two mortal hours and a half he did
THE GRAMMAR OF GASTRONOMY.
(Overheard in a Reataurant.)
CUSTOMER: “ I SAY, WAITER, I TOLD YOU I’D HAVE A PLATE OF UNDER-
DONE BEEF. WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY BRINGING ME THIS BURNT-
UP SUFF?”
WAITER: “WELL. WE AINT GOT NO MORE UNDERDONER THAN THAT,
SIR.”
CUSTOMER: “WELL. IF THAT IS YOUR UNDERSDONEST YOU’D BETTER STICK TO IT.”
this without success. “At last he made signs
as if about to speak. Hoping to hear some
criticism of a painting, Buckley listened intently,
and these memorable words fell from the lips of
England’s poet-laureate ; ‘You take care of the
children while I go and get some beer.’ ”
Millionaire Tyson being about to visit
Europe, The Bulletin cordially recommends that
gilded bachelor to the matrimonial consideration
of the British and other aristocracies. James is
about 60 and is very likely worth a million sterling
for every ten years of that period. He will make
a model husband, for lie has never been in love,
lias never drunk any grog, and has never smoked
in his life, nor has he ever owed any money but
threepence —over-change once given him by the
proprietress of a Sydney hotel, to whom lie in-
sisted making a refund nearly a year afterwards.
The Prince of Wales, now that he may
shortly become a grandfather, and that his poor
swelled head lias given place to a badly-swelled
leg, is becoming a perfect saint. On his last visit
to Homburg he discouraged the foot-racing of
maids and matrons, and did not, as of yore, incite
dukes, millionaires and dudes to trundle fat
women and giddy gushers downhill in wheelbar-
rows. His sole pleasures just now are decorous
dinners and lengthy luncheons. We can see it
all. The Queen may last him out, and if she
doesn’t he will wheeze up to the throne a
puffy, red-nosed, weak-legged hydrocephalous
potentate, who has renounced sack, and is dieting
himself on pap, biscuits and spa-water.
POLITICAL POINTS
Premier Parkes, interviewed by a Queens-
land reporter, said: “1 have been an actor m
nearly everything done in N.S. Wales under
Responsible Government.” True as gospel.
Sydney D.T. howls for Crick to resign and
re-contest West Macquarie on the Orange-and-
Green ticket. Crick won’t resign. And even it
he did, West Macquarie likes its politics hot.
One day Joe Chamberlain stood up and
said that the Dillon mission to Australia was a
miserable failure, and that the delegates could
hardly pay their hotel and travelling expenses out
of the collections. That was when £lO,OOO had
been received.
The Mayor of Wanganui (N.Z.) has been
censured by the local bigots for placing, the
municipal chambers at the disposal of Dillon s
reception committee. Whereupon the local Herald
takes up the cudgels for him and vigorously de-
mands “a free platform.”
Gladstone says the triumph of Home Rule
is imminent, as it is impossible for the result of 60
recent elections to have been 60 accidents. He
also points out that rights exercised by the London
dock labourers would have been dealt with as
penal if attempted in Ireland.
The Australian Calico Jimmies (having
offices in London), have, according to a newspaper
correspondent, formed themselves into a union to
buy no goods from any manufacturer having an
agency in the colonies. Tims is the “glorious
policy of freedom ” exemplefied.
The enthusiastic style in which dog Mel-
ville, M.P., eats up dog Crick, M.P., goes to show
what a paralysing effect office and £7OO a year has
on the average working-man politician. It is a
ghastly thing to have to politically chew your
friend’s ear off in order to show your own im-
partiality".
Hopetoim's future mission, according to
Ids own statement, is to dispel “at home” the
shocking idea that Hingland can do without her
colonies. ’Opetoun’s immediate mission in Aus-
tralia, he will find, will be to dispel the shocking
and increasingly prevalent idea that we can do
without Hingland.
Memo, for Mr. Abigail, M.P., of N.S.W.:
Apropos of the cost of living in Germany, the
travelling correspondent of a London paper states
that “in a large German town eight of the little
white loaves for which the Londoner pays a half-
penny each were sold eight for a penny. New-
laid eggs at the same delightful place might be
had thirty-six for a shilling, fat ducks at ninepence
each, and the market people were glad to accept
fourpence apiece for big spring chickens.”
The landlord grabs all. A wealthy Lon-
doner, lately deceased, left money for the purpose
of providing a loaf of bread daily for each member
of every poor family residing in a very poor East
End street. After his death the bread was de-
livered in terms of the will, but the rents of the
street were almost immediately increased by an
addition equal to the value of the charity, which
was thus swept into the pocket of the landlord,
who alone benefited by the dead man’s benevo-
lence.
When, in the course of the debate over
the Parkesiau proposal to loot the N.S.W.
Treasury for John Davies, Parkes taunted Dibbs
with having been in Daiiinghurst Gaol as a debtor,
Dibl is turned round and snapped his head off with
an answer which was effective, brutal and true;
but the answer was suppressed by the daily papers.
Again The Bulletin says—let theN.S.W. public
and the Victorian public, read Hansard. Tin*
daily press, when not engaged in brazen lying, is
up to its neck in suppression.
Mr. Frank Famed, M.P., in his efforts to
anticipate certain of his creditors, applied for the
sequestration of his estate and got it. He resigned
his seat and got re-elected, the N.S.W. local-
industry party not opposing him. Meanwhile,
the creditors’ petition was before the Court and,
taking no notice of Mr. Parnell's voluntary
sequestration, the creditor pushed for an order
and got it. Mr. Parnell will, therefore, have to
go before his constituents again, and, as a quidpm
quo for the treatment Grahame got at Newcastle,
Parnell may not on this occasion be returned un-
opposed}
Mr. Gladstone visited the Paris Exhibi-
tion, about a couple of months ago. He was
banqueted by M. Tirard, the Premier, and made
a speech in French, expressing his unbounded
sympathy with the nation, and love for it. After-
wards he spoke in English, proposing the health
of the United States Ambassador, with a glowing
eulogy of the great Republic, in the course ot
which he declared that the population, now
60,000,000, would be 600,000,000 in 1089, for tin
second centenary of the French Revolution. This
was a very significant counterblast to the ridicu-
lous nonsense of Lord Salisbury and Lord Lytton,
in ignoring the Republican Exhibition.
Addressing a mass meeting of the dockers
at Tower Hill, Burns, according to the Times
report, said ; —
He urged them with all the eloquence in his power to
let that strike mark a new era in their personal and
domestic lives. After the strike was ended, and when
some six weeks or two months afterwards he again visited
them, let him have the pleasure of finding their home*
better and their wives and children cleaner in their per-
sons and better dressed, and let him have some evidence
of the fact that the strike had influenced them morally for
the better. Let him have less evidence of the brutal ill
treatment of their wives. He wanted to see this st rike,
which had been nobly fought and won. the turning-point
in the views of all of them. He wanted them to take tin-
opportunity in the future of leading better lives.
Where speaks the “ demagogue ” in this ?
The most extraordinary book going is
“ La Prance Juive,” by M. Dromont, and its sale
has been immense. This is the most furious tirade
against the Jews ever issued. Dromont far out-
does Stocker, the German Court chaplain, who
has such a down on the Hebrews. The J ews own
so much property in Berlin as to cause alarm.
Dromont makes out that they arc at the bottom of
all the revolutionary and anti-Christian move
ments, the prime movers in Communism, Social-
ism, and Nihilism. Of course, the book is overdone,
but it is so brimful of malice as to be quite unique
in spiciness. It is even pointed out that the Com-
munards, when they destroyed so much property
in Paris in 1871, carefully abstained from injuring
that of the Rothschilds.
Queen Victoria wishes to abolish the sine-
cure appointments known as lords-in-waiting
(seven in number with £1000 a year each) with the
design of pocketing the cash thus saved. This
Salisbury opposes, as it reduces the number of
“strong” reasons he can offer his supporters.
Other offices that cry aloud for annihilation are
the Duke of Portland as Master of the Horse,
with £2500 (what a mean rascal he must be !);
the Earl of Coventry, Master of the buckhounds,
with £1700; Lord Burghley, M.P., Parliamentary
Groom-in-Waiting, £334; Viscount Barrington,
Captain of the Gentlemen-at-Arms, £1200; the
Earl of Kintore, Captain of the Yeomen of the
Guard, £1000. It is difficult to believe that such
a shameful state of public robbery can be allowed
to exist where millions are starving.
Says the Pall Mall Gazette, utterly mis-
interpreting the feeling that prompted Australia's
contributions to the dockers’ fund :—
Henceforth Imperialism he democratic, and the
whole bent of our democracy will tic towards securing for
the colonists, who are Democrats to a man, a greater
share in the government of the Empire, The Greater
England beyond the seas is much more advanced politi-
cally than are the inhabitants of these little islands. They
are Republics in all hut name, possessing neither a titled
aristocracy', an established church, a feudal laud system,
or the hereditary pauperism of our land. They have in
some cases established the eight hours day, in almost all
they have free schools and free land. It is by their aid
that the British masses will overhear the dead weight ot
English aristocratic and plutocratic Conservatism. This,
which would have seemed Greek to our Social Democrats
a month since, is beginning to he as simple as A B C to
our toilers. John Burns needs no schooling now as to the
reality of colonial brotherhood, which is, after all, the
bed-rock on which reposes the unity of our Empire.
The Sydney Daily Telegraph has now
but one god and Premier Parkes is that god’s
prophet. This is what the same Telegraph (same
editorial staff) said of the same Parkes in October,
1885:—
Sir Henry’s vituperation, his cold-blooded endorsement,
of his own invective, his refusal to allow one good deed to
his opponents, his measureless egotism, his absolute
destitution of chivalrous instinct, and his reliance upon
and subservience to a secret organisation, have been
steadily cutting the throat of, his own chance. Seif-
respeoting politicians will hesitate before putting them-
selves under the leadership of a man who fills his own
horizon. With the progress of the elections a grand
opportunity' is growing for something nobler in our public
life. A new party will await a new leader in the next
House. . . It is only the truth to say that members
dislike Sir II. Parkes. His selfishness, his insincerity, his
inconsistency, ins reckless readiness to impute base motives
to his opponents, his autocratic temper, his corruptly-
constructed pledges and promises, inflict their own retri-
bution. He is an old man now, and the sins of his long
public life follow him. They have found him out, and he
cannot shake himself free of them.


o
Another Nightmare-The Melbourne Cup.


??&/*} OV/fSCi 01 b /^sv)
f<*cA
i '• ' I
Js j
sjoif
■ftp ca ß, 9*7°/{L
y \ -
I,
, L S
' Vc
ff
; %v7
I ilday.- stranger
\vh j holds n. very prominent position on
the metropolitan press accepted an invitation
from certain members of the Assembly to the
Parliamentary reireshmenl-foom. Tho stranger
subsequently tell asleep in the room, when a
percop. supposed to be a member of the Assem-
bly,, off one side of the •tr»ng«r’»
Fhiskg fg wit it h pair of' sc asors.
ONE ot tbe pleasantest Home* near Sydney
TO LET. amply furnished, in December next*
COLCHJBSXBR-HALL. DULWICH HILL, 15 rooms,
orchard, vineyard, flower vegetable gardeoa,
tennis lawn, stable and coaehhcnse. large padddcfc !
ground, 6a, ; trams pass gate ; 8 railway st.»clop3
within easy walk. Apply to Dr. Jefferia, as rvpore, or
IL 0. Bfont, Eort’s-chambcra, Pitt-st
t\!ot c/epftrjh
the Jn-(?
penned le_*/-s
rf e Ccuyrf!-
o
/f
Aok Trt \sUote /- A’ovtSspy,
I tOoycCer o)frcf *pf> o/Tfrsf prre
Trac/cy J~ 6acc 7? fas fa/tr f /o'§e A
7**7- kTac ASo *S?
Notes of the “ Silly Season."


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES,
The Bos I, Cheapest and .Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
• Jilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST «Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
LMOSTAS PALATABLE
AS MILK]
Bo disguised that the most
t dolicateetomaoh can take it.
Remarkable aa a
\FLESH PRODUCER.
Persons gain rapidly
while taking it.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
Is acknowledged hy Physicians to he the FINES!
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief ol
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY. WASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
•minr
y*
W. H. PALING & COMPANY,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
AYE JrsT Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3\T©w Piano» from the celebrated Makers, Steinway. Erard, Uebel, Fenrkh, Litp, Ronisch, Bhthner, Collard, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos «/fc £45 and Bstey Oi'ibth n.B. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Tehmm
Society
Some of the grievances, real or imaginary,
against Governor Loch, of Victoria, are—that he
purchased a second-hand carriage at a local sale-
yard, thus depriving the local carriage-builders
(whom he was supposed to patronise out of his
official screw of £10,000) of the opportunity which
should have been theirs, of making something out
of his name; secondly, that he objected to the'
Government House gardeners being paid their
usual salary, and contended that £1 a week and
tucker was enough for a working man ; thirdly,
that he was instrumental in the dismissal of a
carpenter employed in constructing the additional
‘ Jubilee-year ” ball-room at Government House.
The carpenter’s statement is said to be that, when
His Excellency, on visiting the works, remarked ;
“What a fine floor this wood makes,” he, the
carpenter, dryly answered: “Yes, sir; a fine
floor, but very dry. ” Sir Henry took the hint,
but instead of “shouting” for the workman out
of his Jubilee allowance of £6,000, he spent it all
on the aristocracy, and got the workman dismissed
on the ground of grossly insulting conduct. We
cannot personally vouch for the truth of all these
nasty things, but are prepared to insert a letter of
reasonable length on the subject from Gov. Loch,
Provided that he uses no unnecessarily strong lan-
guage and writes on one side of the paper only.
* * *
Sir Henry Loch in some respects enjoys
a halcyon time in Melbourne ere proceeding
to the troubles of the Cape, to double which
will take him all he knows. No fear of a
Fitzgibbonian testimonial there. Such only
follow a sinecure, where the Governor caii
practice the “ tiddy-falli-fallu ” and be pleasant
to everyone. The Boer Republicans in South
Africa make such progress that they are on the
point of gripping Swaziland from England. South
Africa is destined to become one Republic, and
Imperialism is there on its last legs. Sir Hercules
Robinson wanted to make a vigorous forward
plunge, but Salisbury perceived that it would only
mean useless bloodshed, and so he backs down.
In this, as in other things, Salisbury takes a leaf
out of Gladstone’s book.
* * #
The Lochs graciously stayed away from
the Mayor of Melbourne’s return ball, in order
that ex-Acting Governor Wobinsnn might properly
figure as the leading item in that somewhat pon-
derous “ hop.” It also happens, by the way, that
(jov. Loch is grievously disappointed to find that
his return to tlie scene of his former pomps and
vanities has been received with public indifference
of a pronounced character. Letters he received
when at “ home ” inflated him with a notion that
all Victoria would fall upon his bosom and cry,
“O ! stay with us, our darling, stay !” But
nothing of the sort occurred. He came back to
find himself an exploded volcano, an out-of-date
superstition, a shrivelled idol, a name to conjure
with no more. Even Lady Loch is a rose which
has lost its perfume, and sassiety forgets to call
her “dear.” The vulgar crowd still think she is
dear, very dear, but the word when applied by
those objectionable people has a hard, financial
meaning. Yes, the Lochs —both in a political and
social sense—are worked out in Victoria. A sickly
lord, with a baby face and a herd of flunkeys to
hold him up, is coming o’er the deep, blue sea, and
the grovellers are saving up their shrieks of ad-
miration for this feeble, callow vision.—
Governor Loch’s rather good-looking young
son, who is getting a big boy now, has been dis-
gusted to find that certain Melbourne papers per-
sist in calling him “Master ” Loch. This term is
most exasperating to one who puts his chin under
a magnifying glass every morning to see whether
the tender hairs of adolescence show signs of
sprouting. Master Loch’s father’s son has every
right to expect an early beard, for the old gentle-
man is quite an Esau. Try petroleum, Master
Loch. You apply a little with a soft sponge and
rub it gently in at bedtime.
* # #
We believe The Bulletin is the first to
draw attention to the remarkable likeness that
exists between Pro consul Sir William Robinson
and Ballarat Joe, the veteran organ-grinder a
similitude aggravated by Sir William’s partiality
for white plug-hats of the stamp sported by the
famous organist. Both have also a passion for
music, and if Joe would only refrain from wearing
such short trousers he might easily pass himself
off on Toorak as the gubernatorial piano-smasher.
We wonder if Sir William, K.0.M.G., ever lost a
tw in-brother.
There is a feeling in Victoria that some
reform must take place in regard to the Judges.
The judgeship becomes too much of an hospital,
and the barrister seems to calculate on his powers
going off, by which time he will vault to the
Bench. The old-time Bench—Stawell, Barry,
Williams, Molesworth—see how grandly they held
out. Then began a period of invalid Judges.
I ellows did not last long. Stephen was incapaci-
tated duringmost of his judgeship. Kerferd mounts
the Bench at the fag-end of a political, not a legal
career. Webb, worn out at the Bar, cannot stand,
the Bench work. Hodges’ is a proper sort of
appointment. This principle of taking a man in
his prime is becoming the rule in England, and
should be here. It is a settled notion in Victoria
that one Judge at least must boon furlough for
his health. Sometimes two of them are laid by.
Overwork, through the shortcomings of other
.fudges, broke up and killed Stawell.
# # *
The fine old Tory custom of inviting ladies
to take seats on tlie bench at criminai assizes
beside the fine old judge tricked out in horsehair,
ermine, cat-skins, and ancient rubbish, is becom-
ing frequent in N.S.W. This custom, like that of
reading the police-court reports, can only degrade
the ordinary-brained woman. The Martineau,
Besant female could gain instruction from such
contact by deduction and generalisation, the
“fashionable” scandal-loving, earthy Bellastons
and Lydia Languishes can only be soiled and
lowered by it.
'* * *
However, we happen to know an Aus-
tralian judge or two who ought never to sit
on the Bench unless he has a woman alongside
him. As matters stand now, it is just as well for
a stranger who visits a court to be able to see in it
something that looks and behaves itself a little,
no matter how little, like the goddess of Justice.
A CUP-TIME INCIDENT.
RACING MAN (looking at hotel-bill): “YOU’VE CHARGED ME £11 FOR BILLIARDS.
WHY, I DON’T PLAY!”
WAITER: “YESSIR. YOU SEE SLEEPING ON THE BILLIARD-
TABLE AND WE’VE MADE THE USUAK CHARGE OF THREE SHILLINGS
AN HOUR FOR IT.”
A clergyman, travelling in search of health,
struck Wilcannia recently, and, prior to departure,
went to a store and asked to be shown some bis-
cuits, stating at the same time that he wanted a
few for the road. After sampling from several
tins he remarked, pointing to one tin ; “ Oh, these
will do ; make me up a penn’orth !” “ Beg your
pardon,” said the storekeeper. “A pennyworth,
my good man.” “But,” replied the counter-
jumper, “we never sell less than half-a-pound.”
“How much would that be?” inquired the rever-
end gentleman. “ Sixpence,” said the storekeeper.
“That’s too much,” quoth his reverence, “just
make me up two-penn’orth.” The storekeeper:
“No; I can’t depart from my usual custom.”
Parson: “You people in this country are very
independent, I must say.” Storekeeper (laughing):
“ Very sorry, sir.” Exit parson, with look of
disgust. Moral (dragged in); Let us Imperially
federate.
# * *
A gruesome story from the Far North-
West : A stockman got off his tracks, and when
nearly spent from thirst found a waterhole. In
his distress he had thrown away his billy-can, and
his horror of thirst was so great that he was
afraid to leave the water without carrying a
supply. Out West the blacks “bury ” their dead
in trees, and it was upon dropping across a
skeleton in one of these “graves” that the
wanderer was inspired with an idea. Seizing the
bleached skull he carefully fastened up the holes
with clay, and filling it with water he started
away, carefully holding his awful water-jug. He
reached the station in safety, but not till he had
drained the skull, which is now kept at the home-
stead as a souvenir of his thirsty march. Here is
a subject for an Australian ai’tist.
The boat-advertised newspaper-vendors in
Australia at present are a certain stout, gipsy-
like, heavy-faced, paralysed woman and her hus-
band, a blind man, for years located at the corner
of King and Elizabeth-streets, Sydney. She sat in
a perambulator and her husband stood at the
corner, and when the poor pair wished to travel
the blind man pushed the perambulator and the
paralysed woman found eyes for him. The superior
officers of police have ordered the stricken couple
to “move on,” much to the disgust of Inspector
Anderson, the officer immediately in charge of
the locality, and the affair has so annoyed the In-
spector that his resignation has been hastened.
It is a pity that the Inspector-General of Police,
instead of officially cuffing paralysed women and
sightless men, doesn't devote his energies to shoo-
ing - away the choice collection of beettle-browed
blackguards who spit and curse all day long out-
side Tattersall’s Club and at various'street corners.
* * . *
Surely the finest Wesleyan Church in Aus-
tralasia is that new one just opened at Hawthorn,
near Melbourne, on the whilom Hepburn IF tat e.
It has cost £20,000, with such tidy appurtenances
as the minister's residence, and so forth. A liai -
son fixed there will be like Spurgeon on his
Beulah Hill, or Beecher in his Peach Orchard.
Successful land-boomers had a great share in build-
ing the church, and G. W. Taylor is immortalised
in a memorial stone. “G. W. Taylor, Escp,
J.P.,” is thus commended to the notice of the
powers above.
* * *
Acc rding to a London paper Norway and
South Africa are the only countries where hydro-
phobia is unknown. It is so far unknown in
Australasia.
* * #
The Bulletin prophesied it ! A Phila-
delphian has left his wife and commenced pro-
ceedings for divorce because his mother-in-law,
who had been making him a visit for the past
three years, had begun taking the elixir of life !
Someone gets off a story to the effect that
E. H. Taylor, the absconding Sydney financier,
now being brought back to Australia, when
arrested at Ceylon had assumed the character of
Dr. Marsh, D.D., and that the bogus reverend
gentleman in denying his identity with Taylor
exclaimed, “ There must be some d d mistake
about this business.” This recalls a story told of
another Sydney financier who some time since
disappeared and assumed the garb of a priest.
On being asked one Friday morning at the break-
fast-table of a Newcastle hotel what he would
take, he promptly replied, “Steak and onions,
please!” Which completely gave him away to
Miss Muldoon, the young lady who dispensed the
victuals.
* * *
Brisbane dearly loves a scandal, and the
abrupt conclusion to a recent high-life sensation
was really too disgusting.
* * #
Three hundred and fifty darlings were
entered for Brisbane Baby Show, which was in
every way a howling success.
* * *
Clarke, the Geelong gaol-breaker, says
that “only the Bible-reading scoundrels get well
treated ” in limbo. In or out of gaol, only the
thorough-going hypocrite can take the highest
honours in roguery. Here our office-boy inter-
jects—“ or in politics.” “ Vincentio,” we sternly
reply, “politics are the highest branch of roguery. ’>
* * *
“Yes,” admitted the visitor at the baby-
show, “ho has his father’s nose, but don't worry.
It may not always be that red.”
# # *
Human skin tanned into the most delicate
leather is now becoming a commercial commodity.
A few grades of gloves are manufactured from
this material in France and Switzerland, where
the tanneries have been quietly supplying human
leather to the glove-makers for some years. A
callous P. M. G. reporter examined a strip of close-
grained human leather, the other day. It was
taken from a man’s back, and is as thick as the
ordinary sole-leather. Leather experts say that
as the hide of a kid compares with that of a goat
so, of course, does the skin of a child compare in
pliable texture with that of the adult. Nature
has protected man’s spine by a skin which is much
heavier than on other parts of the body, save the
sole of the foot and the heel. Bits of skin from
the human heel have been tanned up into leather
almost an inch thick.
* * *
What a fine lot of “ kid "-glove leathoi
they must waste at the Sydney baby-farms !
An American citizen sues his wife for
divorce, because since marriage lie has discovered
that tier head is perfectly hairless.
* « *
< bic Alfred G unn lias gone off from South
Melbourne with a Mrs. Balk The Gunn is fully
charged.
* * *
The Manly Shirt is the name of a new
fashion fixture to which, says a Melbourne scribes*,
the ladies take immensely. They always did take
to the manly shirt-front.
* * *
Melbourne Herald headed its account of
the recent ball to the local Mayor, “ Society
caught .Frisking, ” and quite a number of the “ best
people ' received a bad chill till they read it and
found there was nothing in it. ’these papers
ought to be more careful.
* * *
A Melbourne detective took out a warrant
for a man for having no lawful visible means of
support, and it transpires that the defendant Is in
gaol serving a term. If the bleeding country is
not a lawful means of support, how is it our
Governors are not brought up on the vag?
* # *
The Melbourne people are speculating as
to why “Her Excellency,” Lady Robinson,
skipped for Sydney so suddenly.
* # *
As a puerile farce it is difficult to beat the
Melbourne amateur Fire Brigade “demonstra-
tion,” which demonstrates nothing except a
lamentable disposition to masquerade. One of
these Melbourne fire-fighters set himself in flames
the other night, and nnw his charred remains
point the sad moral that it is a mistake to carry
festive combustibles inside one’s uniform. The
whole strength of his brigade was unable to ex-
tinguish the poor fellow’s conflagration.
* * *
This is how the virtuous Le Quong ex-
pressed his sense of the Law’s distinctions in Mel-
bourne City Court: —“Eulopean kickee Chinaman,
velleo good : Chinaman pushee Eulopean, vellee
bad." The heathen’s remarks are worthy of con-
sideration in the abstract. But Le Quong forgot
to lay sufficient stress upon the fact that he had
pushee Eulopean on lailway-line when a train was
coming along.
* * *
The German masher accused of abducting
a Melbourne girl of proputty has been found “ not
guilty. ’ He has the sympathy and congratulations
of that large section of the community which could
revel in that sort of crime itself. As the German
has one wife round the corner already, perhaps it
makes a difference, however.
* * *
“ Elijah ” Egeson -was intensely foolish to
prophesy. In the almost certain event of failure
he will have to endure bad jokes with a damaged
reputation. And if the drought did come off he
w'ould be liked and respected about as much as the
man w'ho tells us of our faults. Perhaps the
Government would rout up some old, moth-oaten
stattoot and hang Egeson for sorcery.
* * ' *
Somebody has discovered that the “ soft
tack”—lemonade and ginger-ale*—sold in many
Melbourne shops, contains enough copper and
lead to kill a cat. These teetotallers do indeed die
hard.
* * *
A member of the Prahran (Melb.) Council
is tearing what hair he has left because lollies are
exposed for sale in his district on the Sabbath,
whereby the pore heathen in distant lands are
losing their hopes of salvation. This deplorable
old buffer came raging down to a Council corro-
boree the other night to move that the sale of
lollies on the Lord’s Day be prohibited henceforth
and forever. In the course of a pompous fossick
round he had discovered reason to suspect that the
infants who go to Sunday-school armed with a
penny for the missionary-box really stop by the
way to “blew” their little offerings in butter-
scotch. They see the sticky stuff in the windows
There was an old man with a beard,
Who sat in the silence and sneered—
“ They are dying of love
For the incoming Gov.',
And my glory has quite disappeared.”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Si DISCOUNT BANK,
90 —KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
A policies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits ;
3Years f>i I™cent.
12 Months 84 per cent.
0 Months 74 per. cent.
3 Months hi I*® cent.
5 per rent, allowed on daily balance ot current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One ter
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above i - ates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Prankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Presh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET. SYDNEY.
F. MV. JONSOV, Pitman's Certificated Tenelier,
Shorthand taught, in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons— Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
Robe htson’s Whisky.
£2OO
PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COHO VIE
AH KiII,LOWS ;
10 of 4o each, 35 A 3, ami 70 Al,
AM XU AS ”1J VMci HJLAOM H VHO
2§* mHm ,r X r X^B r ‘ s f U U, l Ul( Hf
and reflect that the pore heathen are so far a\yay
that the chances of their pennies ever getting
there are problematical. The devil whispers
“ butter scotch ” and the heathen are left to sit
beside their sunny fountains and cry in vain for
their penn’orths of Terewth. It was a sad story,
but when the councillor told it the meeting merely
said d n and passed to the next business on the
paper.
* * #
What a ghastly, horrible, human story is
that of Jones, of the Eidsvold !” —
Jones had been at Sydney and Annibale, and was re-
turning to Eidsvold when lie met a friend in Brisbane,
who told him that one Somers was living with his (Jones’)
wife. .Tones, thereupon, bought a revolver and some
cartridges in Brisbane, and took the first boat to Mary-
borough. Thence he proceeded by train to Mount Perry,
whence he walked the ;V2 miles to Eidsvold. He arrived
at daybreak and entering the bedroom with the revolver
in ids hand, exclaimed ; “ L have caught you, Bob,” and
tired—two shots at his wife, both of which entered the
woman’s abdomen. lie then fired the four remaining
shots in the revolver at Somers, hitting him twice in the
upper part of the body and one in the leg. Jones then
bent over his wife and kissed her fondly several times.
She moaned for water and he procured some, which lie
gave her. A sudden impulse, however, came oyer
him, and he seized an axe and struck his wife
on the back of the head. He was then about to
deal a blow on Somers when the neighbours rushed
in and secured him. Jones offered no resistance, but ex-
pressed satisfaction at the deed. He was afterwards
brought up at the poliee-oourt and remanded. The wife’s
dying depositions were taken in the presence of Jones,
and whilst they were being taken the prisoner kissed his
wife several times, and used passionately endearing terms
to her. Mrs. Jones died two days after the shooting.
Somers, it is thought, may recover. Jones had frequently
been warned of his wife’s infldelity.
They can’t on earth get a jury to hang Jones of
the Eidsvold. And yet, you see, when a man
shoots his unfaithful sweetheart who, fortunately
for himself, is not yet his wife, or shoots his hated
rival, they hang him up as high as Hainan.
Wherein lies the difference, morally, between the
two shootings? The cold-blooded man with no
love in his heart and no hate, simply lets the
woman go in either case and is regarded as a good
citizen. Jones of the Eidsvold walks 52 miles
under a burning sun gripping his pistol. The old
moral —Love is madness. The really level-headed
man doesn’t fall in love. Look at Jimmy Tyson.
* * #
What a hilarious joke! You profess to
have “found grace” at a revival meeting; for
six months you publicly pound the Gospel into the
nnregenerate, and the elect run you as the holy
show of the season. You catch on the holiness
patter to perfection, and make ’em weep every
time. Then the newspapers, which are really
never religious (we don’t know one bona-fide news-
paper man who goes to church) bowl you out.
However, your admirers and dupes (convertible
terms in relation to most evangelical matters) stick
to you and present you with a fat purse at the
close of a “holiness meeting,” the collection made
at which goes into your pocket. Then, having
pumped them dry, you throw off the cloak of
piety, and, putting on the garb of ungodliness,
forthwith proceed to paint the town red. You
rush round in a cab, visit every pub., howl out
swear-words, and plank on the bar, amid shrieks
of laughter from the scoffer, threepences and six-
pennies, hot from the plate, the offerings of the
altar. Then, while, you are flourishing, with rum-
born abandon, a handful of small coin, someone
strikes your fist smartly, and there is a scramble
for the money. There you have the history of,, a
New Zealand “mission.”
* * *
The columns of a Sydney daily contain
a wire-drawn and inexpressibly dreary regret
from David Christie Murray over the jamming of
his breech-loader when he drew a head for the
first time on a kangaroo; and a report of his “par-
ticular gratitude to his God for having afforded
him an opportunity of being present,” at the ban-
quet given to Parkes last week at Tenterfield.
You never can tell. With some men you have to
get an artesian bore right through, and then miss
the gratitude, and in others it is for ever spurtling
up and messing things generally when there is no
sense in it. To sit down to dinner with Parkes
if the dinner was ready good—would at any time,
and at any place inSuTe the geography, bo a cause
for self-felicitation, hut scarcely sufficient, surely,
for such extensive gratitude, even if the old man
did talk “ Federation ” over the wine and walnuts.
And why do D. C. Murray and Evangelist Varley,
by the way, use the possessive pronoun in their
piety ? The latter invariably does it. He has a
fetish peculiarly “my own.” Perhaps Murray
does it only after dinner, or maybe it is a recent de-
velopment of the correct style of appropriation
fashionable in Hmgerland. These confounded
breech-loaders jam as frequently when pointed at
a fetish as when covering a kangaroo.
# # *
The salaries of the N.S.W. members of
Assembly arc paid into their respective banks by
the Treasury officials. In a large number of cases
it lias been found the banks named by the mem-
bers are Monts de Piete.
* * *
The Sydney Hebrews have got together a
comfortable home for their- aged, infirm and
destitute co-religionists. Three hundred persons,
chiefly though not all of Jewish extraction, sub-
scribe a small sum weeklj' for the maintenance of
this deserving institution, which is furnished after
the fashion of the homes of fairly well-to-do people
and has a cheerful outlook. There is no cheerful
home in Sydney for poor old Christians.
* * *
What is this we hear about the crest of
his Excellency Baron Carington having been ela-
borately cut by John Sands at an expense of £35 of
N.S.W. Lands-office money?
mi -vr ««y i forces are in future
ine TN.O. VV .cavalry IOICGS <UG in I limit,
to wear Baron Canngton’s coat-of-arms (cast in
silver, in the case of officers, and brass in that of
privates) on their helmets. These badges of ser-
vility, similar to those worn by the Caringtonian
doo r-opener, boot-cleaner, and bash-slinger at
, 1 ;,A , , ’ , . - r o rj .„„
Guv merit Ouse, have already arrived from Hing-
land, and are now being served out, for we ve seen
one. This fine piece of wormy grovel is under-
stood to have emanated from an officer high up in
the “ colonial ” military service, but it could never
have been carried out without the personal oon-
eurrence of Premier Parkes, who alone has the
power to authorise such an expenditure, and who,
therefore, is responsible for the expensive slobber
THE ART THAT PAYS.
ENGLISH ARTIST: “WHAT SORT OF ART PAYS THE BEST OUT HERE?”
AUSTRALIAN ARTIST: “ THE GREATEST ART OUT IS TO SELL
YOUR PICTURES.”
E.A.: “ BUT YOU HAVE TO PAINT THEM FIRST.”
A.A.: “ THAT’S NOTHING, TO SELL THEM IS THE GREATER ART."
■ f n Sf
to King Carington, for whoso trade-mark the
Royal Arms have been displaced ! When Parlia-
ment meets somebody will be asking how much it
all cost, and who first began to lick off the perky
Baron’s boot-varnish in this matter.
Mr, Harper, manager of the great Broken
Hill Proprietary silver mine, says that tlm deepest
point reached at the mine up to now is 385 feet.
Judging from present appearances they have a
richer lode than that of the Comstock Proprietary
Company.
An Australian mutual life association,
whose feelers had been thrown out to clasp the
horny hand of the son of toil, recently agreed to
divide the mutual losses among the policy-holders.
They did, and those who had fondly dreamed that
in the event of demise their dear ones would be
shielded from the chill blast of penury have suc-
ceeded, so far, in getting a refund of one shilling
in the pound in return for the renunciation of then-
policies, the other nineteen shillingshaving vanished
into the ewigkeit. Some of these insurance com-
panies, land-banks and mortgage people require
careful handling.
Said Hiram P. Dodge, the legal luminary
in an Illinois town, in his attack on the defen-
dant ;
Slander is like a boa-constrictor of gigantic size and
immeasurable proportions, who wraps the coils of its un-
wieldy body around the unfortunate victim. Heedless
of the shrieks of agony that rise from flu* undermost
depths of f lic sufferer’s soul, it leaps like the forked light-
ning of heaven on its prey, and casts its unlucky victim
on the over-revolving wheel of public opinion ; and the
unhappy martyr recoils, staggering from the collision,
and driven to desperation and madness, only to be crushed
by the monster in the hideous jaws of moral annihilation.
Here the buncombe-kissed mountain tops of bathos
are skipped on with a bewildering and ballet-
master-like agikty before which Demosthenes
O’Connor must bow.
SUMMER.
x ow is the time when song-birds mate ;
p 1 he bald head stamps and swears,
jeoause upon us g oss\ pa c
Hie mes out-count tne nans.
. ~ , . , -, . „
ow is the time when roses blow,
And budding fruit-trees bear,
Now on all boozers’ noses grow
(frog-blossoms rich and rare,
Now Love so subtly stirs men's hearts
~ t hev’ve recourse
... Ijm n tli y \cka, uk
” " hen last .Summer s wedded tarts
lake action for divorce.
B.
THE “LOAFER'S” LAST TIP.
“SINGERPORE,” BY A PORE SINGER.
On the shady side of Bourke-street I strolled
moodily along,
While southward came the breezes blowing very
hot and strong;
Through the busy crowd I sauntered on my
melancholy way—
The date of this occurrence was a week ago to-
day.
There was hatred in my bosom, and the sneer
upon my face
Told of scorn, and likewise loathing, for the
present human race.
Oh ! of all the folks competing on this wide declin-
ing track
Which leadeth to destruction, few are good enough
to back.
Such a lot of them are wrong ’uns, and so many
broken down;
Rogues are bred in country districts quite as freely
as in town.
“Though you carry brass,” 1 muttered, as I
passed a public “ pot,”
“ Any decent rough outsider ought to beat you in
a trot.”
But whafs the use of hinting that the times are
out of joint?
The fact is most disgusting, but it isn't to the
point.
On the shady side of Bourke-street, as I walked
and pondered thus,
A stranger tapped my shoulder, saying, “Come
along o’ us.”
There was nothing very nice about that vulgar
stranger’s mien :
His coat was out-at-elbows and his billycock was
green ;
Little apertures by dozens let the air in through
his pants —
He had probably been sleeping in the company of
ants
Yet a look of hidden meaning filled the fellow’s
frowsy eye,
So I followed, mutely musing, till we reached a
lane hard by ;
There Eve’s unhappy daughters lolled around
each squalid den,
And the atmosphere was poisoned by. the taint of
Chinamen.
Thin, pallid, mongrel children, born to dodge a
parent’s kick,
Were fooling in the gutters with their fingers on
a stick ;;
A toothless, witchlike lady, swilling something
from a jug,
Winked her eye and started croaking, “ Dickey s
found another mug.”
But while a dread of “ Dickey ” was arising in my
breast '
He stopped before a shanty even viler than the
rest,
And seeing I was doubtful, said, “Yer needn't
’ave no fear,
It’s to see a dyin’ pal as I’m a bringin’ of yer
’ere. ”
Without another word he turned the handle of the
And we’ entered; may I enter such a dwell-
ing nevermore,
To read a shameful story writ on shameless girl ■
hood’sbrow,
Or to meet with Nicodemus in the likeness of a
Chow.
Laughing hoarsely at the horrors, Dickey led me to
a room
Where streaks of gracious sunshine never gleam
amid the gloom;
Ere my eyes had grown accustomed to the light so
dull and dim
Dickey nudged my nervous elbow, as lie men-
tioned, “ This is ’im.”
I wondered for a moment where his silent “ im
could be,
Eor no one save the. speaker made his presence
known to me.
“ ’Ee’s behind yer, ’ added Dickey, “ earn t yer see
’im on the bed ? ”
I turned, and saw a face as white and waxen as
the dead.
Not dead, but awful near it ; with a moan the man
awoke,
When worthy Dickey shouted, “ Cum, I’ve brort
the bloomin’ bloke —
The bloke as you wos arskin’ for, what put yer in
the ryme; _
I didn’t arf espeet as I shud fetch ’im up in time.”
I drew a little closer to the face upon the bed,
And remembered having seen it, O ! so bloated,
blotched, and red ;
“ The very man,” I cried, “ who told me Mentor
was a cert!”
I shook his dying hand, despite its overcoat of
dirt.
He tried to smile, poor creature ! as he whispered,
“ Yus, I seen
Tim ryme there wos about me in the Sydney
Bullytken :
As sed I wos ‘ the Loafer ’ -well, I carn’t loaf
hany more,
But before I takes me ’ook, I wants to tell yer
Singerpore.
“ I sharn’t be there to see it, but the colt’ll win
awl right,
This Melbern Cup, I tells yer, is a bit o’ jam for
White ;
I've ’eerd as dyin’ blokes knows what’ll ’appeu
long before,
Wull, Tin a bloke wot’s dyin’, and I knows it’s
Singerpore.
“ I am werry fond o’ Carbine, an’ that there 'orse.
Lons-ffnto,
Will ’ave a tidy try to brush their noses with ’is
tail;
It’s a preshus hartful crowd as works that bloomin’
nag, but lor !
They might beat all the bothers, yet they won’t do
Singerpore.
“ The price is pritty shoi’t, but then a winnin’ bet
at ‘ twos ’
Is better biz. than ‘fifties’ about ’or ses bound to
lose;
There ain’t no sort o’ show to go an’ break the
blessed Ring—
But ’ave a trifle on it, at wotever hods they sing.
It’s a morul. Kernel Barker, of the Harmy, cum
last night;
’Ee’s a good ’un’s Kernel Barker, for to put a
sinner right,
So wen ’e cum an’ told me of the ’appy Golding
Shore,
I wos grateful, an’ I begs ’im to go nap on Singer-
pore.”
The breathing grew more laboured, and the whisper
fainter still—
“ Good bye ! the Loafer’s crawlin’ to the bottom
o’ the ’ill;
Yer guv ’em all the griffin werry strate on old
Mentor ;
I shall peg out quite contented if yer tips ’em
Singerpore.
“ I arsts another favur; wen they shoves me in
the ground,
Plarnt Singerpore in daises on me little grarsy
mound—
Good bye ! yer’ll do another ryme, same sort as
wot I seen,
An’ if I goes to ’Eaven I shall git—the—Bui-
TEEN. ”
With a swelling in my throat, perhaps a tear upon
my cheek,
I hurried from that hovel, air and quietude to
seek.
We saw the “ Loafer ’’ buried : ere another month
is o’er,
Upon his grave shall daisies shape the name of
Singapore.
EDMUND FISHER.


Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 28, 1889.
ENDERS EOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies. j
Pipelaying, Contract No. (14, North
Shore Water Supply Pott’s-hillj
to Hyde Pumping Station
Wharf, Brushgrove, Olarenceßiver
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract!
No. 56)
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
seum.
Additions, Court House, Cosford
Colonial Architect Annual Con-
tracts, 1890—(deposit of £lO re-
quired with tender for each ser-
vice) —
Masons’ and Paviors’ Work
Carpenters’ Work
Bricklayers’ Work
Slaters’ Work
Plasterers’ Work
Painters’ and Glaziers’ Work
Blacksmiths’ Work
Plumbers’ Work
Ironmongery, Supply of
Building Stone, Sydney Gaol
Supply of
Stone, Parramatta
Gaol, Supply of
Building Stone, Maitland Gaol,
Supply of
Sweeping Chimneys, Public
Buildings, in Police District
of Sydney
Coffins, Police District of Syd-
ney, &c., Supply of
Winding, &c,, Clocks, Public
_ Buildings, Sydney
Furniture, Supply of
Chairs, Supply of
Carpets, Supply of
Blinds, supply of
Bridge, Laybury Creek, on road
Wiseman’s Ferry to Singleton’s
Mill
Bridge, Doctor’s Gully, at Merriwa
(fresh tenders)
Closing in Shed at South Eastern
Side, Circular Quay
Bridge, Crookhaven Creek, road
Jervis Bay to Greenwill Point
Richmond Bridge, Timber for re-
decking., (Fresh tenders.)
Contract 52, Sydney Sewerage
(fresh tenders)
Bridge, Smith’s Rivulet, at Mer-
riwa
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock,
Bridge, Sandy Creek, road Booral
to Bulladelah
Sydney Sewerage Contract, No.
54, Ironworks Supply of
Harbours and Rivers :—Annual |
Contracts, 1890 (fresh tenders) ; 1
£5 deposit required for each co n-
tract —
Supply of Anchors and Chains
Supply of Oils, Paints, &c.
Supply of Shipchandlery
(Hunter River Dist.)
Conveyance of Coal, Wollon-
gong to Shoalhaven
Dittoditto, Newcastle tc Nam-
bucca
Ditto ditto, ditto to Bellinger
River
Construction of Battery at Wol-
longong
Supply of Wrought Iron Angle
Bucket Links, imported and
manufactured in N.S.W.
Supply of Harwood, &c., (Hunter
River District).
Roads Department Annual Stores,
1890.
Deposit of £5 required for each
contract.
Drain Pipes
Engineers’ Stores
Timber
Tents, &c.
Brushware
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Ditto ditto ditto, Erection, Con-
tract No. 2
Bridge over Box Creek, Road
Balranald to Ivanhoe
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Warialda
Bridge, Jiggi Creek, road Lismore
to Jiggi
Bridge, Fairfield Creek, road Gun-
daroo to Yass
Concrete Lining, &c., Potts Hill
Reservoir
Removal of Rock at end of Wharf,
Cundletown, Manning River
Bridge, Hunter River, at Hills-
borough
Bridge, Myall River, at Bella-
delah. Erection (fresh tenders)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Narone Creek, road Mill-
field to Wollombi
Bridge, Byron Creek, 2nd Cross-
ing, road Climes to Byron Bay
Bridge, North Arm, Brunswick
River, road Tweed River to
Brunswick River
Caretaker’s - Cottage, Newcastle
(Water Supply)
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Amusements.
Q.AIETYT H E A T R E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
The Coiilinciilal Eldorado Katerlaiitinenl.
Professor ”W. Perron,
Tlie Champion of the Enchanted World, and
Mias A-cla, Fitzroy,
The Queen of Somnambulists.
Prices, 35., 25., Is. Reserved .Seats, ts., at Nicholsons.
T. V. TWINNING.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily,
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
open Daily from to a m to 10 p.tn.
Admission, Is ; Children, Hr] Trams to Oats -Fare, id.
Amusements.
,•i: t ~ “ <
tp HEA T R E ROY A L.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Gamer and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace. '.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
i of
JACK IHXT THE HOZK.
JACK MEKRYWEATHER ~ Miss ’JENNIE LEE.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr, Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OE
The Grand Military and Romantic Drama, by
William Gillette, Esq., entitled,
Held Toy tlie Enemy.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual,
J. P. Macdonald, 'Acting-Manager.
gCH O O L OF ARTS.
Every Evening at 8 —MR. SNAZELLE.
“An Incomparable Performance-”—London Times.
MR. SNAZELLE, A TRIUMPH. '
Mr. James MaoMahon has the honor to announce the
Complete Success of the famous Mr. Snazelle (specially
engaged in Europe, together with the whple of his
entourage, by Mr. P. E. Hisooks) and who will present
nightly his unique, beautiful and fascinating entertain-
ment,
MUSIC, MIRTH, SONG and STORY.
Incidental to which will be exhibited a series of marvel-
lous pictures by an entirely new scientific process, which
have proved a revelation to the Sydney public. This
department will be under the direction of Professor
Huddlestone and staff, who have accompanied Mr. Snazelle
from England.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co.’s Music Warehouse.
c
y
c
L
O
R
A
M
A
CYCLORAMA.
Opposite Redfern Station,
CYCLORAMA.
Grandest Exhibition ever shown in Sydney.
CYCLORAMA.
Open Daily 10 to 10.
CYCLORAMA.
Admission, 25.; Children, Is.
SPECIAL—SUNDAY NEXT.
3 to 10. Half-Price,
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
g* T. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
—THE MELBOURNE LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
KVtRV EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
NO END OF LAUGHTER I
Popular Prices. Popular Prices.
■JiOWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-o.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
{CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager ... . Mr. Mayne,
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.40.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
Kerry and. Our Boys.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Dion Boucicault, Jun.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 2,
The Squire, by A. W. PINERO.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
■ROYAL MUSEUM TIOYAL MUSEUM
AND *** AND
PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
Immediately opposite Town Hall, George Street.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
A CHEAT SUCCESS!
Five Splendid Floors Full of Attractions!
THE DAILY RENDEZVOUS!
Amusements and Exhibitions of all Descriptions !
Concert Room! Creak of Nature Room!
ILLUSION ROOM!
Mechanical Model Room I Variety Room!
One Shilling to all. Children Sixpence.
OTIS ELEVATOR. ELECTRIC LIGHT.
THIS WEEK the Champion PRIZE BABY,
elected unanimously by the people at recent Baby Show.
IB HOLDING RECEPTIONS.
NOVELTIES ALWAYS ENGAGED.
HAROLD ASHTOK, Mauser
Shipping.
SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibi’altar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked, through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling' at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KJJRRAOHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreter? meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N. B. - Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plaoe.
H. DE POSSE L,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according- to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
Steamer.
i Commander.
Leave
Leave [ Leave
Sydney : Mel-
noon. i bourne
Adelaide
Sema-
phore
1889. j 1889. | 1889.
Hohenzollern W. Kruihoffer Nov. 6 Nov. 11 Nov. 13
Kaiser Wil-;
helm 11. .. L. Stormer ~ Nov. 30’Dec. s|Dec. 11
Elbe .. .. IC. Thalenhorst Deo. 28'Jan. 2 Jan. 8
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED KATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO.. Agents,
5 O’Connell-slreet.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
U ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
’ of Capo Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2601 b. “Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and glide books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be hud on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices. 15 Bridge-street.
F-. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Furniture, &c,
EVVT O N AND LAM B .
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
EAh\ CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bod-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN
CARL RON.ISCH, L. NEUFELI) and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
1 sizes.
B
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW TO N an d LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
FIFTEEN SHILLINGS
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstahd,
with .1 owel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANE,
OCONNELL AND SPRING STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable earß
English ’designs—Wardrobe 4 feel, will
silvered plate-glass door ; Washstand. with nuirbh
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
iVn *~'^ ass attached; Pedestal Clipboard
and Iwo Cane-Seated Chairs, 1(1 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
W
PAN V A S FOLD TN( i
Vy COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.'
oxB,B x 8, oxB, 10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6 x 8, Os. 6d.; BxB,
Os.; 9 x 8,9 s. Od.; 10 x 8,10 s. od.; 12 x 8,12 s. 6d.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASii CHAIRS, elegant and
restful— a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
o
MERICAN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ò
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah,
Price Very Low.
NE W O N an d LA M B
Furniture Warehousemen,
Snuiva and O'Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
£ A ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
\JT Indian Long-akm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
T> ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, |rom
llj 155.: and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton k LAMB, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
N
EWT O N AN D LA M U
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSE*! EN,
CABIN ETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manueauivh.v*
SPRING and O'CONNETiL STREETS.


hot weather
To counteract the enervating, relaxing, and evil
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country during the summer months,
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements’ Tonic,
It prevents fever, malaria and ague, keeps uP
the appetite, assists digestion and assimilation)
stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels 1
thus preventing liver and kidney disease, and
raiding off their unpleasant symptoms, as head-
, H lhe constipation, piles, gout, rheumatism, dropsy,
apoplexy, &c. The summer is the time when
Clements’ Tonic is the medeoine par excellence
for the people. It prevents the relaxation and
depression so prevalent in the hot weather in
these latitudes; it enriches the blood, aids
perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-power ;
is the only reliable anti-febrifuge and pick-me-up
prepared in the colonies, and can be depended
upon to do f/ood and cure disease. The action of
Clements’ Tonic is certain, sure, and prompt ;
relief is felt immediately after taking the first
dose; it acts direct on the seat of disease and
cures the cause, and then the effects of that cause
cease. Most other remedies offered are prepared
with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns, and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. This may be
very good for the maker of the remedy (?) but it is
not at all satisfactory to the patient. Clements'
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures’; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a cure;
and if the patient only avoids the source from
which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover,
Clements’ Tonic does not constringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolour the teeth. We shall be
glad to enter into particulars with any corres-
pondents who like to address us at Newtown.
Sydney, personally or by post.
THOMAS GARRETT, ESQ., M.P.
(lale Minister of Lands),
suffered from
IffmKNESS! JNDIfIESTION
AND
pOOE f
he procured
CLEMENTS’ TONXC,
and gracefully acknowledges the benefit
he derived.
Sydney, October IS, 1830.
Dear Sir,— l have used Clements’ Tonic with Very
Great Advantage. It is very Stimulating, and a
powerful aid to appetite and digestion.—Yours truly,
THOS. GARRETT.
If you are a sufferer follow Mr. (lavrett’s lead, take
Clements’ Tonic and you will derive the same benefit.
“Thought his case beyond the Power of
Medicine.”
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April ’BO.
Dear Sir,—l have very much pleasure in bearing witnes.
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in eases oi
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AM) CONSTITUTIONAI
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months 1
was a, martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that t feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particular y
irksome and laborious to me. I tried ,several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved ; I
could sleep more soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
\\ I continued the medicine, taking in all six large
Lotties, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than e\ er, and as
near perfect health as a man who lias to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. 1 can confidently
recommend Clements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
bom loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
m >' signature.—-Andremain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE,
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
Gave him new Health and Strength.”
75 King Street, Sydney, March If), ’BO.
Dbak Sir, —Kindly send me two more bottles of
Elements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
i'“«phhide at the results obtained by taking two large
: , eSi 1 bad had a great amount of business worry to
on c'/ "j-foinst, which, together with the long hours I had
' , b’ it, completely undermined my constitution, and
Jf me leel very tired, weak and i'll, my nerves being
Vni 'tiered. 1 was so nervous that the accidental
liM,.l llln^ ,°f a door would cause me to start violently, my
tHYif WOU ( beat very rapidly, and 1 would break out in a
ext™ P ei ' s P’ration, afterwards having a sensation of
iiiiriti 6 w . e . a kness, lasting for some hours ;my sleep at
nehiU “jsturbed ; I awoke in the morning with hoad-
1. 3, aching'limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
i'mtmiof’i* 0 strength, and no inclination to work, and was
mj.,7 out. I was persuaded by your advertise-
ww ai, .•'• Elements’ Tonic, and am a different man
m v *t Save me new health and strength, increased
flesh Tie’ a , n< * lna de mo relish my food : t increased in
thanwJ. j nerv °us feelings, and now fee! stronger
voiiv i.- ei ’, and am glad to hear test mom to the value of
jnui wonderful remedy. Yours, fre., W. j>. GRAHAM.
«*!i ent * a ' IMen bke these allow their names to
'question -’.idorsemont of a medicine, if proves, beyond all
still sopv.ii*! m>>a fid** of that preparation, if vnu are
answer von. can "'rite to all or any and they will
although *h ”° medicine can show such proof
it rests wifwu are snores of counterfeits on the market
Only nievito,- P'ddh' to guard itself against imposture
Why so niai.!. 10 ”? IH .' tio!ps arc imitated and pirated, that h
sale. Such for Clement's Tonic arc on
ot Clements’ a T<mic tho K,vat!?st i M ’ oof nf tV FoU-.r-iTHy
®°Xc3L Everywliere.
To our Patrons.
» Wl ? bo :, inK «° Mind <o their
I Win suimi,?i. they do not: stock tins line.
Packed trnoJ* direct at the follow lag rates,
Half m 1 0r 8t oam « r:
One 1° Z - Pint ®d.) Bottles for 2'b„ or
Exchan • % d ° - do. 455.
and^fvJ 16 ! *dded to intercolonial and oountrj
-teanrer. cienS** "jiere goods Slave to be sent; by
fleets with n a tmn? ts Tonic is a genuine article and
ttiu lc ! n - Plrate« naR ? '.V all classes, always gives satis-
lt; b it. o, dy imitate, they cannot compote
r.
M ’ CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN
Cleaver’s
Soap
Transparent
Best & Cheapest
Bar lone!!
QAwso
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
HISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DK W M ”
3d.
CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
o
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
in
i
/IcenTs
d(
s
M
ò
DELISSA* PHILLIPS
3&«5 Battack8 attack Street.
GENTRY STOREKEEPERS, See.,
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—-Imposters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Class, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS .1 TO 15 AC CO Ml SI’S SINURIKS.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christinas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
JSI.. HkE- TVTcrisis &■ Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No, 010.
AN UNPUBLISHED FRAGMENT.
(Bobbie Burns in the distance.)
W har will I gang, tae get a ticker ?
A gaucy watch an’ guid timekeeper,
T ae fetch me tae ma wark betimes,
E ’en bring me hame tae supper syne.
R eckless I daurna be wi’ siller,
B aith guid an’ cheap, losh that’s the nailer,
U nsicker whaur tae end ma worry
R am-stam through a’ the papers hurry,
Y ou’re richt, freen, gie’s a Waterbury.
Note.—“ Time tries the troth in everything.”—
Tusser.
And few things stand it so well as the Water-
bary Watch.
n
6
m
m
n
jifrsoAP
w
10
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the greatssl regard for Purity,
and for the
SOOTHING- and BENEFICIAL. EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites
The Referee.
Marah, a colt talked about as a dangerous
outsider for the Maribyrnong Plate, was fairly and
squarely beaten by Clare, at Moonee Valley, last
Saturday ; consequently there is little probability
of the Messrs. Miller carrying off the two-year-
old Derby. In this same race ran Quality, un-
backed. The South Australian filly has an ap-
pearance of being very speedy, and might even be
good enough to take down Correze and Prelude
for the Maribyrnong. On public form and private
reputation, however, one of these two should win,
unless Gaudy—a stable companion of Magic Circle
can do the wonderful things alleged. If Gaudy
starts, with Mick O’Brien on her back, punters
might do worse than to follow the mount.
* * *
Still harping on the Melbourne Cup, no
solid reason why Singapore should not pull it off
lias been advanced up to time of writing. Never-
theless it is w'orth remarking that the name of the
A.J.C. Derby winner is, for some mysterious
reason, almost invariably coupled with Melos, a
horse which has but a poor show, on public form,
to give 201bs. to a really ‘ ‘ crack ” three-year-old
like Singapore. Touts’ stories about the latter
being a “sluggard,” &0., may be accepted for what
they are worth—which is very little—but the
winks, nods, and whispers to the effect that Melos
will beat him on Tuesday next come from people
who usually favour the chances of the “blue-and-
white ” stable. Undoubtedly Melos is an improved
animal, doing his work at Flemingtonin first class
style, but he cannot be made out to be a good
thing for the big handicap while Lonsdale, a horse
that beat him in the last V.R.C. Leger, has to
carry 71bs. less. Therefore, we are not inclined to
credit the rumour that Singapore’s connections
have pinned their faith to Melos, and we expect the
three year-old, fit and well, to win. More likely
than not the disparaging winks, nods, and whis-
pers are merely tricks of the trade and subtle
devices of the betting-market.
# * #
Among some Melbourne Cup notes in last
week’s Bulletin appeared the remarkable state-
ment that Manton ‘‘ is too muscular at present,
and can hardly win the Cup a fortnight hence.”
The remorseless touch of the comp, changed the
original spirit of that sentence. The copy stated
Manton “ isn't too muscular.”
# * *
Should Messrs. Chatfiekl, Rogers, and
Taylor, the missing Sydney boating-men, have
been done to death by the “calm Pacific,” they
are not the only pleasure-seekers to whom the
fascinations of the Hawkesbury have been fatal.
Many years ago Mr. “Joe” Ellis, a favourite
member of a well-known boating family, with a
companion, took the old 22-feet skiff Lotus up to
Windsor in the train and made the trip down the
river, intending to ship themselves and boat to
Sydney by a coasting vessel. Arrived at Broken
Bay, a lovely morning and a fresh north-easter
lured them into starting for Sydney in the Lotus.
All went well until off Manly, when the north-
easter dropped, a “ Imster ” sprang up, and it was
decided to beach the boat. The attempt was
disastrous, as the Lotus capsized in the breakers
and drowned poor Ellis, whilst Ins companion
escaped to take the news into Manly. As often
happens in these cases, Ellis was an expert swim-
mer, but the saved man could not swim a stroke.
• * •
Tho new boats do not scorn to be able to
give the oldsters m>. b of •’ start and a boating
when it comes to limited crows and a spanking
blow, to wit; The win of the Sea Breeze
(sailed by tho gallant Mr, Ered, Rae) in the
Sydney Amateur Sailing Club’s Hurry scurry
Race last Saturday. The old Sea Breeze was
built by Barnet for Mr. Alexander Oliver, the
parliamentary draftsman, getting on towards a
score of years ago. The Breeze, however, has
timbers in her like a ship, and will be a boat when
a lot of the new ones are too rotten for firewood.
Five maiden-eights contesting the N. S. W.
Association’s Maiden Race on Saturday looks well
for a future successful intercolonial eight. The old
clique, who certainly took their yearly gruel with
fortitude worthy of a better cause, has been com-
pletely broken up, and Victorians will now learn
that N.S. Wales has other—and younger—oars-
men than Messrs. Brodie, Dobson, Johnson, Ken-
nedy and Co. More than usual interest attaches
to the race this year, as it will be the first time
Victoria will row under bona fde amateur rules.
# * *
A rough sketch of Searle, in London
Figaro, represent the champion oarsman as a
masher, with a highly-cultivated drooping mous-
tache. If this is anything like our ’Arry he must
have changed. The artist probably got hold of
O’Connor by mistake.
# * *
Jem Smith, the English champion, will
have quite a lively time when he meets Peter
Jackson next week, when the pair box 12 rounds
for £lOOO and a £2OO belt, given by the proprietor
of the Pelican Club, In the writer’s opinion
Jackson will use the burly Britisher up, without a
scratch in return, in just half the time.
# # #
A writer in Melbourne Sporting Wire
points that Peter Jackson knocked Slavin out in
Sydney—on two occasions—in a rough-and-tum-
ble go.
# # #
Lloyd’s Newspaper describes Searle and
O’Connor as a clumsy and ungainly pair of
scullers. The English, like us, have a fashion in
sculling, and what is out of fashion, of course, does
not seem pretty. The style in which the Aus-
tralian rows a horse is not pretty either, according
to England’s notion, but it gets there all the
same.
# #
After the fatal accident to old Game, at
Caulfield, one of the stable-boys was discovered in
tears and tribulation. On being asked to explain
these weeps the boy said; “800-o-o, I walked
Game all the way down here this morning so as to
save him all I could, and now the old ’s been
and killed hisself at the last jump, boo-o-o.”
* # *
The East Sydney, who beat four compe-
titors in the N.S.W. Rowing Association maidfes
eight-oar contest, were considerably, the lightest
crew, their aggregate weight being 80 stone-and-
a-half against 84st. for Sydney and 91st. for the
Mercantiles.
SYMPATHY FOR CHILDREN.
Apropos of the recent Baby Show which exer-
cised the minds of so many mothers in sunny New
South Wales, the following extract from the
Southport Visitor may prove of interest :
“ There is nothing that touches the tender chord
of sympathy so quickly as to witness the suffering
of children, who are wholly dependent on what
others do for them. A case in point, and one
which should excite the sympathy of those who
have children of their own, is that of little Annie
lane Allison, 12 years old, of 4 Batavia-street,
New Cross, London, S.E., whose long years of
suffering, as narrated below, were brought to our
attention by a gentleman who is familiar with all
the particulars.
“ It seems that about nine years ago the mother
noticed a swelling of the child’s knee, accompanied
by severe pain. The family doctor advised taking
her to Guys Hospital, where she attended several
weeks as an outdoor patient, at the end of which
time, having obtained no relief, she was taken to
the Childrens’ Hospital, Great Ormond-street.
W.C., where she attended for nearly four years.
Mr. Marsh, F.R.C.S., senior surgeon to the above
hospital, author of ‘Diseases of the Joints,’ and
lecturer on ‘ Hip Diseases,’ stated that the child
1 was in great danger and might lose her leg.’
She was then taken to the London Hospital. -
Ihe attending physician, Mr. ITedk. Treves,
F.E.C.S., L.S.A., &c., said the case was ‘a
very bad one.’ Through the influence of Miss
Thoveman, her Sunday-school teacher, and Dr.
Mitchell, the family doctor, she was admitted into
St. Thomas’ Hospital, where she remained for
several weeks, under the immediate care and
attention of that eminent authority, Dr. Sydney
Jones, senior surgeon and lecturer on surgery, but
she continued to grow steadily worse. On the
hospital card, which Dr. Jones gave to the child’s
mother, he described the case ‘white swelling.’
At this time her bodily health began to decline,
and the parents became so alarmed that they took
her to the seaooast. Her suffering was fearful to
behold. Her screams night and day were heart-
rending, and her parents were driven almost
frantic. She could not be moved without going*
into spasms. She could not even bear the weight
of the bedclothes on her knee. In desperation the
parents went back with her again to St. Thomas’
Hospital, but they could do nothing for her.
Through the influence of a local physician, she was
again brought before Dr. Treves, of the London
Hospital, who, after making a thorough examina-
tion, stated plainly to the mother that ‘he could
do nothing whatever for her.’ She could not move
without the aid of two crutches, and then only by
the greatest effort, accompanied by the most in-
tense pain. She was reduced to almost a
skeleton, and her life was despaired of. At
this critical period her father began to
hear of the most marvellous cures wrought by a
newly-discovered oil, which lie hastened to pro
cure and try on his little sufferer, when almost
directly the pain began to ease, the swelling to
disappear ; and for the first time in years the, child
began to sleep soundly at night. Continuing to
use the magic oil, it was but a short time before
one of the two crutches, which for years the little-
one had been obliged to use, was thrown aside,
and the pain also became less intense. . In a feu
weeks more the remaining crutch was exchanged
for a stick; later on the stick was placed away
with the two crutches, and the little patient
emerged from a life of the most intense suffering
and danger, to complete freedom from pain, and
she now walks without the aid of crutch or stick.
‘‘ If further proof were wanting that St. Jacobs
oil, which is the oil above referred to, ‘conquers
pain ’ in every instance, a gentleman connected
with this paper could furnish additional evidence
from his own personal experience. He applied the
oil upon himself, when suffering most intense
agony, and all pain disappeared in ten minutes.
He now considers St. Jacobs oil a household neces-
sity, and would no more think of going a journey
without a bottle or two of the oil in his portman-
teau than he would without his top-coat. His
experience, to our personal knowledge, is that of
other well-known citizens of Southport. ”


Medical.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
If You have
Nervous Debility
Sick Headache,
Bilious Compl’nts
Fever & Ague,
WastingofFlesh
Sleepless Nights
Neuralgia,
Or any disease of the
Liver, Bowels or Kidneys, Lack of
Strength or Nerve Power,
you can be Relieved and Cured by
LARMBB’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC.
Price, 2s 6d & ss; Post, Is extra-
Prepared only bv—
C-A.HSTS &c CO.,
Chemists,
78 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
For Sale by nil Chemists.
M. W. & Co.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Quids*- planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intending to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire to inform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage audits duties, to which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse, with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than fifty engravings,
by M. Lafayette Bym, M.D. Price 3s. 6d., post 4s.
Works of Rabelais, complete, by post 3s. fid.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and the Guide to Female
Loveliness, Is. The Fruits of Philosophy, post Is. 2d. Mrs.
Besant’s Law of Population, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful
Song Book, extra large, Is. fid. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s.
Aristotle, complete, 3s. fid., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. fid.,
post Is. 9d. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. The
Elements of Social Science, 3s. fid. post 4s.
“ The Matron’s Manual of Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted 7s. fid.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” price fid.
“The Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates; price 75.,
post 7s. fid.
Write for price of any book not advertised that you
may require.
Ft. BEAR,
Central Book Depot,
IBba PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL--COMFORTING
COCO A.
aw
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. .1. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
o
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
WhoM«AI.K Acknts:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
Clarence' Street.
First IIELBOUBNS EXHIBITION.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
IV.it- for plans 4:10 Building sites. Perth,
■'A o-Vrn ■Australia.' Intercolonial Investment
Cothpuny, Limited, % Bathurst street, Sydney.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans.
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemelfs Snow-white Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockinga & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BBIDBE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET , &
DA RLI SC 11A RBO UR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kawjaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dr.
ATJCTIOITEEBS.
G-JFt-AwinNT
IDFL. SFEBR’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. AIL applying to
him will receiv e his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN AND WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Steer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.in. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
T O YOUNG HMdBZKT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE (IN NERVOUS DISEASES. THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HE directions contained in this little* treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, .Vo Medicines ivill he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self. _
This admirable little treatise is specially" written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early" life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &o. It is the result of much study" and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. : —Nervous
Debility", Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy", Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency", Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry", Premature Decay", and other
symptoms experienced by" nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASK OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over '.15,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR, 11. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Pri\ ate address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED W ITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
■'-7-
ft* o &
rX ;nv 1
S 1 ■ I ; l 1 :
r I
HS’";:.’
"■■,i
t
; 5w, : sssj
ELECTRIC PKDTQ ENCi CO, 8 BRIDCE ST t SYDNEYS
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney
11. THOR IT. Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JTJST LANDING. -
Farlelgrli, Nettlieim, Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YOUK v STIREIPJX, S-TOMFiX.
Sole Agents for (he above for New South Wales anil <Queensland.
( x )
ALSU Importers .1 Ko'iuisilcs for Hie HOOT MANTKA I TtUIN'O TKAI'E in nil l»ctail«. Inohutiii" M VTHVLTY
IMI’OKTI.U LI A IHEKS, &•;. ; .-ml of (he following Sp/.cul Link:- rcrrlo* SaHu I’oijsji >„i,i
marking Tanners Tools and Materials. (P# Indents Executed on nuounhle Term- '
Medical.
DU. RICHARDS.
ROOW
uriw
CONSu
-L
Dft RICHARDS
: ']
mi
r
<TOM
This eminent Specialist, rounder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleger
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drow’siness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bow'els, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentodness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered those difficulties. On receipt, of Gd. in
stamps ho will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous radical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume wall be found a list of carefully-pre-
-1 ared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his succcsj. All
communications should be addressed
Ur. RICHARDS,
T Spring Street
(Off I’lU Street North)
Yf .E) JST EG y m
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION Til Eli
THE QUARREL.
SHE: “Clifford, I didn't mean to wound j our young heart. I spoke too hastily!”
He (sotto voce and huskily): “Brace up, Clifford, and let her see you are a man." —AMER.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
Mew Warehouse.
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
" Oh, 1 feel so Mondayish ! ” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepax - ed for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast,, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
3 lied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
ing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outeK.garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house'-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “tired ”
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we-have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by-
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Doth these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly-
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed.
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observat ion, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale Patent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “dolly-,” which is worked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle o,f dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every -
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is ; caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Sc 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest cem-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers tlwoughout New South
Wales and Queensland,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
o-
WILLIAM FLEMING,
AC ere lx bl ax t, Sycln. © y aix dL Mi eX lx our ax ©•
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGGIES, PHOTONS, BUM,
PONY CARTS, &a., &g.
Express & Lumber Waggons*
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
i
Melbourne Office:
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street-
Sydney Office:
22 & 24 Clarence Street
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
o
XJS'B
LIEBIG 1 COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
M‘Nah’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
FINE OLD HICMUN
WHIS** c .
, ~n(3fW M* M^, S th ' •
AMORf«" i.m*
u
i ,y
r I
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing 1 Machine.
PASTORAL! STS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GfEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MHS. KONG MENU ... ... ... I’ropHel’ress.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
XSHEET CLASS,
cP
7^
cr>
merchants)
f 3
*■* *>
o
m
3C O
m
30 o
2* m
o
T 3 33
%
§
t ■»
£
Si
&
fimt
smt
CHliStiP
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
io years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Cold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! £lO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
land, Splendid I’osltion. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited,
S 6 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUCLAS, Manager.
o ò
EuCALYPTE. ChLSa,
£ «,
x
r
■
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
The only pure Eucalypte in the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. -First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
ow's
‘■EMBROCATION
f,
r
r :4sOLD |
'\£VERXWHERE‘i
• V-
IS


HORDERN and COMPANY, next Royal Arcade, opposite Central Markets, are making a Beautiful Show of SPRING
NOVELTIES in every Department.
Spring Costumes! Spring Millinery! Spring Hosiery!
ALLNEWANDFASHIO N A B L E G 0 0 T> S.
We invite Special Attention to our Millinery, Underclothing 1 and Baby Linen Departments, which will be
found most replete in every detail. Spring and Summer Mantles in .every style now opening.
HORDERN and COMP AMT, 486, 488, 490 George-street, Sydney,
Xext .Koval Arcade, opposite Central Markets. When rent am please (lire the
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD,.
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
heir new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manager-
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Company,
LIMITED.
l^T OTICE is hereby given that an Extraordinary
General Meeting of the above Company
will beheld at the Chamber of Commerce, Bridge-
street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, the 21st Novem-
ber, 1889, at 3 o’clock p.m., for the purpose of
confirming the following Special Resolution which
was passed by the required majority on the 24th
October, 1889, viz. :
“That the capital of the Company be in-
creased by the issue of 100,000 shares of £1
each to be allotted in the proportion of one
for every share held in the Company to the
present shareholders in priority, 2s. fid. per
share to be paid on application and the balance
as required in calls not exceeding 2s. Gel. per
share at intervals of not less than one month.”
By Order of the Board,
J. J. WESTON,
Manager.
29 O’Connell-streot, Sydney, 25th October, 1889'
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Company,
LIMITED.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Transfer
Books of the above Company will be closed
< «n the 21 st November next for three days, to enable
a list of Registered Shareholders, as on that date,
to be compiled, which Shareholders only will be
entitled to apply for the proposed New Issue of
Shares.
I t is therefore necessary for holders of scrip who
have not registered to send it to the office of the
Company forthwith for the purpose of transfer,
otherwise they will be excluded from participation
in the Netv Issue of Shares.
By order of the. Board,
J. J. WESTON,
Manager.
29 O’Connell-street, Sydney, 25th October, 1889.
NOJ-Sua
010-WSMNntf-L
viO^U
r-
cNaaaiJHo
.S3IOYX r
JJrrrt^-
NUYS
*mo«
f?0«v»
«<Sil
WSSW! Cl
S.NMOUn
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded hujkcst honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd'm 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every hott/e.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can he used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. P. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 682.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors-
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO A CIGAR IMPORTER,
IS7 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitl Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Hat aims'lt tlgars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor de Konito
Brand of Cigars and “ Empire Cigarettes.*’
Some men are born rich, some achieve
riches and some get into the Lands office.
Queen of Spain—“ Good gracious ! The
baby king has the stomach-ache. ” Lord Chamber-
lain (excitedly)—“ Call the Secretary of the
Interior ! ”
According to the Quarterly Review, the
late Chief Baron Kelly stated, as the result of 40
years’ experience, that 22 innocent men had been
sentenced to death, seven of whom were actually
executed.
“ V.R.C. DERBY.”
“MELBOURNE CUP.”
CALL AT THE
“ DONCASTER”
Cigar Divan,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Hunter Street).
Australian Mutual Investment
ami Building Co., Limited.
3Votlce of Removal.
THE business of the above Company has been
Removed from 309 Pitt Street, and is now
conducted in their New Premises,
Nos. 289 & 291 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
adjoining the E.S. & A.O. Bank, corner of Pitt
and Park Streets.
H. G. SWYNY,
Managing Director.
f /
Photographic
N
Views
Portraits
n -
X
3l6c »A sr >
CHUBB ANB PRAKCER,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES,
BEALE'S, CHAMBERS.
482 & 484 George Street, opposite the Markets.
FOR High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography m the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
Note the Small Charge now made for Photos
of the Best Quality and Finish.
'TAKE ELEVATOR.
The “ Century Dictionary ” —in which, by
the way, words are to be pictorially illustrated as
well as verbally defined—is to be completed in 24
parts. It i s expected to fill 6500 pages, and to in-
clude in its vocabulary 200 000 words.
When in her bathing suit beside
The ocean's shore she flirts,
Her dress is cut high at the neck,
And high, too, at the skirts.
When for the ball the gentle maid
Her person doth bedeck,
Her dress is longer at the skirts
And lower at the neck.
Queen Victoria, it is stated (says the Lon-
don correspondent of theS.A. Advertiser), is a
believer in palmistry, and the Princess of Wales
patronises a palmist. Novelists, physicians, mem-
bers of Parliament, young maids and old maids, go
to Mrs. Louise Cotton, Kensington, to hear some-
thing about their future. The palmist is a fair-
haired woman of about forty. She wears a neat
cotton dress, and looks quiet and homely. Three
dukes and many celebrities are among her clients.
Five hands are the utmost she can do in a day.
She travels over every line in the hand with a
powerful magnifying-glass. The lines of a man’s
hand are usually better defined than a woman’s.
Some people’s hands have scarcely any lines ; they
are people of quiet, uneventful lives. Professional
women, in Mrs. Cotton’s opinion, are generally
vain and ambitious.
Henry George's Visit to Australia.
ALL FRIENDS of the SINGLE-TAX Move-
ment desirous of promoting the success of
the HENRY GEORGE CAMPAIGN through-
out the Colony are requested to Communicate
with the undersigned, from whom all information
may be obtained.
W. E. JOHNSON, Secretary,
Henry George Campaign Executive,
169 Phillip street, Sydney,
—FALLON’S—
■CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
Ths Dsspwatsr Silver Fields*
CASTLE RAG TOWNSHIP,* -
Splendidly Situated,
Beautiful Climate,
Abundance of Firewood.
Permanent Water.
COME AND SEE
SALE OF ALLOTMENTS,
On the Ground, without reserve,
Wednesday, 6th November,
FREE Xj TJXT CHEO IST.
W. T. CADELL, Deepwater.
iE DWIN G. GO DUTY,
Stock and Share Broker,
FINANCIAL AC3-E3STT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Stock Exchange.
DANT. SULLIVAN
(Rate of Brisbane ('afe),
Has bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter’s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
ESSEX FARMS.
T>TCB SOIL; Twenty-eight (28) Miles from City, near Railway. From £l5 per Acre.
Easy Terms. Lithographs Post Free.
C. T. BURFIT, Auctioneer,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott's IJotki.).
WK- beg to inform our I'i;ik\i»s and the
Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
ANT)
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DIMERS provided on Shortest Notice.
Moderatk <T i at; oks —
BIKTI & K AT 3S,
PROPRIETORS.
Ja LUDOWICI & SONS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting-,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
Leathers.
o
Tangye Pimp
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
Office and Factory: 1621 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
H. HILOER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER of
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elustie Molt, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
639 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
' J THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE £N THB WORLD w
GOODAI.Ii’B
YORKSHIRE RELISH.
CELEB
isold v*r
6,000.000 Bottles
sold annually.
Enriches sot
Joints, Stlrars,
See. I
Doliclousto Chops,
Steaks,Pish,See.
With soup it is
charming.
Agrees with the
most delioate
person.
Makes cold meat
a luxury.
Hakes the plain-
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it the
best Sauce.
Pears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
Invalid’s oup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
able imitations.
Sold Everywhere
by all Dealers.
wbolmal*
TIXaIiOCK A CO..
GEORGS BT., BTDNET m
o
WINCHCOMBE. CARSON & CO.
Wool WtoroH : WHARF; l*rodm*> Sioios: nuri’l.Ml QUAY;
omoem: 4B MACQXJARIK STREET NORTH. SYRMEY


Business Announcements.
r~-, <
#»T]
nmoncEESJ iS
IRO
—n
1
SE
■
CrD
ffli
fP
pa
~i
w
1
ROBERTS & CO.,
-WHOLESALE-
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracecliurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Bailway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers’
Squatters’ _• 4 •,
Requirements
IN
Great
Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths’
Couchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Engines— The best and Cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels!
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
o
A Certain and Immediate Belief
in all Cases of
Klinimalism, Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Sprains and Bruises.
Being used at Victoria Barracks,
General Post Office, and by the
Sydney Omnibus Co.
Invaluable in the S table.
. Hundreds of Testimonials as to
its efficacy. Everyofte should use
“SHARK OIL.”
Sample Bottle sent Post Frkb for
Three (3) Penny Stamps.
Price, 25.,
at all Chemists, or from the SHARK OIL R. ANUFACTURING
Post Office Chambers, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
COMPANY,
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established 1872.
Bonuses
OF
2® per cent. Paid Annually
since 1878.
y.
SC^SMiTS
i %SS.
Head Office
-•THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. Oeorye Thornton, M.L.A. ,
Chairman.
Hbad Oppiob:
Corner Pitt Sc King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
Medical*
''N
\\
s
r j
.-'i
) H y
m
m
}
■~rr
/•
•'*\ -'V v' -■■ \ / .
Vs w</y
; v •■ ■' /
—" //
iLI r \'t-*
X_v
A Skin Without Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific-ducts, veins,
and pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticuka, the great skin cure, and Outicuea
Soap, an cxquiste skin beautifior, prepared from
it, externally, and Outicuea Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been a filleted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
xihy body. My bands were in a solid sore for ever
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the-advertisement of the Cutiguea
Remedies. I used one box of Cutiguea, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all m3 r own work.
Mrs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cutiguea, 50e. ; Soap,
20c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared hy the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co , Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 0-1
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
ò
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
, I have suffered all my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Cuticura Remedies. I gave them
;a thorough trial, using six bottles of the Cuticura
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticura, and seven
cakes of Cuticura Soap, and the result whs just
'what I had been told it Would be a complete cure.
15 K LLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, G .W. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticura Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on-her head and body, and the hair commenced
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
•was,.and ehc has only used one box of Cuticura,
one c.tke of Cuticura Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticura Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement
j v - GEORGE BAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which I
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
Mrs. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
Pit
PLES, blackheads, red, rpni'h, chapped and
oily skin prevented by CuTU'tTUA 50.,.'.
Address: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Cold Medal
Con
ilk
Acknowledged
The Best
o
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Soiiß Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London,
(By Special Appointment,)
Wholesale Agents : Ealchm, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS. LONDON,
“BTJGLE”' !Ai.LS STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottle* with
til, ill fully forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be "Foster’s Boole Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Libera! Reward will he given for informal inn leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
BA.IiCB[INr, JOH2STSTOKT & CO., Sydney,
Agents kor Messrs. M. R. Foster A Sons.
Ask for Kupper’a XUberfeld Lager Bear
(Specially Brewed for Anir-T**} * tr, <■. , -• <
Another for the Bush.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
O for horses, saddles, bridles,
That ! to the bush may fly—
No more sheets arid iron bedsteads
In the blankets will I lie ;
O for bells and grebn-hide hobbles,
Flannel shirts and moleskin p ints ;
0 for stockwhips; spurs, and leggings,
Spiders, flies, mosquitoes, ants.
Take away my masher-collar,
Go and pawn my Sunday clothes.
1 will be a hardy bushman,
With a sunburnt, ruddy nose.
Sister, kiss me for my mother
Ere I go my luck to try ;
Hide, O hide, th t sad emotion.
Wipe the tear-drop from thin e T e.
I will ride the fiery hrn hie
Bounding madly o'er the plain,
I shall lead a glad • ■xistence,
Feeling neither, care n r pain.
Give to me the sunset’s gloaming
And the camp-tire’s ruddy i low,
(Midst the gum-trees gaily wand'rirg
Roaming thro’ the bush I’ll go.
Pack my horse and cut my dipiter,
Bring my stockwhip, ten-feet loi g,
Then I’ll boil the festive quart-pot,
Praising Nature with a song.
Now I’m off to try my fortune,
On the road I’ll gaily push,
Hoist the flag and sound the trm pet,
Here’s another for the bush !
POB.
Jem Smith is to box Jackson for £lOOO
a-aide; Slavin for £2OO a-side only. Smith and
Jackson must have lots of money behind them ;
Slavin apparently has little.
“ Having heard that our executioner, Mr.
Berry, offered to do all your hanging for £5OO, I
beg leave to state that I think one office is quite
sufficient for one man. I will do it for
William Webb, of England, to Warden ‘Osborne, of
the Tombs Prison, Now York. Competition is the
life of trade.
Dear Bulletin, —Somebody has said that
the typical Australian has neither wit nor imagina-
tion. Possibly that somebody is right. Anyhow,
I will tell you a story of a locally well-known
Australian woman who lives on the Richmond
River. Mrs. Dogood is a genuinely kind, motherly
old soul, who spends most of her time nursing
feeble people, and will not accept the slightest
reward for her tiring work. The other day she
had occasion to leave a parcel at the house of a
Mrs. O’Brien, who, to my knowledge, has had very
poor health for four or five years. Handing over
the parcels', Mrs. Dogood observed : “ I am glad to
see you looking so well, Mrs. O’Brien. You look
ever so much better than you did twelve months
ago.” M s. O’Brien sat bolt upright and rasped
out Who’s, your author for say in’, pi was sick
twelve mouths ago?” “ Why, everybody says.so,”
responded the old dame. “Thin ivirybody mbinds
my bisness badly, instid av attindin’t’their own.”
“W. 11, but you, your own self, told me that the
doctor gave you only four months to live.” “It’s
a loi,” screamed Mrs. O’Brien, “ oi nivir tould you
nor anyb >dy else such an unholy loi. Git out av
me house, ye bad-moinded craythure, an’ don’t
darken me do or agin.” The old dame made a
masterly retreat to the doorstep, and then fired off
the following unique Parthian shot : “Don’t be
the least afraid of me darkening—lightening, you
mean - your door again, you poor, miserable,
pining, puny, bad-tempered woman. Why, look
here, you pitiable object, you ; I wouldn’t spit in
your mouth if your teeth wuz on fire. ” — J. Panni-
kin.


READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Salme, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
ofPotash,&o.,forallimpuritiesoftheblood. 2s; 20sdoz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troubb som Q ' omnlaint. 2s: 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &0., &o. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &o. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in ting),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d; 6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is6d; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, foe
chrome indigestion. 3s 6d &ssCd ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey-
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.-
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, bums, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by h. c. Armstrong. George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SIDNEY.
Tbusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc,, at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan L Cuarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL .... £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
*B3 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six „ ... 7 M
Twelve „ ... 8 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
lea .’ •I, 2 per cent. 6 months, li per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
BUJBELL MARSHALL Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
fast half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company's Head Offices or Branches.
A p.ications for Shares.-—Forms of Application for the
Company's new issue of 20,000 shares at par, authorised by
the last eu.-ral meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upo.i icaCion to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
federal reversionary investment
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
( Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, IS7U.)
CAPITAL .. .. .£21)0,000.
Sydney Oilin': 301 mi STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
xl - Immediate advances granted. Hills discounted daily
Count. iaiciuions Lout the country promptly attended to
The following an- He rales of interest allowed on Fixed
Lejs.-ii; s wa ~ in percent.'; 12 months, 9 j»cr cent. ;
6 mouths, S per ■ i. ; 3 months. 7 per cent. Hy order
of the Hoard of inrectors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE OSE-CR’JSILNfI, AMALCAMATIN
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Directors:
Jambs FuktCiier, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Hk'ky Hcdson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Mkrton, Lunningar Works, Harden; Charlks
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gats for the saving of
hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies:
These Works will supply a - long-felt . want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one. ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
Sid saving appliances for amalgamating and
lorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
C&pital, £260,000.
Sydnbv Office : 246 PITJ STREET.
'DILLS DISCOUNTED ami Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates ol Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
8 Years 10 per cent
12 Months .... Operoent.
6 Months .... .... Spercent
3 Months .... ... 7 per cent
• Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve
and over.
e> seder of the Hoard.
m W. M‘DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRAL RANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS Sc CO).
Reserve Capital Account .... .... .... £250,000
Reserve Fund .... .... .... 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities .... .... 311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 4G4 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
'N.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
Victoria: Lara.
ò
7h per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5
3
»»
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained-on application to
u. U. F. Cowell, Manager.
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. •
“What is Home without a Picture?”
I*. BEEITASOOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Glider, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street*
SYDNEY.
H l . SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
Hotels.
TRAMS PASS
EYEfcT FEW MINUTES
PALACE HOTEL
M#VSL I
HflUl
in
F
iSiPL
nosumvt
GW.CIARE
HANACIt
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURSE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE
—is—
THIS fim* Hotel, which has Just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hundred Magiaificent Bedrooms,
Which are Loft? and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT 4. COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
tST Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
&r TWO PASSEIsTO-SB OTIS LIFTS
- M
Ladies 1 Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms*
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DTNTNG-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
M
Terms s Single Bedroom., 2s. 6cl. per Night.
(BmHtUng the Occupier to the privilege of wing the Public Booma of the Hotel.)
Foil particular* a* to the Tariff, fta, may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Mklboueitb.
Medical.
DR. SMITH, U.S.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours i ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVEBMACHER’S WORLD-
TAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOB THE CURE OF
Nerrons Exhaustion and Debility. Sciatica
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “ Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourk*.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a>
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address; “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
P. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings;
738 Cteorge Street, 730
HA YMABKET.
Steam Works :
61T, «19, 621, 639, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, St c., Made to Order.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Roller piour and ||rain Stored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE REAL
(STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
■ 641 George Street,
Brickfikld Hill, Stdnbt,
between
Liverpool Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF OBOWN BTBKKT.
Manufacturers of allkinds of Tinsfor Confectioners
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square , for Pepper. Snice and
Baking Powder, made by improved m u-h nrry.
A Xria.l Solicited.
MUSICAL.
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
* Piano. Price, 8a 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, 6s. Od., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted Stationers.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
v N ;siV p > »- l
\mmm
wwl
EUREKA
Vl V'eureka
k ELECTRIC BI
x. \ NNi
BELT.
n
%
\N. ;>
-nx
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. O.anfi
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Bains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they Lave proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage.
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.8.G.P., M.R.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the. Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
' Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—•IX—
Chronic, Nervous and ffehito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 2 5 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston it Elizabeth Sts ),
MEL BOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
IgF” All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical manual on Special Disease*,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. 6d, (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
■■■ v ■ . o
'PHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It- will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
T The Public are requested to notice the
WCUIUIUII ! words, f-vv 3Co*c s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label -affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASX FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured onlv by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1868. By Post 3s. Hid.
IW' Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JJERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, personally, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price; £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “ Boselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means,- all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERRE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST 4 ACCOUCHEUR.
0»8e8 of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hows of Consultation:
9to 11 0.771.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Boad
(opposite University),
S Y R BT E Y.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDIW.
Beecham’s Pills
C MA
%
&
&
0
PATENT
.
LS
Pi
'A
&
sK
ys
Are universally admitted
to Vie worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings _of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all n ervous arid .trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. 1- e>y
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these.
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Fills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be .without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PITd.S for removing- any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording, to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females ■of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole
energy of the Human frame. These are “FACTS” t“s ined
continually by merabe s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is. Beechaih s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BeecSam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Auctions, * H&trs&tess, Shortness of Tightness,
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &o, these Pdß
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech am s Cough
Pills' a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only »and sold wholesale and retail-by the pro
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire.
England, in boxes at Is. Ud. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. a. T. SELBY
Is considered, to be Jjhe most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctors most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on* Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
Moore & jjooo
THE. EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases dTthe Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOl.SOtTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
Hotels.
BOW 01NSJ360IV0E H S
■ '• -Yv
BOWDEKT’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Stbert (NeaH Hunter St ), Sydney
JOHN € HO > DEN Proprietor
HOTfJL,
Warriiambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines'all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor
Business Anuoim^cments
Tf’’HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
i Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Brills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can he ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Mead ! I Head !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
3EPric«s> Oxs.® SliilliM-S
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland) Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents:
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321, Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne : Gordon & Goteh.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
" For ruing ajtarejleat an^
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-st., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
ò
£
MANUfftCTuKCRS ||
* or^
HATS CAPS U
4JB CEORCE ST
3VDNEY %
C/opoitCe Lassrtters
A
Branch :
67 8 GEORGE ST REE T,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.,)
GEORGE STREET
S YD NEY
IMPORTERS OF AItTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET. BRISBANE
ó
ô
õ
Business Announ cements.
rpHE THREE GREAT LIGHTSI
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The 'Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for. lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes art-
giving universal' satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore .ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes 7 of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees' for Australasia;
3E3C. T. SMIITHE & CO.,
494 Kent Street South. SVIiXEV ;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkaide Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send for Price List and Circular!
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Most Beautiful and Durable Work,
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
ALSO FOE
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis," Stoves for \v ood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines.
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators,- ‘American Egg Oases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBL.EWHITE <st GO.,
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT 4, COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
LIMITED.
Factory and OlHcc: ‘«J ( astlweiikli Street,
(Late 245)
SYDNEY.
New Style of Tree.
The Company ismow prepared to inanufactnreall kinds
of Saddles. Anv infringement of -the 'Patent will be pro-
secuted. No Saddle'genuine without ouv Trade-Mark.
ALFRED H. OENTIL, Secretary.
GROTH
FOR
PAPER-HANGINGS
Paints
Wallpapers frjdm z°roll
p/u
529 George Bi> BathurstStJ
Brickfield Hill.
WALTER IHZOIPIE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, lavb Stock, etc.,
received and realised in theTiest markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-hred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
Q FECIAL NOTICE; -^Tbe-SyinwY -Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
(' KHALI) BROS, -übscription (payablestrictly
i a van e), Six Shillings anti Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
RINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-at.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situ ted.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
tS" "Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather, TSt
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fasliiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
X»de Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BUOTIIEna,
m
i
253 to 269 KENT STT.EET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS d> SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
. J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and -Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. B. liABKIN,
IMPORTER OF '
W lUES, x SPIRITS, x IB IB IE IR S 7 x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson's' Dublin Whisky (5.t0 10 years old) ;W. Jameson’s, Dunville’S Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Henxessv’h, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The, Choicest and (Jidest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in, wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
Isf# 1 " The Best I’ort and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. 0T" All Brands of Colonial Wine*. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
soin'lesalE anil jingle Bottle Depaiitments, £B2 anil £B4 <tcfti[i]c»st., Syflney.
SEND FOR A FRIGE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAYATORY,
GUM’S aTRKET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
-)x{
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlmghnrst Road.
HEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
H BRO
V*
twm.m
3\riE3‘W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
£O,OOO Bedsteads,
From 103. 6d. to £35.
WOOL. WOOL
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270.000
Wool Season* 1888-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
m] [E greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the
J- Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Coiupany.for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Mps? Growe>s Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made. ■_ '%
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
jper- Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets. . -
JST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes -s grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann-
factuml oulv at 76 Nkw Oxfohd-st., London. JS- ' Pur-
chasers should, look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address, is not 02S Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. ./ A.A
Free Prescriptions
Arc to be found in the “Light ami Life,’'
for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS Debt lit* and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
s. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tr
■3®
A.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of Lew South Wales.
AT the. CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Diuue.rs, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shoitest Notice in the Laige JJining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wiin-s--in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this muly rst-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de .Fidfe at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs, Kieminsteb to make lifer
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony. «
Mrs. XSZI-SLaTVSlilllKr—Glaresitioii Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T-ONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First €lass Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
IMPEE I A Jj HOT E L
TOW NSYILLE.
ihomas Wallace,
Proprietor.
s.
Y.
f
ComplexiC
C u
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most co ling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co’our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweeten* the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, .
Xinta— White, Rose, and Cbeam. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
Toilet Powder in Three
ROWLANDS' Articles,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
nw rm
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Latlaoa.
sew mm
4o» **
TANCVES
Birmingham
(ufaUtf//<
Haymarket, Sydney, ENGINES.
:■ ■
'
Hauling Engines. .
Battery Engines
Saw-mill Engines.
>
ENGINES
fo» , ;
Electrio Lighting.
/V;.
Vertical Boilers, v
Mitutolar Boilers.
lOKNIHfi BOILBBS.
*a, *a
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms,
133 & 135 HAY aTHEHT, HAYMARKBT, SYBMTIIT.
xam. asi»
