

Ghroooi tot Fry’s Ma/tod Cocoa.
J. S. FRY St SONS, Bristol, Londoh ahd Sydvby.
“An ordinary cup oontalns more active properties of malt than a pint of the beet Ale or Porter. — Laiioi*,
The
JJotcl,
(Late of the BADEN BADEN HOTEL, COOGEE.)
-
mm
rOXfOBDI
mi
SSSSS
hotel!
THE
OXFORD
=
— !
I
The most elevated and central position in SYDNEY, at Top of KING STREET, adjacent to all the Law Courts, Macquarie
Street, Hyde Park, Domain and the Botanical Gardens.
PRIVATE SUITES, LADIES’ DRAWINGROOM,
' 5 AJfD
O-003D BEDROOMS.
The Hotel is replete with every convenience.
TELEPHONIC COMMUNICATION.
Baths fitted wi h Hot and Gold Water.
TELEGRAPH OFFICE IN HOTEL.
®ie Hotel is now under entirely Management, and the pnsent Proprietor by c retid attention to business to
make the OXFOBD a Comfortable Home hr Visitors <r Redden's of Sydney.
The Bulletin


TO BA
ill
PS
=SJ
DIXSOPSONS
O u £
*
*
o
o
~0
v>
☆
P
SIR ROGER
oVWvD
50
Ir^
Id
ie®
DIXSONS
(71XOELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS
Pi TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected In above
|C VC, attoated corner of Gill and Ohnroh Street*.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOULT O.N ’ S
FRUIT
uIVER COMPLAINT positively cured bv
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured
—not merely relieved—and we can prove what we
say. There are no failures and no disappoint-
ments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also
cures all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPA-
TION and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION,
relieve distress from too hearty eating, correct
DISORDERS of the STOMACH, Stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. ' The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON ... Sole Proprietor.
PIL L S.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses ah others tor its lasting and natural
fragrance
Three Gold Mei els
PA 1-78, CALCI'Ti A.IW4,
for pre eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGRiEA & CYMBIDITJM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventor* or their Agents
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Tnsurpassed for promoting the mowth and
improring the appearance ol the hair,
guaranteed perfectly ham less
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VATEH.
an exceptionally fine perfume foi the hand
kerchief, distilled from the choice >t exotics
Of all Dealer*, and ol the Manufacturer*—
i A J 5 ATKINSON,
31, Olb Bond Stseet, Lon don
Trad* Mark— " White Ko*e" on ‘ Golden
Lyre.”
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
EnOINKSBS, COFPEBSMITHB, BbASS AND BELL FODNDBBB,
FIHWHIBS, PIUMBSBS, GASFITTSBS, SHIP & GENERAL SMITHS, Art & MEDIAEVAL Metal WoBKKBS"
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brasß or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description In
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Aotion Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
BOH ACCOMO WORKS, * Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Bead. Prt»r«h*m,
MUiKAIN lilfOS., KIUU, & UO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
H 2 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
r c^ r
NMONGERS
\R
’■' ‘r
®SI
V
<1
s*
C
3
RLCr9
S
s
•am' Sewing, Machine, Kshesxoe U\re-\»rocrt Va\n\, KVhc Viavhou
ELECTRO-PLATE!} WAKE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES :—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., Ac.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT. 4
r-r~
WsilUokiOVS INSECTS
pECTI.ES MOSQUITOES.
AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARM LES S TO Bi RD$ I>6 GS«
FOWLS OR OTHtRj
ANIMALS
WAKTBD 111 BVB&T HOUBB.
A
B
'WAOTKD IS WSM
oer y
$
O
4*
■V°
f» «,* ,oi
V>p\ A^BrAtlCHiMisTi-
P STOR^rCPER?
-V> '.:v-- 5* ■ • !!tK
\v
* A
»* N JFECTOW* G *Fm WA C i*C
'•; - kr.IBODRffE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware of
the numerous imitations.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
TMf ending Tew ending Year ending Yew ending
Oct., 1886. 001., 1886. Oct., 1887. Oot., 1888.
4150,426 _ 4850,000 _ 4431,126 *580,000
81,630 - 120,000 _ 206,686 .. 251,015
83,681 - 261,600 „ 391,356 .. 1,123,949
123,248 - 247,840 - 307,828 .. 625,826
*00,106 - 451,086 - 797,990 ... 2,048,951
—
Depodta reoeived at following Ratesl2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent. | 3 months, B per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To
Who wish
■VERY
thia TRa_ __
ntmj-f FIFE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
infill fJSBnor Borrowers. TEEMS LIE SEAL,
Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
DAYTHAT 1 HEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
NOH oSers tht very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
•absoribe* Capital
Vatd-np and Accrued
©•posits Eeoeived
Advances Made,
fetal Income -
m
A
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANT TIME upon Payment of I# ’
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payment* upon these Share* **•
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound
amount to £26, when that sum 1* paid over to their holder* in
bd:
The holders of t le First Issue of these Shares received in Os* 0
1885, £26 Is. hd., towards which sum they had Contributed r
£l4 Gs., at the rat a of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN NIM 10, M.P., J.P., - - Chalrm***
WILLIAM OOHEKTY - AtUnf»MH)Ury>^
Ji4f
: 1
m
# S
PS
m
.
Jt
THE , r ,
Federal coffee Palac®
CORNER OF
ITixig' <2z Colliaas streets, lv£©noo"u.rxx©»
Containing 560 ROOMS, ia now replete with every convenience lor the oomfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and T» b
' f Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FLOOR-
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Ch&f , assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOB^
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
* * * * IWaneg*
George Cohen


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—Ho 467.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 1889,
Price, 6d.
Mr. “Jack” Want—Of Confidence.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• ••• 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ••• 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tiie Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
ffie Z&trfZeifoi.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 18E9.
The Hope of the Country.
The situation presented by the general elec-
tion now about to be made In New South
Wales differs essentially from that which
existed on the last occasion when the con-
stituencies were appealed to. Then, the
hope of the country was focussed upon one
man. The first word of every election cry
was invariably a proper name. Parkes and
Freetrade, Parkes and Good Government,
Parkes and Prosperity—always Parkes and
something. Whatever the “something” was,
ib was always treated as subordinate to the
personality of the idol of the hour. The
Issues were thus obscured and complicated.
To day they are clsar and succinct. Voters
will approach the polls with a clear and
ucqualified comprehension of the conse-
quences which attach to their exercise of the
suffrage. Tney will give their voices for
Protection or for Freetrade without suffering
biaß from mere anticipations founded upon a
dominant individuality. They will vote for
Good Government and integrity of adminis-
tration according as they still attach faith in
the protestations of a coterie of nonentities
swayed and controlled by the whim of a
single individual, or as they believe that
straightforward dealing is to be expected
from a Cabinet which is in all quarters ad-
mitted to be fairly balanced as regards per-
sonal influence In its composition, and to
comprise a preponderatieg proportion of
men from whom good faith and intelligent
administration may reasonably be expected.
* # *
Mr. Di bbs is not the hope of the country,
bub upon the Dibbs Cabinet the country
may, we think, reasonably base considerable
expectations. Moreover, it rests with the
electors, recovered from the singular infatua-
tion which perverted their judgment two
years ago, to return to the Legislative As-
sembly a body of members who can be de-
pended upon to maintain fidelity to prin-
ciples, just as, on the last occasion, they
filled the Chamber with a strong contingent
of nonentities who might be relied upon to
evince fidelity to Parkes, principle or no
principle. Mr. Dibbs has certainly disap-
pointed his political foes, surprised his
critics, and foiled his traducers, by the use
he has made of his opportunities in the selec-
tion of colleagues. He has called to his
counsels no single man whose inclusion in
the Administration constitutes a scandal or
inflicts a shock upon the public sense of pro-
priety and decency. Among his colleagues
there is not one individual who is chargeable
with having abandoned the principles of
yesterday in order to be the Minister of
to-day. He has taken to his political bosom
no man upon whose forehead still blushes
“a red-hot burning brand of shame” stamped
by hiß own hand. He has entrusted the
high responsibilities and heavy duties
of Ministerial functions upon no man
notorious for intermittent abandonment of
his faculties to intoxication. He has con-
ferred no delicate office upon any man reek-
ing with the flavour of the bagnios. He has
associated with himself no colleague tainted
with usurious grinding of the faces of the
poor. He has for legal adviser no paltry
bargainer for a judicial priz j or for enormous
fees. He has rot entrusted any Depart-
ment to a dotard, nor any to a notorious
dullard with an intellect bounded on the
north by porridge and on the south by baw-
bees. He has not placed the handling of
the finances in the hands of a man whom
but a brief space before he had characterised
as idealess and incompetent. He has not
made any attempt to subordinate to his own
exigencies the essentials of a happy and
mubually tolerant community by fanning
those embers cf sectarian animosities which
ever tmoulder ready to break out into
destructive conflagration when a man suffi-
ciently malicious and reckless of purpose,
and sufficiently strong of breath, sets himself
to the detestable task.
• • •
These considerations furni&h, we Bubmib,
convincing reason why the suffrages of the
electors, apart from their preferences fer
this or that fiscal sjstem, should be accorded
bo the supporters of the new Adminis-
tration. A determined and sustained
endeavour has been made to represent
Mr. Dibbs as a confirmed and clumsy
blunderer. An attack of this nature, main-
tained with so much constancy by almost the
entire metropolitan daily press, could not
possibly fail to create a deep effect. When
any statement is perpetually asserted in in-
fluential quarters, and but occasionally
questioned, there Inevitably is effected an
Impression that the thing stated is true.
Some reaction indeed has been wrought by
the too obnoxious personal malignity
with which the ascription of sprawling
and floundering awkwardness has been
waged by one of the more prominent
among Mr. Dibbs’ journalistic assailants.
Still, the impression sought to be effected
has been stamped too deeply into the public
credence to be easily effacable. The only
method by which efficament is possible to
Mr. Dibbs is by living ib down —by practical
demonstration of the inaccuracy of the
diagnosis of bis mental constitution.
* * *
Ib must be conceded that, in his latest
diplomacy, the new Premier has made a
most noteworthy progress towards confound-
ing his critics. Although it may be ques-
tioned whether by declining to accept office
at this particular juncture he might not have
remitted the late Administration to a post-
poned fall—quite inevitable and infinitely
more shattering than that which they have
actually suffered—it must be conceded that
in the difficult and extremely delicate task
of selecting associates for Ministerial posi-
tions, and minimizing the resentment of dis-
appointed expectants, he has displayed re-
markable tact, judgment and adroitness.
Moreover, his adversaries have played into
his hand with a perversity of sense so
extraordinary as to dispose the public to
speculate, not merely whether they may have
been Imposed upon with respeeb to Mr.
Dibbs’ alleged aptitude for blundering, but
whether, even if all that had been repre-
sented upon that head were true, whether
the proud pre eminence in self-stultification
should net be allotted to hlB political anta-
gonists. The egregious complacency with
which the M‘Millan-Wise Haynes coterie
dug a pitfall for the breaking of their own
necks, and the profound assurance with
which Parkes pronounced that the obviously
inevitable dissolution was a figment of
people’s imagination, constituted two in-
stances of demonstrative wrong-headedness,
compared with which the most flagrant of
Mr. Dibbs’ alleged follies bore a venial,
trifling aspect.
• * *
Perhaps the only assailable feature in the
Cabinet formed by Mr. Dibbs is the absence
of members who can be recognised as repre-
sentative of the National aspirations of the
epoch. Mr. Gar van, Mr. Lyne, and Mr.
Fletcher were all associated with Mr.
Dibbs in his Soudan responsibilities. Had
Mr. Copeland, who is a fanatico for Im-
perialism, accepted the portfolio which was
offered to him, the Ministry would have pre-
sented the aspect of one antecedently anta-
gonistic to the National principles. The
country will qualify its impressions on this
head In aoordance with the tone of the
Ministerial manifesto. Ib Is not forgotten
that the members of the Stuart Adminis-
tration were precipitated Into that unfor-
tunate, 111-judged, and unpatriotic enterprise
by the headstrong action of the late Mr.
Dalley, who committed the colony to an
entirely unprecedented position, not merely
without consulting its Legislature, but
actually without communicating his design
to his colleagues. They found themselves
confronted wibh the choice between con-
currence and resignation, and in the super-
ficial but ardent enthusiasm with which Mr.
Dalley's coup d etdt was hailed by the daily
press—and, in fact, by every journal of influ-
ence save The Bulletin throughout Australia
—they must have seen reason to believe that
Mr. Dalley had rightly divined the inclina-
tions of the people. Perhaps he did rightly
divine them at the moment, and his col-
leagues may have shared the prevailing
aberration. But the country has long since
recognised that the impulse of the hour was
fallacious and the Ministers responsible in
the secondary degree for promoting that
folly may have shared the recovery of
judgment If they shared itß temporary
obscuration.
* * *
Still it is not to be blinked, that it Is just
at such crif ical moments that superior saga-
city and a check upon popular exaltation is
expected from men truly competent to shape
the destinies of a people. It is possible,
nevertheless, In view especially of the recent
display of acumen by Mr. Dibbs and his
present colleagues, that they may have
accurately guaged the present degree cf
significance to be conceded to the National
movement. The meeting to formally in-
augurate its adherents as a party, on Friday
last, was not so thronged as to indicate a veiy
wide-spread enthusiasm in the metropolis.
It may be, consequently, that the national
sentiment is yet in the embryonic stage, and
is destined to a development measureable by
the achievement of personal influence and
political position by the men who are promi-
nently identified with it.
• * •
Ib is significant in that or in any case to
note that the members of Parliament who
were on the platform and amoDg the
speakers on Friday last were, without
exception, Protectionists. Not a single
Foreign-trade member participated, and
the audience applauded thoroughly in sym-
pathy with the speakers, when these pro-
nounced Protection to native industry to
be an essential Item of the National pro-
gramme. It may consequently be Inferred
that should the Dibbs Ministry feel any
desire to perpetuate the Imperialist dis-
positions of the outgoing Cabinet, they
will have to reckon with restraining In-
fluences within the body of their own sup-
porters, and to seek countenance and support
from the ranks of their Foreign trade op-
ponents. Under these conditions the ad-
herents to the National ideals may feel some
assurance that no liberties are likely to be
lightly attempted with the future cf Austra-
ha, eo long as a Cabinet dependent for sup-
port and txistence upon a Protectionist
following holds the reins of c flic B.
• * *
The country will nob, we conceive, (xpeeb
f xtraordinary things of the Dibbs Cabinet.
If there were no other reasons for a modera-
tion of expectations, one is furnished by the
Bevere lesson just administered by the
Parkes Administration, by whom prodigies
were promised, of whom miracles were
accordingly expected, and by whom the
most grotesque and humiliating failure to
accomplish anything whatever has been
realised. If but a modest estimate of what
is likely to be effected by the new Govern-
ment be formed at the outset there can be
no room for disappointment, and anything
accomplished In excess of expectation will
serve to raise the Administration in popular
estimation and to confer an organisation of
strength and influence upon ib as time
elapses. Regarding the constitution and
personnel of the Cabinet, we conceive that
there are gcoi grounds for anticipating
from it a competent and equitable manage-
ment of affairs. At any rate it is entitled to
a fair and unprejudiced trial of its capabili-
ties, and that experiment we believe lb is
the will of the constituencies that it Bhall
receive. The matter lies in the hands of the
electors, who may relegate the Ministry once
more to the Opposition benches, but who,
we believe, will prove, when the results of the
polling are known, to be unwilling to submit
to either the return to power of a fresh onc-
horse Cabinet wibh Parkes In the shafts, or
to the creation tf a Ministry constructed on
Foreign-trade lines out of Parkes’ leavings.
Shall we Abolish [?]pital Punishment?
Civilisation is the result of common-sense astir g
upon common experience, and it is, perhaps, on
this account that it developes slowly. Common-
sense is not that sense which is most common, but
the boiled-down result of that kind of sense of
which everybody has a little. Common experience
also is not the small share of experience whieh
each person has of his own, bub that which arises
from the united experience of the many. So, per-
haps, it is nob very wonderfal after all that we
do not advance quiekly in real civilisation. If
we had done so, we should have no bangings in
this year 1889. The horrible spectacle of a woman
done to death with all the circumstances of
brutality at which we shudder when we hear of
them perpetrated by the private murderer, would
not, the other morning, have been exhibited in
Sydney. Murder has been defined, indeed, as the
unlawful taking of human life, of malice afore-
thought, but, after all, this is only a legal defini-
tion. The act committed in Darlinghursb Gaol
on Bbh January was not only a murder, but a par-
ticularly brutal murder, committed, not indeed
by an individual, but by society, of which the
actors, whether Governor or hangman, were only
the more or less willing instruments.
* • *
The public has received the details of this dis-
gusting exhibition of bungling brutality with the
feeling which it deserves, and this is well; but it
may be doubted whether this disgust is altogether
intelligent, or goes to the root of the whole matter.
To wrench the head nearly off a woman with a
rope, as was done at Darlinghursb the other morn-
ing, most people will call barbarous. Of coursethere
will be a few exceptions, bub these will be persons
who, being themselves barbarians, will find them-
selves in their element in such proceedings. The
point is, however, that it was nob because the
drop was too long and the sufferer’s neck too weak
that the whole thing was barbarous. Ib was diffi-
cult to calculate that befort hand, perhaps. And,
after all, as the worthy sheriff naively observes,
the woman was killed outright, which was the
great point to be gained. In other words, the
point to be gained was, in the name of society, to
infliot on one human being the same outrage which
we professed our desire to punish her for inflicting
o« another. Some of us do bo, as we suppose, for
our own protection; others because, as we say,
such a woman was not fit to live ; and a third sec-
tion turn up their eyes piously and exclaim,
“ Whoso sheddeth man’s blood by man shall his
blood be shed,” as if that disposed comfortably erf
the whole business, forgetful that their favourite
text is a direct sanction to a supreme Vendetta
which, logically and thoroughly carried out to its
results, might justify the killing of the Chief
J ustice who signed the warrant, the sheriff who
directed the proceedings, and the hangman’s
assistant, who had sufficient glimmerings of civili-
sation and decency to grow nervous in carrying
thern out). But perhaps there are few people who
imagine that the old Hebrew statement of the lew
talionis is of itself good enough to justify hang-
ing. They suppose that hanging protects them
from the risk of beißg murdered, and they are
glad to greet anything that may give an air of re-
spectability to whab, after all, is only an example
of the cruelty of fear on a large seale.
• * *
It is exactly at this point that common-sens
and the experienee of mankind should have some-
thing to say on such a question as this. Dees
haeginsr after all protect society ? and if so, is it
more efficacious in that direction than any- less
barbarous expedient would be? So far as ex-
perience goes the answer must be an emphatic No.
Murder is a crime which has steadily decreased,
just as, and in proportion as, the custom of brutal
disregard of human life and human suffering,
which may be called murder according to law, has
decreased amongst us. Yet it has not wholly
ceased, and probably it would not cease altogether
if we abolished capital punishment. The reason
is sufficiently plain. There are two sorts of people
who commit murder, and two only. The Bill
Sykes class which, hurried by passion, infiiots
the brutal outrage regardless of consequences.
The class that is ready to seek revenge for real or
supposed wrongs, and if need be “to swing for
it.” This class, while it endures, will continue to
disregard life—its own or its victims’. It is
rendered only a little more brutal by the counten-
ance it receives from the brutality of the law, and
is moreover justified to itself in some dim sort of
way by the feeling that it risks “swinging ” —the
revenge of society, as barbarous as its own re-
venges. The other class of criminals, to which
belong the Borgias, Palmers, Pritchards,
Halls, and Collinses of society, having an end to
gain, Jay their plans, take their precautions, and
commit their crimes, never doubting that they can
elude detection. They have no idea of “swinging
for it>,” any more than they have of being shut up
in prison for life, because they do not dream of
discovery ! To the undieeoverable criminal the
particular penalty assigned by law to his crime
must be a matter of indiffsretes ; and all ex-
perience Bhows that the secret murderer never
doubts that he or she at any rate can avoid detec-
tion and eecape punishment. It is not a matter
of calculation with the murderer, in which the
benefit of his crime is thrown into one scale and
the exact amount of his possible punishment into
the other. If this were so there might here and
there, it is possible, be a murderer the less from
fear of the gallows as compared with the gaol for
life. But it is not the case. The calculation is
that the gain is desirable and the risk of discovery
in their own case none at all. Such is the calcula-
tion now of the premeditating assassin, and such
it will continue to be when society has ceased to
assassinate on its own account and call it justice.
O * #
Bub we are told it i 3 for the sake of others that
we commit, what under any other couditions we
should oall the brutal atrocity of murdering a fel-
low-creature in cold blood. It is to diseourage in
the wives of Australia the habit of poisoning their
husbands that we wrench the head of Louisa
Collins almost from her body by brute force 1 Is
ib so ? In all ages of the world’s history crimes of
cruelty and violence have gone hand in hand with
a low public feeling in suoh matters. Murder and
all kinds of violence and theft were never so rife
in England as when the sight and sound of the
dismal skeleton in his chains was familiar to the
eye and ear of the people—in the days when a
man was hanged alike whether he had stolen four-
and-sixpence or cut up his mother. If such
sights as that of the Bbh January have any effect at
all it is a brutalising, lowering, and degrading
effect, the sure forerunner of erime and of cruelty.
The next person tempted to poison her husband
will be more affected by such influences in the
direction of crime than she will ever be by a con-
viction and punishment which, with the well-ad-
vertised example of the mistakes made by the
other woman before her, she will feel certain she
can easily avoid in her own ease.
* • t •
Once more, however, well-meaning but weak
people start back at the proposal to substitute per-
petual imprisonment for capital punishment be-
cause they suppose the imprisonment will not be
for life. The idea is a bugbear. The same statute
which abolishes the brutal and senseless punish-
ment can give reality and sternness to that which
is substituted. The imprisonment for a capital
crime can easily be made perpetual by providing
that no pardon Bhall be granted except as the re-
sulb of a judicial inquiry which doss in fact prove
the innocence of the prisoner. Such a precaution
would be easy, and it would be effeetual; and it
may be questioned whether such an imprisonment
—rigorous, hopeless, and irrevocable—would not
carry more of terror to the imagination than the
present brutal punishment, degrading indeed to
the self-respect of the community, bub by no
means so revolting to the cruel and brutal minds
it is suppesed to affect.
» • *
And one thing yet remains to be said which,
after all, is the argument to whieh there is not and
can never be a reply. The punishment whieh is
brutal in its circumstances and brutalising to all
concerned in its infliction, is also irrevoc-
able. Twelve respectable men a month ago
found Louisa Collins guilty of murder-
three judges went out of their way to
make sure of her ignominious death by their
gratuitous assurances that they had no doubt of
her guilt. A Cabinet and a Governor could see
no grounds on which to be merciful or to pause—
so the woman is hanged and is dead. What if,
next week, some criminal should confess that he
or she put poison into the glass on which the con-
viction hinged, and what if the child, who was
coddled and made much of by those bent on her
mother’s destruction in the due course of law and
of justice, as justice is understood by the laws of
to-day, should confess that the evidence she gave
was the suggestion of others, and was untrue?
None then would believe that the woman who
died at Darlffighursb was guilty—but the discovery
would be too late ! Murder, foul and cruel and
brutal and horrible murder (more cruel and
brutal for its deliberation) would have been done,
justice would have been outraged and covered
with contempt, and there would be no remedy—
none! It is well to talk of the certainty of our
convictions as a reason for our judgments ; is it
well also be whine about the fallibility of our


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANE OF AUSTRALASIA, Limitbd.
CIRCULAR QUAY (oppobiti obbtom Hooaaj,
Directors t
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chaibmah.
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. j T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
oT all natlona In addition to all nsnal banking
b i> Iness.
INTBBBST ON DEPOSITS :
IS months m m m 7 pat IS it,
8 II Ml m mi 6 I, I,
8 II Ml Ml Ml 6 || II
T, St Bickard<an - - Managing Direct ar.
reasoning powers as an excuse for our judicial
murders ?
• # •
And this is no fancy picture. Again, and yet
again, with damnable iteration, has the Etory been
told of the murder confessed or the murderer dis-
covered long years after the innocent had been
put to death with brutality and torture for the
crime. The soil of New South Wales absolutely
reeks with the blood of men judicially murdered
during the last hundred years with all the
solemnity and parade of a justice which we have
been, and are, incapable of exercising with any
degree of certainty. From such crimes as these—
crimes which strike and crush the individual and
his family, but also rebound upon and devastate
society in a thousand ways, the abolition of the
death punishment is the only safeguard. If justice
is dear to this community—dearer than a petty
and utterly illogical panic as to personal safety—
the period of judicial murders should be near its
close. If it is not, we have indeed learned little
by the lessons of a hundred years, we have indeed
advanced but a little way on the path of that
civilisation whose palladium is justice and its
watchword humanity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
On the Road to Anarchy,
A late sub-leader in the columns of the Sydney
Morning Herald was prefixed by the query :
“ Is freedom a failure?” While answering the
question in the negative, the Herald endeavoured
to show that the advanced reformers of the pre-
sent day are reactionists in denouncing the policy
that previous generations have laboriously built
up. Says the writer : “ The cause of our troubles,
we are told, is too much freedom, and the policy
of our State in the future consists in establishing
limitations; somebody, or some col’ection of
somebodies . finding the wisdom to determine
where the limitations shall be drawn.” Having
fired thi3 random shot, the writer, proceeds to
attack Protectionists and land-nationalisera as
“ restrietionists,” and, after betraying a stupen-
dous amount of ignorance, particularly of the
latter system, states that both parties “ distrust
the right of private judgment in worldly affairs :
both disbelieve in freedom as the best atmosphere
for human society ; both believe that Govern-
ment can do better for citizens than they can
for themselves : are neither of them for taking
shackles off, are both for putting shackles on 5
they both agree that liberty is a mistake, and that
what society wants for its happiness and pros-
perity is not more liberty, but less.' 1 Wheugh !
A second Daniel come to judgment! Had these
vigorous arguments for individualism appeared in
an American or Continental labour organ, there
would have been no incongruity, but in the
columns of the organ of “ law-’n’-order,” the up-
holder of Parkes’ Nordenfeldt campaign, they
are very much out of place. That the writer has
not considered the ultimate tendency of his article
is certain, for does he not directly advocate the
annihilation of all Government, all rules for the
conduct of society, when he scoffs at “limitations
and the collections of somebodies, finding the
wisdom to determine where the lines of limitation
shall be drawn ? ’ Laws, he must acknowledge,
are “ limitations ’; judges and Governments,
“the somebodies” who determine these limita-
tions. To the winds with controlling forces,
he declares : therefore let the Sydney Morning
Herald’s doors stand open for business on
Sundays, while the paper is hawked about the
church doors by the news-vending urchins. If
the editor of this “ highly respectable paper ”
heretofore the organ of Mrs. Grundy, the bul-
wark of mouldy traditions, and the champion of
vested iniquities —is really in earnest in the matte r,
let him at once advocate the demolition of the
Custom House, the law-courts, gaols, and the
Houses of Parliament, Let him parade Pitt-
street with a fiery torch in one hand and the black
banner of Anarchy in the other, vigorously shout-
ing his war-cry, “To hell with everything !” pre-
pared to stick at nothing until all limitations are
removed, and “ only the best atmosphere exists
for human society.” If the Sydney Morning
Herald man tells us that he does not intend to go
bo far as that, then we shall knock him down with
his own bludgeoD, hoist him with his own petard,
as the “somebody finding the wisdom to deter-
mine where the limitations shall be drawn.” Like
Mr. B. R. Wise, the Herald has unconsciously
entered on a path where only retreat and advance
are possible ; therefore, we should advise a
prompt qualification or a withdrawal of the article
on restrictions.
4.
Political “Compensation.”
William 111, the poor old rickety Dutch
monarch who feebly waves the sceptre of another
and a greater William— he whom men used to
call “the Silent is reported to be on his last
limbs in his gorgeous palace at the Hague, and
new complications are looked for in Europe. If
William dies it is confidently expected that Bis-
marck will be seriously overworked for some time,
and will have to sit up late annexing the territory
of the deceased; and the instant he commences this
pro jess the public trouble will open. According
to the law of political “compensation,” the fact of
Germany taking Holland will be good and
sufficient reason why the French should
annex Belgium, and the latter act will make it a
just and strictly moral act for Austria to stretch
her long arm over the coveted land of Macedonia.
Then the possession of Macedonia by Austria will
make it essential that Italy should own some
other place—Tunis or Abyssinia or Dalmatia—in
order to keep the earth from overbalancing and
tippirg up on one side, and this conduct on the
part of Italy will render it absolutely necessary
that Russia should take Bulgaria or Persia
or Afghanistan, which latter act will . cause
Britain to collar some place in the vicinity
of Siam in order to square matters, and then
China will have to take something else or burst,
and all the other kingdoms of the earth will pro-
ceed to grab anything they can get. Modern
civilisation is a thing which is worth looking into,
and political science is probably better worth
looking into than any other feature of the show.
It consists chiefly of the simple axiom that if
Smith kicks Jones the earth is rendered unsafe
and precarious until Erown has kicked Robin-
son, and, after this latter function has been ful-
filled, the atmosphere resumes its ancient serenity
more or less. William 111. of Holland, for his
own part, has never kicked anybody ; as far
as history records he never did any good or any
harm—in fact he never did anything at all, but
his loss promises all the same to be a subject for
much regret. During his long and somnolent
existence he has, in a passive and unconscious sort
of fashion, served to stop a hole and keepout the
water, and when he resigns his billet it Is ques-
tionable if anything of suitable dimensions can
be found to fill his place. And so there is grief
and apprehension in Europe as the poor old royal
plug steadily moulders away, and Geimany is
understood to be getting her annexing tools ready
and preparing for a convulsion.
+
“ With Slight Variations.'’
There seems to be a slight moral discrepancy at
present between the Sydney D.T. and Sir Henry
Parkes, and unless the same is cleared up there
will probably be violent language between these
two eminent authorities. In a letter said to be
addressed by the fallen Hi-Ham of _ New South
Wales to an “influential elector in a distant
electorate ” that monument of Australian enter-
prise gently breathes as follows :
Mr. Dibbs is no sooner in office than he begins his old
tricks. First, he gives pernicious advice to the Governor
to dissolve Parliament without legal provision being made
for the public service. Supply m'ght have been obtained
if Parliament had been asked to grant it for the purpose
of a dbsolufcion. Se:ondly, he manipulates the new
writs. Hitherto the prinoiples by which all Governments
have been guided, with slight variations, have b;en the
convenience ot the electors arising from considerations of
extent of electorate, distance from the sert of govern-
ment, &c. Hence the Sydney and suburban elections
have been limited to seven or nine days, and in accord-
ance with all reasoning they have been placed first. Such
places as the Murrumbidgee very properly have been fixed
for a much later date, and more time has been allowed
for the poll on account of the scattered oharacter of
the district and the impossibility of the electors receiving
justice otherwise. Mr. Dibbs’ principle is the convenience
of himself and his party, and the eleotors are treated as
sheep to be fleeced. The nomination for the extensive
constituency of the Murrumbidgee (where Mr. Dibbs
hopes to “ sneak in ”) is next Friday (the 25th), hardly
allowing time for any adverse element in the electorate to
turn round, while the day of nomination for the three
great divisions of Sydney is six days later. Tae day of
nomination for the Freetraders everywhere is fixed as
late as possible, thus Ev>t and West Macquarie on
February 12, East and West Maitland on the 2nd and 7th,
Parramatta on the 7tb, Patrick’s Plains on tbe sth,
Tenterfield on the 9th. We may judge from this begin-
ring by what means Mr. Dibbs will be prepared to keep
his hold of office.
Ia this outpouring Parkes puts his large, mis-
shapen political foot into it with his wonted
energy. He begins by heaping his curEe on Dibbs
because he has not allowed the Freetrade element
at the Murrumbidgee time to ‘ 1 turn round ” and
prod the yellow pup into fresh activity, and he ends
by heaping another curse because in seven elector-
ates the Premier has allowed time for the Parkes
faction to turn round to ibs heart’s content and to
agitate the pup into frenzy and hydrophobia.
Mr. Dibbs, in fact, is at his “old tricks” once
more because he has done what Parkes wants in
the placa where Parkes didn’t want him to do it,
and has done in the other place the thiDg which
Parkes wanted him to do in the place first above-
mentioned, and, in short, whethfr he crowds
Parkes up or whether he gives Parkes abund-
ance of elbow-room, the result in each case shows
that the Premier is wickedly trying to take a rise
out of his old enemy. The D.T., however, either
failed to get its cue in time or else it has thrown
Parkes overboard at last, for this is tbe calm
manner in which it looks at the Eubjecb :
The Premier’s electorate, as is usually the case, will
nominate and vote first, the nomination for the Murrum-
bidgee being fixed for January 25, and the election for
February 1.
According to the Foreign-trade journal, therefore,
Mr. Dibbs is merely following an old established
precedent, and as Parkes asserts, on the con-
trary, that he has overturned all precedent, it
becomes evident that a discrepancy has arisen
between the two ends of the yellow pup It is
difficult to find a euphonious name for the prrsent
aspect of the case, but as the D i Ham
and the Hi-Ham’s organ decisively contradict
each other, it becomes evident that some
one is saying something that rests on an
uncertain basip. The one definite fact revealed in
Parkes’ letter is that he is the same old, graphic
mud-tlinger as in days gone by, but his simp’e-
minded statement that in the past all Govern-
ments have been guided by the convenience of the
electors ‘ 1 with slight variation 3 ” is a pathetic
evidence of his failing powers. The Parkes of 25
years ago would have left out all allusion to these
“variations.” His own career has consisted so ex-
clusively of variations from his own principles
and his own theories that the word recalls a lot of
things which had better be forgotten.
*
The Old Order and tlie New.
The advocates of the National policy of Protec-
tion for Australian industries against the world,
as opposed to the party which advocates Protec-
tion for all the outside world against Australia
and christens national suicide by the specious
name of Freetrade, are busily engaged marshal-
ling their party for the coming contest in New
South Wales. The disastrous period of the
Parkes Administration has done good service as
an awful example to the rest of the Australasian
colonies, and South Australia, New Zealand,
and Queensland, which were formerly wavering
between two opinions, have decided by the light
of Parkesian Freetrade to adopt Protection as
their joolicy and their watchword. The contest
now resolves itself into a struggle between the
men who declare that impoverished and
ruined England and equally impoverished New
South Wales are the only countries which possess
the light of truth and that all the world
besides is out of step, and the men who
are fain to acknowledge that the two most
hopelessly “unemployed” lands on earth may
possibly have something to learn from the pros-
perous communities which have bo completely
left them behind in the march of progress. Judg-
ing from a few of the names on the long lists of
esndidates on either side, the youth and energy
of New South Wales have arrayed themselves
conspicuously in the ranks of the party of pro-
gress. The old, weary fossils who have sat like
an incubus on the legislative system of New South
Wales for a whole generation loom up with all
their ancient unanimity among the Foreign-
trade representatives —the men who are too Eenile
to understand that the world still moves, who are
too venerable to learn anything that is new and
too hopelessly petrified to forget anything that is
old. The new men who possess any claim to
talent or energy are almost all with the National
cause. The battle to be fought is one between the
old order of things and the new, between the ig-
norance of the past and the enlightenment of the
future, between fossildom, stagnation, poverty,
and the traditions of the dead and buried ages, on
the one side, and activity, progress, energy, and
patriotism on the other, and if New South Wales
is worthy ever to become the home of a great
nation the result cannot remain long in doubt.
+
Foreign Trade Assumptions.
The assumptions of the Cobdenites are magnifi-
cent. In the first place, they assert that tho
nation adopting a Freetrade policy exchanges
things owned in abundance for those things
owned in scarcity, and thus enjoys prosperity m
exact proportion to its natural advantages.
Now, there are some nations so Bituated tha
they have no specialities to exchange for what
they have in scarcity, which, in fact, can be
undersold in almost every article of eonsump-
tioD, inside as well as outside their boundaries.
These nations have no healthy opportunity of ex-
change, while in New South Wales, for instance,
Nature has been so bountiful that if full access to
natural resources be given and industries afforded
a chance of development, there will be small
necessity for exchange, because everything neces-
sary for existence will be produced internally in
abundance. The next assumption contained in the
Foreign-trad 3 apopthegm is that New South
Wales pays for the importation of articles she has
in scarcity by the exportation of local products
she has in plenty. This is a fallacy. According
to the Year Book of Australia, the imports of
New South Wale 3 fB6-’B7) exceeded in value the
exports during that period by five and a half
millions sterling. Thus it is made evident that
all New South Wales’ payments are not made in
kind —that much of what is imported is replaced
by borrowed money, or cash derived from our
Government land sales. Here the Foreign-Trader
of course points triumphantly to the State rail-
ways, and “ our beautiful harbour” as an offset
against a national debt of over 40 millions. This
is too thin ; the railway that runs through barren
prairies, past smokeless factories, is never likely
to pay interest on first cost, mcch less likely to
become a paying speculation. The state of affairs
is one that cannot la3t much longer without plung-
ing the country into a Slough of Despond exceed-
ing in impasEability, that from which New Zealand
is at present slowly extricating herself by means
of a Protective Tariff.
+
The law's Delay.
Deab Bulletin, —In the New South Wales
Supreme Court the present vacation commenced
on 17ch December, 1888, and will continue until
11th February, 1889 Another vacation will com-
mence on 29 ah June, 1889, and will continue until
15th July, 1889, the offices of the Court being closed
altogether on 17th, 22nd, 24th, 29th, and 31st
December, 1888 ; on sth, 7th, 11th, 12th, 14th,
19tb, 21st, 25th, and 28th January, 1889 ; on 2nd
and 4th February, 1889 ; on 29bh June, 1889 ; and
on Ist, 6 th, and 7th July, 1889. Another vaca-
tion will commence on 21st December, 1889, and
the offices will be closed altogether on 21st, 23rd,
270 h, 28th, and 30 ih of that month. Besides these
days the offices are closed on general holidays,
Euch as 25th and 26h December, and Ist and 26th
January. Daring the other days in the vacations
the offices are closed at 1 p.m,, except upon those
Saturdays on which they are not closed altogether;
on these latter Saturdays they are closed at noon.
Except in actions upon bills of exchange, promis-
sory notes, and cheques, time stops running
during the vacations so far as legal purposes are
concerned, and no Court business is transacted :
consequently, any defendant in an action (not
upon a bill of exchange, promissory-note, or
cheque) commenced soon before or during any
vacation can hold the plaintiff at arm’s length and
defy him whilst such vacation continues. The
persons who derive benefit from the vacations are
the judges and court officials who enjoy the holi-
days, at the same time being paid their salaries.
The vacations do not prejudicially affect bar-
risters, because their Court business is tied up and
saved during their continuance, but to suitors and
solicitors such vacations are a serious delay and
hindrance, especially as the solicitors’ clerks’
salaries have to be paid Ii wou’d be as reason-
able to extend the vacations to any other public
office. During January the District Law offices
are closed at 1 p m., except on Saturdays, when
they are closed altogether.— Solicitob.
4
The names on the list of candidates who have
already announced themselves as representatives
of the cause of Protection for Australian industry
furnish good evidence that the intellect and talent
of New South Wales are arrayed on the National
side. Balmain will be contested by Messrs. W.
Hutchison, S. Hyam, and D. Inglis (a gentle-
man who has no connection wioh the Tiger-
slayer), together with Mr. David Buchanan, one
of the few able speakers of the late Parliament and
a man on whom even Pabkes’ sawmill oratory and
flow of ceaseh S 3 Billingsgate never made any visible
impression. For East Sydney, Messrs. J. P.
Abbott, OMaba, F. Rogers, and Walteb Lamb
are probable candidates, and should they be re-
turned the electorate will be represented by an
imposing aggregate of talent. South Sydney will
have Messrs. Toohey, Roseby, and Traill, all
well-known men, and the latter especially cal-
culated to be a prop to any cause which
he undertakes to support. Ex-Commissioner
Goodchap is almost to a certainty among
the coming members for Redfern : Mr.
Blackett, a good man and true, and one
of the future leaders of the Protectionist
party, with Messrs. Walker, Hammond, and Judd
stand for Canterbury. Mr. Ninian Melville,
a brilliant speaker and able politician, whose
addresses have been systematically garbled or left
out in the reports of the Foreign-trade Press,
Messrs. James Fletcher, F. B. Suttob, Slattery,
Lyne, Dibbs, Garvan, and a number of other
old members whose ability has long over-shadowed
the dreary mediccrity of the Pabkes phalanx,
are certain of re-election. In the Hartley
electorate Mr. J. P. T. Caulfield has announced
himself as a staunch advocate of Protection and
Land Nationalisation, and as he acquired a strong
hold upon that district in the days when he banged
the Freetrade fetiches in the aDgry pages of the
Lithgow Mercury his position is a good one in
every respect. Mr. Caulfield is old enough to
know when to come in out of the wet, and young
enough to resist the fossilising influence which has
so long overspread New South Wales politics, and
his ability has seldom been called in question by
anyone who was not sorry for it afterwards. Mr.
R. Atkinson Price, a fiery gentleman who be-
lieves in Protection, Land Nationalisation, Aus-
tralian Independence, Republicanism, and general
upheaval announces his Intention of standing for
Gloucester, and on the whole the chief difficulty
of the Protectionist leaders lies in a superfluity of
good candidates rather than in the scarcity of
brains which so badly afflicts the Frestrade
organisations in New South Wales.
In reply to a query from Mr. H. T. Donaldson,
as to “Why we exclude Chinese?’ the Foreign-
trader Fulsfobd replies, “Because they are
aliens, a race whose habits are repugnant to our
ideas.” In answer to this contention, it may bs
stated, that we do not exclude the Chows because
they are aliens ; if that were the reason, Germans,
French, Italians, and even Britisherp, including
“ my Lord Cabington,” would also bashut cut.
That their mode of life is repugnant to
us we cheerfully admit, therefore we desire
not only to exclude Chinese labourers, but also
the results of Chinese labour, in order that our
workers may not be reduced by competition with
the toil of slaves to a condition that would inevit-
ably make their habits “ repugnant ” to us and to
hemselves. Furthermore, it is probable that the
mport of the Chinese labourer would be less re-
pugnant to us than that of China-made goods ;
for when here the Mongol is obliged in some
respects to conform to our habits ; is civilised, no
matter how slightly;, by contact with our higher
standard of living, is compelled to some extent to
develop our resources and use our raw material,
to contribute to the revenue in some degree, how-
ever small; while the Chinese-made article has no
value outside momentary utility. We do not
object to the Mongol because he is a Mongol; the
cultured, well-to do Manchurian is by no means
an obnoxious individual. We simply object to
the habits of his down-trodden compatriots ; if
these habits are evil it is because these toilers
have for centuries been degraded to the status of
slaves with a low standard of living. To avoid
the degradation of our workers to a similar
demoralisation of condition, we must shut out,
not only the Chinese produce, but the results of
his toil.
A “ noae club ” has been formed In Ger-
many, and the first president has a smeller four
inches long.
A Baltimore woman has just died who
could counterpoise half-a-ton of coal, or what we
pay for as half a ton. She weighed 8501 b.
Conductor Cowan ought to be secured by
the Victorian police authorities. He would make
a splendid ‘ : trap ” —he never sleeps on his beat.
Rev. Mr. Preston, of the Devonahire-
street Congregational Church, Sydney, says that
probably the time is not far distant when capital
punishment will be abolished.
The manager of a Meltcurne steam-
laundry has decamped with a lump of the com-
pany’s funds, it is alleged. A warrant has been
issued for his arrest, and then for the washing of
dirty linen.
There is a controversy being carried on in
the Melbourne papers as to whether the sacra-
ment should be administered with ordinary wine
or a weak wash of unintoxicating quality. The
question fined down is, “ Alcoholic or all colic?’*
In a recent leader, the Melbourne Daily
Telegraph modestly remarked that “ what Mel-
bourne thinks to day, all Australia will think
to-morrow.” If that is true, all Australia will
think that the D.T. is run by a convention of
pimple-headed deacons.
Mysterious paragraph from Sydney daily
paper “ The Public Works Committee have
decided that it is inexpedient to construct a bridge
across Middle Harbour at the Spit. They con-
sider that an improved steam pump will meet all
the traffic requirements.”
A New York lady has opened a subscrip-
tion-list to procure £10,000,000 sterling with which
to rebuild Jerusalem and Solomon’s Temple. Her
very sanguine anticipations of a flow of money
into her hands have been most bountifully
encouraged by the receipt of 7s. 6d.
President Cleveland ones made a joke.
An effusive Southerner burst in upon him, and
exclaimed, loudly, “ Mr. President, I owe you an
apology.” “What for!” said Cleveland. “For
not having called upon you earlier, sir.” “ Well,”
said Cleveland, curtly, “I haven’t been lonely.”
The Czar is really hard up, and it is alleged
that Schouvaloff is trying to raise a little money
on his Majesty’s superfluous jewellery. It is bad
enough to have to wear a boiler-plate singlet, but
to be cut down to a pound of tallow candles at
meals on top of his other afflictions is enough to
break the spirit of the haughty Romanoff.
Pastor Poverty- Joys J efforts has the bad
taste to come down with a “ sickening thud ” on
the “alleged respectable portion of our Press,”
and to declare that “ sermons are more wholesome
reading than murder or execution reports.” Some
sermons are quite a? sensational as any penny
hanging horror, but the latter scoop in the most
shekels and the biggest audience, and that is
where the poor clergyman “gets leit.”
In connection with the death of Archie
Hunter, the warder who was murdered by a
lunatic in the Yarra Bend Asylum (V.) a few daj s
ago, some remarkably breezy revelations have bee n
made. From the evidence of John Cassidy, a
fellow warder, it appears that Hunter was about
the last man in the world who should have been
entrusted with the custody of a number of cun-
ning madmen, who have a weakness for murdering
people just for the fun of the thing. Cassidy
says :—“ Hunter was not in good health, and was
not a strong man. He was deaf and suffered
from rheumatics. I have known him on two
occasions before to lie doivn and go to sleep in the
afternoon.” One of his patients evidently noticed
Hunter’s penchant for sleep.
Twenty years ago Mr. Gormly, member
for the Murrumbidgee in the N.S.W. Assembly,
used to drive a coach for a man who was then a
wealthy mail-contractor. Through a revolution of
Fortune’s wheel, however, Gormly went up and the
boss went down, and while the former is now an
M.P. the latter has to content himself with the
less exciting situation of caretaker for a Govern-
ment tank in the Murrumbidgee distriot. If
the pay for the tank billet is slim the work
is still slimmer, for the amount which the
custodian remitted for the last quarter’s re-
turn was twopence, one horse-owner having
recklessly squandered that amount on water for
his moke. Small as the amount was, however, it
seems to have caused some wild excitement in the
Mining Department. It appears that the care-
taker forwarded his immense return in the shape
of a 2d. stamp, upon which the Department grew
mad at this awful breach of red-tapeism and sent
him a sharp letter warning him that unless he
sent his remittances by means of a post-office
money-order in future the consequence would be
something too terrible to explain by letter. As it
was, however, it only cost the Government 2d. to
secure the tank’s 2d. ; now it will cost at least
Bd. or a shilling.


B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE,
OFFICE?
w, M. MACLARDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General MeroantHe Lithogranhlc
Letterprees Printer, Dleeinker, Embosser
Aooount Book Manufacturer, * b nder ‘
Maolardy's £6 Box of Stationery a specialty. Send
List 0/ Contents, ™ ,of
Note Address—
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—No v opening a Large Assortment of Xmas r»rd«
and Fan °y Go °d?- Inspection invited ° d “
When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-wut™
Rollsr Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow
„ do A mer!ca J n , H °P Betters cure so much ?•• n c
««*I!BLiSS
Keferee
The veteran Sydney cricketer, “Ned”
Sheridan, better known to eld-time cricketers as
“The Scud,” scored 29 runs out of the 80 made
by the Queenslanders against the Australian
Eleven. Ned wa3 a great card in hia time, and
after scrubbing off the dust of a good day’s work
he used to turn out no end of a swell in the even-
ing and inform hia best girl that he had only just
left “the office.” Ned rues a thriving barber’s
shop in Brisbane now, but it was great fun to hear
Ned tell of his first performance when he started the
hairdressing business at Newtown. The first man
he operated upon was a big lump of a countryman
with about 12 months’ growth. Ned says when
half through he began to shiver and wonder
whether his patient would slit his throat with one
of his own razors, but after about an hour’s work,
to Ned’s relief, Bushy told him he was the best
Banguinary barber this side of the Narran.
• • O
Thanks bo her bowllDg New South Wales
won the forty-first intercolonial match against
Victoria, and after being in a minority for over a
generation now holds supremacy.
• • *
An unpleasant incident during the match
was the hoofing of 0. Bannerman, the N.S.W.
umpire, for giving Barrett run out. Though
Moses,'who fielded the ball, says that Barrebt was
really out, public opinion was quite the other way,
hence the ebullition of feeling. “Barracking”
has hitherto been confined to the football field, so
its appearance in the rival pastime has been
attributed to the recently reduced charge of ad-
mission. As a matter of fact, the row against
Bannerman came from the toffs in the stalls,
* * •
The Argentine Republic are evidently
bant on becoming our rivals on the turf as well as
in woolgrowing. The Government have offered
£24 000 for the three-year-old Sbuait, but the
owner of that animal has refused.
• • •
The Barb, one of the moßt sterling race-
horses that ever strode over the Australian sward,
has gone the way of all horseflesh.
The Carington Handicap was decided on
Saturday night, and Morgan scored another win
for the aboriginal race. Though the black fellow
cannot copy the good qualities of civilisation, he
quickly adapts himself to onr vices. He is not
only addicted to rum, but, according to rumour,
can give the white ped. a start in the matter of
running “ stiff.” In facb, it would nob surprise
us to see King Bill turning welsher, or roping
jockey, or conductor of chapel bazaars one of
these days.
* #
By holding their recent meeting on the
Bth January, it would seem the Rosehill Race
people are a far-seeing body. Tbe Bbhof January
is the birthday of Prince Albert Victor, eldest son
of the Prince of Wales, so in making that date an
annual meet they an eye on Prince of Wales
Birthday should anything happen to Victoria by
the grace of God, or to “ Tummy.”
* * *
We are informed by Mr. “Adam Bede”
that a considerable amount of support has already
been accorded to his first Benevolent Consulta-
tions on the Newmarket Handicap and Australian
Cup. During the week he has sent to all parts of
Australasia, over one ton of circulars and other
printed matter in connection with the project,
while letters and telegrams he has received from
the country predict a decided success for the ven-
ture.
• • •
Shrewsbury and Lillywhite are not likely
to do the colonies again for some considerable
time, both cricket and football jspecs. having
resulted in loss.
• • •
The attempt of the Victorian Cricketers’
Association to “ boycott ” the Melbourne C C. is
likely to lead to the extinction of the former
body.
• • •
•Jack Molloy, the Sydney pug., and an in-
dividual named Jones, recently tried to arrange a
fight for £lOO aside at Charters Towers. But the
"foorce” were on the alert, and the would-be
belligerents have Bince interviewed the “ beak ”
who bound over each in the sum of £5O, and
ordered Molloy to leave the town and Jones to
appear at next Circuit Court.
• * #
Qood authorities say that though the
Maori footballers are not at the top of the tree as
far as scientific play goes, they are the making of
the best team ever seen, being of tremendous
strength, weight, courage, and determination, .as
well as quick intelligence. It is alleged that they
have been umpired out of several matches in Eng-
land, and have been unfairly treated in the matter
of gate-money. The Irish international teams
have always been remarkable for their size, but,
taken all round, the Maoris in the recent match
were 51bs. heavier.
• • •
Llbtlewocd, who recently won the six day
race and broke the record at New York, is
matched for 1000 dollars a-side against Albert
whom he barely eclipsed on that occasion. What
a pity Scott cannot join in.
• # •
From America we learn that John L.
Sullivan has become a great reader of late.
Having devoted his youth to science it is strange
that he should turn to light fiction in his more
mature years.
• • •
Nob content with whopping their pugilists,
Peter Jackson now wants to show the Yankees
that he can swim. He is matched to swim E. C.
Pinkham, champion of California, for £5O a-side,
• • •
What a wonderful nursery for racehorses
New Zealand must be. Carbine is far ahead of
any animal of his age in Australia, yet we are
authoritively informed that he is inferior to
Man ton. Latest news from New Zealand an-
nounces that Manton has now been decisively
beaten by the three-year old colt, Cuirassier.
■t>y the way, old Nelson shows that he can still
run.
• * *
F. J. 11. Cross, the “ Oxford Miler,” won
the Linooln College Qliarter-mile Open Handicap
from scratch in 49 1 2-5 sec. English papers claim
this as the amateur record, although both Phillips
(Eng.)_and Myers (U.S.) have been credited with
much faster time.
* * a
A great leveller is the cable. In the
Australian daily papers last week there was a big
cablegram to the effect that Premier Floquet, of
ranee, had refused to fight a duel. J U3t under-
T. wa . s an equally big cablegram to the effect
that Professor Jackson, of Sydney, had refused to
fight a duel—with Jem Smith, of England.
* *
Oa his way to America lately Charles
Mitchell, the pugilist, made the acquaintance of
Mary Anderson, who was one of his fellow-
passengers on the Umbria. Miss Anderson gave
hun her autograph, and Mitchell showed her a few
points about “the manly art.” Miss Anderson
displayed great interest in the science of fisticuffs.
* •
The Auckland (ST.Z ) racing-club, at their
summer meeting, with a view to drawing a crowd,
admitted all ladies and children to the course free.
• •
The Mayor of Kendall captained the
eB J J ? aor ®l an d. footballers in the match against
the Maoris which the latter won.
• • *
The money to be disbursed among the
Easter, Winter, Spring, and Summer meetings of
the A. J.C. totals the splendid, sum of £23,520.
* * *
For the past five years a game of chess
has been going on between two players living re-
spectively in Sydney and Newark (U.S. A ). They
THE LATE MARCHS CLARKE.
TAKEN FROM AN RARLY PHOTO.
make their moves by letter, the Murkan sending
his communications by way of Europe and the
ouez Canal, while the Australian prefers to post
across the Pacific to California and over the con-
tinent. The latter now wishes to complete the
game by telegraph, the loser to bear the expense,
but his opponent, who is considered to be very
near defeat, refuses i,n view of the recent increase
of cable rates.
* • *
While at Hawick, Scotland, recently, the
Maori footballers were entertained by the douce
that old town in a real Scottish banquet,
and the piece dc resistance naturally was haggis,
ii iru ar brick writes to a New Zealand friend :
The hoys did just walk into thebaggis. Every-
body had three goes at it. lam bringing cut the
recipe for Te Roretana who is so fond of anything
new in the eating line.”
* • #
Times are desperately bad in Englacd,
and it costs the humble but honest Briton all he
knows to make an honest livelihord. Conse-
quently we extend our sincere sympathy to a man
named Jones residing in the East End of London
who has been compelled to take a particularly
rocky path in life in order to earn his humble
crust, as explained by the following little adver-
tisement
T A s en , tlema “ of C'erkenwell will matci Janes, of
Leather-lane, to eat half a briok, one pound of tallow
c»ndles, two new quartern loaves, one pennyworth of
snuff and drink a quart of old ale. The lot to be con-
sumed inside 50 minutes for any sum. Can be seen any
evening at the Pig and Whistle, Camberwell. J
And yet they say it is a glorious thing to be a
free-born Briton and have a vested interest in the
heritage handed down by our immortal fore-
fathers, and other gush to the same effect. It
makes us feel ill.
* * *
At the Mackay (Q.) athletic sports on New
Years Day, the committee concluded that they
wanted no niggers running in the big handicap,
as it was a disgrace to put them on the same mark
as a white man. It certainly does result in a
take-down for the white man when he is put on
the as Charley Samuels.
• • •
Persons possessed of a laudable ambition
to spot the winner of the next Sydney Tattersall’s
C'ap would do well to keep their eyes on the
following coincidences connected with that event.
Viva won-the Cup in 75 and 76; and Tom Brown
secured it in ’B5 and ’B7. Sardonyx ran second in'
’B3 and 'B4; and Calamia in 78 and 79. Since
1885 the Cup has been won no less than four times
by horses bred on the Hunter River. Three of
these were bred by Mr. Reynolds, of Tocal.
• • •
At a dinner given the other day to the
N.S-W. and Victorian cricketing teams, Percy
M‘Donald sent in a “ shooter ” by declaring he
“ hoped that the flag of the Victorian Cricketers’
Association would never again be found dis-
gracing the Melbourne Cricket Club’s grounds.
It ought not to be called the Cricketers’ Associa-
tion at all, as there were no cricketers in it.”
* • •
The latest from America is that Black
Jackson, the Australian pugilist, is learning
French. “He is improving every day, and can
now ask for a potato without conveying the idea
that he wants the earth.”
* •
Billy Anslow, of rowing celebrity, thinks
of becoming an alderman. Alas !
* » •
The Victorian Cricket Association is in a
very sick condition, and like to die—as Percy
M ‘Donald put it—“ unwept, unhonoured, and
upsung.” Percy didn’t exactly compose that line
himself, however.
* * *
A review of the 25, most important races
on the English turf last season shows that only in
six instances was the favourite returned.
• • „
Jj. R. Scotb, the manager of the Maori
football team says that the tour has not, up to the
time of writing, proved a financial success. Hotel
bills have been the chief draw upon his resources.
£3 10s, par week is the customary charge in Eng-
land, whereas in N.Z, it ia never higher than 355.
* * t
Dick Sandall is still in his native Auck-
land, and has matched himself to fight James
Martin, a leading amateur, to a finish, for a
trophy.
• •
The Prince of Wales appears to be keeping
a stud of racehorses in the- interests of monarchy.
One of Tummy’s most expensive purchases is
named Royalist. That it is a rank bad ’un, and
has never earned its keep, goe3 without saying.
James Wilson, “ a rattling boy from the
county Down,” has a normal chest measurement
of 38 inches which he can expand to 53 inches,
and can break a strong leather strap by breathing
hard. “ A fellow of infinite chest.”
- - *
Melbourne Herald has a puffing par.
commencing: “Deadbeat between the Herald
and Sportsman in the tipping business.” Tippling
business was doubtless what was meant, but the
comp, left the “ 1 ” out.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first-class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, cannot be surpassed.
At Sydney on 19th January Mr. Simon,
of the well-known and much-drunk firm of Most
and Ohandon, gave a picnic, which was attended
by over 200 persons. It is estimated by this firm
that nine-tenths of the monarchs of Europe have
at one time or another been carried home on a
shutter and put to bed with their boots on through
drinking their liquors, and that their wines have
tied kaisers in hard knots, and capsized sultans,
and left popes singing imbecile songs in the gutter
with their feet driven through the triple crown
aud the keys of St. Peter clutched in their hands
and woke up next morning without a headache
--but these things are only known to us by report.
We don’t drink Moet—beer is good enough for us
any time.
CORRESPONRENCE
■ : What time was oeca
pud by the Mount Rennie trial, and' what hours did the
Court sd each day ? Six days. 2. Were the sittings of
the Court prolonged to such an extent that counsel for
the prisoner protested against the injustice of this pro-
oeedmg? Yes 3. Did any of the jurymen goto sleep
during the trial? Yes; several of the jurymen were, in
the opinion of counsel, partially asleep. Such must have
been the case, inasmuch as the Court sat from 9 a.m. on
nenS “w' ab ° Ut 4 ° n Saturda y* meal times ex-
oepted. We cannot state definitely the circulations of the
vanous Australian weeklies, but we are certain that none cf
them have a bona-fide issue equal to that of Tim Bullet.*.
.... io . The British Slave ”is too crude, metrically
what g .. 0 T' PU n C u tiOn - WiH try aDd P° liBh itsome
Si*;”- Tae f* 1 * 0 " 8 : wrecks the torrent
that they cannot stay." Such -poetry” wont do..
biwxrt : A witless sneer. Why not argue ? “ Wil
bam Lewis": Much obliged. Chemis t" (Gympie) ••
In suspense we meant, of course.... “ H.S.D.”: Too livsel^
° IT h' °} am Z S3Dding ifc t 0 a “ P " paper.
T S.H. . Thanks for extract......T.M ” fMelhD
Sketches excellent in idea, but drawing not up to mark
Why not study at art school ? Ideas half the battle
Mephisto ’(Wollongong): Excellent verse and by no,
ri °.. Cl T 09 V° T ,f nnyBoD - We h °Pe- to publish,
shortly.... Jaokeroo : S arry you’re not satisfied. Such,
Wh r6 f! t° f SlyiDg a 00d - natu red word for a friend,
Why not take revenge by sending us same back-block,
“W.I.G." (Melb.); Not topical, and cf no,
local interest, this time. -So English, you know.” .
nlaZ’nTh (Oooktown): No such interference tcofe
place m the race between Beach and Gaudaur..Edna ”
(Bnsbane): Yes, the Queensland football team did stay ate
Aaron s Exchange Hotel, Sydney. The payment of hotel*
expenses is quite a matter of arrangement. Genera^
aBSoclation en^e the rooms for the visitors,
who however, pay for them out of their own funds!
.. A Lover of Justice ”: We cannot publish your allega-
plain to the Minister cf Lands ?....-Inquirer ”: No,
n," Hallora “ 18 not a Companion of the Batb.
Hs travels in the third-class compartment of
-Clß r »?r. S6 ' Miclael and St. George
CLR (Elstemwiok): We suspect that you are trying
(oLleviu"?)-
01 lh “ ,0 “' the
equattsr possess no interest for Tiie Bulletin.
M ° ni *
££, PO ' md ‘- 1 ,oree * * b »‘ ler o«h«
lb Is an open secret that Premier Bibb*
Nervine fordS bott,les of MarshallVfoS*
sSa-ssS
The political friends of Sir Thomas M‘T!
S3f'lt '&?' t"a sat- ass
South wX be h ° Premier ' J New
ssW«rcsw&» e “ £
h k countermanding the order, but *
wa P s y too i a ateTh recei 7 ed .that, the latter mandat®
was too late, the contract having been siened ft
w 6re i 8 u V6rv like S
:„a f iff ll f . f Saul from the Agency-General
and the appointment of a man of more modem
ideas and better in aeenrd . moa ® ra
of N.S.W. accord with the coming policy
rw sew S^tS-r
“ Adam A r n bu,ioeM °™«°W w«h
Adam Bede s Benevolent Consul tation*^
S^B2^* oco gf? w ift‘ l >*rw»SStai
BJ,™ : ?TL L ‘Z,tJ& K ,b ; a nT
Pte« s ,” “The Bouaro/'Md others we™ dik'
£-22- pLtnr *iS*
KiL , ES3r»srßiaa b ft I s s £
to The Bu?LETi r N o ter al devhisg aTchSby whiSTh
°* the £ re »t profits of sweep puromotin»
might be devoted to oharibable object! nre-
sent promued to assist in giving the nrnl J*. *
“shore stag.” Representatives of fct™ ‘SSL*
lian Star, the 35. News, the NZ Herat n
Canterbury Timbk, Figaro (Queensland) Me]’,
bourne Herald, Argus, Sportsman (Melbourne)
Sydney Referee, and Sunday Times were
amongst thise present. ' were


In Nervous Debility
USK lIORSFORD'S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr W. S. Granger, M.R.C.S., and L S.A. Wool, Ware-
ham, Dorset, England, says: “ I have used it in cases of
great nervous d.b.lity, and the result was most satisfac-
tory.”
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
OOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM,
TO-DAY—Special Invitation Matinee!
To witness
Mr. * J. * T. # WILLIAMS,
The Great Australian Parachutist, in a
wonderful serial performance,
Of THE HAN MONKEY! TO
SATURDAY—ANNIVERSARY DAY.
AGINTON’S
PERILOUS FLIGHT
through space.
The Greatest Sensation of the Age, and
Mb. J. T. WILLIAMS,
The Australian .ZErial Hero.
4 K. STOP FORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Thbatbh Royal.—" Hands Across the Sea ”p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Youth” „
Criterion. —“ Hans the Boatman ” „
Haymabket Musio Hall.— Harry Rickards „
Mr. Frank Lincoln closed his wild career
at Sydney Gaiety on Saturday night, and is now
engaged in casting new lights on the mule of
public joj fulness and freshly varnishing the hog
of mirth in the suburban districts of than deo ply-
mortgaged city. He is also endeavouring to decide
whether ho shall return at an early date to his
native land, where the buffalo is now on bis last
legs and the Indian iB vanishing towards the
setting sun, or whether he will devote a few
months to the enlightenment and elevation of the
turgid Australian intellect, but on this point the
vast plains of his mind are not yet fully made up.
For our own part we Btrongly advise him to stay.
His tale of the old woman wibh the revolving
tooth has nob yet lost its freshness, and many of
his other sketches have not been equalled since the
days when Samson removed the gates of Gaza,
thus exposing the Philistines to a draught which
might have resulted in influenza, and set that
ancient tribe coughing on the shores of the Great
Sea right down to the present day. Mr. Lincoln
is a poem and a revelation. Any citizen with a
turn for humour could sit and listen to him for
two days without food and then retire with a
wierd whoop to the lunatic asylum and die in
great agony, leaving his family totally unpro-
vided for. Strong men who had learned short-
hand could write down his jokes at full lerigbh
and then leave the premises wibh a hollow laugh
and pass them off for their own and get killed ;
and gentle, affectionate women, afber spending an
evening with the American humourist, would
probably go home and break their necks trying
to rehearse his programme to their familiep.
For these and many other reasons we urge
him to remain a little while longer, and
tempt the damp, uncertain sea at present. If
he departs he may possibly be drowned, and then
his remains will be left to wash round on the
heaving waves, and if he stays, a house may pos-
sibly fall on him, and then he will have a long
black funeral and Vegetables will be planted on
top of his watertight sepulchre, and genei ations
yet unborn will rise up and call him blesEed.
# # # *
The old “ Bohemian Girl ” enjoyed a run
of several days at Sydney Opera House, and
during that period she conducted herself in a
manner which was unbecoming at her age. A
certain air of levity seemed to have overtaken her
while in the brown and trampled leaf, and her
efforts to hold up at times suggested a vague idea
that mental rheumatism had overtaken her. Mr.
Sinclair, as Devilshoof, had a part that was too
small for him, but then the “ Eohemian Girl ”
ia exceedingly short of good parts, even the
Polish dynamiter having no particular show that
is worth swearing at: and the new baritone
at all events did his level best as a prominent
member of that peculiar nation whieh is supposed
to be romantic because it never washes itself and
skirmishes after other people’s hens. The sight of
a whole nation prigging hens, however, does not
affect us with the same brand of emotion which
seems to afflict the average dramatist, and we
have a down cn gipsies. In his own private
capacity, however, Mr. Sinclair has a fine
voice and considerable abilities as an actor,
and he deserves a better part. Mi-:s Lilian
Tree was pretty, graceful, and reasonably
successful as the gentle Arline, and Mdlle.
Lablache took the house by storm according to
her wont, in the character of the dark browed
Gipsy Queen, Mr. Gilpin tottered a good deal as
the Austrian Count, an alleged person whom we
have persistently held up to execration for wasting
time in prayer when he should have been doing
something else, and Mr. Walshe was the Polish
dynamiter of the show. ‘‘Carrrien,’' which followed
cn Monday night, buried the “ Bohemian Girl ” in
oblivion. Mdlle Lablache, as the heroine, broke all
her previous records without seriously damaging
anything else, and f stablished a reputation as one cf
the best actresses who ever dragged her trunk
ashore on Circular Quay. Miss Lilian Tree
struggled with the situation of Michaela and con-
quered, and Dimibresco, Pimazzoni, Mancini,
Signora Parmiggiana, and other artistes wioh long
names, each ending in a vowel, gave enough sup-
port to make “ Carmen ” the greatest success yet
achieved by the company. “ Ernani ” is an-
nounced to follow.
# # * *
Mias Dora Wiley’s benefit at Sydney
Royal brought together a good attendance, and
proved as successful as it is in the nature of a
benefit performance to be. The one enduring
curse of this description of entertainment is the
scrappy nature of the programme, but this is an
evil which, being beyond remedy, must be endured
as peacefully as possible. The audience, how-
ever, is almost always good-natured and appre-
ciative, and even when the first act consists of a
touching love-story with two pretty English girls
and a dog nd a quantity of crockery, while the
second is constructed out of 1826 ferocious Italian
bandits in a cave, and this latter is followed
again by 10 Americans ona raft near the South Pole
and a whale in the distance, they never complain.
The performance on Monday afternoon included
among its elements, songs by Mr. Edgar Straxiss,
Miss Dora Wiley, Harry Rickards, and Miss
Josephine Deakin, a scene from “ Hans the Boat-
man ” by Mr. Arnold and Miss May Hannen, a
hunk of “ My Partner ” by George Risrnold and
his company, and a piano solo by M, Kowalski,
thus preserving that air of connectedness through-
out which characterises the expensive diction aiy
of modern times. The multitudinous fragments
of the performance, however, were all perpetrated
with as much success as the general disjointedness
of things could allow, and the sufferers in the
auditorium departed with an appearance of general
satisfaction, which either meant that they had
thoroughly enjoyed therrselveß or that they were
pleased to get away alive.
# # # #
Sometime in the remote regions of the
future “Youth” is to be succeeded at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) by “ The Vendetta,” a
Bowdlerised version of “Barnes of New York,”
with Mr. H. C. Sidney as the imperturbable
American, but as the present piece appears to be
good to last till that final treasury-day when
Gabriel will pay the salaries, this change of
programme is not likely to be witnessed by the
present generation. “ Hands Across the Sea,”
by a blessed dispensation cf an unsearchable
ProGfence, will be thrown out of the back win-
dow of the Royal next Friday, and in its place we
are promised on Saturday a double bill, beginning
with a thing called an “idyll,” originally perpe-
trated in verse by Tennyson, and afterwards
banged about and ragged up by the hair by
Charles Reade, and finishing with that weird im-
probability in three impossiblenesses, “The Bar-
rister.” On the same evening, “Gaylord and Sil-
bon’s Anglo-American Humpty Dumpty Panto-
mime Troupe ” are to haul the awful entanglement
of their thousand-j ointed cognomen on to the stage
of the Gaiety, Messrs. Hiscocks and M'Mahon, as
the men who are responsible in some measure for
the importation of this unwholesome elongation
of aggravating parts of speech, being on hand to
bring the name in in a dray. “ Hans the B )at-
man ” also retires in a week from date, and his
place will be taken by the glittering company
which has already created so much laughter in
“Vice Versa,” “Turned Up,” and a dezen other
causes of public rejoicing. A change of programme
at Rickards’ unaccountably prosperous show is all
that is left to record.
# * # *
The Brough and Boucicault) Company ap-
peared for a little time in “On ’Change” at the
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, but this comedy did not
prove a digestive morsel for the godly contingent,
no doubt owing to the fact that recently they have
had too much of the share business, and “ On
’Change ” revives unpleasant thoughts of Broken
Hill and other broken things. The management
have, therefore, had ricourse to that attractive
double bill “ In Honour Bound ” and “ Turned
Up,” which has been the means of making
things more lively.
# # # #
Mr. J. F. Williams, the Australian para-
chute man, is announced to appear at Cjogee
Aquarium this (Thursday) afternoon as “ the
Man Monkey.” What this means is at present
beyond the reach of human intelligence, but our
own private opinion is that Mr. Williams intends
descending from a balloon by his tail.
# * # #
The restored fortunes of the Alexandra re-
ceived another violent impetus on Saturday night,
when Mr. Alfred Dampier put “ Marvellous Mel-
bourne ” before the expectant population of that
city. A heated audience went off into hysterics
at the opening scene, and remained mopping
their fevered brows till dose upon midnight. See-
ing that this first performance triumphed in the
teeth of a thermometer registering 192 in the gas,
there must be a gigantic future before “Marvel-
lous Melbourne,” and it is probable that many
tottering intellects will collapse under the strain
of discovering if it is several dramas being played
alternately or merely one consecutive work of
art. A certain doubt surrounds this ques-
tion in consequence of the authors having
allowed most of the plot to be worked
out before the curtain is raised upon any
drama at all, after which event public interest is
absorbed in endeavouring to understand a quan-
tity of irresponsible events transacted between
Toorak and Lit tie Bourke-street, A nd albhough
the public mind does not understand, it
doesn’t signify. “ Marvellous Melbourne ” is full
of local colour and alive with currenb topics. It
is an elastic production which may be stretched
in any direction, so that if Melbourne had an
attack of earthquake to-day, the event would drop
naturally into this drama to-morrow. Under
these circumstances, there will be an ever varying
charm about the story, and nobody can predict
how things will turn out two nights in succession.
It may be advisable to let the villain—a part well
played by Mr. Baker—win every now and then,
by way of an agreeable change. On Saturday he
was miserably sat upon at the finish by
Mr. Boo'vhman, to the deep disgust of all
present. Mr. Dampier plays five characters
in five good styles. Mias Ltiy is sprighb-
lier and less baritoney than of late, and
about two dozen other performers work up a fair
average of excellence among them. The best is
one of two policemen, and his name appears to be
J. Ceesar. He has inherited a talent for moving
on the masses from his Roman ancestor, who fell
at the base of Pompey’s statue while it was run-
ning blood. But the backbone of this show is
scenery of a beautiful and entirely local character.
Nothing approaching it had previously been set
up on the big Alexandra stage, and three pictures
created such prolonged howlings that certain wild-
looking artists were required to come forward and
smile at their admirers.
* # * #
At Melbourne Opera House, where the
battered actors rave and the Vivians their revels
keep, bucolic appetite has been appeased with a
dose of “ Current Cash,” which is less conducive
to melancholia than its predecessor, “ East
Lynne.” Furthermore, the company gained a
few pounds in artistic weight by the arrival of
Mr. George Herbert and some minor strangers ;
also Miss Marie Wilton showed cause why she
should escape the doom prepared for certain other
people unless they repent in time. On Monday—
fire and brimstone permitting—the agony was to
assume a fresh phase entitled “ Queen’s Evi-
dence,” advertised as the “ Great Drury Lane
Drama.” This must mean that it was written in-
the neighbourhood of the theatre mentioned, if it
means anything but a perversion of the sacred
truth.
* # # #
Obher Melbourne theatres stick In the old
place and are mostly in a prosperous state. But
“Dorothy” will dry up a few days hence and
“Private Secretary” will be fairly run down
about the tame time. The Ethiopian is cracking
ancient chesnuts with success at St. George’s Hall.
A few remaining institutions are rather sad for the
moment, owing to Pain’s fireworks and a sudden
desire to see the poor Exhibition before it dies.
## # #
A. J. Solomon, the first theatrical manager
in Adelaide, died the other day. He also founded
the first Hebrew congregation in the City of
Saints.
## * *
The song “ Queen of My Hearb,” in
“ Dorothy,” was originally written by Alfred
Cellier for a nigger show, many years ago.
## # #
If dear old George Rignold Is such a mar-
vellous organiser as he professed to be when he
wrote in the S.M. Herald that lengthy and now
historical censure on the hangman, how is it one
of his (George’s) subordinates happened to shoot a
co worker in the face on the stage at Her
Majesty’s, the other night?
*# # #
The gro3s receipts from “Dorothy” at the
Prince of Wales’ Theatre, London, up to the
beginning of December last totalled £126,500 —for
a two years’ run.
## # #
The biggest theatrical poster yet attempted
was recently used in London to puff “Harbour
Lights,” It measured 580 square feet and cost
£6OO per 1000.
*# # #
“Brantinghame Hall,” Gilbert’s new play,
recently produced at St. James’ Theatre (London)
is a complete failure, in spite, not in consequence,
of a liberal intro iuction of Australian incident,
including a stockmen’s chorus.
## # #
Mrs. Boucicaulb, Dion’s wife, used to Bay
that at one time she felt as if she could not tell
whether she was Mrs. Boucicault acting the Col-
leen Bawn, or the Colleen Bawn acting Mrs.
Boucicault. She knows better now. There is
another woman acting Mrs. 8., and she appears
to be very well up in the part, too.
## # #
Professor Bartholomew, the parachutist
and faller from the clouds, was interviewed the
other day by a Victorian newspaper man and sup-
plied some valuable information about various
things that he is going to do when he gets his
second wind. Among others he intends —but on
second thoughts we will let the Professor explain
in his own nasal dialect: —
I guess our people are not geiog to let any foreigner
get tme start of them. Why, I have an inflated jumping
suit very nearly fixed that I reckon will make thing)
pret'y lively. I calculate to be able to jump 50 feet every
liok, and keep it up, so that a kangaroo or racehorse will
not be able t) catco me with that rig on. I have also an
unicle, or tingle wheel, in which I can travel very fast
and wh’ch is as near perpetual motion as can be got. The
rider is covered in, shifts a lever, and off he goes—the
motive power being on the ccoentrio prinoiple.
Oh!
## * #
The favourite London Music Hall song at
present is, “ Who Killed Cock Warren,” written,
we are informed, by Charles Townley, “ the
talented author of ‘ Hoop La ’ and ‘ Aaron and
Moses.’” In one verse the gaping auditors are
told that “ I, Jack the Ripper, will dig his grave
“ because I’m bis tripper,” while the chorus —
“ And the corps in the Square
Fell a-sighing and a-sobbing,
When they heard of the death
Of poor Cock Warren.”
is, as Planche puts it, “most mueic-hall, most
melancholy.” Nevertheless, it, is vociferously
encored nightly, and those who dare to hiss are
quietly “ flattened.” These and similar items go
a long way towards proving the truth of our
statement that the ordinary British intellect, like
the ordinary English citizen, is poverty-stricken.
#* # #
They have started the story that Baldwin,
the aeronaut, now making himself famous in
London by dropping from balloons with a para-
chute, is none other than Lulu, who used to be
shot out of a cannon.
## * *
If the Langtry comes to Australia she will
get Sir Jack Robertson on the deep shell. At a
recent performance in Murker, she exclaimed in
loud tones, “Damn that orchestra.”
## # *
Each of the Melbourne theatres in lbs
turn has been visited by “A Disabled Clergy-
man” from the local Herald office, and that in-
sufferable old blatherskite de’ivered judgment last
week. “My conclusion,” says the damaged
apostle, “is llxat no one need be injuriously
affected in any way by visiting any of them.”
What have the Triumvirate and B. and B. done
that they should have ilieir financial prospects
blighted by such a conclusion from such a critic ?
Who want) to sse a show which doesn’t in-
juriously affect any meenister of the Church, be
he sound or broken up? Ia the interests of
“Dorothy,” “Private Secretary” and the Royal
pantomime we maintain that they are cesspools of
sin and full of the flesh. We believe they were
written by Satan, although his name is kept off
th 9 bills. And we are further of opinion that
anyone entering any theatre is darned on the spot.
This involves a firm and unalterable conviction
that the Herald’s shepherd has lost his soul en-
tirely, if he ever had one.
#* * #
Every man who hath music in his soul
will be sorry to hear that a male member of the
tuneful Jungfrau Kapelle recently died at Mary-
borough (Vic ) Sunstroke is the assigned cause.
## # #
The Bulgarian Government have endowed
the National Theatre with £12,000 annually.
#* * *
“ H ands Across the Sea ” was originally
named “ Advance Australia.” Much obliged.
*# # *
Barnum, the great American showman,
has retired with a fortune of 10 million dollars.
He says he made it all by gulling the public and
keeping sober while doing it.
## * #
Mrs. Shaw, the whistling lady, has ob-
tained a divorce from her husband because of his
desertion. American papers are in her favour
because she was right and because of a story that
places her in the same category with Mrs. Wet-
more, as asserting an extra American independ-
ence and repulsing the attentions of the Prince of
Wales.
## # *
Madame Marie Roza haa decided to
abandon her projected tour in Australia, owing
to the difficulty of collecting a party of eminent
artists willing to accompany her to the Antipodes.
## # ♦
Charles Bradley’s veraion of “ Barnes
of New York,” originally produced at Melbourne
Royal, was a boom (under St. Maur) in Tasmania.
#* * *
Adelina Patti recently gave a concert at
the Albert Hall, London. It is estimated that
about 14,000 people jammed themselves into the
joyful occasion.
#* * *
Here is a Yankee criticism of the Gaiety
company : -
The opera bouffers from the Gaiety Theatre, the Strand,
London, W.C., were splashed in an autumnal glory of tint
over the Standard Theatre stage, and it is with dazed and
galloping senses that we make a note of the oocasion.
Down in the front stalls there arose a faint and pale, but
extensive shimmer of dudantism far more beautiful than
anything of the kind we have seen sinoe the voluptuous
seotion of the Casino company was shipped to Chicago,
Back of this was a very crowded assemblage of people
anxious to study the first representative draught of
British burlesque served here since that severe winter of
1809, when Lyaia Thompson gambolled like any colt over
the conserved hearts of the early Dutch. By primogeni-
tureahip, good old Nelly Farren, of the Gaiety company,
is probab'y the most important nymph of the burlesque
art to be found on this green earth. Marion Hood is as
sweat as lavender, and sings like a thrush. Sylvia
Grey and Letty Lind can dance down the gossamer
floor of a shaft of the sun if neoessary, while Fred. Leslie
is a very clean cut gentleman of the comio type, held
across the water higher than we hold Dixey. Around
tiese principals wa3 grown a big garden of akirtless
gaiety, grafted hence from merry England; and if you
will just get in your mind's eye a whole harem, an August
sunset, with the flammiferous whiz of fine limbs against
it, a splurge of concordant sound and a pair of conflicting
torohlight parades, then you may have a faint suspicion
of the proportions and the royal old tone of these bouffers
from the Gaiety Theatre. In direct contrast with the
burlesque opera of this oountry we can give this Eoglish
company credit for s iperioricy in stage grouping, colour
blending, lightness of foot, and singiag. The humour
employed, while it does not comply wi'.h our conception
of fun, is laughable enough, and ia a few instances
entirely excruciating. The success cf the night was made
by Fred. Lvsiie, who, in all respects, is the beat burlesque
actor that has ever appearea here. He reminds us cf
Dixey ; is not so graceful a dancer, but a better Binger,
and, taken altogether, is more amusing.
«* * #
This is how a Scotch contemporary speak
of Miss Lingard and the irritating custom tha
she —in common with other actresses —has of dying
to slow musio :
For passion and power h r equal would be hard to find.
The only drawback is that the orchestra persists in squeak-
ing away while she is speaking her most pathetio lines.
As the brain which can take ia music and speechifying at
the same time has yet to be invented, we advise all who
intend seeing Miss Lingard to take with them a supply of
hard apples to shy at the heads of the fildlers whenever
they interrupt the speaking. A prompt extinguisher on
the fiddlers would keep back all the tooting horns and
other nuisances, who dog their steps. Hissing does no
good.
*# # #
A London correspondent sits in a bitter
spirit on Bandmann’s production of “Dr, Jekyll
and Mr. Hyde ” in that city
Your old acquaintance, Herr Bandmann, is over here
making a silly spectacle of hiofcelf in a wretchedly feeble
version of “Dr. Jtky 11 and Mr. Hyde.” Tne years have
not improved Bandmann. He i 3 more eooentrio and
more irasoible and more cono sited than ever. Although
Monday was bank holiday and other houses were full to
overflowing, only a handful of curious people as-
sembled at the Opera Comique to witness this once
able aotor's ill-natured attempt to “ euchre ” Mr.
Richard Mansfield. It was, of course, a oomplete failure.
Tne audienca were too good-natured to hiss, but they
shouted with laughter. Poor Bandmann alone seemed
unaware there was anything wrong. Wearing a scratch
wig, and provided with a disgusting set of false teeth, he
tent his tall figure low, and hopped about the stage, gib-
bering lika a galvanised frog. Tnis was Mr. Hyde. The
critics sat speechless. “ Amerioan Companies,” re-
marked Mr. Clement Scott, subsequently, “ have offered
many insults to the intelligence of London, but this beats
all.” Theoddestfeatureof theeveningwasperhaps thatthe
audience having resolved to accept the performance as a
burlesque, seemed genuinely amused. At the end Band-
mann actually came on (though without being called)
and made a pompous speech, in which (ye gods and little
fishes !) he thanked the audience for “the grand rec9p,
tion accorded him on his return to the capital of the Em-
pire.” All the way home we discussed whether the man
really understood what had occurred that evening, o*
whether overweening vanity blinded him to everything
save what he wished to see. I hear no w the foolish old
man accuses the critics of having heen bribed by Mans-,
field to run him down.”
## # #
Of Mr. H. J. Byron’s genial wib and
humour many specimens are given in Mrs,
Bancroft’s reminiscences. His Shakesperian
motto for the box-cffice, “So much for booking
’em,” is well known. On the occasion when his
play of “ Dearer Than Life ” was produced for
the first time at the Queen’s Theatre, in Longacre,
there was an apparently interminable wait before
the curtain went up on the last act. At
length was heard, above the uproar of an
impatient public, the sound of a saw at work,
What are they doing, Byron ?” said someone. “ I
think they must be cutting out the last act,” was
the reply. One day he said : “ This morning my
fool ot a coachman at Bedford Square (he was then
living at Clapham Park) wrote to tell me a horse
was ill, and wanted to know if he should give him
a ball. I answered, ‘ Oh, yes, if you like ; give
him a ball, bub don’t ask too many people.’ ”
** * *
The latest stage imitation of Letty
she has gained much kudos from the wayback
press—has the appearance of a giraffe and leaps in
the air partly like a grasshopper and considerably
like a kangaroo. We doat not on the kangaroo?
baUet.
THE CORNER MAN.
I dreamed a dream at the midnight deep,
When fancies come and go
To vex a man in his soothing sleep
With thoughts of awful woe —
I dreamed that I was the corner-man
Of a nigger minstrel show.
I oracked my jokes, and the building rang
With laughter loud and long ;
I hushed the house as I softly sang
An old plantation song—
A tale of the wicked slavery days
Of cruelty and wrong.
A small boy sat on the foremost seat—
A mirthful youngster he ;
He beat the time with his restless feet
To each new melody,
And he picked me out as the brightest star
Of the black fraternity.
“ Oh, father,” he said, “ what would we do
If the corner-man should die?
I never saw such a man—did you ?
He makeß the people cry,
And then, when he likes, he makes them laugh.”
The old man made reply—
“ We each of us fill a very small space
On the great creation’s plan,
If a man don’t keep his lead in the race
There’s plenty more that can;
The world can very soon fill the place
Of even a corner-man.”
I woke with a jump, rejoioed to find
Myself at home in bed,
And I framed a moral in my mind
From the words the old man said.
The world will jog aloDg just the same
When its corner-men are dead.
THE BANIO.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
la more Wholtsomt thaa
BRANDT or WHISKY,
▲ad la a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
&e Careful yon obtain Wotra's.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilo-
ken’s Beaoonsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1300 ft. above sea-level
N.B.—Oslf two boost lion Utlbonm
A former editor of London Times said
that he believed the profits of the paper were
£300,000 a year, bat that he did not know, as the
proprietors always kept it a profound secret
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Study your own interest by rising Pemell’s Snow-Whiti
Patknt Rollbr Flour. It is made in the ooiony from the
best oolonial wheat by the newest patented machinery,
fhe quality Is exceptionally good and the price very low.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerohiefs because
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Phrfumkry Co.'s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
Is on this Scent
Wribe for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Bathurst street, Sydney.
Anniversary Address to Some People.
For Jook was oatohed and he was handed !
SiDg Hey ! Sing Ho ! John Sydney-Man.
—f Adapted Old Song.)
This 1b Anniversary Day, 2tith of January
iii the year of Our Lord, 1$89; Ou« Lohn “ whom
ye slew and hanged upon a tree,” so said Paul,
heedless of the priority of the hanging. Recent
events have proved to me that a column or so of
execution (failing Whitechapel) will be acceptable
to The Bulletin readers, who take it because it
is the O.K. thing, and to those who are too mean
to subscribe but not too proud to borrow it from me.
• • •
Now, l ! m only a Murrnmbldgee whaler,
but I have a knowledge of hanging and strangling.
I was flogged at Oliphant’s School, in Edinburgh,
for going to see Cummings hanged on the Mound.
He was not thrown off in a “fairly successful”
manner. Sheriff Cowper would have reported
his case as “a chef-d'oeuvre of artistic disarticula-
tion of the vertebrae.” Maybury would have said
“ D good Job.” Evening Noozhrs would
sj^nplj^remark, “No jolly fun in such a tame
• • •
My next experience of “ sus per coll ” was
iii Coldstream, where Bobby Neilans incited me
to play hanging, the victim being a “ callant
cit’ed Jock Henderson ” whom we Stood on a wall
And noosed with a clothes-line. By mistake he
fell off and was blue in the face when his mother
cut him down, and we, Bobby and I, cut away.
For years Jcck had a crick in his neck.
* • *
I never saw another execution (excepting
a soldier at Umballa, from a distance of a mile or
so) until a friend of min e rode his horse’s nose up
to my face before day light one morning and in-
vited me to witness a deed. I was sleeping out-
side my bungalow and thought it was a signature
he wanted. So it was :an attestation as to the
death of six Hindoos who were swung off a plank
fixed between two uprights, the tops of which
were connected by a ridge-pole from which
dangled the ropes. The drop was only about
three feet, but (are you listening, Cowper, May-
bury, Howard, and Co. ?) the execution was “fairly
successful.” The curses of one chumar were
unique in their ingenuity. There was no bolt to
pull, no dull, sickening thud. A pulwan (profes-
sional athlete) put his shoulder under the end of
the plank and lifted it from the staple and let it
drop. This gave No. 1 the full benefit of the act,
but No. 6 had to wait until the pulwan unhooked
his end. I was bamboozled by my friend into
witnessing this atrocity, but an anchovy toast and
a bottle of Allsopp for chota haziri squared my
mind and stomach.
• • •
Some time after this I was In the Qaeen’a
employ at Gibraltar. A bandit was about to be
executed by the garotte at Algesiras. Long Jones
and Smiler and I made a picnic to see the modus.
The condemned called for a glass of wine and held
it out to show the Englishmen that his hand did
not shake. One turn of the screw and his face was
purple. Purple is the Imperial colour. Our
sovereign is an empress. Q.E.D. I have not of
late years been enjoying myself enough in the
rope-stretching line, therefore I can give no more
experiences. But a word in your ear, Mr. Auld.
A namesake of yours in Glasgow is certainly the
best Christian (for a business maD) I have ever
met. Another namesake (Dr. Auld, of Ayr) was
noted for his childlike love and chaiiby. Ten to
one they despise your merciless epistle to the
daily press—if they ever see it, which is doubt-
ful. And in it you don’t show your com-
plete knowledge of Jewish execution. Stoning
with stones did not mean pelting rocks. The
victim was led without the city to a place beneath
a window in a tower, and a great rock was rolled
over so as to drop on him. The chief accuser had
to shift somebody belonging to the stone and
“ Dear Auld Auld,” ma freen’, one or two
of the chief members of the hanging party
ousht to have swopped billets with Nosey Bob.
When Christ ordered the man without sin to
cast the first Btone he did not mean him to
“ bicker him wi’ chuckie3,” but to become actual
executioner. lam indebted to my friend, New-
man Hall, for this pipeful for your calumet of
peace.
* * •
The Jews also had death by strangulation
as a punishment. The victim was buried up to
the neck and a rope “ served ” with soft rags to
lessen the pain was pulled on both sides. Death
by fire was identical with this, except that a
lighted match was thrown into the culprit’s m ,uth
at his last gasp.
* • *
There ii no reason that there should be
failure at any execution. In Viotoria the drop
(in Ararat Gaol, at any rate) is a fixture in a pas-
sage, hinged and bolted above a corridor. 1 be-
lieve it is of cast-iron, at least so lam told. It is
to be hoped that we shall no longer require any
drops but that of the cratur.
• * *
And now to conclude. You laugh and
joke, Mr. Bulletin, at the dull, sickening thud.
I think it is part of the sentence. The new gal-
lows at DenUiquin was found to go off with a
clack, so they tied a Band-bag to receive the trap-
door, and that brought about the necessary
solemn note, thereby dispelling the levity of the
sharper report.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
A procession of the London cabs would
stretch 45 miles. There is public standing-room
for only 23 miles of them. The other 22 miles
have to go wandering about the streets.
Young wife (at a ball) : “ You are im-
proving wonderfully as a dancer. Don’t you
remember how you used te tear my dresses?’
Young husband : “Ye s; I wasn’t buying ’em
then.”
The editor of the leading paper in the
Transvaal is a ladfr.
A lyttel booke yclept “Ye Humour of Ye
Sixteenth Oenturie,” shows that ye joker of that
period borrowed verie much of his witte from ye
humourist of ye nineteenth centurie without
giving hym a particle of creditte.
Paddy Lane, a witness at the Parnell
Commission, made two genuine bulls. He said
he would rather be a coward for five minutes
than be a dead man all the rest of his life,” and,
speaking of his assailant Kavanagh, he said : “ I
won’t say anything hard of him. If he has done
wrong, I leave it to his own conscience and God
to play the divil with him.”
Mr. Jacob Watt, of Pennsylvania, tI.S.,
in a letter addressed to the Chief Officer of the
Australian Government; and commencing “To
your Majesty,” offers to sell for 75,00'0j01. a trap
he has patented to catch rabbits, rats, and mice,
ahd other small vermin. Jacob has just got our
measure. In our ihind’s eye we see him using his
cat-trap as a writing-desk while, with his tongue
out, he laboriously scrawls the address on that big
official envelope.
While a regiment of Scotch yeomanry was
on parade, the order ‘ 1 draw swords ” was given.
One trooper tugged Valiantly at the hilt of his
weapon of death, but the blade refined to leave
the scabbard. “ What on earth’s wrong ?” bawled
the captain. “ I dinna ken, sir,” answered the
yeoman ; “bit —oo ay, I think I can explain this
awfu’ stiffness. Aboot a fortnicht syne I saw ma
wife steerin’ the claes in the b’iler wi’ ma sword,
an’ I wadna wunner bit what the blade is weel
roosted in !”
“Kinkora,” Hawthorn (Melb.), the resi-
dence of the late Pat O’Brien, has been sold by
the executors and the spacious grounds cut up and
disposed of in allotments. The late Sir John
O’Shannassy called his mansion in the same locality
“ Tara” after the residence of the ancient alleged
kings of Ireland, and Pat. O’Brien, begorra, not
to be outdone by the O’Shanassys, dubbed his
crib “Kincora,” after the abiding place of the
Dane-slaughtering Brian Boiroihme, be jabers.
The O’Brien claimed “ distant ” relationship to
Boru—which is the way his name is pronounced
by the bhoys.
A TOUCH OF NATOEE.
EX-POLITICIAN : “WHAT BIRD DO YOU CALL THAT!”
HAWKER: “A COCKATOO, SIR.”
EX-POLITICIAN : “DOES HE SWEAR?”
HAWKER : “NO, BUT IF YOU BUY HIM, HE WILL SOON PICK IT UP, SIR."
A retired Government clerk died in
Vienna, and bequeathed a considerable sum of
money in these terms : “Up the secofad flight of
stairs there lives at door No. 63 a widow who has
two daughters ; I leave the sum of 80,000 florins
to the one who always nodded in such a friendly
way when she met me.” The two sisters fell out
as to which one of them the old gentleman had left
the money to. Legal proceedings are impending,
but the lawyers are said to be inclined for a com-
promise by dividing the money. After all the
lawyers are probably right. It is very likely they
both nodded.
Bnrnand, the editor of Punch, recently
wrote Gilbert, asking him to become a contributor
to the letter-press of that paper. This was Gil-
bert’s rather odd reply : “ My dear Burnand,—l
think not. Punch has always, without an excep-
tion, slated my plays. Not that I think for a
moment that anybody ever reads the letter-press
of Pukch, yet if I were to accept your invitation
and write for it, they possibly might, and as I am
going to have one or two pieces produced shortly,
see how bad that might be for me. —Yours, &c ,
W. S. G.”
In Sydney Evening News of Thursday,
17th inst., is printed a forty or fifty-line report of
a pulpit parade with sancbified side shows, and in
it appear the following specimens of adjective
journalism : —“ beautifully decorated,” “charming
appearance.” “artistically arranged,” “it was
noticeable,” “pronounced success,” “ ill fated
ship Dunbar,” “very interesting,” “splendid
assortment,” “splendidly set off,” “tempting
array of choice edibles,” “infinite variety,” “a
few pleasing and appropriate remarks, “many
attractive articles displayed.” Such is the harki-
mejian lever.
One of the moat enterprising gentlemen in
this present hemisphere is a male person in Mel-
bourne whogot in by the window, theother day, and
removed another man’s dining room suite, valued
at £5O. When the other man entered the apart-
ment next morning he was compelled to sit down
bn the floor to give vent to his aggravation for
there was nothing else to sit upon, but after a
while he recovered his self-possession and went
out to look for the missing ton of property. He
then ascertained that a relative in easy circum-
stances had shifted the goods, seemingly out of
Eure devi'ment, and after nearly breaking his
sck in getting them away had sold theta for £ll,
All of which btaveys a solemn warning to gentle-
men who have relatives in easy circumstar bis, and
further suggests that dining-room suites should be
tied to the wall with ropes.
An unwholesome habit seems to have
taken root of late in these colonies. Every now
and then a citizen cf repute fills himself up with
the wine when it is red, and then spreads himself
loosely on the railway-line and wait 3 for the
general resurrection, and when this insanitary
custom is interfered with he generally gives way
to Violent language and want* to know why he
can’t perish. As a terrible instance of this evil
tendency a New Zealand resident not long since
put his countenance cn the rails just as a train
was approaching, and was only saved at the last
moment by a fireman who got out on the cow-
catcher and kicked his head off the line. And
then the patient crawled out from underneath the
train and sued that benevolent fireman for assault
and battery and kicking his head in a public
place, also for planting his boot in the middle of
his features and trampling on his ear. There is
no gratitude left in the human race.
Mr. E. B. Harris, late of Riley’s Detec-
tive Agency, announces by advertisement that he
has started a private enquiry office at No. 53
Sydney Arcade, where he is willing and able to
find out anything that ever existed. Divorce, libel,
fraud, and all other business is looked up; ab-
sconders are traced across Greenland’s icy moun-
tains, and brought back from the North Pole or
the great desert of Gobi; and lo3t heirs are re-
covered with equal vigour in Dahomey and Wool-
loomooloo. In the case of missing friends who
have been eaten by cannibals, Mr.,Harris will find
the remains and make the cannibal’s heirs prove
their identity ; and researches of all kinds, back
to the days of Job and his three comforters,
will be prosecuted with brains and originality.
In short', any man who wants to find out
anything cannot do tetter than go to Mr.
Harris, and any man who thinks he knows
anything had better go to Mr. Harris and get
him to prove it.
The Important office of Crown Prosecutor,
important alike to accuser and accused, and which
is so eagerly sought after by the N.S.W. junior
Bar, is paid for annually and with such a thump-
ing fee —for juniors—as to put aside our wonder
at the scramble which takes place when a vacancy
occurs. The Sydney C.P., who appears only at
Quarter Sessions—not Supreme Court—at Dar-
linghurst, g6ts £B5O a year; two others, the
Northern and North Western, get £550 each and
40j, per dav allowance when absent on duty.
Mark ye ! £l4 sterling per week travelling allow-
ance. Three others get £550 each and 30s. daily
when on duty. The seventh C.P. gets £525 a
year and 30s. daily when on duty. None of
these srentlemen prosecute before the Supreme
Court Judges. The labours of these prosecutors
must be of the most severe character as a glance
at the list for 1880 will show. Mr. Healey, who
retired last year invalided, held office for 10 years ;
Mr. Lee died in harness, having been in office
much about the same time; Mr. Pitcairn, who
died while on circuit at Wagga, was five years in
office ; Mr. John Dillon also died in office, which
he held for three years ; Mr. Teece died in office,
which he occupied for 10 years; Mr Fitzhardmge
and Mr. Merewether, the only two survivors
officially, have been seven and five years respec-
tively in office.
Personal Items.
The majority of the Rarnellltes are bald-
headed mer.
Verdi, the composer, has beoa elected a
senator of Italy.
Lord Abicgdon, now on a visit to Mel-
bourne, i>, of the Bertie family.
There Is a itimour that Premier Parkea
lately sought work on the Press.
Twelve Shetland ponies have been bought
in Melbburne for the King of Siam.
Perry, a Sydney t)omain orator, saVs he
has saved £lOOO since he left off drinking.
Phil. Robinson is writing his Impressiohs
of N.Z. for one of the big English magazines.
The NeW York Tribune Is publishing
Marcus Clarke’s “ His Natural Life” as a serial.
Sir W. H. Pearce, the ship-builder, who
died in England lately, left one and a-quarter
millions sterling.
Poverty has driven lima de Marska to
suicide. However, they won’t be able to do with-
out her voice in Heaven.
One or two of the English newspapers are
discussing the question whether Lord Bertie is or
is not entitled to a handle to his name.
Col. Hughes-BUllett, who is alleged to
have seduced his step-daughter and embezzled
her money, is now paralysed. Poetic justice !
There is a coloured auctioneer in Mel-
bourne. He has one advantage over his com-
patriots—he cannot lie himself black in the face.
If the clerics of the country will insist on
so enthusiastically upholding the gallows and the
lash they will soon only be known astcourgeymen.
The reporter who attended the “fairly
successful ” execution of Louisa Collins on behalf
of the Australian Star has attended 17 execu-
tions in the same capacity.
The Queen of Portugal, Maria Pia,
nice, silky, black moustache, which is said to be-
come her immensely and in which she takes great
pride. This will ease the minds of many ladies.
John Davies’ letter acknowledging the re-
ceipt of Premier Parkes’ order for the abolibion of
the Casual Labour Board is dated December hi.
John thus escaping having to spell “January.”
An American paper says: “Douglas
Sladen, poet laureate of Australia, is in Boston.”
No, Mr. Melican man. HalloraD, after his
“Hymn to the HangmaD,” is the poet lariat of
Australia.
Mrs. George Hirsch, of Dallas (Texas), has
just been guilty of six children at a birth, all of
whom are living and doing well. Only four are
boys, the other two, as a natural consequence,
being girls.
It is not true that the “ real Sir Roger ”
has owned up, nor (as he has told his lie until he
believes it himself) is it likely he will ever do so.
He is lecturing in the country towns of England
on his wrongs.
A N.Z. newspaper editor who had been
imprisoned for criminal libel was discharged on
23rd December but died on Christmas Day, his
health having become seriously impaired during
his incarceration.
A well-known Sydney speculator lately
made £lO,OOO during bis lunch-hour. At five
minutes to one he had placed under offer to him for
£GO,OOO a George- street block At a quarter to two
he had sold it for £70,000.
_ Mad King Otbo, of Bavaria, now Imagines
himself a black cat, and his courtiers don’t like to
undeceive him for fear of hurting his felines. This
joke would naturally occur to any man of deep
erudition after three hours’ patient study.
“ Joe Chamberlain ” has buried two wives
and has three children. His latest wife’s ma has
remarked that there were only five objections to
the wedding—two below ground, and three above
it. We wish Joseph joy with his mother-in-law.
Mr. “ Blue Ribbon” Booth, who came to
N.S. Wales to preach cold waterism, a few years
ago, and had sufficient collected for him to
purchase a snug property at Bowral, is offering
the land for sale by auction, as he is clearing out
for the unregenerate city of Melbourne.
Mr. G. B. BartoD, as soon as he has got
through his “ History of New South Wales,’
means to write a life of Wentworth, in doing
which he will have the use of all the family papers.
The first volume of the “ History of New South
Wales ” will be out within a month or so.
A Sydney medico lectured before the
Medical Congress, at Melbourne, on mental disease,
and suggested that Roman Catholicism produced in-
sanity. The President, T. N. Fitzgerald, pro-
bably one of the bast surg<>cni in the world, is a
Roman Catholic. Is the Sydney man prepared to
say that the exception proves the rule ?
A nun named Stevens is starting through
Africa on a bicycle to look for Stanley, and when
someone else starts in a perambulator to look for
Stevens, and another man goes off pushing a
wheelbarrow to look for the man who is looking
for Stevens, there will be three more lunatics
added to the great caravan now pervading Central
Africa.
The chief judge of the Parnell Commission
and the chief defendant in the case are vegetarians.
Both Sir James Hannen and Mr. Parnell have
practically to avoid a meat diet. Sir James used
to suffer greatly from that curse of people whose
employment is sedentary—dyspepsia. He eats
little flash now, and cartainly looks the better for
it. Mr. Parnell also largely avoids the diet of the
joint His refreshment at luncheon time is a glass
of hot water into which a lemon has been
squeezed.
Phil May writes from Rome that he is
starting work there in real earnest though he is
much disappointed with Italian art-so much so
that he intends soon to leave for Paris. “ I
cannot understood how fellows working in a
place so full of sentiment as Rome should be con-
tent to limit themselves to daubing smirking
peasant-girls and dirty loafers. These horrid
things stare you in the face in every shop window.
There seems to be no end to them, and all appear
to be taken from the same model. The pictures,
if one may call them so, are absolutely devoid of
meaning. I am told they are the work of students.
Considering the number of their pot-boilers, I
should call them .sfew-dents. I have not seen
much of Rome yet; have been here three weeks
and have not yet been to see St. Peter's, nor even


Write for Plan of flO
Australia.' Tffe-I#ri£W>LONEAX Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whitw
RoiiiKK Flobr. It is the greatest success of the;
age.
Th* 1884 Vintage i 8 one of the beet of thie oentury
.'Moet and Chandon are now shipping their “ Finest Extrif
'Quality ” Champagne of that year (with 1884 branded on
cork and label), styled “ Dry—lmperial." It is very dry,
*nd is the produoe of their own vineyard of 2600 acres of
tbs best growths In franoe. Of all wine Merchants
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
auctioneers,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, filial,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
rrlited Hat ef Businesses for tote issued Daily •
All Lists posted Free on application.
Uniform a speoialty; quality, fit and oomfort. Mndl-
Wt»o. " IIT 184 King-street Newtown.
a picture-gallery, for I find plenty to do about the
Corso and the Via Sistina, where there are many
Bplendid tubj. els. Mrs. May is very well, and is
progressing favourably with her Italian. 1 wish
I were ; I get into all sorts of messes. I generally
lookup Baedeket befote going out, and try and
learn by heart what I want to ask for, but I
generally remember the wrong thing. I asked a
eabby for some soap the other day. 1 believe he
thought I was mad.”
A story that Crooks, the Adelaide ex-
bank-manager, had bseome a backslider from
grace is contradicted ty private information from
the dungeon where he is diiog his bit. We now
learn that Crcoks is dropping his jailers m the
fountain hand OYer fist, and preaching the blessed
Gospel to those prisoners that still stand m need
of his spiritual assistance. Uriah Heep of fiction
was a fool to the Crooks of fact as regards
Christian forgiveness of bis persecutors and pity
for those sinners who have nob been put into
prison. He, himself, is a better man than ever
since he got there. Nevertheless. Crooks waits
anxiously for the day when he will be at liberty to
join the Salvation Harmy, or to go forth with his
little Bible among the benighted blacks.
Halford, the humourist, has been ap-
pointed private secretary to U.S. President Har-
rison. It is related of him that when he was a
reporter at Cincinnati in the early days of his
journalistic career, he was detailed to report the
execution of a famous criminal. While the other
reporters flocked about the condemned wretch,
asking him all manner of questions in regard to
his pasb life and hopes for the future, Halford
abided his time with a look of solemn portent on
his faoe. Just as the poor fellow was about to go
upon the seaffold Halford descended upon him,
notebook in hand. ‘ Halford of the Daily
Commkbgial,” he announced himself with a look
of deep concern on his face. “ Yes, sir,’ faltered
the trembling rascal. “Be quick. Times up,
sir,” reminded the Sheriff’s aid “ I simply want
to make one request, sir, for the benefit of our
profession,” said Halford, in cool, deliberate tones.
Will you oblige me by wriggling your tees as
long as you are conscious ? ”
Sir W. J. Clarke, the one and only Victorian
“ b’oody hand,” gave a chavoo to the members of
the Medical Congress, the other day, to which all
the dignity, beauty, and fashion if Melbourne
were bidden. They all assembled at Ruperts-
wood, and each prepared to take the “ highest
place. 1 ’ The German gentleman who officially
represents the "Vaterland stiutted about wioh his
head up and shoulders back, like a drill-master,
only relieving his spinal column periodically
by making low bows and “bonnetting” to men
and ladies alike. The Governor’s aide, Mr.
Seymour Fort was amongst those who received
the regulation kow-tow from the Deutscher gentle-
man, and nodded a familar and jccular reply
thereto. A flood of dignity and outraged Im-
perialism broke out at once. The German Kaiser
had been insulted through his representative, who
in reply to his salute, had received a curt and care-
lees nod—Victoria had insulted Germany in his
person. Sir W. J. and all the notables gathered
round, and besought of him to overlook the great
fault of a young and well meaning man, and the
young and well-meaning man was run in to
apologise and made matters worse by saying that
he thought the German Commissioner had suffi-
cient knowledge of English-speaking people to
know that it was not the cu-tom for men to
“ bonnet ”to one another. All the haut ton had
to come round and explain, to that Bismarck, the
Kaiser, Mollke and Co. should not feel annoyed
and testify their rage by coming down here in
force, and insisting on having Forb’s head sent in
on a charger. Sinca then the German gentleman
has further distinguished himself by abruptly
arising from the table at an Exhibition luncheon
and departing from the room, in eonsequenee tf
certain remarks made by Mr. M Coppm, the
United States representative, in reference bo
Germany’s Samoan policy.
The Aeekland Diocesan Synod have de-
cided that marriage fees shall go to a diocesan
fund, the officiating parson being allowed si. for
each marriage; which caused the Rev* O. M.
Nelson, a rather conceited cleric, to exclaim in the
bitterness of his heart that “ Auckland was the
champion mean dicesse of Australasia.
The Torres Straits Pilot and New
Guinea Gazette is published ones a week at
Thursday Island, and on each occasion it has to fall
24 columns or lose 75 per e;nl of the subscribers.
In a late issue two out of the 24 held a most in-
spiriting account of “ the annual gathering of the
western branch of the New Guinea mission of the
London Missionary Society,” at its head-quarters
oh Murray Island. For all practical purposes it
may be taken as read, with the exception of the
statement that “ the first item on the programme
was the ‘ collection.’ It being one of the aims of
the Society to encourage a spirit of self-reliance,
the natives are early taught to contribute some-
what to the expenses of the mission. ’ Why,
eert’nly I These men who take, the Gospel to the
uttermost parts of the eaith without money aud
without price, are not going back on the faith of
their fathers, even if they have to take it out in
copra, beche-de-mer, pearl shell, or any other
negotiable commodity. And perhaps its just as
well to make it the “first item * on the pro-
gramme.
A grey-headed, hard-featured man in a
semi-military uniform and wearing conspicuously
oh bis breait what looked like two five-shilling
pieces or their value, rushed, the other day, into
the gallery of the Jury Court at Sydney presided
over by Judge Stephen, who with a jury, counsel
and others was endeavouring to get through bani
against Tornaghi, and roared out a* the top of his
voice, “ You must find seats or go out! As there
was not the slightest noise in the crowded gallery
the Court paused, and his Honor seemed in doubt
as to whether he should commib the leather-lunged
interrupter for contempt of court. These janitors
bring the manners of the barrack room and parade-
ground to the performance of their duties, and it
is high time they were replaced by a staff of civil
officials with whom the public having business at
the courts may have intercourse on fair terms.
This little complaint recalls an anecdote of the
late Judge Perrin, of the Irish Queen’s Beneh.
Perrin often suffered terribly from gout, and on
Buch occasions his temper was none of the swe a test.
At a certain assizes in Cork his temper happened
to be at a very low ebb when a constabulary sub-
inspector, with creaking boots on, persisted in
naradiHg the gallery with Hush-h-h! Soilence!
“Keep quiet!” etc., when not needed—when
Perrin roared out “Sheriff! sheriff, remove that
policeman and take him to gaol for 24 hours for
disturbing the court. He is making more noise
than all the people put together. This policeman
was not Blake.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Parkes cat hla hair the other day. Then
he went bung.
The Samoan trouble will end in Germany
being forced to back down.
Mr. Bruce Smith will probably stand for
Paddicgton in the Foreign-trade interest.
David Buchanan says, “I have nob the
requisite imbecility to become a Minister of the
Crown.”
There are 16 millions of men under arms to
perpetuate royal hou-:es and keep democracy sub-
ordinate.
Sydney E. News calls the N.S. W. foreign-
trade party the “National” party. Quite right.
England is a nation.
The Evening News, bowing to the storm,
now uses the word “gentlemen” in connection
with Protectionist candidates.
Mr. Ralston, barrister, Judge Wlndeyer’s
son-in-law, thinks of standing at the N.S.W.
general election as a Protectionist,
The N.S.W. legislative Assembly after
the next general election will consist of 137 mem-
bers—thanks to the Expansion Clauses.
It is estimated that Protectionist America
will have the enormous surplus of £32,362,010 to
show for the fiscal year endiDg 30bh June.
THE SMILING BARD.
(OVERHEARD ON THE ROAD TO MANLY.)
MACQUARIE STREET POET : “WHAT IS THAT UGLY WEED OVER THERE?”
FRIEND AND ADMIRER: “UGLY WEED, INDEED! GOODNESS ME! THAT IS
THE BEAUTIFUL WATTLE THAT YOU RAVED ABOUT IN YOUR LAST
POEM.”
Mud J. Hayneß, not feeling quite sure
about Mudgee, evidently contemplates having to
shift the scene of his operations to Newcastle.
The goal of labour is a abatute day and
statute pay. Land-nationalisation, Protection,
trades unionism and Freetrade will all end in that.
John Haynes “ Denominational Protec-
tion party ” joke is a hoary chestnut. John is
trying to make the Yellow Pup yowl throughout
the land.
One of the whibe waistcoat dallies asks the
N.S.W. electors to declare against “Alienism.”
Right you are : they are going to declare against
Foreign-trade.
A correspondent of one of the dailies
suggests that the Lind Nationalisers should in-
clude the bounty system in their programme in
order to get over the native-induatry difficulty.
The Rev. Charles Dappuy, of Sydney
says (as reported in a daily paper) that every per-
Eon who attempts to abolish hanging is a traitor
to his God and an enemy to his species. Hallelu-
jah !
Over £9OOO has been spent In abortive
endeavours to ventilate the Victorian House of
Parliament. The Australian politician would
seem to be doomed to exist in an eternal bad
odour.
The managing proprietor of a certain dally
paper the other day walked into the reporters’ 1
room and said : “ Look here ! I'll sack any man
that uses the word ‘ colonial ’ again. Australian’s
the word.”
Several N.S.W. country papers have jast
declared for Protection, and a very large number
of Foreign-trade organs are on the rail. Vce
victis and to the victors belong the Government
advertising.
G. H. Reid Is understood to declare that'
he will not take office in any Government until he'
shall have made himself independent by his
practice at the bar, which, by the way, has grown
rapidly of late.
“ I he gentlemen who joined me tiro years
ago were necessarily comparative strangers to
me.” Parkes knew them well enough to borrow
money from a lot of them. Moral: Let us be
superlative st angers.
The Bulletin has already enquired what
Australia is going to do about the Japanese
now that she has pretty well done wish the China-
man. A hundred head of Japanese cheap labour
is now on its way to Sydney.
The S.M. Herald says that the Dibba’
Government is at least as strong as the late
Ministry, while the Sydney D.T. admits that it is
undoubtedly stronger. That it does not as yet
smell so Btrong we cheerfully admit.
Almost 30 years agd Charles Lamb wrote
to his friend Judge Barron Field, of B >fcany Bay,
asking “Do you grow your own hemp?’ And
now, after a century of hangings, N.S.W., being a
foreign-trade-country, still imports even its hemp.
The Parnell-Times commission costs, while
sitting, precisely three guineas per minute. As
the inquiry seems likely to last a few years, it is
jmt possible that the Times may be published for
a considerable time solely in the interests of horse-
hair.
Potatoes were fourpence a pound in the
principal Victorian towns a fortnight back. They
are now easing. For a time fears were enter-
tained that the people would have to resort to
some other missile during the forthcoming elec-
tions.
You einnot logically be a land-nationaliser
without being a Socialist, because if you nationalise
the land you must nationalise everything. Are
the White Waistcoat party—the Mac Millions, the
Wises, the Calico Jimmies—are they Socialists ?
We smile.
Thus David Buchanan, M.P. “He was
not surprised that Premier Parke’, who was the
only creditable object on the other side, had cut
himself off from the miserable objects which had
tangled him in the past, and had left them to live
in th§ir own rottenness.” “ Creditable object ”
is good.
A divining-rod man, with eyes bandaged,
was practising his art in the suburbs of Sydney,
last week. On one occasion he brought the point
of his rod to a rest and said, “ Dig here for
■water.” The rod rested on the bald head of a
Freetrade Parliamentary candidate sitting on a
fallen tree,
The Chamber oe Commerce Journal
(London) suggests that Western Australia be
granted a free Constitution on condition that she
takes annually 100,000 British paupers for 15
years. One million five hundred thousand paupers
in 15 years ! Britain is indeed a great producing
country.
W. D. Howells, the novelist), In a letter
declining the honour of addressing a meeting of
Boston anarchists, reiterates his opinion that the
“ Chicago anarchists were unfairly tried for mur-
der, instead of conspiracy, and punished because
of their opinions for crimes they were not shown
to have committed.”
The Salvation Army has issued a new
book of hymns, Here are a couple of lines from
one woeful compilation :
“ Save Scotland, Wales, and France,
Give Ireland one more chance.”
Another injustice to Erin.
Mayor Griffin, of Manly, threatens to
istand for St. Leonards in the Protectionist in-
terest. Mr. Griffin seems to be a political cork-
screw ; according to all accounts he is as much to
be trusted on the fiscal question as is the docile
iSchey. Nevertheless, if he now gives his word
we presume he will keep it. He has had two
years to definitively make up his mind.
“ So long as Mr. M‘Million gets hU soft-
goods in fre3 of duty we flitter ourselves that we
have “ commercial freedom,” although no one can
buy a single pound of ration tea without paying
a tax of 3j. What deep-thinking, broad minded
Freetrader is going to make this sort of thing a
paramount national issue?”—Tub BxJnyiP.
Ex-Minister Abigail fays he wishes that
someone would formulate the “ Mountain Maid ”
allegations outside the N.V W. Assembly, in
order that he may take a libel-action. If Francis
wants a libel-action then let him take proceedings
against the Gloucester paper, which, on 24th
November, printed the statements of which he
complains.
Says the S.M. Herald : —“ The time Is as
anxious for Australia as it is for England and the
countries of Europe, for it cannot be doubted that
in the event of any serious intercational complica-
tions England cm scarcely fail to be embroiled
and to carry the colonies into the embroilment
with her.” All right. Better let us run up our
own ffl ag at once.
Sir Henry Parkes says that the party the
Freetraders have to fight “ has been at all times
distinguished by libelling the fair name of the
country and by inventing foul charges against
honourable men.” Saying nasty things about
Parkes’ financial transactions and about politi-
cians’ banks and their rates of usury, and about
the Hornsby Estate, we suppose.
The N.S.W. White Waistcoat party now
all profess to be Land Nationalisers. The single-
tax people, though they don’t seem to know it, are
on the point of being used as a mere joint in the
tail of the alligator of Calico-Jimmy ism. The
Land Nationalisers are beibg smiled upon by
lawyer Wise (who hopes one day to be Premier of
N.S.W.) and who takes good care to protact his
own profession.
“ The Pope has written to the Superior
of the Monastery of Chartreuse, France, advismg
the monks to sell the property, a 3 the business of
manufacturing liqueur carried on by them is in-
compatible with the rules of their order.” The
monks, says the Pep?, mustn’t make any more
liqueur, and yet Mr. Toohey, of Sydney, who
makes tanglefoot, is made a Knight of St. Gre-
gory ! The Bulletin advises the monks of
Chartreuse to come to Australia, start a big
brewery, make a pile—and get knighted ! Mar-
vellous, isn’t it ?
The Age says that when the fiscal ques-
tion is settled in N.S.W, one of the first reforms
mu3t be the reduction of the number of members
in the Legislative Assembly—there is no advan-
tage to be derived from bringing together a mob
of disorderly men. With the adoption of Protec-
tion, remarks our contemporary, a more friendly
feeling will arise between N.S.W. and Victoria, for
while the N.S.W. Freetraders are anti-Federal the
Protectionists favour Australian Federation with
Protection against the outside world and inter-
colonial Freetrade.
The manifesto issued by Premier Dlbbs to
the electors of the Murrumbidgee appears in
another part of this issue of The and
is well worth the pBru3al of every voter in N.S.W.
The policy foreshadowed in this address promise!
a Protective Tariff, Local Self-Government,
Amendment of the Land Laws, legislation to
facilitate and encourage Water Conservation,
Sanitary Reform, Encouragement to the Mining
Industry, Payment cf Members, Law Reform,
and the pushing forward of Railway Construction.
One of the closest electioneering finishes
,oq record came off in an English borough where
the numbers polled were exactly equal, but by a
scrutiny it was shown one voter had slept in a
house that was on the dividing-line of the county,
and the room he slept in was partly in one county
and partly in another. The bedstead was also
proved to be similarly situated. It then only
remained to ascertain in which county she voter’s
head was during his sleep, and that decided the
vote and the election.
Thus the pious Melbourne D.T. sums up
the results of an inquiry into the Victorian Regis-
trar General’s office “Such a picture of human
nature on what may be called its stupid side, such
a revelation of general credulity and slovenliness,
of wooden-headed routine and blinking inaccuracy
has seldom been drawn outside the covers of a
novel. Almost everybody who figures in the
report might be taken as a caricature either of
(the gullibility which can swallow anything, or of
themoral laxity which sticks at nothing.” This
is a religious way of saying that the Registrar-
General’s office is worked by rogues, or fools, and
we beg to move for a return of the salaries which
a suffering colony pays to the men who swallow
anything or stick at nothing. Bah ! The public
take no interest in public affairs.
“Old To-Morrow,” batter known to fame
as Premier Macdonald, of Canada, speaking at
Toronto, declared that so long as eggs continued
to be laid one at a time by the ordinary meat hen
of commerce, Canada would never—no. never-
become a part of the great American Republic.
But, unluckily, Macdonald is not quite the power
he used to be, and even the untutored red
man smiles behind his blanket now when
‘ 1 Old To-Morrow ” goes out upon the
Btump. Ever since he became known to
politics, Sir John Macdonald has been going
to do something immense and important, and he
has always been going to start upon it to-morrow.
He is now getting old and shaky, and he still intends
to do something about the middle of next week
that will cause the world to sit down and scream
on its axis, and he is resolved to make the whole
earth howl in the early part of the month after
next. But some day the poor old man will die
out with his life’s work just about to be com-
menced, and then an inscription will be put on his
tombstone, stating that he might have began to
be a great man if he had lived till to-morrow.


HIS ORIGINAL SIN.”
“ Pre mier Pa rke a ha s be en suffer lng severely fr o m his original sin in includin g such people in hls Minlstry. "-Sydney D.T. Sentiments.
“Premler Parkea has deolared that he wlll join hearb and aoul wlth the Freetrade party in the coming battle.”-Whits Waistcoat Daily.
PASKES (sol. ): " YES I SUPPOSEI CAN GET OUT OF THE BATH NOW. THANK HEAVE, IT DONT TAKE LONG FOR A POLITICIAN TO WASH OFF
ORIGINAL SIN OR ANY OTHER SIN, IN THIS GOUNTRY.”


TO BE OR NOT TO BE?
NEW SOUTH WALES POLITICIAN (arout to make a trip to "the country”) : “I WISH I KNOW’D WHICH SIDE I’D BETTER WEAR OUT’ARDS! S'POSE I’LL
HAVE TO WEAR THE PURTEOTION SIDE HOUT.”


gWEET BORONIA, the New Perfume. Manu
faotured from th West Australian " Boronia
Mtgistiguta." Sold Everywhere. Price, 3a. Bd.,
5a., and 10a. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be Bure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMOR®, 138 Bonvke-st., Hast,
fBUOTnill
High Abt Photogbaphy.— For artistio posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEIVIONT
Sc GO., Royal Arcade, Btand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Exoellenoy Lord Garingtoa
" By Appointment "
Messrs. Mokt & Cuandon are now shipping to the
Colonies their 1884 Vintage “ Dry-Imp4rial ’’ Cham-
pagne. This is the produoe of their own vineyards of
1600 aores of the ohoioest growths around Epernay. The
" Dry-Imperial " has never been shipped to the oolonies
before. It Is very dry. Ash for IfoSt'r " Drr Imphltl"
«V all Wine Merchant*
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1858.
THE LEADING HOUSE
roa
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS .
Special attention is called to the
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfeot moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
Our BELLING PIANO, whloh cannot be ex
eelled at £3B.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which apeak for themselves I The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work
manshlp and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W.H.PAUHtftCO-,Ui
856 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
The Duke of Marlborough has lately dls-
cinguished himself by another instance of that
high-toned courtesy which always marks the
British peerage while engaged in jumping on its
mother, and, at the same time, he has demon-
strated to the public mind that he still preserves
in their pristine freshness those distinguished
qualities of intellect and soul that he used to kick
his wife with in the days of his early manhood
before he went to seed. On the occasion of his
return to Blenheim House with his American bride
—a lady who will not be kicked with impunity— the
local vicar neglected to have the church-bells rung
in honour of the event, and Marlborough imme-
diately withdrew the £lO donation which he used
to pay annually as a fireinsuranca on his mean
little soul, and informed the man of God that he
could go down below. He also explained that if
he found the vicar’s wife using the path across his
park after that date he would pursue her with
dogs and violence or anything else that came
handy and drive her off the premises. God bles3
the old nobility. They evidently need it badly.
INothlng can exceed the fine contempt
lohat the Sydney young men who own “yots”
lhave for their less gilded contemporaries who only
fcire them. The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club,
it is said, refused to admit the hired yacht people
into their charmed circle, and “the Sydney Hired
Boat Sailing Club” is the result. Yes, snobbery
flows dawn the very sewers and taints the salt sea
waves o£ '“.our beautiful harbour.”
* * *
The humasi nose has got to go. According
to eminent scientific authorities, the civilised
nations of the present day are fast losing their
sense of smell, and when this sense vanishes alto-
gether it is calculated that the nose will enter
upon a gradual process of deterioration which will
culminate in utter extinction. Nature, it is
pointed out, never preserves useless organs, and
unless it chooses to retain the nose as a thing to
mount spectacles on the weapon which has so long
ornamented the centre of the countenance is
doomed to total obliteration. The Sydney people,
however, The Bulletin predicts, will be safe for
many a year, so far as the sense of smell is con-
cerned. When a Sydney man feel that his nose is
going he will take a trip to Melbourne. After two
sniffs at the local open drains his nose will begin
to sprout at the rate of half-an-inch per day.
* ' *
Jane M‘Gregor swallowed her false teeth
at Melbourne the other day. The hospital
doctors have been unable to recover them. The
young lady should employ a dentist to draw them,
but no—
Among the varied features of Melbourne
journalism one of the mo3t prominent is the list
of ‘ 1 marriages in high life ” recorded in a certain
humble jernil, which spreads itself weekly in
sundry pages of agony concerning the nuptials of
the land-shark’s daughter and the unexpected
ho eking of a young and misguided male by the
maiden aunt of the retired publican. Attached
to these notices there invariably figures a long list
of wedding-gifts, in which the butter-cooler
donated by Mrs. Artaxerxes Smith jostles
the fish-slice lavishly bestowed by Mr. ’Enry
Jenkins, and following these evidences of public
extravagance come a painful caravan of pickle-
forks, biass candlesticks, jam dishes, cake-trays,
salt-cellars, biscuit-pans, sachets, fans, scent-
bottles, and other similar articles in great con-
fusion. Here and there, however, the gloom is
lighted up by an occasional inspiration in the
shape of “cheque”—amount left to the imagination
of the reader—“pair of thoroughbred hacks,”
and other mirthful deviations of the kind which
tend to show that some faint glimmer of common-
sense still survives amid an ocean of useless
pots and pans, and seems to faintly suggest the
approach of a time when wedding presents will
take a reasonable shape and cease to be mementos
of idiocy and softening of the brain. But what
we really pine after i 3 the sight of a cow, or a
spring-mattress, or 12 pairs of boots among the
presents at a fashionable wedding, and when these
items begin to crop up we will feal that the brides
and bridegrooms of “ high life ” are at last begin-
ning to realise the seriousresponsibilities of life. For
our own part we have lived for years in wilds where
a ..sh-slice was never seen and where the nearest
HOMOEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
DOCTOR: “YOU ARE EVIDENTLY WORRIED WITH BUSINESS; THAT IS YOUR CHIEF
TROUBLE, I THINK. WHAT YOU WANT IS PEACE OF MIND.”
PATIENT: “I GET A PIECE OF THAT EVERY BLESSED DAY. SOMETIMES I GET IT ALL
NIGHT, TOO.”
cake-tray was 150 miles distant by an imprac
ticable road over 11 high mountains, and yet we
survived and were almost happy in our primitive
barbarism. Too much fish-slice and cake-tray and
too little spring mattress and boots are, in our
opinion, amobg the worst of the curses of a high-
pressure civilisation.
(* • •
The Princess Helena Rollzkoff Massalky,
a lady of Russian extraction whose name was
evidently intended not so much for publication as
for a guarantee of good faith, recently panned out
at Florence, leaving behind her in her will posi-
tive'instructions that her remains were to be
burnt to ashes and the dust blown to the four
winds of heaven. Her property she lefb to be be-
stowed in charity, but the bequest is strictly subject
to her dust being satisfactorily blown as aforesaid,
and now the Italian municipality finds itself in a
desperately tight place. For though the Italian
law allows anyone to have his or her corpse burnt
to any reasonable extent it insists on the ashes
being duly bottled and satisfactorily corked and
labelled after the ceremony, and anyone throwing
away the bottle is liable to find it again under a
heavy penalty. And, meanwhile, the Princess's
will declares emphatically that the charitable be-
quest lapses unless the last vestige of the lady is
thrown away, and the only way out of the diffi-
culty is to get a special Aot passed allowing the
executors of the deceased to take the final re-
mainder of her out in a shovel and sling it over
the hedge.
* * *
For some days the Australian Natives of
Melbourne and surrounding districts were tortured
by the horrible suspicion that they had been
nursing a viper in their associated buzzum. The
trouble grew out of certain statement? reflecting
on the nativity of Dr. MTnerney, chief medicine
man of their No. 1 branch, and a hitherto re-
spected apostle of the rising generation. In short,
it was commonly reported that MTnerney had
made his entrance into this breathing world on
the ould sod of County Clare, and was no more
worthy to belong to the A.N.A. The character
of the young doctor, however, has be'en trium-
phantly cleared by a number of ancient identities
who took oath and did swear that he entered this
vale of tears via Kangaroo Flat, near Sandhurst,
his respected mother being there at the time.
This historical circumstance is also backed up by
a hoary tradition that the infant Native was
baptised in a tent, therefore we have pleasure in
moving a resolution to the effect that some person
or persons unknown have been endeavouring to
heap another insult on the distressful counthry
where MTnerney wasn’t born at all, at all.
*,.. K * w
The real ruler of the destinies of N.S.W.
at the present moment is a grass-widow. Not the
common or ordinary kind of grass-widow, but the
crummiest little woman who ever stood on the
deck of a mailboat. Think hard and keep your
ears open. -
* * •
Mr. Mackenzie, mentioned In The Bulle-
tin as chief entertainer of H.R.H. during the lata
“ royal visit ” to Homburg, is in the habit of
cashing Tummy’s cheques and quietly sticking
them on a file. For years the grovelling Scotch-
man has practised this form of loyalty, until
society has christened him “ the benefactor.”
When Victoria by the grace hops the Imperial
twig, then Mackenzie will (probably) get back his
own and be made a dook for his services. But
should Tummy, or himself, die before the other
calamity comes to pass, the benefactor will have
cast b i i bread upon the waters entirely in vain.
• • •
One of the moßb beautiful bantlings ever
born of a noble brain was cruelly strangled and
ignominiously buried a few days back. The Hon.
James Balfour —a member of the Vicborian Legis-
lative Council and a Kerristian proprietor of Mel-
bourne D.T.—sought to touch up the Chinese
Restriction Bill with a proviso intended to supply
Ah Sin with a long felt want. Mr. Balfour, who
is evidently a statesman of large connubial in-
sbincbs, proposed to allow a Chow landing in Aus*
tralia to be accompanied by three ladies and three
children of his own colour, so that each leper now
languishing in celibacy might soon have a chance
to select a suitable partner of his joys, with the
additional advantage of being able to adopt an
almond-eyed little innocent if he felt so disposed.
It is possible, however, that the matrimonial-
minded Jamis invented his proviso to enable all
home going Ohinkies to return hither with three
wives apiece, and just enough progeny for im-
mediate requirements, but the exact details of this
good man’s scheme are void of political signi-
ficance. What we can all understand is that
the proviso aforesaid was introduced on high
moral grounds as calculated to convert
dens of infamy into well-conducted Mongolian
homes, where the peculiar people might increase
and multiply and blessed would be the leper who
had his quiver full of them. How characteristic
of this wooden-headed era that Balfour’s inspira-
tion was squelched ! Nothing is left him save the
barren honour of having seen what none else saw,
viz , that the surest way of checking the influx
of Chinaman is to breed them on the spot. In
which ca3e they would honour their fathers and
their mothers, and their days would be long in our
land.
• * *
The story goes that Sir Jamie Macßain
was met on the steps of Parliament House, Mel-
bourne, by a Sassenach acquaintance, who saluted
the ponderous-minded Scotchman with “All hail!
Macßain.” This little joke was quite too deep
for the President of the Council, so he shook his
venerable head and suggested that the Shake-
spearian quotation ran differently. Disgusted
with his failure, the Sassenach turned on his heel
and presently came across Sir Jamie M'Culloch.
“ What do you think,’’ says the man of frivolity,
“I just now sail ‘All hail! Macßain,’ to our
respected friend, and he gravely said ‘l’m think-
ing it ought to be ‘All hail! Macbeth.’ ” “ Weel,”
says M'Culloch, “ I'm thinking he was no so verra
far wrang ” And yeb some of these old Scotch-
men are reputed to eutertain one another with
funny stories. Weeping Rachel!
* * *
She : “I am sorry yonr sister is not here,
Mr. Blunt.” Mr. Blunt: “ She didn’t feel quite
able. She went to the cooking school this morn-
ing, and you know after the girls get through
cooking they have to eat what they’ve made.”
• • •
A Melbourne paper, reporting a case of
the overlaying of an infant, remarks: “ Two
neighbouring women deposed that an effort was
made to restore animation with mustard and hot
water, but as the child, which was five weeks old
and unbaptised, was quite dead, their efforts were
useless.” From which we infer that something
stronger than mustard is required to bring round
a five-weeks-old, unbaptised child whose parent
has used it for a mattress.
• * •
|t Fashion is a shocking tyrant. The thin
girl has commenced to discard her improver. We
saw her in Pitt-street last week.
Isaac Sparrow is now under commitbal for
the alleged murder of Hans Olund near Young,
N.S.W. The crime, by whomever committed,
was a brutal, cold-blooded and cowardly one.
Should Sparrow be convicted he will be hanged
beyond a doubt; therefore we trust that should
he have to rely on assigned counsel the Govern-
ment will see that he is afforded proper means of
defence, so that no one may be called upon to say
nasty things hereafter.
• * *
The other day a Melbourne constable ar»
rested a whole weddiDg party that was rolling
home after the solemn ceremony, in an awful
state of beer. The contracting parties were tied
“ tighter ” than usual, that’s all.
• •
A youngster named Orchard, and under
11 years of age, has been convicted of burglary at
Sandhurst (Vic ). “By their fruits ye shall know
them.”
m m m
Saya Me lbou rne
Herald : “Rev. F. H,
Scott, in a humorous
speech delivered at
Kensington' last night,
compared the union of
a minister and his flock
to that existing between
man andwife.” Hear,
hear ! and the dock is
the unhappy husband,
who has to stand all
the old woman’s jaw.
* • •
Justice Butt is of
opinion that though
marriage with a de-
ceased wife’s sister is
illegal in England, it is
not competent for one
of the parties to such a
marriage to ask relief
from it.
* # *
There are nine
annual public holidays
kept in Adelaide, seven
in Brisbane, ten in
Hobart, fourteen in
Melbourne, nine in
Perth, and eight in
Sydney.
It has been notice*
able lately that Lord
Oarington has not been
taking much interest in
thingß in general as
was his wont. Aged
men may break their
legs and Bchool-boys
prune their fingers with
tomahawks, but now
there is no letter of
“ condolence” as of old.
Why this thusness ?
• • •
Just before the late
Lord Portman died
some of his 99 -year
leases fell in, making
a differenceinhis favour
C f £BO,OOO per annum.
He got there just the
s'.me.
Mr. Fred. Evans, of ’Frisco, “ spirit
medium,” was presented with the customary puree
of sovereigns the other day in Brisbane, prior to
his migration to Melbourne. This suggested to
him that he had not given his Queensland patrons
all the value a good up-standing medium should,
and so, conscience-Btricken, on the hint he spoke.
He referred to the difficulties he had had to con-
tend with in Brisbane. “The heat of the
weather,” he said, “and other conditions had
militated very much against successful seances.”
Well, now, we always said so, and here is the
spirited Evans bearing us out. Queensland is
hotter than
• * •
“ Poor Jenny. Ib must be an awful shock
to you,” sympathised her friend ; “and to think
that you trusted him all these years while he was
embezzling such enormous sums ! ” “Ye?,” she
sobbed, “I knew my millinery alone came to
more than his salary, but I never suspected him.”
—Lire.
LAND BOOM REFLECTIONS.
Ye citizens of Melbourne, who snigger as ye read
“ Astounding Revelations ” of the landed grab-
ber’s greed;
Who lightly look on scandals, and guffaw on
hearing how
A gorgeous spec, has ended in a linen-washing
row,
Or find a passing pleasure in those stories that
besmirch
The characters of persons very prominent at
church—
Are the old ideas of honour so completely out of
vogue
That ye sympathise with swindles and can tolerate
the rogue ?
Ye citizens of Melbourne (very marvellous, in-
deed,
In the crooked type of morals which the city
seems to breed),
Do ye never sigh with sorrow, do ye never blush
for shame
When another “ stormy meeting ” blasts another
public name ?
Is & senator’s dishonour merely “ what we might
expect V
Does a hypocrite’s exposure tend to elevate his
sect ?
And do ye choose your leaders for their impudence
sublime,
And pious perseverance in their law-eluding crime ?
Ye citizens of Melbourne, ye heedless rank and
file,
God help a social army when its officers are vile !
God help the toiling thousands when the pillars of
their State
Are double-dealing humpers of the Sabbath-morn-
ing plate !
No subject for the joker, not a theme for cynic
mirth
. Is this “showing up ” of bargains in our alienated
earth;
Airo forth, like old Diogenes, and search amid the
gloom
]For honest men, uninjured by the burabing of the
boom.
E. F.
We think M‘Gregor is in luck—
Her case will win renown—
Doubtless ’tis true that very few
Young ladies in the town
Are built to bolt their victuals whole
And chew them when they’re down.


Mr. Thomas Garrett, in his address to his
constituents, says his views on the liquor laws are
well known to them all.
Seven Chinamen were confirmed at Sydney
Trinity Church a short time back. A confirmed
Cninaman is not an improvement. The man who
would confirm a Chow would confirm a thief.
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia, The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
PERFECT HEALTH 1
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings. 410 George Street, near King Street.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, Jan. 23rd, 1889.
Dbar Moorabinda,—
Charley says he could ccarcely manage to knesl in
ohurch on Sunday morning after attending evening ser-
vice at a certain Sydney theatre on Saturday night. His
knees were quite bruised from keeping them crushed up
against the seat in froat cf him. Those “ stalls ’’ are
toq olose together, for comfort, you know, and, besides
that, a girl whom I know had her lovely new white cos-
tume completely spoilt by the red dye off the back of the
seat.
Lawn-tennis seems to be rather unpopular just now
Judging by the want of interest evoked in the tourna-
ment of the Sydney Club, reoently played at the Associa-
tion Oround. On one of the Saturdays there was not a
single visitor, although the play was really good.
I saw a lady “ on the Sydney blook ” the other day who
looked remarkably like “ Galatea ’’ walking about in day-
light. She was arrayed in white nun’s-veiling made in
loose, Mowing style, and not far off were our friends, the
“Blue Mountains.” You remember those two fat women
who always affacted the brightest blue they oou’.d find.
They each had a lot of old gold about their bonnets—a
sort of “ sunset on the B'.ue Mountains,” in fact.
In the window of a confectioner's shop in one of the
Arcades is a notice to the nobility of Sydney, that the
proprietors have received from Vienna choice confec-
tionery, etc. An enterprising butcher also, in another
part of the city, has inscribed on his shop front, ** To the
Nobility, Gentry, and People ! ’ Comment is needles, as
A. Ward says.
The Liberty silk sashes, with long loops and ends, are
ooming much into favour. Two pretty heliotropo-tinted
dresses, with soft, white Liberty silk sashes, looked very
charming. I reoently saw an exquisite costume of
dove-coloured silk, with white silk front and cuffs ; bon-
net, gloves, and sunshade to match. Everything was
oomplete, down to the loDg ivory handle of the parasol ;
also a cream dress, made like Myra Kemble’s white one in
“ Hans the Boatman ” was very stylish.
The Blook was literally a block on Saturday being eo
unusually crowded that it was a difficulty to push cne’s
way through the throng. A very startling get-up
attracted universal attention, as its wearer must have
been aware as she slowly paraded the pavement notwith-
standing the orush. Pioture a bright buttercup-yellow
and white silk, the stripes very broad, hat to matoh, and
oh ! the sunshade i it was like a marquee at a garden
party, broad yellow and white stripes. Another con-
spicuous object was a bright red straw hat, with deep
white eatin band, and a badly-painted and illustrated
woman attached. And, speaking of paint, one might feel
some respeot for a well-executed work of art, but smear-
ing and daubing are productive of pity only, and remind
one of the lady in Miss Braddon’s novel, “ whose left eye-
brow was quite out of drawing.”
Some very preposterous hats also loomed up before an
aggravated world. Some of these absurd head-coverings
were turned up behind to the height of a foot and a-half,
and the funny part of the thing was that th 9 wearers of
these monstrosities were not very juvenile by any means.
Some of them wouldn’t look more than 43 by night with
the light behind them, but the others were Methusalehs
let off the chain and the effect was painful.
I see that someone advocates in the papers that the
Anniversary Day holiday be kept on Monday, on the
ground that Saturday is “ the ladies’ day of work." Non-
sense ! Monday’s washing-day.
Happy possessors of tall figures will be glad to learn
that redingotes are coming in again. All the same,
dumpy girls will persist in wearing the garment, of
oourse. The hair is to be worn lower than at present,
and wreaths of flowers for evening to be placed on the
front.
There’s no doubt that tan shoes do make the feet look
larger than nature intended, which makes me think that
their reign will be shoit. It is well known that blaok, on
the contrary, has the effect cf reducing the apparent siz?.
Patti, who is said to have rather large walking extremities,
is oredited with wearing blaok silk stockings and blaok
Bhoes invariably for this reason. And owners of stout
figures would be wise to keep to blaok dresses, whioh
have a blessed tendenoy to impart an air of fiotitious
slimness to the wearer thereof.
My Hobart friend, Maud G., has been visiting an old
lady in Launceston whose eooentrioity, she thinks, ap-
proaches lunacy. Shopping with her one day the old
lady purchased a large tin bucket, and when the shopman
Inquired where he Bhould send it, she said, “ Thank you,
I always carry my own parcels,” and forthwith carried it
home on her atm, like a new kind of hand-bag, muoh to
her companion's disgust. Another time Maud was pre-
sent when the parson called, and in reply to some state-
ment he made the old lady said very deliberately, “ Mr.
8.. seven years ago I knew you to be a hypocrite, now I
know you to be a liar.” Plain speaking is refreshing in
these gushing days, but it was too much for Maud, and
she returned to Hobart last week.
A Hobait friend wiites me that a ball came eff there
the other evening, at whioh Lady Hamilton and all her
satellites were preseat, the masculine contingent being
augmented by some naval officers. The ball was a suc-
cess, except for a slight contretemps that occurred about
supper time. When the musicians’ turn came for the re-
freshment struggle, they met Lady Hamilton, escorted by
an offioer, returning to the ball-room, and the clarionet
player accidentally tripped and brushed against her lady-
ship ; he apologised, and passed on. Presently the offioer
re-appeared on the soene, and angrily demanded of the
clarionet man "What he meant by it? How dared he
aot so rudely to her ladyship?" etc. The man replied
that it was an aooident, and he had apologised. The
c fficer continued to bluster, till the cornet man quietly
interposed, “What is alt this fuss about? Isn't Lady
Hamilton as good as we are 1" The effioer glared at him,
simply breathless, then walked off without another word,
and fell heavily somewhere to think it out.
Youra truly,
SA[?] SHITH.
Nearly every prominent business man in
Auckland (N,Z ) has gone through the bank-
ruptcy court, or compounded with his creditors,
during the past 18 months.
The editor of the P.M. Gazette says that
for many years his idea of Australia was limited
to the statements that—-
Sydney has much gold. Sydney is a bad city.
Adelaide has more gold. Adelaide is a worse oity.
Melbourne has most, gold. Melbourne is the worst city.
H. J. Byron’s bon mot abont the noise
behind the scenes at a theatre being caused by the
manager sawing off the last act has just been
capped by an English judge, who, hearing a
grating noise in court, suggested that it arose
from the plaintiff filing affidavits.
From the Age :
{STRAYED, Friday large strawberry and white
Cow. If to!) calved, wild looking. Kawaid
Pasoaral, Parsley-street, Fcotsoray.
What iB it ?
Pastor Jefferis’ sensational sermon on
“The Joys of Poverty ” turns out to be a very
' COPY!”
“The Pope is going to atart a Daily Paper at Rome.”— THE BULLETIN presumes
that the Devil will, as usual, worry him for copy.
second-hand affair after all. The philosopher
Seneca once delivered a most eloquent discourse
on the self-same subject, and at the very time he
was reeling it off the old Binner had two millions
sterling out at the highest interest he could
fiec ? r °- . Je ® e . ris hasa Balar y ° f . £ u lo^ o a year
an ? . Pokings,’’m addition to which he has a
sTme'amount?" P ” V mC ° me ° f ab ° nt ®
Theodore Rosebelt), In the CENTURY,
vouches for the truth of the following incident
narrated to him by an American frontiersman
One time when I was keeping a saloon down in New
Mexicothere was a man owed me a grudge Well, he
took siok of the small pox, and the doctor told him he d
sure die, and he said if that was so he reokoned he’d kill
me first. So he come a-riding in with his gun (in the
West a revolver is generally called a gun), and began
shooting ; but I hit him first and away he rode. I started
to get on my horse to follow him, but there was a little
Irishman there who said he’d never killed a man, and he
berged hard for me to give him my gun and let him go
•**«. tbe other man and finish him So I let him go, and
when he oaught up blamed if the little cuss didn’t get so
nervous that he fired off into the ground and the darned
bullet struck a orowbir and glanced up and hit the other
man square in the head and killed him 1 Now, that was
a funny shot, wasn t it
Poor old Tennyson is now nearly deaf
and almost completely blind, and is evidently
breaking up fast. Sti’l he will have to breakup
faster if he wants to get a place in Westminster
Abbey, for there is now only space left for three
statues and a few busts, and about six illustrious
but infirm personages are speeding on to the
Shadow Land in order to get their ashes in before
the institution is full. In view of this difficulty
sun i ry I ° on ?9 laBba have suggested that a few old
klD & 8 should be ejected on the ground
that their monuments have long since ceased to
excite public enthusiasm, but the general feeling
i s that these monarchs might catch cold when
brought to grass, and it is now proposed that a
new wing should be added to the premises, and
that the illustrious dead should be allowed to go
ahead as of yore.
Nanier an alleged seanort city which
inn •v. V • , u ° . , y ,, ,
languishes beside a bare sandy beach on the east
coast of New Zealand) with n ' t hing to shelter it
nearer than South America, is just now in a state
of profound indignation owing to a statement
reflecting on its morals which appeared in the
Wellington Herald. That paper recently stated
that “in a fastly dying-out place like Napier it
becomes necessary for a paper, if it deserves Jiving,
to be guilty of some indiscretion so as to Iring
itself before the people.” This is held to mean
that unless there is a “norrid murder” to report
in Napier shortly the place will die out altogether,
and the residents, who have hitherto prided them-
selves on their railway-station, baths, Young
Men’s Christian Association, churches, Sunday
schools, mutual improvement societies, and other
harmless institutions, are now asking if it is neces-
sary that someone should be disembowelled at
regular intervals as the only means of keeping a
city alive in a Christian land.
The new American law for the execution
of criminals by electricity, which also prohibits
the publication of the details, came into operation
on the Ist of January. A meeting of New York
editors was held on the 15 th December, at which
a resolution declaring their intention to disregard
this injunction to secresy was passed. Cf course !
It may b 9 here remarked that the average even-
ing paper sets up columns and columns of type
about an execution long before it comes off, and
so has an actual vested interest in a condemned
person’s death perhaps days before he or she
ascends the gallows. Apropos of execution by
electricity, it is now plain, from the published
descriptions of the process, that nothing would be
gained for humanity through the substitution of
the spark for the repe : electrical execution only
means that unreasoning savagery has been taken
by the hand—by Science ! So long as we have
capital punishment let us have it in as brutal a
form as possible. The more brutal it is, the sooner
will it be abolished.
According to latest advices, Russia has
put in a claim to the ownership of Abyssinia and
intends to grab almost the only bit of African
sea-coast which has hitherto escaped annexation.
It is a pleasant way that the Christian nations
have got, but it is miserably rough on the African
heathen, who doesn’t seem to be allowed to own
anything in this world at all. Wherever he goes
he finds some orthodox Government stretching
out its comprehensive claw after the little yam-
patch on which he resides, and in a very short time
his old peaceful existence will come to an end, and
he will become a miserable toiler in pants and
a shirt, and will spend his life in humping bales
on the wharves of the new cities which the white
man is building where the cocoa-nut used to
bloom. The world is suffering already from too
much uniformity, and every day the evil is assum-
ing a more and more aggravated form. Africa is
now almost the only spot where even a semblance
of romance still survives, and Africa is steadily
being asphalted and blue metalled, and tram lines
are being laid across it, and all is becoming ordin-
ary and dismal and commonplace.
Dear Bulletin,— Some of the governing
body of Wellington (Prodesdan) College (N.Z )
having “gone for” the classical education there
given—on the plea that Homer and Virgil contain
no mental balm for the bucolic boy whose chief
mission in life is to know all about foot-and-mouth
disease in turnip and scab in mangel-wurzel, and
that sufficient chemistry to enable the adolescent
agriculturist to mix a good sheep-wash, and
enough botany to aid him in distinguishing a bean
from a pea, and other similar light learning,
would do his aching void for sweetness and
light more good than tons of Cornelius Nepos and
acre 3 of Ckesar’s commentaries. Dr. Walters,
rector of S’. Patrick’s (R.C) College, a few
days after, reared the bald head of defiance
in mitigation of Jupiter, Pompey, Ptolemy,
Venus, Pharaoh, Potiphar’s wife, Susannah and the
elders, and other classical hathen furriners fre-
quently dead, declaring it was an outrage on
nature to suppose that young Patrick O’Hooligan
could run the fraternal rum-mill, or juvenile Mike
Mulligan adequately Simpson the materna 1 cow’s
juice, unless th*y possessed a knowledge of
the classics. Whereon O’Hooligan peri, who
was present, said “ Hare ! Hare !” with
emphasis. When the learned classic aliat was
through, the Evangelical Engineer, Sir W.
Jervois, rose with an Imperial splosh to endorse
all his deah friend, Dr. Walters, had said—er—in
favour of a classical education—er. We could
nevah succeed as a colony—er—without our deah
old classics—aw ! The classier —er —were among
those sacred bonds that—er—drew, he might say,
drew New Zealand closah to the—the Mothah
Country—haw ! He —er —might add that the
—er —the classics —er —Emollient mores—er—
haw —hum! Then there was tumultchus u
applaws, and whispers among the LV. per
fesh—present in great force—Tis himself’s the
illigant Grake Scholard. And two mispronuncia-
tions and one false quantity in a small Latin
quotation were not so bad—for a Governor. Any-
way the quotation satisfactorily demonstrated the
overwhelming importance of a classical education.,
—Yours, “Ovi.” P.S —lf I haven’t got theright
hang of the forgone foreign language get the first
passing dead-beat to correct it —he’s sure to be a.
classical scholar !
Jonathan Roberts, who escaped twice from
Timaru (N.Z.) gaol, and who has now absented
himself unjustifiably for three months without
leaving any address, has not yet quite finished
being a source of loss to the public revenue. On
the occasion of his first escape a sum of £3O or
thereabouts was expended on his re-capture, and
in addition to this a suit of gaol clothes whioh he
took away with him when he left suddenly was
never recovered and, became an irretrievable loss
to the public revenue. Sundry items for wear and
tear of handcuffs, refreshments, trial exfX
penses, and so on, were also chargeable' ov *
the prisoner; and immediately after these’
hardships Roberts escaped over again andl
caused more loss and damage. This time he
left his clothes scattered all over the country, to
the great exasperation of the authorities. His
prison pants were discovered on a lonely hill top
by a bumpkin, who, after considering the matter,
decided that he had better not move them lest the!,
polioe might want the place where they were
lying for a clue; but he charged 12s. for his ser-.
vices in guiding the police to the spot where a
pair of unmentionables worth barely half-a-crown
were rapidly deteriorating through exposure, and
83. more was added for horse-hire and refresh-
ments. Then another agriculturist found a shirt
somemilesoff in adifferent point of view, and levied
7s. for showing the detectives where the grub-eaten
garment was lying, and shortly afterwards a sock
turned up in a north-easterly direction to add to
the expenses, and a boot loomed up on the horizon
in another point of the compass and had also to
be fetched at a cost of eleven times what it was
worth even before a lizard started to live in it and
thus deteriorate its value. Of course, as Roberts’
supply of clothes was limited this sort cf thing
can’t go on for ever, but it is considered by many
competent authorities that the eleaped convict
would have been much more considerate if he
had left his clothes all together in a round
heap instead of planting delusive clues all
over the country, and wearing the police to rags
by leading them to all sorts of places that he had
gone away from more than six weeks previously.
No doubt the prisoner smiles in some distant land
when he hears of these things, but the New Zea-
land police force, which is periodically roused from
its bed at 2 a m. to go to some place 20 miles away
in pursuit of cast off clothes is inno smiling humour,
and the very mention of Roberts makes it regard
the general public with an aggravated and homi-
cidal aspect in its eye and general bearing.
Suddenly Stricken Blind.
A catastrophe such as few men have the stoicism
to bear and few survive, has (says the Cincinnati
Inqutrhr) come like a thunder-clap upon Charles
Cullman. Last) Saturday night, while auditing
the books of the Bellevue Building Association,
at their rooms on M'Micken-Avenue, he turned
suddenly to one of the bystanders and exclaimed,
“ Why do you turn out the gas ? I'm not through
y6t.” “Turn out the gas, what's the matter with
you? The gas is burning.” “My God, then I’m
blind,” cried Cullman, and sinking back in his
chair, from which he had arisen in his excitement,
he buried his face in his hands, and moaned and
wept like a child. Dr. Schwartmeyer, his regular
physician, was hastily sent for, and only arrived
to confirm the worst fears. Cullman was indeed
blind. Without a premonitory sign, without a
warning, the blow had come, and as he sat there
bemoaning his sad fate, his eyes grew dim. Friends
took him by the hand and trembled with emotion
as they tried to speak words of hope and comfort.
The stricken man only moaned, “My wife ! My
little ones ! ” Drs. Ayres and Sattler the noted
specialists were summoned. A diagnosis followed,
and it was discovered that Cullman had for some
time been a sufferer from Bright’s disease of the
kidneys. The exudations of the albumen from
these organs caused arsenic blood-poisoning, which
gradually pervaded the whole system of the
sufferer. Step by step the disease spread, and
contraction of the kidneys followed, resulting in
inflammation of the retina or optic nerve, hope-
lessly destroying the sight for ever. The case,
although not an isolated one is extremely rare,
death generally ensuing before such crisis arrives.
Another recent case of ueramic poisoning,
similar to the one just narrated, only fortunately
taken in lime, is that of Mr. William Cousfcs,
engineer, of Onehurga, N. Z , who writes us as
follows “ Eight or nine years ago kidney disease
insidiously invaded my system. Deterioration of
the blood produced a morbid condition of the
k'.dneys, and eighteen months ago I found myself
in a most critical state of health. I suffered fear-
ful pains acrcss the abdomen, and my doctors ac-
quainted me with the fact that I was stricken with
the dread Bright’s Disease. I then commenced the
use of Warner’s safe cure and Warner’s safe pills.
At that time I was nearly llind. The medicine
has proved a veritable boon, and has saved my life.
After the use of a few bottles all pains vanished.
I have now used 10 bottles with the result that,
my eyesight is wholly restored.”


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, ft 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Bole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony yon live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
lgt. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
Intensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
Snd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
c Z -I.'- „
. *
BBALB PATENI new high-arm sewing machine
\
%J
Special Qualities and Improvements,
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot j automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Waßher is about One Shilling.
r.
/
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de
cribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
io the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
ully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
he water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
■ately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel,
rhe clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
>r packing being wanted. The special reversing
rear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
luffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
rads. In the process the clothes are floated to and
Iro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
rod through the fabric, carrying away every particle
jf dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
its in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
mbmit to the hand-wringing process which m-
lensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes, lhus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
Iriction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
lareful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and dean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to aocumu-
-1 Ate greasy sediments. . _ .
Catalogues and Prioe Lists Free by Post-
BEALE ANtToOMPANY,
ill, 484, a»d 488, G»obo» 8-nwwi. Btdbii.
QHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.
IVf EIiACHBINO I
]Vf EIjACHRINO I
This world-renowned Egyptian Cigarette fa
made from the finest Yenidgb Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Labqest Sale in the
Wobld !
M. MELAOHRINO & 00., Cairo,
And 21 Cockspur Strrrt, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy.
WARREN & ROWNp
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Fublio can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
Leading Tobacconists in Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily. F resh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
gAI E T Y THEATRE.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY.
—Messrs Hiscocks and M'Mahon bave much
pleasureinannouncingthe Engagement in America
and opening at the Gaiety Theatre for a short
sea ß o-». commencing on SATURDAY EVENING
NEXT, 26ih January (Anniversary Day), of one
of the m-st remarkable Combinations that bave
ever appeared in the Australian Colonies. Gay-
lord and Silbon’s Arglc-American Humpty-
Dumpty Pantomime Troupe, which has arrived
from America, is an organisation whose fame is
universal and the genic s of whose individual mem-
bers is absolutely unsurpassed in the world. The
season will be necessarily a brief one owing to
engagements already made for the Company’s ap-
pearance at the Opera House, Melbourne, at an
early date. The Box-plan will be opened at
Nicholson’s on Wednesday morning.
JJ O N D I AQUARIUM.
The moat popular pionio and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission,
li. » Children. Bd. Trams rnn to Gates—fare. 4d.
T H JS) A T K E
/ Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Aotlng Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE,
A HAPPY NEW YEAR!
TONIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
Mr. CHAS. ARNOLD
IN HANS THE BOATMAN.
GRAND MAT T NEE PERFORMANCE,
SATURDAY, 26 JANUARY 1889.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., Is. and Is,
Box Office open dally at Nloholson’s Musis
Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS.
■VTEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL
JJi Proprietor Mr. Barr,
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
COMEDIANS, BINGEBS, AOTOES, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Evebything New, Obiginal, and Refined.
Doors open 7: commence at 8.
Admission —Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John O. Leete.
Theatre royal
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman
Immense Success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by
A MOST POWERFUL
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION IN
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
Prices as usual. Tlokets for all partß'at Maokay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison,
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
Tremendous Success of
The Gband Chbistmas Pboducjtion,
YOUTH YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whitk Patbnt Roli.ru Flour is the
best in the market
T he Wellington (N.Z.) Amatchure Operatic
Society, which, in obedience to some unknown
but eternal law, naturally draws a hundred per
cent, better than the best perfesh. company ever
engineered through the colony, opened the re-
erected Opera House with “Mike Hardo,”as one of
the aforesaid gifted amatchures hath ib. The
present Opera House is No. 3. No. 1 was burnt
down some years ago ; No. 2 sizzled quite lately,
and now, from the ashes of the old feudal and
decrepi 1 ) carcase, No. 3 on luminous wings soars,
Phoenix-like, 11 to Jove. N.B.—This last sentence
may not appear quite relevant, but we were bound
to get the bird in—or burst. All the other news-
paper fellows trotted out the dear old Fenix.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers mid Manufacturers.
Batho’s Baking Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
■ &Ot, &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HAMS STREET, ELTIMO, SIDNEY
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
JJE AD, MARK, LEARN.
Far-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development cf the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Western Austbalia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO EACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARE SELLING
RAPIDLY.
They Cannot be Replaced at the Price.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead r rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &c., posted to any
addresß on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETIN’S"
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthub Gath.
PKOrrSIIY IKIiVRTKATBD
BY
Thb Bulletin's well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Pbiob • ONE SHILLING.
For Foal. I*. Bd. (exoept Queensland).
ill ifimm.
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
SIGN WRITERS
AND
-ART ++ DECORATOR
96 Castlereagh Street,
One Door from King Street.
£2O B,rcKBOABD bij ®® ikB
£2O
Regular shipments of the Beßt Backboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and Bee us. Terms: Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
w
(cJJeriti.d/Ci-Sc)
Brittenberg & 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Olarenoe Street, Wynyabd Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
G
A S.
GAS.
>G A S.
Proteot yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Honrs : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
"Mt Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forrel
kin. Balt* to nnnn lor M Bs.
N
BWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTBRERB,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manuvaotoby >
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EAST CHAIRS, for Parlonr, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, varlecs
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, oomplete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes fos
Bingle rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Sfbino and O’Connblili Stbeeth.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washßtand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, fend
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPBINQ StBEBTB.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbinq Stbeetb.
Austrian bent t
wood
FURNITURE*
A Vbby Complete
Asbobtmbnt.
Many quite new deslgna.
Newton & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for oamplng
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and np to 30 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d. } BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d. |
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATENT
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
136 fee* of hanging spaee
Very Cheap.
NEWTON ft LAMB.
OANVAB FOLDING
OHAIBB,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable lov Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Bow.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Bpbino and O’Oonnblb Stbbbtb.
Lawn and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustle
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chain
' Indian Lono-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s
6d., eto.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prioest
Newton & lamb, Importers, O’Connell*
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-Btreet.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bea
make, also Spiral Bpring, from 14s. eaeh.
NEWTON and LAMB.


TO THE ELECTORS
OF THE
MURRUMBIDGEE.
ENTLEMEN,—Two years ago the late Ad- I
ministration appealed to the country, whose !
trust and suffrages they gained mainly by pro-
mising to associate with the existing policy of
Free Trade what they chose to designate as “ good
government.” They undertook the rule of a land
rich in wide pastures and fertile fields, and
lavishly endowed with the treasures of the mine.
To lay open the enjoyment of these great gifts,
and to assist the people to turn them to the bsst
account, was their bounden duty. How have
they performed that duty? Have they shown
themselves the friends of any kind of freedom, or
have they made one serious attempt to justify in
their manner of government the trust which they
so insidiously procured? That confidence they
have utterly forfeited. Self-interest and the pur-
suit of self-aggrandisement have absorbed the
time and perverted the energies which their con-
sciences and their oaths alike had bound them to
devote to the people. Their promises of legis-
lation were profuse. How much of them have
they performed ? Their protestations of honesty
were fulsome. Yet no administration in our his-
tory has loaded the atmosphere of politics with eo
much suspicion; and finally, while the trans-
actions of some of them were under the investiga-
tion of tribunals, of which they had assented to
the appointment of one, and had theme elves
appointed the other, they suffered a defeat which
their leader admits that “ possibly (a brave
qualification)—he courted. In this manner they
fled from the control of Parliamentary business.
It is now for the country to draw its inference
from this Btampede from office and responsibility.
By the vote of last week their supporters vainly
Bought to stem the political sauve qui pent by
means most unconstitutional. With equal cruelty
and ignorance they refused to vote Supply except
on conditions to which no Constitutional Governor
could submit. By these meant—and here is the
cruelty—they are preventing the payment of the
public obligations, heedless if they bring distress
and penury upon whole families whose subsistence
is gained by service faithfully rendered to the
people, and disable thousands from meeting in
turn engagements which they honestly seek to
fulfil. It is in this way that the party thrown
from power have given fitting consummation to
the reign of that kind of freedom which bears the
brand of Sir Henry Farkes, and that kind of
government which has at every turn incurred the
suspicion of all ob-ervers.
It is admitted on all hands, and notably by Sir
Henry Parkes, that the new Administration
which I have the great honour to lead, have come
into office by proper and Constitutional means.
It is in turn admitted by us that, being favour-
able to a change in the FISCAL POLICY of the
country, we were bound to take, as we have taken,
the very first opportunity of asking the judgment
'of the people as to whether they will empower us
to bring about that change. At the Eame moment,
the people are enabled to see to it that those who
have so signally failed to fulfil their pledges shall
be sternly deprived of the opportunity of repeat-
ing their violation of the public trust.
Gentlemen, the first question for decision is
identical in every general election. It is, whether
those who undertake the control of public affairs
are fitted for the task both by character and by
ability. By both, because if they are not qualified
by character, their very ability enables them the
more easily to betray you; and if they possess
good fame without intellectual power, they are
impotent to govern well. As to myself, it would
be arrogant for me to do or say more than humbly
to ask your verdict on my fitnees to perform my
task, with the invaluable assistance which my col-
leagues generously place at my disposal. But
place those gentlemen side by side with those
whom Sir Henry Parkes associated with himself
and say whether my colleagues suffer by the com-
parison. They are all men of mature experience
and sound judgment. Most of them have held
ably and with credit ihigh office in the service of
the people. No ordeal which any one of them has
undergone has left a stain upon his honour.
Now for the financial circumstances under which
we ask you to give effect to our policy. When
our predecessors took office there was a very large
deficit in the public accounts. The rapid reduc-
tion and final extinguishment of this deficit was
one of their first dubies. When they had obtained
a lease of power from the people, but not bkfobe,
they proposed to “hang it Up.” They repealed
taxation which was not burdensome to the
eountry, but peculiarly obnoxious to a section of
their supporters, whose terrified voice was heard
in Mr. M'Millan’s resolutions, by which supply
for the public service was withheld. The taxes
they imposed, burdensome as they are to great in-
dustries, have not been adequate substitutes for
those which they repealed. To the deficit which
they “hung up”—which, they dared not face —
they have added another. And they have left
thb Treashr# tempty, though they received large
sums which should have come in before they ac-
cepted office, and which they have applied to meet
current expenses, instead of reducing to that ex-
tent the deficit which their earlier and anticipated
receipt would have largely prevented. In view
of these facts, what is to be done to provide funds
to meet the requirements of the State, and to
carry out the necessary public works ? The situa-
tion must be vigorously dealt with. The adjust-
ment of the PUBLIC FINANCES cannot any
longer be avoided. In the public expenditure,
indeed, economy must be studied; but the
public does not wish it carried to the
point at which almost every other country
protects its markets against our competi-
tion, while its surplus products and manufactures
pour into New South Wales —the market which
should be ours, but which we practically hand
over to others. This is an assistance to their in-
dustries which they will never reciprocate. So
satisfied has experience made them with the re-
sults of their protective policy that they evinbe
not. the slightest disposition to relax it.
An example of this firmness may be found in
the case of Victoria, which has for her farmei s
I
the command both of her own market and of ourn.
Look at the country on each side of our southern
border. The farmers on the Victorian side of
that line are in the enjoyment of a state of pros-
perity which is denied to those within cur own
territory. Why should there be this contrast in
the condition of people of the same race and equal
energies ? Our struggling farmers say that it is
because their competitors are so strong in the pos-
session of their otwn market, and the profits of it,
that they can afford to send their surplus products
over the border, and to sell them in this colony at
prices with which our own cultivators cannot
under such circumstances, compete. Can there be
any other explanation of these two pictures of
poverty on the one side and prosperity on the
other ? In manufactures we are similarly treated,
and the tariffs tell to the disadvantage of our own
countrymen and the advancement of those
outside our bounds. Why then should we not
reverse this state of things, and let our action
be such that our own industries may be
those selected for encouragement ? One can
admire the virtues of humility and self-
abnegation, but governments and legislatures are
bound to place the interests of their own people'
before those of strangers. How has that duty
been discharged by persistence in the policy under
which we have been suffering ? Other colonies'
have of late years sought to remove both financial
difficulty and commercial depression, which had
arisen under their former policy, by a resort to
fiscal measures under which the advantages of ex-;
panded internal trade would be conferred on their
own people. The result has been that their pros-
perity is rapidly returning, and their financial
troubles are as rapidly vanishing. If we profit,
then, by our own experience, and by theirs, we>
shall revise our Customs taxation, so that we may
cope successfully with the deficit which has arisen
under an opposite policy, and in the process may
benefit our fellow-citizens in place of oppressing
them. The time has arrived when the inaugura-
tion of this change ought to be no longer deferred*
It would have been easy for us to accede to many
pressing invitations by delaying this appeal to the
constituencies until the demand for this change of
policy had become irresistible. But, gentle men,
we were without exception opposed to carrying on
government in the House elected on the advice of
our opponents. That would have been a craven
course, however strongly it was sought to be im-
posed on us by the craven vote which keeps the
Treasury unable to pay its way, and which sought
to displace without a trial men whose backs were
turned. But we felt confident that the voice of
the country was already with us. If, then, you
decide In our favour the preliminary question
whether we are a Ministry of sufficient capacity,
integrity, moderation, and courage to be placed in
charge of affairs, we ask you to trust us to exercise
those qualities in RECASTING THE FISCAL
POLICY of the country.
In the event of your vote endorsing our acces-
sion to office, it will be our duty to prepare, and
as soon as the state of affairs will allow, to intro-
duce measures of long needed and oft-promised
legislation. Not one of these is more important
than a bill to provide for LOCAL SELF-
GOVERNMENT, nor is any more urgently re-
quired. Its bearing on the proper adjustment of
the finances and on the taxation of the country
need not be enlarged on further than to say that
the Local Government Boards will, no doubt, have
to collect direct taxation; and in view of this it
would be inequitable for us also to seek to impose
heavy burdens on property for the purposes of
the Central Government. The establishment of
Local Boards, relieving Parliament, as it will, of
the necessity of attending to many matters which
often reduce it to the position of a mere parish
vestry, will tend to an increase of public spirit in
the Legislature, as well as to more judicious,
economical expenditure on public works and the
construction of them to the best purpose by those
who best know what they want.
It will also be our care to mature a measure for
the redressing of existing inequalities and ano-
malies in the LAND LAWS, the removal of
obstacles to the improver cent of the land by all
classes of settlerß, and the amelioration of the
conditions under which the more distant and
arid portions cf the public estate are being deve-
loped.
In this connection it is difficult to OV9r estimate
the importance of the question of WATER CON-
I SERVATION. On the necessity for a measure
giving facilities and encouragement for this pur-
' pose there is happily no division of opinion in
the country. My colleague, the Secretary for
i Lands, understands this question as well, per-
haps, as any man in public life, and may be
trusted to handle it with care, judgment and
success.
The question [of establishing AGRICUL-
TURAL COLLEGES and MODEL FARMS
will receive early consideration, with a view to
affording practical education in the tillage of the
soil.
Recent disclosures have much increased the
necessity of dealing by statute with the questions
of SANITARY REFORM, and the protection of
the public as far as possible from preventible out-
breaks of disease.
In conformity with the principle which justifies
the establishment of Local Government, we shall
endeavour to obtain Legislative authority for the
institution of HARBOUR TRUSTS at Sydney,
Newcastle, and other of the principal ports of the
colony, thereby affording to those engaged in the
producing industries improved and cheaper facili-
ties for getting their goods to profitable markets.
We shall mature a measure to facilitate the de-
velopment of our vaot MINERAL RESOURCES,
and which will, oa the one hand, encourage the
working miner in the freer exercise of his in-
dustry, and, on ttn other hand, give batter j
security to capital to undertake the large outlay
necessary to the opening out and working of deep
mines. Many petty burdens and restrictions
which hamper the mining industry wil be dealt
with in the intended measure.
Experience teaches that the altered circum-
stances of our 00 AL-MINING industry require
an alteration of the present law, to render safer
the health and the lives of those engaged in that
immensely-productive occupation.
The question of PAYMENT OF MEMBERS
has been several times discussed in the Legislature.
It has on previous occasions failed to secure the
assent of the Legislative Council (though agreed
to by the Assembly) on the ground that it had
never been specifically brought before the country
at a general election. That ground of objection
we propose to remove By laying the question be-
fore you no\V, With the intimation that we are id
favour of sUch a measure, feeling convinced that
it will largely extend the range of choice of the
constituencies.
The Government hope to introduce a carefully
considered policy of RAILWAY CONSTRUC-
TION, which will provide for the making of such
lines as may reasonably be expected to be repro-
ductive, and incidentally provide legitimate em-
ployment for the labohrihg classes, instead of
squ indering large sums of public money on useless
relief works. Cheap branch railways which will
act as feeders to the main trunk lines will in many
cases be the most desirable form of construction.
The importance of EXTENDING THE RAIL-
WAY IN 10 THE CITF OF SYDNEY, with
relation both to goods and passenger traffic has
long been recognised. This question will be one
of the first to engage our attention. The neces-
sary public works already sanctioned will be
pushed forward with vigour, and steps will be
taken to initiate others as the requirements of the
colony demand them,
Th 3 new administration will adhere to the pre-
sent statutory system of PUBLIC INSTRtTCj
TION, and the Department will, as you know; be
under the care of the gentleman who was Minister
of Justice and Public Insbrustion in the Govern-
ment which passed that law.
The late Government having at an Intercolonial
Conference pledged the colony to carry into effect
amended legislation on the question of CHINESE
IMMIGRATION, it is our intention to ask the
Legislature to bring our law on the subject into
harmony with the more recent sbatutes of the
other colonies.
The question of LAW REFORM will be care-
fully considered, with a view to make legal pro-
cedure more speedy and less costly.
These, then, are the views of the new Adminis-
tration. It is not for .a moment pretended that so
: extensive a programme" can be at any early date
carried into entire effect,. Bub we have thought
j it our duty to be as candid, with the public on all
questions as on that of fiscal policy. If by your
votes now, and your supporb hereafter, you ensure
to us the opportunity, the questions I have indi-
cated will be dealt with as speedily as they can be
reached. I feel confident, gentlemen, that the
fair trial which the now defunct Parliament re-
fused will be generally accorded U 3 by the electors
of New South Wales. We appeal to their
judgment without hesitation, feeling that the
verdict of patriotism will approve our policy,
and make its acceptance the mandate of the
country.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Sydney, 19th January, 1889.


Business Announcements.
TSEI oite/st
MIISICiL lISTRUMEIT
M Sipil; tarialioi!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL SIREKI.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines s
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 85p 4
n »» » i, steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
o
The finest s how of ACCORDEONS to be Beer
n the colo mes from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at anj
ORDERS P ® ol A.L LINES to suit COUNTRY
Patent Brass Reeded Aocordeon ... 80s. Od,
E a ‘ en j> Silver „ 32a. 6d.
Patent Steel „ 355. Od,
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old _ Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba Bet of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 16/-, up to £7 lls.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality: 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
MU Till STB,
which can be sent jpost free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/8,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Bilver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
faitar, Cello, Viola Doabla Sag:, Sari
Ziuar, k, k
■
X •' >:
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10f-.
5, 6 or 7 ■( i, i, £4 19/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of abo? 6
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. L i
struments packed carefully and sent to any part c
the oolonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSENp Manager
658 Gaorga Street,
BVDNBY
Pkarls in thb Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonuo, or Pearl Dentifrice. ;It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands'
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of ohemists.*
Old Pom, OUret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, feo. Unequalled Hlgh-olase Wlnee are
only to be had from Hookings of ilO Oeorre-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near Klng.street.*
E. C. ELEY
im
<b
O'
4*.
<<
Si
s
S?
A
&
*
<b
&
<3
r.
o
V
&
&
0
X s
o
r\
V
S>
O
£
5^
5c
o
5c
o
<c
>0
<c
o
O'
5c
S'
y*
o
o
<< N
v
o
*
,o
*
o
390 a GEORGE S T
S YDNHY,
Write for Plan of £lO Lots, Perth, Western
Australia. The Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
William’s Australian Inseotldd Is death to all Insects.
Simple In application—ears In effeot. This Is the only
genuine Ineeot Destroying Powder, being oertaln death to
all kinds of lneeota, while It Is perf eotly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseotiolde has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing oil a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemiets and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 167 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs KlUotl Bros,
and B. Prosser & Co.* 1
CO
»-
Om «U
,-!.U
t£
—IV-
— CO
5f
CL
o
<* «:
j <
COCO
w
to
‘O
z
oft
.. i«0
lit
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS
NO. 7B CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
(n
• •
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce
AND PAY >
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tories’ Seeing 2vCada.iza.es,
FOR TIIE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGB, NETTHEIM & Co,, Tanners and Leather Merchants,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
DR. RICHARDS.
"s'uI?TINO -fi° OW -=%
CO
D*RICHARDS
rwwili
1 fS« i
This eminent Specialist! Founder, and Ohlel
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education In the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invest!*
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradl*
eated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence In their treatment. His practlos
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other olass of troubles that
affiiot mankind.
YOUNG MEN >
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy ssdl*
meat in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the baok,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A
LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private 01
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounoed incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medioal
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
CP receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, whioh will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
•iroumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves*
Dr. Riohards has successfully treated nearly 36,000
eases sinoe coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evldenoe of his suooess. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
1 Spring Street, Sydney
eff Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing,
CONSULT AT JON FREE ’
AN UNFORTUNATE ADMISSION.
YOUNGEST DAUGHTER (to Father of Sewn of Them): “Papa, I can’t—I positively
can't stand the strain! I m-m-must t-t tell yon! I had planned to elope to
night!”
PAPA : “Just my luck! What did you want to peach for? Now I suppose I’ve got
to stop you! "—PUCK.


Business Announcement*
BRUNTO TS’ S
BOYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
0M be obtained throughout New Boalb Wales,
Queensland, end Vlotorla.
SYDNEY m m. »m 84 Pit* SIIIM.
BRISBANE... w m ßdwabd BlUll,
MELBOURNE - _ Spmhcmb Bum.
EPPS’S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Hedicsl.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured 1
the Greatest'Success Y CONgULT / All Chronic Disease
ot Modern Times. / 00NSUI,T \ are Curable.
Hr, I. L KtSEMAHUi Coimltiv Eclectic,
SKUiLBD SPECIALIST POE ALIi CHRONIC DISEASES,
•t WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call oan write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by whioh they oan be treated equally well at
* D fir Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
vou are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chromo Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the oost for a
oomplete oure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
B *Bea(f taefollowlng Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880]
|0 H. E. Kuoblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Soienoe, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to oertify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe oough about July,
1888 but, thinking it was only a severe oold, I did not
take any notioe of it for about six months, when I oom-
menoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a dootor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to oom-
plete the oure, whioh statement I did not believe, and
accordingly oonsulted another dootor in Kyneton, end
Informed him of the statement of my previous medioal
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my oase was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more ohemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my oase, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Dloerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable During the time I was attended by the above
dootors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
luags, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and deoided to consult you, whioh I
did in Maroh, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my oom-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you oould guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieoes of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand j
but after this crisis I oommenoed to improve very test.
After three months’ treatment the expectoration and oough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my oomplaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering Bhould avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1880, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
sar All Consultations Free. Ml
Notioe.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Ohm
MOT B»IN8 EFFECTED.
SUFFERERS.
T ° o
CONSULT PERSONALLY OR BY LEXTER
Gowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
X :x
THEY Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
x :x
N.B. —Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely yacked, to aU parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
122 ElinW Street, Hide Park, Sydney.
MATRIMONY.— A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, good-looking, wishes to correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
offer on first-class station in North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X.Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens-
land.
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Abt
noAL Bab Drums. Onrea Deafness In all Its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effeoted. Send for 188
paged illustrated book oontalnlng " Essay on Deafness,’
Illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
Item Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
rated by these Drums, and who rooommend thorn.—Dr
lIOHOLIOM. II William libebi, Molhoauno.
0-IS-A.3ITID t HOTEL,
OOBNBB OV
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE. "1^
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
p Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSCHOVI
5.0 V
m
m
6.1
M
$
a
Ladies* Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) m Pkopriitbiss.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
FOR PRIVATE USE Ib Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, PotosS Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Faxson’s I G-rape t Saline.
TRAD* MARK—“THB GRBBNWICH OBSERVATORY."
Specially prepared from RIPE FR UIT , and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaintß, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE ALPINE.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
SAUC
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bo tils
bears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle end
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester, Crosse amf
Blackwell , London, <S~V., &*c.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
PHOTOGRAPHY !
3
LICHTNER & CO.,
32 O’Connell Streef, Sydney;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
Cordially acknowledge the satisfactory relationship which has been established between
them and the Photographers of Australia, and so largely extended during the past
Twelve Months. It will be no fault of theirs if the
COffUHRI of the present SOLID&7 SEASON
are not continued throughout the coming year. They
have now issued a New and Comprehensive Cata-
logue, profusely illustrated, and ask all old friends
to send for one, whilst extending the same invitation
to those we have not yet had the pleasure of meeting.
:++:
A visit to our Establishment will give proof that
we have the Largest and Best Assorted Stock in
the Colonies at Reasonable Prices.
LICHTNER & CO.,
[
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
Assurance Companies,
TSH AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGUA
MINT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(lasssysrated by Act of Parliament, If Vie,,
No. 10.)
Registered Capital «. m m. 51,118,111
Paid-up and Subscribed m m SIX,III
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman,
This Company veaelvea deposit! at the following
rates of Interest
For 8 years _ 7 per oent. I For 1 year _ a per oent.
For 8 months 1 per oent. | For 8 months- I per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the oorporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its unoalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards,
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eta., Collested.
Estates Sab-divided and Sold by Anstlon and
Private Contract.
Hbad Offfioi—lB, &IS HUNTER STREET
JNoTa NEILD, Manager.
i
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Ineorporated under Companies Alt, llfl.
CAPITAL, £588,M1"
Bydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK BTRBETB,
Bydney.
Melbourne Offices—lo, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay*
able by instalments at very reasonable rateß of in-
terest. BIIIb discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DSFOBITS l
8 months, 6 per sent,
8 „ 7 i,
If n 8 „
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 18 month
per sent. S months 1£ per sent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1£ per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
Business Amneueemcnftu
K'NG’s V g EWg
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLA.N CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c, &c.,
316 GEQE9E SI, Eetwnn Bunter-st., & B.F 0.
TATTBRSALL’B
loism coimTHioii
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tiokets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing,
IV
WE CAN
RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen's -
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(»few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank)
MELBOURNE.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontage
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers, Apnli
Bnwsw Ofle*.


10 THE ELECTORS OF CANTERBURY.
Fellow Electors, —I have been induced by many
generous promises of support to offer myself as a
Candidate for your suffrages.
When, two years ago, Sir Henry Parkes was
Returned to power; his party was pledged to
remove trade restrictions, to deal with the deficit,
to secure substantial prosperity to the country,
and to maintain purity of government. Each of
these pledges has been violated. Trade restric-
tions remain, the customs and excise duties last
year yielding £2,143,000 : the deficit remains
untouched except for the addition of a further
deficit to its sum. Depression, deepened and
intensified, still burdens the community, and far
from maintaining purity of government the Parkeß
par by to-day is defiled and disgraced by corruption
so vile as to be, fortunately for Australia, unpre-
cedented in our annals. Remembering that these
disastrous results were achieved by the ablest
leader the Foreign-trade party can boast, and
during a period when good seasons, abundant
clips and crops, and a tremendous mining revival
Bhould have tended to a high state of prosperity,
the staunchest of Parkesites and so called ‘‘Free-
traders ” may well be forced to conclude that
no greater disaster could come to the country
than that involved in a continuance of the
policy that has wrought such evil in the past. To
secure pure government it is necessary that the
late Premier and his supporters Bhould be de-
prived of power ; to bring in an enduring era
of prosperity it is imperative that a reasonable
and equitable measure of Protection should be
afforded by taxation of imported manufactures.
At present, articles such as tea, rice, &c , which
are not capable of production here are liable to
duties amounting, in some cases, to 60 per cent, of
the original cost. To bring about the reform
which Protectionists desire it need only be
necessary to remove these dutiep, and place them
upon articles which our own resources enable us
to produce. Holding these views, I shall, if
honoured by election at your hands, support the
present Cabinet so long as the essentials of honest
administration, reasonable Protection, and radical
legislation on national lines, are secured to the
country.
Bills to provide for Local Government, Water
Conservation, and Electoral Reform must be
counted as the immediate necessities of our wel
fare, and I shall be prepared to give liberal assist-
ance in enacting measures for these ends.
I am strongly in favour of payment of members,
reform of the Upper House, and a land tax on the
unimproved value of land, but would oppose any
proposal to make a private monopoly of tram
traffic, or to impose any inquisitorial property or
income taxation.
Anticipating the growth of a great Australian
nation, I believe that all legislation should pro-
ceed on national lines; and, while contemnirg the
unwisdom of those who would desire to “ cut the
painter ” while our States are unready for inde-
pendence, I am convinced that the placing of any
obstacle between the aspirations of our people,
and the end which those aspirations would
gradually achieve, iB unwise, unreasonable, and
unpatriotic.
WILFRED BLACKET.
T
O THE ELECTORS OF CANTERBURY.
Gentlemen, —Our country has been so disgraced
by the conduct in Parliament of professional poli-
ticians and agitators, that I think the time has
arrived when the young men of the colony, who
have been born and educated in it, should come
forward and do what they can to bring about a
better state of things. It is for this reason that I
have decided to offer myself as a candidate at the
impending election, for it is my most earnest
desire to do whatever I can to advance the wel-
fare of our common country ; and should you see
fit to return me, I shall, before all things, use my
best endeavours to preserve the purity of Parlia-
mentary life, and to expose without mercy any
attempt at jobbery or corruption, no matter to
which side the offender may belong, and shall dis-
countenance and, as far ss I can, prevent a repeti-
tion of these scenes which have rendered our
Legislature so notorious.
With regard to fiscal matters, I am of opinion
that absolute and universal freetrade, such as
Cobden dreamed of, is an imprssibility ; if, then,
it is necessary to obtain revenue through the Cus-
toms, I think duties should be imposed in such a
way, and only to such an extent, as, while afford-
ing some revenue, they may at the same time tend
to promote the development of such industries as
the colony may be adapted for. This is what I
mean by announcing that I am a moderate or a
discriminating protectionist. That it is for the
well-being of the colony that Eome assistance
should be afforded to industries of this nature is
shown by the fact that the late Freetrade Govern-
ment, strongly as it was supported, did not ven-
ture to repeal the duties on sugar, on kerosene, or
on dairy produce, and even went the length of
having certain locomotives manufactured m the
colony at a cost of £50,000 in excess of the price
at which they could have imporbed them. lam
also of opinion that the imposition of an excise
duty on beer and tobacco was a grave mistake, for
while it has not even had the desirable effect of
lessening the consumption of the former article, it
has had a tendency to cripple thes9 industries, has
lessened the dividends of companies carrying them
on, has thrown men out of employment, and has
only replaced them to a large extent by an im-
ported article, into competition with which they
have been brought.
Among other matters of importance to my
mind the question of LOCAL SELF-GOVERN-
MENT and of WATER CONSERVATION
occupy a prominent place, and should you see fit
to return me, I shall at all times urge the neces-
sity for the speedy introduction of legislation
dealing with those much-needed and often-pro-
mised reforms.
In conclusion, I beg also to inform you that, if
returned, I shall use my most strenuous endea-
vours. and shall never rest until the work of
carrying the RAILWAY INTO THE CITY
has nos only been PROMISED, but has been
COMMENCED. I shall also urge forward as
far as I am able the speedy cirrying out of the
SEWERAGE WORKS for the western suburbs.
I shall endeavour between this date and the
polling day to address you as often as I am able in
the various parts of the electorate, when you will
have an opportunity of hearing my views more in
detail, and I trust that you will then, whether
those views coincide with your own or not, at any
rate feel convinced that my chief desire in coming
forward is that you may have another member,
and an honest one.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
A. G. RALSTON.
ona fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
in for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing,
ss suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
nded to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
seJ-atreet Melbourne.
flilam foie's Benevolani Com Mom
“ All the Year Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
Sete Sydney Bulletin, January 19,1889
On both ihese events, 3 per cent, of Adam Bede's
commission will be devoted to charitable objects.
No. 1 on the
Newmarket Handicap
Run at Melbourne, March 2, 1889.
10)000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse, £4,000; Second, £1,500; Third,
£l,OOO. Starters, £1,500; Non-starters, £2,000,
to be divided amongst them.
And No. 1 on the
AUSTRALIAN CUP,
Run at Melbourne, March 5, 1889.
10)000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 Each.
First Horse, £4,000 ; Second, £1,500 ; Third,
£l,OOO. Starters, £1,500; Non-starters, £2,000,
to be divided amongst them.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event (£10,000) SYDNEY COLD CUP,
run on APRIL 22, 1889.
“AUSTRALIA FOR THE AUSTRALIANS,”
By
A. B. PATERSON.
EVERY Australian should read the new
Pamphlet just published under the above
title. Land Reform and Protection. Read it
before recording your vote.
Price, 6d. All Newß Agents.
THE "CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING, AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
WORKS, CLYDE, N S.W.
HEAD OFFICE: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
James Fletcher, M.P., Sydney; Geo. R. Dibbs, M.P.,
Sydney; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney : T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden ; Charles
Hardy, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating auriferous-bearing stone of
every description, furnishing gold saving plant
and machinery, and for the erection and starting
of same, either by sale or upon thares with owners
of gold-bearing properties on arrangement.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fre3h impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the moßb modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will ba under the imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
The works will be in full operation daring the
month of February.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
ED’S “MAGIC” MEAL.
THE BEST COMPOUND EVER INVENTED
FOR FATTTENING STOCK AND
POULTRY.
Its effects on Horses and Oattle are astonishing.
When one dose has been administered to the
drought-stricken Bullock of the Western Plains
his delighted owner can stand by and hear him
grow, and Cows, when treated with this com-
pound, become enormouß milkers. Its effect
on Horses is no less marvellous. The at-
tenuated Gee-Gee with as many points as a
hat-rack, after taking one bag is. transformed
into a magnificent animal 18 hands high, and even
the sight of the wrapper has been known to pro-
duce remarkable results. Hens and all descrip-
tions of Poultry also derive great benefit from it.
The supposed recent eclipse of the Bun in Cali-
fornia was an optical illusion arising solely from
the stupendous shadow cast by a Fowl which had
been taking the MAGIC MEAL, and many
other equally marvellous results can be quoted
and substantiated on first-class authority.
A. H. PHILLIPS, Proprietor.
17 Victoria Chambers,
Castlereagh-sbreet.
&N
" They Jit perfectly, and are
far superior to aU the other
; Corsets I have tried."
' (Signed) Marie Sou.
m Y*N
PATENT
Diijoul Seam Const
Will not Stollt In the Seams nor
tear In tile Fabrlo.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless Imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped 1 *Y 6 N Patent
Diagonal Seam Oonel, No. llfl,” In oval.
Three Gold Models 11
■old by all Deepen and Ladle* OatStlon.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS ,
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days !
The Australian Remedy. No change in, diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2 3. 6d., 55., and lOs.
„ CUkE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION,
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cureß Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist;
531 George Street, Only.
pows
EMBROCATION
( \ISOLD
'EVERYWHERE',
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 63 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency). ,
Evidence collected in , DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies ,of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world,
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secreoy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
Tha Bast In tha World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Jtiius GoMuilt & Co,
231 CLARENCE STREET
3
INDIA
RUBBER
270 GEORGE
MANUFACTURER 8 P
STREET, SYDNEY.
Rabbet Valves, Washers, Gaskets &0., &a. Moulded to any Size. Rabbet goods lot all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
Qlaiendon. Hotel, Iv£am.lTr.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
llnner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country :
tore also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can io? 4ibly make one
lomf or table can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti 3 n vided. Table
le Hdte at 1 0 clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstbb to make her
rlsltors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTERp Clarendon Hotelp
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Grosvenor Hotel >
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHUBCH HILL, SYDNEY, I
overlooking the Harbour.
mHIS Magnificent Hotsi. is now open,'
-L and will be oonduoted on the beet
methods of similar Amerioan and Euro*
pean establishments.
It is oentrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par exoellenoe for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Tklkgraph and Tblbphonb Ofpicks
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Eleotrio
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Shoes Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reaohed by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from whioh are obtainable the Finest
Panoramio Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvbnor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. HOYT AN, Manager.
Trrrr
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
o
PI
u
a
H
(t
Id
S>
*5
Id
COO
M
s
f 8
f
“I'tr, '
‘ • :iitur i :i - ..
: ; .
Eft? &
II
' A mi > ust
■4 • fr
* EU
L,-.v
K3l
-s- - -
ml. » muat-tf- want*
A. DEJbJiUSii
Proprietor.
mSST-CL-A-SS XXOTTSE,
Winu, French Linen & hnm Cigars i Stecislitr the Souse. Cuisiae fruuiu.


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer Street
VISITORS patronising »he above hotel, whlth
win latel y an addition of over 100 room*,
inft “ n “ 41 a) °dern Improvements, snoh as light,
4l y> a nd veil-ventilated bedrooms, large pnblie-
n > *»• 'king-room, hot and cold baths, shower
a needle oaths passenger elevator, eleotrlo bells,
m e P“ one ’ *nd all other hotel requisites, not to be
. Passed n Australia. Visitors can rely upon
an!?? , caUe d for early morning trains. Letter*
promptly attended to. Priee* very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET^
jj? Btween George ,nd York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr
U * er is a regular Graduated Physloian, educated at
q '* r< * College, O.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Qm> Januar y Hat, 1886; also New Bouth Walee
y ette > April i7th, 1888). the doctor has devoted 14
gpT to the study of OHRONIO, NERVOUS, AND
DISEASES. Four of these were In the leading
au a * lll6 United Statee, which enables him to treat
him 3, jUIn te with excellent results. All applying to
N 0 , Iy ll . f eoelve his honest opinion of their complaints,
a rn 'f,® ri renting; no Memory used. He will guarantee
£2ot) ve Jare in every oaee he undertakes, or forfeit
oroali **■ reason for doing so Is this—when there is no
otho ,laease * and nothing but an inorganio trouble, or,
a oena* " r ° r<48 * * conglomeration of symptoms producing
move,? 1 JfWilt, there is no reason why it oannot be re-
He the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
to i).,,? 68 distinotiy understood that he does not claim
he Pi,,- I raa impossibilities, or to have miraoulous power,
thorn,!, onJ F to be a skilled and snooessful physloian
Sppr. T ?hly Informed In his speciality—OHßONlO and
residing. D **®ASES op MEN and WOMEN. People
detuji 8 at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
totin '! 8 ,lfeate * at home, xhe course of treatment will
tion a„*!? y vay interfere with their business. Bxamlna-
advioe free to all. Chargee moderate. H. J.
Strta,' * y., 42 Margaret Street, between Georgs and York
to a „' Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 020. Office boars,
to m : 10 W a,m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
11 *.m. only
free
PHISOBIFTIONa we to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
Blr for hhe Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
CITY and Kindred Diseases, &o. A oopy of
fa/ 5 "°°k will be sent Free. Beaded, for Six Penny
Address—
9, WARD & 00„
Sydney Pharmacy.
T 8 Hun tier Btreat Sydney
- . -MAGNETIC, and ELEOTRIO
Jtyrtl INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (faoing
oi »? Sydney, under the sole management
Ok;?' VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Aftif,J- oyant °f 29 yews’ practice in Europe and
AmJ? o ** an( i 4 years Medical Adviser for the
ou fil Remedy Company. All Diseases
ohronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
o&k K, enb Peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
m °tto being“ Nature cures Nature’s
P°siti Oncers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
'OUr < y oUr ed, without outting, in from three to
telf Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
kko , the only person known in the world
4 undertake to cure a Cancer of the
jh Surgical Operations of any kind;
’hcifWt, , Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
JjtW J 4 ®* to suffering humanity, even .when all
P a bdi!i at** an( j advice has proved a failure,
he «. the Doctor will undertake no case where
Whei*? 1104 ffowantee a complete cure. N.B.—
is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
hothkiH 8 ow n. This iB a surety that you get
is thn , t the genuine article. A Fact. —This
Institution of its kind in the World
ho i? j, n^s °f Oureß are Effeoted with little
j , Oae dioine,
sy® Oopy the Address—
l?7 r. DR. ST. VINCENT,
IVer P°ol Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
COLEMANEiSONS
H*
35
O
©
>
tree of life
° ni y Pare Eucalypte In the World.
Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
3l4) ioo a , n * First Prize Great Centennial
h», The only known CURE for
> Consumption, Pleurisy,
rl Also % aad a ll affections of the Chest and
.Ur w n lor Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
B lVal OINTMENT stands wifch-
? rs > anR c„ B . ad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
l> ctl Urf;,i Diseases of all kinds. Also,
°4 the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
a SUcalvr,r JU , cal ypte Soap, and our world-
-6 the nS,. Roney is the best preparation
il c , for young children and aged
V o j ’ of the Eucalypte Lozenges
tj, Manufactory —Oootamonpra.
i. lQ an v ale Depot— 227 Elizabeth street.
I°l the Colonies. Sold Every-
Business Announcements.
SKATE KOKIEKS.
mURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best in the Amerl
-*■ oan market, at the following low prices:—
1} in. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots .. $l5 per lot
2 in. „ „ 10,000 „ $l7 „
13 in. „ „ 60,000 „ .. $l2 „
2 In. „ „ 50,000 „ .. $l4 „
Through rate to Australia about $1 500. per 1000 rollers
Address —
JOHN T. lOSC,
182 A 184 S. Clark-street, Chicagkj, 111., U.S.A.
u
&
<>
\FJS>
MJIUnkCTUftCRS
* IMPORTERS OF
HATS^CAPSit
438 CEORCE 8T
SYDNEY |
dfaeajiti LtwttCer#
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitkepjs.)
10 RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS. AND
OTHERS.
«80,006~t0 Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES
STOCK, fto.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & 00., Stock. Statioa
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers. 90 Pin
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED
A Most Unique Work on
MEDIOAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable to
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienio Rules are worth its weight is
gold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, givenawayfor the next Six Month*
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Stxpenoe per
quarter, or One Pound per annum
The Bulletin will be on sa-e every Friday at
theoffioe, George Street, or from the runners in
the street.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
'-'PORTERS OFAUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Anfl at ALBERT STREET, BRISBAHfc
&
ORICINAL
,Nc po
WAUGH'S
%
UGHS o^y
\NO
FIRST CLASS AWARD
■> : ° R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
UCH ?'
W 1
P*KINQ?°*
iSTHEBESTIMTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUCH’S
RECE l VEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE MEDAL
ANUfACTURED BYjAMES CHAHNQN
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Crocers and Storekeepers
Medical,
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
_
BEECHAM’S PILLS
SP
PATENT
8
PILLS
*7
s
sg
At#! mdrmevtSlj ad-
mitted to bo worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorder* such aa
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
Sstite, Shortness of
reath, Costireness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
lag Sensations, &o. Ths first doss will give relief
to twenty minute*.
Hvssy eufferer is earnestly invited to try one
&ax of these Pills end they will he acknowledged to he
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
ffsr females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
08 ft few doses of them carry off all humour*) and
SsEdaffl about all that is required. No female should
Without them. There is no Medicine to he found
to Beecham’s Pills for removing any* obstruc-
ted or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
aisw to the directions given with each box, they
soon restore females of all ages to sound and
ro&osit health. This has been proved, by thousands
wh® have tried them, and found the benefits which
era ensured by their use.
Tor a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and aD
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
straagthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of Malta the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
beat guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BKBOHAM’S PILLS have the Large* Sal* tf any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beeeham’s Magic Cough Pills.
am a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Branohial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Whessißg, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ef breathing, which nightly deprive the
patent of rest. Let any person give BEBCHAM’S
TOUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Be tail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan*
•ashire, England, in boxes Is. ltd. and 2s. fid. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
NJB.—Full directions are given with each box.
THE BA' K OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Bbanches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in ail the principal oitleß
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial 'ana
Travellers’ Letters of Credit,
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
r^s
CONQUERS DISEASE
ET ' The Sucoeßsfnl Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Lawß of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobs MERCURY ob othkb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Or. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8.. Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards ol Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified praotitloner advertising In Australis who
•iQlde the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, he*
established the
** Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,*
18, FUNDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effeotual care of all phases of Nei>
vans Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright oures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Sruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Gtenito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid oon*
dltlons of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, oall or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so i if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a cose unless he is confident of effeotlng a
cure.lt will cost yon nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours 1 that the Dr. understands your oaae.
uONFI
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sußeren can be treated equally well at a distance,
| JN.B.—I wish it dlstlnotly understood that I do not olaim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I elatm only to be a skilled and successful Physiols*
thoroughly Informed In my speolallty.
Note Address—
rMlHHM mm IKTIIUTI,
58, Fmndbbh Stbeet W~, Mmboubne.
«r No tmneetton viith my otter M«4ictU lmtttvu in
Australia Box 868. H.P.O.
FOR SALE. —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office,
Business Announcements.
Guiness’a Extra Stout.
rats’! QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment),
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
Balchin, Johnston and Go.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street. Sydney
Robert butcher as co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
602 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out Of
Bond at LOWEST RATES,
D* RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England,
and Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
EY6ry StorBk,B6p6r should sl
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
fi. STEPHENSON
BAS OB BAM—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, fc WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fcO.
COOPERAGE,
MV KENT STREET, and IT! SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Streets,
,r « ran KonlMkiutTUitai.
|2£
yd’e Meard EUnir <Ud thU,
item doit ok either bald
’head or bare foot- Toro w
heavy Mouetaehe in from 2 to
m«« otreod# w»»r /nil
twrdto, having need Xt» 8 pits. JVo »r», »a««v oppliad, osrtato
In effort. Packete, Is. gtf. sswk, 8 tor S». M., serf paid em« mule?
layer, free from observation. Addreee, IFtoMdtSanglM, Aoi* M
Boa T3o. a.f.O..gyAws. jy.g,lT, ;
■von
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
?• 296 PITT STREET.
MABQTJBKS ON HIRK.
BRCLLAS
HI-COVERED.
S'* 00 *-5
•o-rered. end yo*2
VttSMKfarntdined sod tnqflMMi
toJtfew, *t
J. SULUVA!
941 CwmStml
. Brickfield HUS
Uverpoot end!
BereaoU eaede,
BepsiW BMdr
'FOR FRAMINGS A PICTURE NEAI
ini fa *>
D.
BERNARD’S Fiotubb and Mouimsa
Bbobb, 899 Qeorge-street (opposite Royal
Hotel). Is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and mounted, Re-gHding
equal to new. Mounts cut with veal gold edges.
Special attention paid Sohool Drawings. Plush
work a speciality, Inspection Invited.
I P
PRESERVATION
BY
Dl. J. D. liLEWELEYN,
Specialist,
II fcOKBDABB SSBBBB EAB», MBkBOCBBB
This work Is a medical treatise describing at*
enrateljr, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, In-
discretions and other enervating Influences will
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that Is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Oo»
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid at
quacks.
Prloe per mall Bs, Id. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
00., 4 A’Beokett Btveet West, Melbourne.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADB
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30b. to 21a.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Year Tattemall’M
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long <rs
any other leather.
THEY ABE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
tCKtUSI
mry
(LIMITED,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
E A R T H E N W A.R E.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENEBAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
O- WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS & C_, &0. *W
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
42T The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. 43T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street,. Sydney,
49* SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFBESHMEHT ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Oil
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
ID, CATTLE & #
Will make Hair Grpw over Oldest So#* 1,
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY *
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for |f?j
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS,
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MfM
and as an EMBROCATION for
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Eliza 1 * 1
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale : m
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S.
and 00., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. S ,
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butte* .
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and **
Eagle Street, Bbisbane ; E. Fletoher,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V.S., S 3 Pitt Street,
PRICE ... 3s. 6d. Per Bo
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlero and Stored
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND
There is not a country in the oiiviisedwo«‘
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In ail
ailments of humanity their beneficient action "the!**
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied fOLr
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THE
factured only at 7S Nhw Oxford-st., London.
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London,
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AX THB
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
VI C T
R X
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA ...
BEEOHW ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Offioe: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56<Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machrt
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappoint# 6 '
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTSt
T m EC. GEDDES dc
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
GO*
BKNTON’S Silver Lever WATCH
The Working Man’s Watch. A Soimd and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine
made Article. and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALIa WATCH MAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Syd o*l
“ N ervous Debility.” A Free Medical Bo 0
Hebb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Disease*
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cube fob NBBVooa DEBlt* 1 *
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist, .
, 157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WA#
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHE
SIZE
SjJICH
«e
fB*
M/ts
\fin
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
~( >
IS&T Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
—
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-mai'ked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham PRESENTATION Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish. ,
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius,
w IWaltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others,
w i n Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
0
9
!3
tu
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMP
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.


EXTRAORDINARY SUPPLEMENT TO THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 1886.
THE EXPECTED SOMETIMES HAPPENS.
SIR AENRY: “RATHER SUDDENT, BUT A BLESSED RELIEF ALL THE SAME!”
“The Bulletin’s” Manifesto to the Electors of New South Wales.
Gentlemen,—The Bulletin dbsires to draw ytur
attention to the following noints concerning the annrr aoh
° PI
lng elections(
(1) That The Bulletin is the foster-mother of
Protection and Nationalism in Australia.
(2) That The Bulletin has rocked the cradle of
Protection with one hand and that of Nationalism with ihu
oihur, and at a time when the stigma of bastardy was
attached to both its proteges.
/q\ t-Hat- of t-Hia oriHoal inn. tni-A in ih
3) There ore that at th s ot.tlca nnoture in the
history if Australia, The BollbM entitled, and is com-
petent to give, sound advice to both Protectionists and
Nationalists.
(4). That Protection Is necessarily the first step to
Nationalism A young country jusb emerging Into
national existence would ba hampered by Freetrade and
strangled commercially, while, on the other hand, Protee-
tlon wonld encourage lccal industries, foster the new-born
sptiib of Independence, and quicken the life-blood of a
„ Bw -born autonomous nation.
new
(5) That it has come to the knowledge of The
Bulletin that some leading numbers of the Foreign-
Trade party purpose “dishing the Protectionists” by
raising at the eleventh hour the standaid of Australian
Nationalism as a concomitant to the Foreign-Trade policy.
(6) That no one is prepared to raise the standard of
Nationalism higher or to shout louder for the Yonng Kacga-
roo than The Bulletin, but that, for the reasons already
stated, it is essential that Protection should precede
Nationalism in the Nationalist programme.
(7) The Bulletin, therefore, asks the electors of
New South Wales to give their vote and Interest bo candi-
dates who will be prepared to support Protection and pledged
to uphold the policy so lorg advocated by The Bulletin.
