

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-0, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIRST AWARD for their Hew Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is by the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Walthuem Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended:- _
. ' “WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. -Non-Magnetic Watches -Having ofTama^’s^tt^exhibitors
exhibit, I have now the honour to report further upon it. Question having arisen as to s m y Ah- non-mocnetie balance. This expert (Mr. Kalian) reports as follows ‘ I have received
who examined one of the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches as webl as one of Ro warn s ' . , ‘.mi Durnose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
from Messrs. Robert Beeston and Co agents for the Waltham Watch Comimny, a nonuiia e .< , metallic compensated) ham-spring (Breguet), lever, pallets, and ruby rdller, are made of such
lm<> ™ ■ThTSSn, have also forwarded to me a fco melh^
report is as follows ‘At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After e. o rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days, the watch was again used in the
in contacjwith i.ynamos .at «*. having a magnetic Md which I think wonid hav,
mined an ordinary movement; hot it, rate still remain, Mr R g in chare, „f electric light instalment, the remit of Aieh ehces that ««.»««
*. w*. company .. ™ .«*
son-magnetic watch. R. 0.. J. ELLERY, F.R.S., CHAIRMAN'.”
The following is a List o! Awards gained by the America* Waltham; Watches at International Exhibitions
PSMDMIi 1575, Mr Prise Medals} FABIS. 1878, ftd&Uedalj OTK, IPBO,- Soli Medal, with Two Special and Four First Prises { MELMffi, 1801, Two Gflld-Malss
HEW OSLEAHS, INfelfc friae Iftab) TOMS miBlM, LONDON, MM Medal) MELBOURNE CENTiNNIAL EJiHIBITION, 1055-0, First Award, Noa-MapelWattk
Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology. _ ' .
Ip Ihctiaet from the London Hobologioal Journal, July, 1889 :-“The Great Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
1 Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch ex-press. . a I
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.—GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
AMERICAN WALTMJQML WAXUIM.S —wruvninmaian x J WA, an *.
„,, 1 vs; i, me,, -he N'-'W South- Wales Government Railways-for the ensuing year, the preference was given to the eeleori
r^ c -NlPp;t' ; 1 ■ > ,• \N W \LTIiA M'w \T< Tl CnMPANV. This is the .V/<,/•'< IV./c during wlil-h the WEALTH AM WATCHES have--!
to.- railway JWR** WfLTHAM WATCHES are need hy the Government Ra.lw.y Offloads m r
ih -Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Kadn ys. . v
AMERICAN "W J&E* THAM COMP A.N X,
■ LVJL ■ Me Australian Agency : WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY. .
rpHTI COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
PomctES issued under the Ordinary, Modified Tontine md Mortuary Di-nidetKl S '™-
;J|' ; BONUS YEAR.—Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of .bonus. -' -
BTJKKOTJ GHES & WATTS
(LONDON),.
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
H
_A.II for tlae Game- _ __
Alan Lawn Tennis, Criolset & Football.
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY
1 Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
ill Ml h MADQS4AI I $L- nn Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
ALLAIM Ai SVIAIIOiiHLL UUij gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
HOLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOOHEX WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Established
1845.
■z'oms: i
INSURANCE COMPANY
, . T nf the Onvprnment o£ the State of New York, Reports deposited annually with the Board of Trade in Great Britain,
Conducted under the Official Supervision of the Insurance Lite AssuSS, Companies Act, !»■
Life
Assurance Only. Purely
All Profits belong to Policy-holders, and Apportionments are made annually.
Mutual.
7 STATEMENT for YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1888
gm m** JCh jt ,uI XJN
SOBPHJS over Liabilities by the New York State Standard of Valuation (4 per cent. Actuaries') ... .... .... ••••
INCOME FOR YEAR. . ....
, _„ aa , ta —The following Policies were taken out on the following, plan' at the London Office of the NEW YORK LOT INSURANCE COMPANY in 1872, and having
Resunia ■‘■no u ° matured m 1887, were then paid
Pi an—-15-YE AR. ENDOWMENT 15-Year Tontine Investment.
£19,234,606
je2,m,i777
£5,226,601
all the
. xno * j , ■ rrn f" compound interest: thus his insurance dunrin the liftcm years cost uvm naming. .
Tontine Policy includes the advantages of the Tontine principle, of accumulations (securing valuable investment features m combmation with insurant at
The Nontorteitmg A T fii - *&&&$, and perfect freedom after two years as to, residence,, travel and occupation (except service in war). In case of death by reason of en-
tu„r« war! tW™ value, of the policy will be"paid. -For full particulars apply to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
r'V
a Ivyr-DTHTDO
Established
1845.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, September 28, 1889.


TOBACCO
Ml
I
*SO
o Q
5?
V
SIR
O
50
a:
p
r"
p
mxsoNS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should, get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
in spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New ! -
TIIC €k! >JHrk:, ” r, ‘’ “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Companion: Tws
... containing the following :
11b. Williams’, jib. blocks
-lib. Imported Dark Victory
lib. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure AmericanTooacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 Iso. 1 H S Manila Cig'ars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
, American
7K-5E- ,• , i ]b - Long Cut, American
pelivered Free at Red tern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of I ost-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
n +-+ r , e< y nr< if can be L-ft out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its p’aee. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved I 50 per cent saved ! Note the address :
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Sydney.
T>
J3*
KITTEN BERG & C O.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarenc« St., Wynyar* Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
•A-TKiiiisrsoiisrs
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unriytflled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose”on “Golden^
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease. $
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals. 'I
SUPERIOR to SELII OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x •- V
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
x X
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
A\IS
%iw 2
»*
jfn Consequence of Imitations 0/ THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAIfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers jt(e that thesLabeljm±cvtry_bottle
hears their Signature thus—*
mthuUschicbifto 4offfl of Jhe-original WOR CESTERSHIRE
iSAUCE is genuine^
rfsk for EE A aftfPER k,IMS’ , Sauce,, and see Name *on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Wholesale and for Expert by the Proprietors, Wortester /*• Crosse, and
£ia fr&ell, London, tsre„ (sre. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
PREMIER
Building* Association,
64 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending Year ending Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. Oct., 1886. Oct., 1887. Oct., 1888.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425 .. £350,000 .. £431,125 .. £580,000
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,630 .. 120,000 .. 206,685 .. 251,015
Deposits Received .. 93,581 .. 261,500 .. 391,356 .. 1,123,949
Advances Made .. .. 123,248 . 247,840 .. 307,828 ~ 625,826
Total Income .. .. 200,106 .. 451,085 .. 797,990 .. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five pee cent, per Annum
upon thexe Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Illiberal.
p
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£2b Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received*
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con,
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years* .
_ ; h
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
!■. HOPKINS and PHIL MAT.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10- No. 502
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1889.
P.noe, 6d.
ij|iL^y
BUTTERS.


The Bulletin
Tie National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.i
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... . ® ®
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Ncwspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our earners, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1889.
Mr. Stephen’s Anti-Whipping Bill.
The late debate on flogging in the Legislative
Assembly of New South Wales, and the
decision come to by an overwhelming ma-
jority of a young Democracy’s delegates to
continue and even extend the application of
torture, are events that may well make the
political philosophers pause. They teach
lessons of grave import, not the least signifi-
cant being that it is next to impossible for
average minds to escape from their surround-
ings—that is, to decide a question by its
intrinsic merits or by the fundamental prin-
ciples of right and wrong, rather than by the
ideas prevailing at the time. It is not that
those voting for the continuance of torture
were bad or even cruel men. It is that, in
the strict sense of the word, they were igno-
rant ones, either unmindful of the lessons of
the past, or unable to grasp the truths which
those lessons inexorably inculcated. Born in
China, they would passionately support the
savage methods of punishment obtaining
there ; in Siam, they would see nothing re-
pellant in throwing highwaymen to wild
beasts ; in Persia, little repugnant to humanity
in using living culprits as bricks in a tower ;
in Arizona, of Indian parents, not much to
condemn in the baiting of a prisoner by the
village squaws and dogs before his final
appearance at the stake. In all cases their
simple answer would be: “ The culprit should
not deserve it—it will prevent others from
following in his footsteps.” This inability
of commonplace men to rise above the pre-
vailing ideas of their time and country is
well illustrated by Buckle in his remarkable
work. It was in vain that a succession of
far-seeing rulers in a certain European
country endeavoured through generations to
impress their countrymen with certain obvi-
ous truths. The people were not sufficiently
advanced to understand or take kindly to the
teachings, so that the efforts of over a hun-
dred years left the great mass of the com-
munity much as before. Could anything
for example be more insensate or misleading
than the question put by speaker after
speaker during the late debate : “ What
would you do if mother, wife, sister, or
child of yours were abused or ravished V’
Most men would probably not only desire to
see the ravisher at the stake, but would not
hesitate to supply the faggots and even apply
the match. But society steps in with an
emphatic “ No ! However your feelings
might be gratified by such an award, it is
for others to say what punishment would
best serve the community at large.”
* # *
Some years ago the Glasgow Bank broke
and thousands of people were reduced in a
moment from comfort to want. It is an
everyday occurrence for whole families of
helpless persons to be brought from well-
being to abject poverty through embezzlers
of trust funds and dishonest lawyers. If
those who through such crimes h,ave to
pass the remainder of their lives in the
gutters and hear their children vainly
asking for bread were consulted regarding
the punishment to be awarded, it is probable
that at least some of them would clamour for
flagellation. Yet no popular representative
advocates flogging in such cases or thinks of
asking the wronged ones what penalty they
would inflict. In fact, this common and
stupid question: “What would you do to
the man who has wronged you?” simply
means Lynch law and strikes at the
whole fabric of organised society. Let but
the individual aggrieved be consulted as to
the punishment he would inflict on his
aggressor and the social edifice tumbles to
pieces in a day. It is not too much to say
that there is nothing more melancholy-
nothing more illustrative of incurable inepti-
tude—than this demand, “ what would you
do ?” &c., which was made by many members
of the Assembly, as if propounding a ques-
tion as profound as it was unanswerable.
The very first step that savagedom takes
towards civilisation is to deprive individuals
of the power to punish and to confer it on
the community. By such a swindle as that
of the Glasgow Bank more suffering is
caused than by a generation of such offences
as those for which the lash is administered
in Australia. But, so far, none even sug-
gested the application of the cat-o’-nine-
tails to the sleek elders and smug church-
goers who reduced thousands from com-
petence to penury.
* # *
Countries that during their infancy or
youth have been made the receptacles into
which the rascaldom of other lands has been
washed, have much cause for complaint. It
takes them generations, centuries sometimes,
to efface the stain. It is not so much on ac-
count of the number of criminals that has
been sent to their shores. Many, the great
bulk, indeed, of such offenders are entirely
free from the criminal taint and have become
transgressors solely through the unhappy
circumstances into which they were born,
and the barbarous character of the society
by which they were judged. At all events,
they and their descendants become absorbed
in the general community and are quickly lost
to view. But while they have disappeared
their taint remains on the new country’s
penal code. It was so with America, to
whose shores during the reigns of Stuart and
Guelph multitudes of British felons were
transported. It is so with Australia. Con-
victism eeases, but its spirit long remains.
It took America a century of freedom to
wipe from its Statute Book the bloody laws
of the mother land. Judging by the late
debate it will take New South Wales as long,
for after thirty years of self-government,
the savage punishments not alone remain but
increase and thrive. Thus, while most lands
with a pretence to culture are vicing with
each other to blot from their Statute
Books the revolting penalties of the past,
the Australian provinces only, with New
South Wales at their head, as if deter-
mined that the world should not forget
their convict origin, seem bent not alone
in retaining but in extending the operation
of the flogger and hangman. There is—there
can be —but one explanation of the anomaly.
Though the colonies have long ceased to be
receptacles for foreign felonry, the com-
munity has been so brutalised by the records
of that felonry, so habituated as it were to
the temptation of unnatural punishments as
to be unable to shake itself free of the foul
thing. Never, surely, was there a better
illustration of the profound truth that the
evil that men do lives after them.
# # #
Judging by the late vote and the reasons
assigned for it, it would be safe to say that,
if it could be proved that while hanging and
flogging were common, ten murders and ten
garottings occurred yearly, while without
rope and lash but five of each offence took
place, the bulk of New South Wales legis-
lators would still continue to hang and flog.
With almost dreary iteration it has been shown
that capital punishment does not deter, while
corporal punishment rather causes than re-
presses crime. But what of that ? The
gallows and halberds were good enough for
British offenders 50 years ago ; they are,
therefore, good enough for Australian
offenders to-day. Over and over again it
has been proved that the London garotting
epidemic of 25 years ago was the result of
peculiar circumstances, and was almost ex-
tinguished before the lash was brought into
use, most of the criminals (they were chiefly
released convicts) having been apprehended.
With the same dreary iteration speaker
after speaker, during the recent debate,
stood up and, in the face of indubitable
evidence from half-a-dozen independent
sources, declared that the lash had put down
garotting. Similarly, if, during the late
burglary epidemic in Sydney, the Legislature
had, in their abjectness passed a measure to
flog burglars, the reactionaries who opposed
Mr. Stephen’s Bill the other day would im-
pudently declare that the fear of the lash
and the cessation of burglary were cause and
effect. No better example, indeed, has been
offered of late of the folly in which men will
occasionally revel than is conveyed in the
pages of New South Wales Hansard where
a detailed account of the arguments used on
the occasion will be found. These pages
should be cut out and pasted up in every
house in the land, if but to show the inmates
the characters of the men by whom the
country is governed.
* * *
Some years ago when, in defiance of Tory
England, Mr. Gladstone, by a stroke of the
pen, abolished the lash in the land and sea
forces of the Empire, there was scarcely an
officer in either service who did not deplore
the action and prognosticate the direst con-
sequences, To-day, if a vote of the officers
were taken there would probably be an over-
whelming majority against re-introducing
the punishment. The fact of witnessing or
reading of inhuman punishments brutalises.
This is not only well known to the political
philosopher in his closet but to the person
whose gruesome duty it has been to
stand by the triangles and observe the
effect, not so much on the culprit
as on the onlookers. Again, through
some strange fascination, the very frequency
of such savage punishments often occasions
the very offence they were meant to suppress,
much as the dizzy altitude of a high cliff or
tower prompts certain persons throw them-
selves from it. Practical men, aware of such
tendencies, take care, as in the case of the
Eiffel Tower and other monuments, to make
due provision to guard against this desire of
weak-minded persons to launch into space. In
regiments where corporal punishment was of
frequent occurrence it was notorious not only
that the same offenders appeared over and over
again at the triangles, but that many who wit-
nessed the punishments, and who previously
were in no way disposed to the crime, com-
mitted the very offences and obtained the
same reward as their comrades. In
numberless cases men appeared every few
weeks to have the fresh and tender skin of
their backs artistically removed preparatory
to a similar operation a short time subse-
quently. In one New Zealand case the same
man was flogged nine times in three months.
A short time afterwards his regiment went
into action—and in a miserable skirmish that
would not be dignified as a “brush of
pickets ” in Europe, left half its officers upon
the field. Philosophers by reflection, and
commonplace men by experience, are aware
of this brutalising tendency—are aware that
communities in which cruel punishments
obtain cannot fairly claim a high place in
civilisation. But what are the speculations
of thinkers or the experiences of men of the
world to those of Australian legislators satu-
rated with the traditions of convictism 1 The
N.S. Wales lawmaker meets the concurrent
testimony of centuries by the senseless cry,
“We’re not flogging a man, but a brute,”
much as his progenitors cried when flaying
females—“ We’re not skinning women, but
strumpets.”
* * *
Increasing cruelty in legislation has been
the unfailing concomitant of national retro-
gression. In the long record of the past this
inexpugnable fact stands prominently forth.
It is nothing less than deplorable to hearken
to the accusations made by the advocates for
this form of punishment against those opposed
to them. “ You are maudlin sentimentalists,
who reserve all your pity for the criminal
and none for his victim,” they shout. For
ourselves, we are indifferent whether the
offender is scourged or not. It is for society
and for the good name of the country that we
are solicitous. It is far from pleasant, when
travelling abroad, to be assured, with simu-
lated commiseration, that, although torture
is dying or dead in most countries, it is as
well for Australia to adhere to it for another
century or so, as her people are used to the
method and, no doubt, deserve it. It is not
reassuring to know that the children growing
up among us devour, with greedy relish, the
newspaper accounts of how, in their native
“ Land of Beauty, Mistress of the Southern
Seas,” the fifth stroke administered to a
culprit that morning drew blood, while at
the twentieth his back was like a raw beef-
steak. It is a little mortifying to be assured
that, if things continue, civilised nations will
be obliged, in the cause of humanity, to
institute courts here for the trial of their
own citizens, much as they do in such
countries as Turkey, China, and Japan. The
charge of “ maudlin sentiment,” too, might
be fairly thrown back at those making it.
For they have not gone so far as to advocate
the flogging of women. Why do they stop
short, considering that women commit out-
rages as gross as men 1 Simply by reason
of “maudlin sentiment” —there can be
no other. At the Parliamentary debate
already alluded to it was stated that
whipping was applied in gross cases only.
No one seemed to remember that three or
four years ago in Yass a man was sen-
tenced to twenty-five lashes for blasphemy
under the very laws by which people
are now governed, that the citizens rolled
up in dozens to see him tortured, that
he fainted at the twelfth stroke, when he
was cut down and the wolves who attended
the bloody exhibition collected a few shillings
among them to send the mangled wretch
home to his wife. But the magistrates that
sentenced this poor, vulgar creature and the
community that applauded the outrage
would hesitate to prescribe the same treat-
ment for the more dangerous blasphemers
Bradlaugh, Ingersoll, or Symes. It was
forgotten, too, that some, no doubt, virtuous
females, on spying a sailor and a lady deep
in the recesses of Bondi bush, secured a
present of two dozen for the mariner and a
month s incarceration for his complaisant
companion. Numbers of the legal outrages
occurring within the last few years were
conveniently forgotten, but they find a place
in the memories of those jealous of their
native land's fair fame, and conscious that
if judged by her penal code, her place in
civilisation might be just above Abyssinia
but certainly below Tartary.
* * *■
We have said nothing of the irreparable
injury done to the innocent man subjected
to this inhuman usage. That such oases
occur are notorious. It could not be other-
wise, considering that every housemaid,
nursemaid, jealous woman, or Sunday-
school infant has it in her power to
bring a man to the flogger. The evi-
dence of even one policemen has sent
a person there for complying with an impera-
tive natural demand. In cases of assas-
sination it must first be shown that a murder
has been committed. So in garotting, the
initial step is to'prove that a person has
been ill-used and robbed. But within the
last few years men have been half-beaten to
death in New South Wales for offences that
left no record of injury or abuse behind them.
It is some twenty years since a prison con-
gress was held in London, when the repre-
sentatives of the various European States
were fairly astonished to hear that England
alone of advanced nations continued torture.
Another congress of a similar kind is about
assembling in Belgium. It would be in-
teresting to send to Brussels the members of
the late majority on Mr. Stephen’s Bill, in
order that they might explain how sar the
young and progressive Democracies of the
South are ahead of old lands in the philo-
sophy of punishments. By the time Messrs.
Abigail, Greer, Want, J. P. Abbott and
the remaining opponents of the measure (40
in all) had told their story, they would
probably receive felicitations as the worthy
sons of a worthy mother. In the mean-
time the working-men of the colony—only
the lower orders are flogged ; who ever
heard of a well-dressed person having to
remove his broadcloth at the triangles 1
—who attend the polls in battalions to
vote for those whose views of criminals
and their treatment are redolent of the
quarter-deck and the drum-head, so familiar
in the ghastly records of the past, have but
themselves to blame for returning to Parlia-
ment persons whose ideas on penal legislation
bkl fair to make the very name of Australia
stink in the nostrils of the nations.
Sunday Newspapers in Victoria.
The Attorney-General of Victoria, Mr. Righteous
Wrixon, has drafted a little Bill making it a felony
to offer newspapers for sale on the Sabbath, the
present law of Victoria being regarded as danger-
ously vague in the matter of Sunday-journal-trad-
ing. If we charitably assume that this is not a Bill
for the protection of the Age and Argus (there
being no danger to the Telegraph’s pious circula.
tion) we must accept it as a further political
measure to curtail the liberty of the subject and
check the growth of Radical ideas. The Tory
gang, who now work the Land of Gillies on a
Limited Coalition system, know well enough that
the only potent Radical newspapers published in
London, viz., Reynolds’, the Referee, and the
Dispatch, are issued and distributed on Sunday
mornings. Their suspicions that a Melbourne
journal, let loose upon the Day of Rest, would also
incline towards outspokenness, are possibly well-
founded. Therefore, the Tory gang decide that the
doum-trodden Victorian shall be denied yet another
of the rights which are enjoyed by his English
brother. Supercilious new-chums are to have
another sound excuse for sneering at the vaunted
“freedom ” which is our popular Australian delu-
sion, while Tory Despotism and Loyal Sabba-
tarianism shake hands over their latest bargain.
That Sunday newspaper publishing involves little
unholy toil upon the part of pressmen or printers,
is now generally understood. There is nothing to
prevent the editor, manager, and entire staff of
such a paper from attending early morning ser-
vice and stopping in the sanctuary until closing
time, if they felt disposed. The Monday issue
plays old gooseberry with the Mosaic law, causing
Saturday—not Sunday—to be the journalist’s
Sabbath, and leaving him no more spiritual con-
solation than caai be found at race-meetings, or
football matches. Hence Mr. Wrixon’s legal mind
is inspired to prohibit the sale and not the produc-
tion of Sunday shockers.
* * *
If Mr. Wrixon were placed in a corner and
compelled to attempt a social and moral justifica-
tion of his wretched Bill, that sinfully opulent
Christian would make an ass of himself. He
couldn’t explain that it was framed in the reli-
gious interests of journalism, for reasons above
stated. Nor could he say that it was intended to
prevent newspapers from being read on Sunday,
knowing how many thousands read The Bul-
letin in bed on that awful day. Nor, again,
could Mr, Wrixon assert, with consistency, that
a house-to-house distribution of newspapers is
anyway more sinful than a distribution of milk,
remembering that papers are delivered earlier
than the “ sky-blue,” and that nobody wants; a
fresh lot brought round in the afternoon. Hawk-
ing it in the streets after 10.30 a.m. need not be
essential to the success of a Sunday paper, so even
the “ runners ” might be redeemed if Wrixon’s
Bill had none save a pious purpose. Stick in the
words “ after 10.30 a.m.” and there you have it.
Put in a corner, then, and called upon for a lucid
explanation of his motives, the Attorney-General
would, indeed, come to hideous grief. His Govern-
ment Bill, we maintain, is a Tory act of suppres-
sion, which neither he nor any member of the
gang dare admit to. It is a joint instrument of
Church and State—the “ State ” in this connec-
tion being ever a despotic extension, striving to
prevent any extension of liberal thought. If
the Victorians still cling to the belief that
they are a self-governed people, they must oc-
casionally wonder why they govern themselves to
such an' uncomfortable degree, and deny them-
selves the option of doing so many things they
would be glad to do elsewhere. Suppose we pass
over Sunday closing of hotels—so astonishing to
new-chums—on the ground that the craving for
alcohol is a dangerous disease requiring to be
checked as far as possible, even then the Victorian
smokers can’t account for having closed tobacco-
shops on the great smoking day. And very
shortly, no doubt, they will govern themselves out
of the reach of a newspaper they would like to


read if they hadn’t prohibited it. All these things
are done by the Tory gang while their radical
constituents slumber and sleep, dreaming, mean-
while, of the glorious “freedom ” they do not en-
joy, and waking under an absurd impression that
the country’s laws are made by the people for the
people.
“The Irish Vote.”
The prominent feature of New South Wales
politics at the present time is the systematic and
persistent efforts made by men whom their own
party can scarcely credit with sincerity, to traduce
the motives of some members of the Protectionist
party. Ever since Protection became formidable
by reason of the aggregation of its adherents the
sectarian cry has been a part of the stock-in-trade
of Foreign-traders. Formerly the appeal to
bigotry was made occasionally and cautiously.
The information that the contest was more
“ popery than fiscal ” was muttered in lodge-
rooms, published by confidential letters and more
or less vaguely suggested from hustings and plat-
forms. But during several weeks past, as if in
ivocordance with preconcerted design, the hacks,
hirelings, scribes, and speakers of the “Free-
trade’’and alleged Liberal party have joined in
bold and sweeping declarations that Roman
Catholicism is the vis a tergo which impels the
Protectionist movement. So long as this charge
was made by way of suggestion, and with the
hesitancy appropriate to a knowledge of its falsity,
the best answer was supplied by mere derision,
varied by occasional denunciation. But now that
the exhibitors of the “bloody shirt ” of Australian
politics profess to give data and authority for
their vilification, the question must be squarely
met and fully answered. It would be affectation
now merely to deprecate the raising of an irre-
levant but passion-breeding issue.
# % %
So far the panderers to bigotry have succeeded
in showing what has long been recognised as a
fact, that in New South Wales a large proportion
of Romanists are Protectionists. Our purpose
herein is to show that these Catholic voters are
Protectionists not because of their religion, but
because of their race. They oppose Freetrade
because they know the ruin it has wrought in Ire-
land, and the fact that they are adherents to a
particular religious creed is a matter altogether
irrelevant and in no way concerned with their
political tendencies. Mr. B. R. Wise, who has
recently been doing some very dirty work for his
party, in a recent article in the Centennial
Magazine evidently anticipated that this line of
argument would interpose to upset his theory that
Protection is a sectarian movement, and he meets
the difficulty with characteristic disregard of all
the facts of history. He condemns those Protec-
tionists who declare “ in total disregard of his-
torical fact, that English Freetraders ruined Irish
industries,” and audaciously continues: “ The
truth, of course, is that these industries ivere ruined
by the Protectionist Parliaments of the Second and
Third Georges. ” As George 111. died in 1820 we
may conclude that the ruin of Ireland’s industries
had been accomplished prior to that time. Now
for the facts of the case.
# # *
In 1707, the seventh year of the reign of the
third George, Ireland’s population was estimated
to be 2,544,000, ten years later it was 2,690,000,
and in 1801 it had increased so rapidly that the
total stood at 5,216.000. So far the Protection
regime under George 111. seems to have suited
Ireland admirably. It is impossible to infer any-
thing but abounding prosperity of her industries
from these remarkable figures. Within 24 years,
from 1777 to 1801, it will be noticed that
her population was doubled, a feat which Aus-
tralia, with all the assistance of immigration,
could not greatly excel. And a large increase was
maintained so long as Protection continued. In
1821 the population numbered 6,801,000 ; in 1831,
7,767,000; and in 1841, 8,175,000. The highest
point was reached in 1845, the last year of Pro-
tection, when the population total stood at
8,295,000. These figures are fatal to the explana-
tion Mr. Wise puts forward. They prove that
Ireland’s progress under Protection was constant
and enormous, and that, far from being ruined by
legislation in the era of the Georges, her indus-
tries were increasingly prosperous up to the year
when Freetrade was introduced. So much for his
convenient theory, which is too redolent of
romance to be of any merit, save as a means of
misleading ignorant and bigoted electors.
# # #
Having shown that Ireland’s population and
industries were raised to their highest level under
Protection, we proceed to show that her popula-
tion was diminished and her industries ruined by
Freetrade. The population, as we have stated,
stood at 8,295,000 in 1845. In 1851 this total was
reduced by 1,743,000, only 6,552,000 souls then
being in the country. And the decline continued
thereafter. In 1861 the population was 5,798,000 ;
in 1871, 5,412,000 ; and in 1881, 5,174,000. Thus
it will be seen that, whereas in the Protectionist
period included between 1767 and 1845, an in-
crease of 325 per cent., from 2,544,000 to 8,295,000
was recorded, the Freetrade period from 1845 to
1881 caused a decline of 37.6 per cent., and an
actual decrease of 3,121,000 persons. And whereas
in 1845 Ireland contained 33 per cent, of the whole
population of the United Kingdom, the proportion
in 1881 had fallen to 13 '3 per cent. Surely this
falling off is of itself irrefutable and eloquent
proof of the ruin wrought upon Ireland’s indus-
tries by Freetrade. Mr. Wise impliedly charges
his opponents with falsehood or recklessness “ in
their total disregard of historical fact. ” It would
have been well that, before making such an
accusation, he had taken some pains to discover its
justice. He might, witli the least possible trouble,
have discovered that his accusation itself was,an
outrage on the Eternal Truth. After this it can
hardly be said of Mr. Wise that “his taste exact
for faultless fact amounts to a disease.” Not a
very virulent disease, anyhow,
5J
Lest these figures should be thought in any de-
gree insufficient to prove that Freetrade ruined
Ireland’s industries, we quote from Professor
Cairns, an authority highly esteemed by our
opponents. In his “Political Essays,” at page
167, lie writes : “As has been previously shown, it
was mainly to Protection that the excessive multi-
plication of the Irish population was due,” and at
page 136 he further maintains that the decline of
Irish industries was a consequence of the introduc-
tion of Freetrade. He says : “ The famine of 1846
is commonly taken as the turning-point in the
industrial history of Ireland. In fact, it has
proved so, because the famine precipitated Free-
trade, but it is not less true that Freetrade would
of itself have entailed, though without the fright-
ful aggravations incident to the sudden failure of
a people’s food, all the consequences of a perman-
ent kind which we trace to that calamity.” This
is pretty rough on Cobdenism, a reflection which
seems to occur to the Professor, for he con-
tinues; .“If these pages should find readers
who cherish the tradition of Protection, they
will doubtless regard this statement as a concession
fraught with discredit to the doctrine of com-
mercial freedom. Here it will be urged, is the
admission of a Freetrader that Freetrade has, in
one instance at least, involved if not accomplished
the destruction of a nation’s industry. At what-
ever cost of odium to the doctrine in question I
am hound to accept the inference as substantially
fair. ” And as if the admissions which we have
italicised were not sufficient, he states on page
140: “Freetrade imperatively prescribed a large
reduction in the numbers of the Irish people, for
it struck at the large cereal cultivation by which
those numbers were sustained.” We offer these
frank statements concerning the downfall of Irish
industries in opposition to the reckless assertion
of Mr. B. R, Wise whose “total disregard of
historical fact” is, in this matter at least, much
more conspicuous than his fairness in dealing with
politioa opponents.
# * *
We do not here intend to discuss the question as
to England’s right to ruin Irish industries by the
repeal of the Corn Laws. All that we desire here
to prove is that Irishmen —who have seen their
country’s industries overwhelmed in ruin, and her
population being driven out to Australia and else-
where from sheer want at home—have the best of
reason to oppose the policy that has wrought such
want and ruin. Having seen such disaster follow
upon the introduction of Freetrade it is no wonder
that they should try to prevent the same cause
from working like evils under the Southern Cross.
Knowing moreover that their country’s highest
prosperity was attained under Protection it would
be a marvel if they did not adhere to that policy
in Australia. The summary then of the whole
case is this—that Irishmen generally are Protec-
tionists because they have studied the fiscal ques-
tion as it has affected Ireland. And as 78 per
cent, of the Irish are Romanists, the great majority
of electors in New South Wales of Irish birth or
parentage also belong to that faith. But their
fiscal views pivot on Ireland’s history, not upon
Ireland’s religion.
*' * #
Freetraders in New-South Wales frequently
taunt Protectionists with the fact that in the ranks
of the latter party are numbered Victorians who
have crossed the Border but have retained the
politics of their native laud. The charge, what-
ever its gravity, is perfectly just. Speaking
generally, it may be said that all Victorians,
Americans, and Canadians, who have settled here
are Protectionists. And this because their ex-
perience in the lands whence they came has taught
them that Protection is the policy which most
certainly ensures an enduring prosperity. On the
other hand the main strength of the Freetrade
party is supplied by Englishmen who, in then-
native land, have heard Freetrade constantly ex-
tolled as the only rational policy for any country.
Cocelum non aniniam mutant, qui trans mare cur-
runt, is a true explanation of the phenomenon out
of which the Parkesites are now trying to extract
capital. Nationality, not religion, is in each of
the cases cited the reason for adherence to one or
other political creed. And concerning the Irish
there is one local fact which goes far to furnish a
motive for the ingenious appeals to sectarianism
which are now so constantly made. Among the
Orangemen of New South Wales there are a large
number of Irishmen. The Orange body was
cleverly yarded by Sir Henry Parkes and
Francis Abigail when the fiscal question first
obtained prominence. But lately there has been
a growing tendency to division in the Orange
camp. Irishmen who sport the yellow find the r
reason and native bias towards Protection stronger
than the bigotry by which the wire-pullers of the
lodges would seek to restrain them, and are coming
to the conclusion that the prosperity of the
country is more important to them than any con-
sideration founded on human hate which their
organisation can offer. At Redfern it is notorious
that the Orange vote was a split, so much so, in
fact, that the major part of it is generally believed
to have gone for Protection. It is with a view of
making the Orange vote go solid as of yore with
Parkes and Freetrade that the sectarian tom-tom
is being so perseveringly banged. If the Parkesites
cannot get the Irishmen who are outside the
lodges they are determined to get all who are still
within it. But the effort comes too late. The
road to freedom of political thought has already
been entered upon by so large a section of Orange-
men that whenever the next election may come
the vote of that body will be a “ shandygaff
half-and-half or thereabouts.
# * #
Finally, we would like to enquire what sin
Australians have committed that they should be
worried and wearied by these disgusting squabbles
imported by men who are aliens to our national
thought? Why should the battles of foreigners in
other times be fought out in this land which never
yet has been shocked by war, or insulted by
religious crusades of its own undertaking? Mr.
Wise, the Englishman, and Mr. Pulsford, the
Englishman, may have an ingrained English
prejudice against all Irishmen, but why should
they intrude their native hate .upon our political
arena ? We can engender quite enough political
strife concerning topics of native consequence with-
out borrowing any bone of contention from beneath
“ ancient ghastly mossed memorial stones” from
which we are “ fenced apart by thousand league
long waves.” Australians don’t hate Irish nor do
they hate English or Scotch. We want to know
no man’s birthplace or creed. So long as he
conducts himself decently we are not concerned
with any man’s private opinions or prejudices.
But if any man outrages the hospitality of Australia
by using whatever talent he may have, as an
instrument in the manufacture of faction strife
based on inherited hatred which is as foreign to
our country as it should be to our politics— him
we count a disturber of our peace, and unworthy
of the citizenship from which he acquires a con-
stant and enormous benefit.
“Sneaking in” Freetrade!
MTlwraith has been bounced out of the Govern-
ment which he put into power. J he most un-
scrupulous and stupid intrigue on record m the
inner history of party management has, for the
moment succeeded in expunging the rdle of the
Prince of Denmark from the Queensland political
play of “ Hamlet,” and More head and Macros-
ban, in the all-powerful grasp of Pattison, the
Mount Morgan millionaire-politician, are triumph-
ant. For some time past there has been in the
Queensland Cabinet a strong faction opposed to
the MTlwraithian policy. Macrossan and Black
are both of them out-and-out Black Labour men
and out-and-out Freetraders, and they fought all
they could against the non-extension of the
Kanaka trade. They gave way before MTl-
wraith’s resolute attitude, which was backed by
that of the Southern men, but it was not
without a good deal of bitter feeling. F rom
that time _ Macrossan has intrigued steadily
to upset his chief. MTlwraith’s policy, enun-
ciated before the elections, was the policy which
the country accepted as that of the party, and on
the force of which they put him and it into power,
and his pledges are those which are held by every-
one as binding on himself and his Government,
This policy, speaking broadly, was that of
Nationalism and Protection. These pledges,
speaking broadly also, were the abolition of black
labour and the non-renewal of the Transcon-
tinental Scheme, and on neither the one or the
other has MTlwraith shown the very slightest
signs of going back upon himself. On the
Nationalism Question the whole Ministry and
party were, and are, as one, and the courage
and' ability with which the successive MTI-
wraithian Administrations have faced and gone
through with all that affected the absolute
right of Queensland to the control of her own
destiny and administration, within and without,
have marked a new departure in the history of “our
colonies.” On the Protection question it was quite
different. The Ministry all along was an over-
whelmingly Freetrade one, and only submitted to
the Tariff as a revenue necessity. Macrossan has
worked on this, and a Freetrade alliance has been
made in the face of it. M*ll wraith may have
“ pledged ” himself up to the neck for Protection,
but his Freetrade colleagues will not follow him
one jot further than the bastard Revenue Tariff,
and so soon as that has paid off the deficit then it
will be taken off, and no more Protection for
Queensland. Macrossan has been working up
the “MTlwraithian pledges ” into a sort _of
bo°ey so as to keep the Freetraders solid,
and a regular system of petty and ever-spiteful
thwarting of MTlwraith’s wishes has been
carried out. It culminated in the Brisbane cen-
tral station question, which was a mere pretext
tor a quarrel, and in it they had the sense to jump
at making MTlwraith knuckle down or put him-
self in the bad position of breaking away about a
petty matter. The faction only wanted one thing,
and that was a leader who had enough backbone
to bell the cat, and him they have found in Pat-
tison, the Mount Morgan millionaire. Pattison
is the surprise politician of the hour, and he
holds the situation just at the present moment
in the small of his palm. The fiscal question
has got to be faced in Queensland, so why
not face it at once? Pattison, with More-
head in one pocket and Macrossan in the
other, has about as much chance of carrying
the country in the Freetrade ticket, with
Black Labour in the background, as of run-
ning up the price of meat to twenty pence a
pound. MTlwraith is for Nationalism and Pro-
tection. Griffith is for Protection and a Land
Tax. MTlwraith is not opposed to the principle
of the Land Tax, he only thought it inexpedient.
Griffith has accepted Nationalism. They have
more in common than has cither of them with the
Freetrade, anti-Land Tax and Black Labour men.
Why not face the Fiscal Question at once ?
Queensland wants Protection, and she means to
have it. Why discredit the cause any more with
a bastard Tariff and by playing into the hands of the
Freetraders? “Once more into the breach.”
Nationalism and Protection for Queensland !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Above Criticism ?
Thk Sydney Daily Telegraph most irrelevantly
and unnecessarily uses the American Terry shoot-
ing- case as a peg whereon to hang a long homily
upon the woes of Mr. Justice WiNDEYER and the
wickedness of those who talk plain English about
him
One of the most remarkable characteristics of our race
is the respect which has always been shown for law and
justice, and nowhere has it been more strongly exemplefled
than in tills country. . , . We have noticed one ex-
ception to the universal respect accorded to members of
the Bench. The first step in an unfortunate direction has
been taken by members of the body which ought to be
foremost in setting an example to the people. Parliamen-
tary privilege has been used on several occasions as a
hedge from behind which attacks may be made upon per-
sons whose position prevents them from making any re-
taliation. Words have been spoken and epithets used
which the speakers would not have dared to employ out-
side of the walls of the House.
If New South Wales had a wire-drawn respect for
the ordinary forms of law, to say nothing of the
spirit of justice which should pervade all Courts,
then Mr. Justice Windeyer’s term of judicial
office would have come to a very sudden end after
the Mount Rennie case; ip could not, any-
how, have long survived his recent exploits
at Tamworth. As to the allegation that Mr.
Windeyer’s position “prevents” him retaliat-
ing on his critics, that is mere bosh. Mr. Win-
deyer is a civil servant, who gets £2500 a year of
good red gold out of the Treasury to do certain
work, and when some responsible persons — i.e., a
dozen members of the Parliament of the country—
complain that he doesn’t do his work properly,
then it is quite open for Mr. Windeyer to explain
or contradict or assert without any loss of
“dignity” save of that stilted imported order
which makes judges dress themselves up in hot
wigs in fly-time and be “ preceded ” by tipstaffs,
and do a variety of pompous old-womanish acts
which, standing on their own merits and without
relation to Hinglandand precedent, are sheer idiocy
of the worst and most absurd order. Anyhow, if
Mr. Justice Windeyer cannot retaliate personally
and under his own signature in leaded type, or by
word of -mouth at the bar of Parliament, there are,
a magnificent lot of toadies in the daily newspaper
offices ready to retaliate for him. Purther, there
is a big ring of little people m high places who
suppress the truth and distort facts so as to cover
up the offences which he is alleged to have com-
mitted against fairplay and British justice, to say
nothing about the spirit of democracy. Judge
Windeyer has only himself to thank for anything
which people may say either in or out of Parlia-
ment about his conduct as a judge. _ All Australia
has begun to revolt against judicial tyranny.
Queensland revolted last week ; Victoria is revolt-
ing per medium of Captain Taylor’s Bill;
Western Australia lias revolted and New South
Wales will revolt--Judge Windeyer the
greasers of the daily press notwithstanding. There
is no earthly connection between the cases of Mr.
Justice Field, of America, and Mr. Justice Win-
deyer, of Sydney. Australia is not a shooting
country like America, and no one here, so far as
our recollection goes, has ever in the remotest
way threatened a judge or magistrate with per-
sonal violence. On the other hand, even the
highest political authorities of this country,
with armed force at their backs, have been com-
pelled by public opinion to back down before the
authority of the judges. That this happy state of
things may for ever continue is The Bulletin’s
wish, and the best way in which its continuance
may be ensured is to let every criminal tried by
the Supreme Court feel in his heart (no matter
what curses may be on his lips) that he has had a
trial as just and regular and dispassionate as would
be given him before the bar of Almighty God.
A Moral for Australia.
Since the Crimean War ended, in 185(1,. .England
has spent 900 millions on her army and navy. Yet
she is never prepared. This is universally ad-
mitted, but no one is held responsible. The blame
is always thrown on the system. The country has
increased only one-third in population since 1850,
but the military and naval expenses have been
more than doubled, viz., from 14;,* to 31 millions.
The present outlay is £6O a minute, a pound a
second, day and night, all the year round. The
Civil Service has swollen from 6} to 181 millions a
year in the same period, and the cost of the
Revenue departments from four to ten millions. Fla-
grant waste, jobbery, and mismanagement prevail.
Of 170 generals, no fewer than 109 are unemployed ;
but they draw £62,000 a year for doing nothing.
Thirteen admirals are in actual service at a cost of
£37,802, but 268 are on the half-pay and retired
lists, and receive £180,993 also for doing nothing.
It is the same with subordinate officers. The
dockyards are sinks of extravagance. There is no
proper supervision of work, no real audit of the
expenditure, and no check upon the stores, although
the expenditure is four millions a year. Many
ships of war have been built at vast cost during
the 30 years, but have never gone to sea, and arc
broken up and sold as old stores. The manufacture
of a hundred-ton gun exceeds £19,000. Every
time it is fired the cost is over £2OO, or nearly as'
much as an agricultural labourer could earn in
seven years. In the present House of Commons
more than one-fourth—l7B out of 670 —are con-
nected, personally or by relations, with the army
and navy. They are not likely to favour economy
and retrenchment. It is still too true, as Mr.
Bright once said, that “ the army and navy are
a gigantic system of outdoor relief for the aris-
tocracy.” In both branches of the service the
officers get the lion’s share of half-pay and pen-
sions ; (>037 of them draw very nearly two millions
a year, while eighteen times that number of com-
mon men have only a quarter of a million more.
In 1887, in the Inland Revenue Department alone,
pensions of £12,692 were granted to thirty-three
officials, several of whom were under fifty years,
and all of them under sixty. A similar state of things
prevails in other branches of the public service.
One hundred and sixty-two thousand pensioners
absorb nearly eight millions yearly, or £ls a
minute. The list is continually increasing. Many
of these are in the prime of life and able to work.
This amount does not include Royalty, or six
millions of Indian pensions, or an unknown sum
for pensioned county, poor law, and other local
officials, all of whom live on the ratepayers.
Officials of all kinds, soldiers and sailors, pensioners
on the public purse, with paupers and convicts,
number 1,625,000. Thus one in twenty-one has
to be supported, mainly by farmers, manufacturers,
merchants, tradesmen, miners, artizans, and all
who work for their living. No wonder that the
productive, commercial, and labouring classes
suffer! Every Government office is overstocked
with clerks, many of whom ai’e paid extravagant
salaries for doing little or nothing. They are also
allowed extended holidays and handsome pensions.
There might be enormous saving in the public
expenditure without in any way lessening efficiency.
Farmers, tradesmen, and the middle classes
generally are burdened with taxes out of all pro-
portion to their means. The income-tax presses
most unequally, and there is no discrimination
between income derived from property and that
which ceases with a man’s life. Nor is the tax
sufficiently graduated to be just.
A phrenologist was called in to feel the skull of
that miserable little mongrel they strung up in
Melbourne last week. Asa vindication of “ the
last dread sentence of the law ” this bump enquiry
vVas a shocking failure, inasmuch as it revealed
that the unfortunate corpse might have been an
ideal parson if his lines had not been oast in a
cook-shop. It seems that when the drop fell, a
five-foot foreigner of sanguine, virtuous disposi-
tion, very kind hearted and sympathetic if among
friends, was launched into eternity with a sicken-
ing thud. Castillo, in fact, turned out to be the
nicest little man a hangman could wish to meet
no combativeness or destructiveness about him,
and amativeness so moderate that he would have
filled a long-felt want in the ranks of the clergy.
But, in considering the phrenologist’s disclosures,
we must remember that he made a post-execution
examination, and that Castillo is suspected to
have died of fright before they dropped him down
and broke his neck. Death from fright may effect
wonderful changes in a man’s skull, and it is not a
matter for surprise that Castillo’s bump of “ firm-
ness ” withered clean away under the good old
white cap.
John Burns, the Socialist, the man whose organi-
sation and leadership won the day for the dock-
labourers in the late strike, is to visit Australia,
“to thank Australians for their help and sympathy
and to restore his health, undermined by recent
exertions. ” Doubtless Mr. Burns has been over-
worked, but if lie visits us, as he can’t walk all
the way, we hope that he will diplomatically, and
for the sake of example, come steerage, and
put up on arrival at the Dog and Duck or the
Flying Spud, instead of at Petty’s or Scott’s ; for
if he takes the parched peas out of his broggans,
and dons fine raiment and patent-leather shoes, the
Argus and Sydney Morning Herald will point
at him the finger of scorn, and a whole lot of people
will class him with the bloated and burly bishops
who expound the Communistic teachings of the
lowly Nazarene, and gorge themselves with truffled
turkey and “Comet ” port, while drawing salaries
of thousands in cities where workers slowly starve
on a pittance of eight shillings weekly. There-
fore we trust that steerage-passage and dry-hash
are’ John’s sailing orders.
♦
Were The Bulletin to write on the subject until
the track of doom it could not more clearly set
forth the non-deterrent effect of capital punish-
ment than has the recent confession of Thomas
Reilly, the murderer of drover Eppell near
Wagga. Here was an act committed by a man
wholly dominated by an insane impulse, or, as he
describes it, “ a temptation I could not resist—a
fit of madness which haunted me by day and
night,” until one morning he “rose with the
temptation greater than ever still weighing on my
mind,” and did in an awful moment what some
mental lesion had prompted him to do for months.
The act was no sooner committed than it was
repented of, and the man would have done any-
thing to recall the savage act, not, as he explains,
because of his dread of punishment, but for the
sake of his own mental peace. Shall the com-
munity for ever be as immoral as the least self-
contained, impulsive, and brutal of its units —nay,
more immoral—taking away lives in cold blood,
punishing murderers for crimes committed in the
heat of passion and in moments of irresistible im-
pulse ? The morality of the community ought to
be of a higher stamp than that of its units. When
Reilly is hanged (on his own confession) for
murder, what will be the moral ? Simply this :
that the irresistible impulse has collided once more
with the immovable gallows. The conflict has
been waged a thousand years, and the experience
of a thousand years proves the folly of opposing
two such forces.


Rumour in Queensland says that Morehead
and “ Billy ” Pattison go ’ome during the parlia-
mentary recess. Business: To exploit Mount
Morgan into a “Limited Liability.” In that
event power would vest chiefly in little Jack
Macrossan. “ Hatter ” Jack, the self made miner
of the North, is grit every one of his (Mil, inches.
What’s the matter with that virtuous organ
of Foreign-trade, the Sydney Daily Telegraph,
that it has kept so quiet over the N.S.W. postage-
stamp advertising racket —the private sale by
Government without competition to the inevitable
syndicates of a huge State concession at an absurdly
low price? Can it be that Mr. Henry Gorman,
the D.T.’s biggest shareholder, and his good old
friend, Mr. Cliff, are mixed up in this charming
little deal ?
W. L. G. Drew, Auditor - General of
Queensland, has found his haven in the chair-
manship of the new Civil Service Commission.
W.L.G.D. commenced life as a hatless little boy
—a Blue-coat boy or Christ’s Hospital lad, in fact —
and so did Charles Lamb and S. T. Coleridge and
Douglas Jerrold and Thackeray, and a lot more
like that, and now—there you are ! £1250 per
annum, and a special Bill run through Parliament
to provide adequate retiring allowance !
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest beat Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
[?]
846 Macquarie-stseet North, Sydney, Sept. 25, 1880.
Mv Dear Moorabinda
It was a spongey kind of Derby at Uandwick on the 21st
inst. Lawn and paddock emitted a soft osculatory sound
under the most lightsome No. twos, and there was a sky
which impressed me with the belief that the Glad Orb of
Day was only a shaky superstition after all. Atmospheri-
cally, it was a grey Derby, for I counted a dozen feminine
top-potatoes in the Quakerish-c«m-relentlessly-pursued-
heroine hue—perhaps the ugliest grey get-up being worn
by a society girl who doubles a rink manager’s pretty
wife, for she had three shades of the same hue in her gown
and the effect was patchy and can’t-matoh-it-mum. Of
the spring gowns —commonly called “ lubbers ” because
of their susceptibility to soap and water—the two
prettiest were a grey-green bordered with white
liars, vest of figured silk, wide hat ornate with
white plumes and green ribbon—a vieux-rose parasol
spoiling the ensemble, for nowadays everything - , even
boots, must harmonise. Viewing a white spotted with
blue, collars, cuffs, epaulette-puffs and sash (sashes and
traight-skirt draperies were universal, by the way) of
slate-blue silk, with floral hat, frilled parasol, as it was
outlined against a cold, mizzling sky, one could not but
picture the horrid shape of Neuralgia hovering over the
shivering wearer. Two utterly unnerving garments—the
one, white satin scantily cut and limp, worn with a
wide woe-begone hat trimmed with white feathers;
and the other a silk gown in shades of mauve
and blue made like a lot of diagonal scraps sewn
together and trimmed up the back width to the waist with
pinked-out flounces ! An rests Lord Carington came with
Brother Rupert and Captain Helbert; the beautiful winner
of the great event was paraded on the lawn with the
“Darby” blue necktie on ; the band introduced a novelty
by singing portions of a fantasia they were perpetrating,
the idea proving highly successful; and one society lady
in a floral green silk, who had forgotten her mackintosh,
was observed beating a hasty retreat homeward with her
cavalier’s overcoat on and a revealed yard of stick like
ankle culminating in butter-pat feet.
•There was a crisp star-light night for the Sydney
Lancers’ first annual ball at West’s Rooms on 19th inst.,
when a throng of the most gilded came, headed by
the Baron and his brother, with a fixed determination
not to go home till morning. There were dozens of
pretty gowns, too, though owing to the many yards of
gold lace glittering on the manly forms of the warlike
hosts they rather lacked foils occasionally. For instance,
a white satin veiled in point lace, the corsage edged with
white jet—the draperies caught with great clusters of
white hyacinth and fern. Another, not so angelically
hridelike, of pale mignonette armure Royale over a jupe
of pink-lace looped across with strings of pearls, the cor-
sage draped with the lace, diamond butterfly in the hair.
Another—and I could enumerate for a week—was in amber
and ivory, striped and plain, and ornate with cream-
coloured jet—the train lined with amber silk, which also
went in folded diagonal draperies across the pleated skirt
of plain ivory—hand-bouquet of yellow roses and autumn
leaves. Of course there was the relentless Pickwickian
get-up that occurs in every gathering, and this time it
was green silk figured in copper-red and ornate with
folded bands of red silk with too much crimson in it to
accord with the copper. A crimson fan pronounced the
final doom of the toilette. Floor, supper, and music
must be mentioned reverentially.
Lady Loch’s parting presentation of diamonds will be a
souvenir of squabble, don’t you think? What surprises
me is that any of the subscribers should object to the
chief toadies ordering the goods from “Home,” because
Lady L. is such an imported article herself. It seems
absurd for Melbourne people to talk about “ local in-
terests” in such a connection, seeing how cheerfully thev
pay £lO,OOO a year and extras to any titled personage
whom the English Government sends along to collect the
money. I have been studying these matters under Tom’s
tuition, and I am able to tell you that any colony must
lose by its Governor, even if he spends the whole of his
salary on the spot, which he so seldom does. In the
meantime, his private means are accumulating for the
benefit of England, and Australia has merely imported a
pauper, as it were, to dispose of her thousands in pomps
and vanities. What do you think of that for “ deep ”
writing ? Of course the collection taken up for Lady Loch
has gone for ever, and one can understand the Melbourne
jewellers being mad, but she will get rather more sparkle
for the money in Paris (where dear Lady Lytton will
invest it) than could be obtained here. So I’m sure the
Melbourne worshippers of their “leading lady” ought to
feel delighted, A lot of simpletons talked about the duty
chargeable on their token, but I see that Lady Lytton has
been authorised to spend nearly ail the fund, from which
you may surmise that the jewels are to be smuggled into
Victoria by Government permission. Or perhaps Mr.
Gillies will have a special Bill, or something, to make
things all right. Oh ! I’m quite a politician, my dear, and
you can expect to see your Sappho in blue spectacles and
goloshes very shortly.
In a recent Sydney bigamy case it transpired that the
naughty man had gained Pansy Blossom No. 2 through
answering her “ matrimonial advertisement in an evening
newspaper.” This should carry a 6 x 4 warning to those
heedless maidens who advertise for tall, gentlemen, brown
eyes, with view to matrimony. Some men are so chivalrous
that another tie doesn’t prevent them for one instant from
obliging a lady in a little matter like that.
There was a rather scoffing, disjointed epistle on the
inexhaustible subject of “Women” in a daily paper re-
cently. The writer, signing “ A Young Man,” is simply
“death on ” the universal elevation of womenkind, which is
Ifee popular fad at present, to the detriment of the poor
toiling man who sets her up to begin with. On the whole
I join in his rather lurid anathema against the promotion
of the second fiddle, especially when he quotes two re-
cently evolved sentences: “We must look to women
novelists to revive literature.” . . . . “ Women are
weak physically, but in their powers of mind and soul
they represent God.” As for women reviving literature,
we know that many popular authoresses owe their kudos
to the careful pruning ofj their droning periods by some
interested literary man. And we know that when the
unrevised female rushes into print she generally produces
something like “The Quick and the Dead,” and her friends
fry in burning blushes. As for women’s Divine qualities,
lam too devout not to utterly repudiate the idea. Were
Paradise ruled by a Being with a “ mind and sou! ” con-
structed on the good old feminine plan, it would be
phenomenally difficult for a pretty girl of, say, eighteen to
sandwich herself into the Better Land !
Apropos of women. A Sydney sassiety lady was calling
on another of the same kind who showed her an album of
pressed leaves. “These,” said the visited, “are English
elm-leaves—are they not beautiful ? ” The other scrutin-
ised them closely before replying; “ Well—yes—but
really they’re not quite so fine as the leaves on our Aus-
tralian elms in the Domain !” Tea was then announced.
Popular-con cert Clark, of Melbourne, got ahead tie
other evening of those odd people who always start for
the door when they scent conclusion from afar and spoil
the last strains of a movement for those who remain. He
arranged a crescendo passage which stopped suddenly
without those violent chords which are generally pre-
monitory of conclusions, and thus those people who never
bear a finish except in a perpendicular position looked
sick and dazed and dejected and went out sadly, for they
knew they had been “bested,” as the bad little boys say.
I hadn’t space last week to mention an enjoyable
musical hour spent at Paling’s on the afternoon of 14th
to try the tone of some gorgeous Erard pianos inexpressibly
old-Frenchy in outward design. When I tell you that
Kowalski, Signora Fabris, and Charlie Huenerbein were
there and in working order I need say no more.
That little shower Noah got caught in was a dew-drop
to the deluge that descended on the night of the Petersham
Owls’ hoot on the 18th in the local Town Hall, Everybody
came, however, though not perhaps in their best
dress and the damp hadn’t taken the curl out of the
blonde secretary’s hair.
A cold, unfeeling woman writes complaining that people
are always howling about the feminine high-hat plague in
theatres, but never alludes to the annoyance gentlemen
cause by “ going out between the acts and coming in
after the act has commenced.” Now, I would wager a
floral hat to a penny bun that woman is married and
wants to keep the old man in his seat through long arid
acts by endeavouring to excite public opinion against his
getting loose. I often wonder if women think men are
bats? When their own particular delinquent crushes
back he is received with honied grins and furled
draperies, but when a stray strange male essays the pas-
sage he gets smothered imprecations and corrugated
brows. And the other man sees it and draws sagacious
conclusions and doesn’t “ask” for Ermyntrude after all.
Ido think we are much too severe’on this little masculine
habit. Look round any d.c. during the intervals and
you’ll see nearly every woman knuckle-deep in bonbon-
nieres which men don’t share—and are they to have no
equivalent ?
A plain and fancy ball, on 19th inst,, closed the first
season of Darlinghurst skating rink, and as comparatively
few people turned up and the rink is a Sabbath day’s
journey across, there was plenty of room for rotating to
the music of Need’s band. The Australian Club ball
eventuated at this rink, which is to be known for the
summer season as the “ Darlinghurst Hall,” and St. Vin-
cent’s will be held here instead of at the Exhibition Build-
ing. May the floor justify the deed !
The latest Melbourne “genteel” occupation is chape-
roning young ladies from other lands who want to do the
marvellous city in the correct fashion. References ex-
changed, of course. The lady—there is only one pro-
fessional gooseberry so far—can be hired for drives,
theatres, balls, &0., for a moderate charge, porterage and
refreshment thrown in, and is already a great institution.
To my far-seeing eagle eye professional propriety offers
greater advantages to Maude than the unremunerated
sort. For if mamma gives Duenna a guinea Maude or
Augustus may square her with two.
Owing to the recent Big Pumpkin Show at Moore Park
the Sydney pavements are now lined with weird beings in
burnt-straw hats and always dusty boots, who never close
either mouth or eyes whilst they sojourn amongst us, and
alternately loom large round Lord Carington and the
Waxworks. And, apropos of these, I am told that a
young and ambitious “cocky” lately returned to Cow
Plat from doing the Show, was impressing a thick-waisted
Doris with the idea that he had been very “ thick” indeed
with His Excellency, concluding—“ Wey, ’im and me
torked for ’alf an hour at a reception !” The lady was
overwhelmed, of course, and with the true feminine thirst
for knowing what he had “ on,” enquired—“ And did yer
go ‘dressed’?” And he replied, witheringly, “What a
thing to arsk ! Of course I went in a regular swaller-tail,
white shirt, gloves an’ all, like the Sydney mashers do !”
Thus Sydney D.T. over a recent ball in a local skating
rink:—“Hosts of pretty women superbly dressed had
their gowns thrown into vivid contrast by the surround-
ing uniforms worn by the numerous military and naval
men present, and over all the music sank or rose as the
great assemblage danced or promenaded beneath a
thousand glittering lights.” And if the gifted lady who
penned these speaking periods could only have then
tailed off into a long list of “The Duchess of Woolloo-
mooloo, had ’em all on as usual, the Countess of Brick-
field Hill was fascinating in a single blush rose,” &c., her
deep and heartfelt bliss would have run into three colums.
If you are ambitious of causing every man in the ball-
room to crane his neck for a glimpse of you, and if you
want to startle people generally, come out as an American
belle did recently—quite innocently, of course. The real
dress was of flesh-white, cut sleeveless, covered with a
black lace overdress, through which the soft white arms
gleamed with the subdued light peculiar to flesh. The
underdress was the exact tint of the neck and arms, and
the black lace was artfully draped “as if to hide the
charms it revealed.” Of course the gown was correct
.enough, really, but at first blush it is said to have looked
for all the world as if the girl had nothing on but that
transparent black lace!
The Village Fair, at Sydney Exhibition Building, is such
a success that they intend keeping it open a week longer.
Already £1034 has been banked, and still the thing doesn’t
thin, in spite of the fact that amateur theatricals of the
deadliest sort occur nightly. Fortunately they are an
“ extra” and few are beguiled.
I congratulate Mons. Poussard on the success of his
pupils’ concert, at Sydney Protestant Hall, on 19th inst.,
not on account of the large audience, but because the
programme was so good. Especially the playing of one
tiny boy—the first person I have ever seen his unaffected
self on any stage—who evoked cyclones of applause and
heaps of flowers for his rendering of a “Tyrolienne” on
the violin.
A gifted contemporary tells ns that it Is a practice
universal among the women of the higher and middle
classes of Egypt to blacken the edge of the eyelids both
above and below the eye with a black powder so as to lend
brilliance. But this practice isn’t confined to the neigh-
bourhood of the Pyramids. The average society miss,
always in the ball-room and sometimes in the fierce light
that beats about the block, draws thick dark lines round
the upper and lower lids on the edge of the lashes,
because it’s supposed to produce “a pair of thickly-lashed
eyes of great brilliancy,” as theatrical dressers say. But
it doesn’t. It only suggests sudden application of raw
beef-steak and flat-irons. I always thought Potts Point
and Cleopatra had many taking little ways in common.
Some of the Melbourne women are inclined to be “gone ”
on Miss Aehurch, the new actress, who talks for three
hours in a dreadfully tiresome play called “A Doll’s
House.” Miss Aehurch, I hear, belongs to the artistically
untidy school, cuddles her knees, and disturbs the con-
ventionalities, &o. She is described to me as being one of
those girls who have an air of looking into the middle of
next week, and affects to be a weird, peculiar child of
impulse. To be successful in that line one must have
brains, besides mere “intensity,” and Miss Aehurch ap-
pears to be clever. Anyhow, Melbourne daily papers are
making desperate attempts to push her genius down the
public throat, with the usual result of making the common
multitude feel very ill.
A gentleman writes me from Cobar to say that “ after
numerous experiments, extending over years, he has dis-
covered that the best and surest remedy for silver-fish is
to keep a supply of the small Chinese crackers among
your clothes. These have no smell ; but there seems to
be something in the gum with which they are made that
effectually acts as a preventive. For years I was much
troubled with the silver-fish, but since investing a few
pence in these crackers at a Chinese store, and using them
as directed, the pests have disappeared.”
In my notice of the “ Julius Csesar” matinee I forgot to
mention the sensation created by Miss Von Pinkelstein,
who, on taking her seat, leant forward on the front or the
box and uttered apparently a short prayer. Whether the
lady thought for the moment she was in church, or, being
unused to a theatre, implored protection from its evil in-
fluences in general and “ Handsome George ” in particular,
nobody knows; but the act of devotion caused great
astonishment amongst the occupants of the dress-circle,
the majority of whom being professionals, had probably
never seen anybody pray before except on the stage. The
noble Antony had sent a special invitation to “ the Sara
Bernhardt of the platform,” who seemed to enjoy the per-
formance immensely, but doubtless thought that after all
Jerusalem was a better place than Rome to lecture about.
The dual bill, “Barbara” and the “Rocket,” at Sydney
Criterion, drew a full d.c. on the second night, when
cream and white gowns predominated. A Potts Point
bride wore that nice white silk trimmed with pom-poms
which is so lovely and so invariable. How thought-
fully Mrs. Brough plays Barbara, and how unworthy of
her sacrifice, the kittenish child whom Miss Seccombe
(who has a pair of pretty eyes—Brenda Gibson’s chirpy
chat—and an unconquerable habit of rubbing the backs of
her hands on the furniture) makes appear even more giddy
than the author intended. In the “ Rocket ” the dressing
is rather ordinary. Miss Romer, whom one always asso-
ciates with pursed lips and a gimlet eye on a quavering
spn-in-law, conies out as a gusher in cream and
red spots and a giddy auburn wig. .Miss Seccombe wears
a nice grey and white get-up with the new coachman’s
cape lined with white—a cape that only slim figures can
wear, remember; and then Failin' Enson, whom I want to
see in a larger part than Madame Fabriquette, looks very
Parisian in twine and scarlet with a garden of poppies on
her fetching hat. Apropos of the “Rocket,” there is one
scene that gives the author’s knowledge of human nature
quite away. In act two, where Lady Hammersmith leaves
the lovers alone sitting on a sofa, their first move is to
jump up and sit on either side of a little table. Now, is
that probable ?
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The new lay chairman of the New South Wales
Baptist Union, Mr. Joseph Palmer, sharebroker,
has, we see, been inveighing against gambling.
Now, in the sacred name of the Baptist Union,
who are the clients of the stockbrokers if they be
not gamblers? Who are the stockbrokers them-
selves if they be not, in nine transactions out of
ten, merely stakeholders for the gamblers ? Pure
gambling, of course, means wagering on pure
chaive, and it is true that many of the men who in-
vest in mining stock do so because they have reason
to believe that the mines they favour will turn out
well. But the fact remains that eighty out of ninety
investors buy in not because they have formed a
favourable opinion on a practical acquaintance
with the mine, but simply because they hope to
sell out to advantage—and may the devil take the
hindmost. The average purchaser of mining stock
gambles on the chance of there being a vein in the
mine at all, on the chance of the shaft striking the
lode, on the return being payable, on the gold or
or copper-extracting capabilities of the
machinery being equal to the occasion; on the
honesty of the legal and mining managers and
newspaper mining reporters (the odds being about
200 to 1 against him for each event) and
so tho_ stockbroker stalks through the land
and “ joyfully,” to quote Mr. Palmer’s homily
on the heterodox brand of gambler, “ accepts
his gains with the utmost selfish unconcern
as to the circumstances of the case.” The man
who invests w ith the stockbroker is, so far as we
can see, exactly on a level with the man who puts
his money on the totalisator. Firstly, he backs
his opinion, however formed ; secondly, he takes
his chance as he would at Yankee-grab. We
counsel Mr. Palmer to buy a treatise on logic and
retire to think out the situation with a wet-cloth
round his skull.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. ’“N
Theatre Royal “Mikado.”
Her Majesty’s “ Julius Caesar.”
Criterion “Theßocket” & “Barbara”
Gaiety “ Erma.”
Opera House Professor Jensen.
Cyclorama “Battle of Gettysburg.”
Elite Skating Rink York-street.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Alexandra “ The Beggar Student ”
Opera House “ Othello.”
Theatre Royal “ Silver Falls.”
Princess’ “ New Magdalen.”
Athenasitm Hall The Midgets.
St. George’s Hall Professor Kennedy.
Victoria Hall Minstrel Co.
Appealing much to cultivated intelligence,
and little to the emotions, the “Silver Shield ’’
which failed to attract large audiences, pleased the
critics much; possibly “ The Rocket,” while failing
to gratify the critical so highly, will prove more
attractive to the Criterion-attending public. It
makes no heavy demands on any of the faculties,
except it be risibility, and that is largely held in
check by an infliction of reminiscence. You know
the sort of thing, commencing—“ Sixty years ago
when my only daughter was an infant, ” and ending-
ten minutes later, “but, alas, I have lost her, and
all the light has gone out of my life. Heigh-ho !
(Walk across.) Heigh-ho!” The one-act play
“Barbara,” which precedes “The Rocket,” is
also rife with gabbly retrospection and feeble
dialogue. When will authors learn that stage
stories should be told by stage action, not by
the dismal reconntal of affairs occurring long-
prior to the period of representation ? “ Bar-
bara ” has one particularly fine situation—where
Mrs. Brough, in the name-part, renounces her
claim to the brotherly affection of Cecil (Eille
Norwood) in order that he may not be deprived of
the legacy enabling him to marry. Her facial
expression of conflicting emotions, as standing
apart, she watched the exultation of the lovers
over the legacy ; they, unaware of her generosity,
she prevented from declaring it by a desire to see
them happy, was particularly fine. These new
plays introduced to Sydney audiences two new
actresses. From Fanny Enson, who cleverly im-
personated Rosina Fabriqnette, something better
may be confidently expected whenever occasion
offers. Judged by her Lilie and Florence, it
seems evident that Lilian Seccombe is more at
home in a rattling, giddy-girly part than in one
requiring subdued emotional display. As the
Chevalier Walkinshaw, Robert Brough .has lots of
opportunity. Usually Walkinshaw when not
Brough, once or twice we seemed to detect a
soupcon of Dodson Dick, but in the last act he
rose to the occasion and left no loophole for the
shafts of adverse criticism. We have seen Mr.
Hilton to more advantage, but the performances
of Miss Roraer, Robert Inman, and Percy Lyndal
were meritorious. When the curtain drops to find
a third of the male audience in the bar and a
fourth of the circle in the cloak-room, it is ap-
pai-ent that the denouement is very much in evi-
dence. Coming on the heels of the late masterly
piece of stage-craft, this failing was markedly
evident at the “ Cri ” on opening night.
■s{? v{f
George Rignold’s benefit at Her Majesty’s
on Monday was really what it purported to be, and
notone of those “ bens ” that cause the recipient
to wish the management and other friends had not
been so awfully kind. Every part of the house was
full, except the Governor's-box, which 640-acre pad-
dock contained only the Baron, Mr. David Christie
Murray, and a travelling scion of the British aristo-
cracy. The back of the d.c. was completely fringed
by standing spectators, many of whom were ladies
—the polite Baron might easily have offered ’em a
seat —and every other part of the auditorium was
equally overcrowded. At the close of the Forum
scene the beneficiary came to the footlights, panting
from his tussle with a big ovation, and, struggling
with emotion of an excellent brand, made a brief
and interesting speech, signifying his intention of
replacing J. Caesar, Esq., with Henry Y., which
would in turn be followed by a drama dealing with
the French Revolution (probably the “Dead
Heart,” to be produced at the end of this month,
at the Lyceum, by Irving); while at Christmas he
would endeavour to stage “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” Then, thanking all, and wrapping his
toga around him, he strode majestically off, and
had to be coo-eeyed back to take charge of a sombre
and depressed wreath, which he carried off as
gingerly as if it were a dead cat. As “Julius
Caesar” is a financial, as well as artistic, success,
he will probably occupy the boards for some time
to come.
* * X-
In “ Lena ” and “Erma,” Katie Putnam
lias convinced ns that, although not a great
vocalist, or an excessively agile dancer, “girly”
parts have rarely had an abler exponent on these
shores. In the former production, a literary
creation of her own, we believe, the languid
Southern method of slurring over the harshnesses
of the English language was an interesting study
to those who have visited the cotton States, or
been familiarised with the lingual peculiarities of
their inhabitants through the pages of American
literature. It does not seem evident that
American actors owe much to American play-
wrights. The reason why is not apparent.
American newspapers and magazines contain much
bright writing of a class that evinces the posses-
sion of careful observation, crisp, pungent ex-
pression, and the faculty for seizing on dramatic
situations necessary to the playwright. And yet,
the ordinary American play is devoid of humour,
that of a “black-face” character excepted; its
dialogue is slangy, witless, and exasperating; its
concluding situations hackneyed, clearly fore-
shadowed by preceding events, and its pathos cal-
culated to harrow the soul of a long-defunct mule
even unto kicking. It says much for the ability
of the folks who are associated with such his-
trionic Hinnoms that they are able to enfnse the
life into these dry-bones necessary for the evoking
of laughter and enthusiasm from their audiences.
Miss Putnam’s season ends this (Saturday) even-
ing, and she sails for America by the first outgoing-
steamer with the avowed intention of returning
ere long with some productions more suited to her
capabilities, more flattering to the intelligence of
her audiences.
%
“ Dorothy ” was withdrawn from the
boards at the Theatre Royal on Wednesday even-
ing to make room for the tuneful “Mikado,”
which was represented by a cast differing widely
from that of its last production. In nearly every
instance the change is for the worse, and were the
season to continue much longer, the company
would certainly require re-inforcement. “ Billy *”
Elton, the people’s favourite, and the establish-
ment’s stoutest prop, takes a benefit on Monday,
October 7, and the season closes on Friday,
October 11, with a benefit to that indefatigable
little woman, Nellie Stewart.


Ben Franklin Printing 1 Office
’t AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M- MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public St Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting St Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. 'OV A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 eSOBGE SORBET,
(Near Wynyard Street).
Professor Robert Jensen, at the Opera
House, continues to metamorphose gold watches
into guinea-pigs and silk handkerchiefs into
turtle-doves, while he evolves cafe au lail from
his inner consciousness with a celerity and a
smoking-hotness that would make the fortune of a
caterer. The Professor is assisted in his cabalistic
work by a feminine in wide trousers and jetty-
fringed eyebrows of sloey blackness, who is called
indifferently on the programme Haida, Haide,
and Haidee, but whom it is possible to love equally
under either or all cognomens.
The attendance at Mr. David Christie
Murray’s second Sydney lecture, owing, probably,
to the presence of the Guvnah, was slightly
better than on the opening night, when two-tbirds
of the audience were pressmen. As one Governor
is a slight “draw,” we should advise “Jimmy”
M ‘Mahon to strengthen the company by the en-
gagement of at least half-a-dozen, new and second-
hand, Governors. On the third and concluding
evening the lecturer was three-quarters of an hour
behind time. This, the Daily Tklegbaph ex-
plains by stating that “ the popular novelist fol-
lows out the time-honoured custom of indulging
in an after-dinner dose,” What the sleeping
draught consisted of we are not told, but we pre-
sume it was his own lecture. We must have our
nasty little joke,
At the Crystal Palace Skating Rink Elite
Skinner continues to hum. The skating exhi-
bitions by Phoebe Levy and Mr. Matterson are
genuine attractions.
** * *
The Cyclorama has been entertaining
school-children in large numbers at sixpence per
head, and the inmates of the Deaf and Dumb
Asylum have been accorded a peep gratis. Blind
Asylum to follow.
-;i;- * -*•
At Bondi things are looking up, and the
seals are getting their Summer howls and bathing-
suits in order.
•)h*
The Melbourne daily press, having united
in a bare-faced attempt to “boom” Ibsen’s “ Doll’s
House,” it goes without saying that the unhappy
novelty from Norway has no health in it. A few
feet of delicate elaboration and finished detail
seem to have been lopped away from this show
since the opening night, but nobody feels better
on that account. The Doll’s husband lets the
curtain fall now without troubling to explain that
something or other was, is, or will be “the
Miracle, ” and as the whole purpose of the play
was supposed to culminate in that vague ejacula-
tion, the natural inference is that Ibsen means
nothing in particular. If they held on to the
Miracle, and let the rest of the three acts slide, we
should get there all the same. A thorough over-
hauling of the “Doll’s House ” brings one to the
conclusion that Ibsen’s vaunted structure has no
particular foundation which he could swear to in a
court of law. He built it up in haphazard style
with a quantity of dreary platitudes which don’t
hang together, evidently imagining the while that
his materials were new to mankind. It is charac-
teristic of the “boom ” that a numbskull commen-
tator should gravely put forward certain long-
accepted facts as “ Ibsen’s theories.” Ibsen
—bless his heart!—has discovered that the sins
of the fathers are visited upon the children,
so he introduces into his play a wretched old
nuisance who happens to possess an incurable
disease. This gloomy apparition has no connec-
tion with the story; there is no connection be-
tween his disease and the Miracle. He just potters
about telling ladies how he inherited his irrelevant
complaint from his ancestor. Ibsen’s theories,
forsooth ! The chances are that any intelligent
man knows more about moral and physical con-
tagion than Ibsen, whose play suggests nothing so
much as a stale sermon preached by an ancient,
yet inexperienced prig. Possibly Miss Achurch
and Mr. Charrington, who also appear a little
priggish in their interpretation of Ibsen’s dreari-
ness, are shocking examples of mental contagion.
However, this horrible suspicion may be disproved
on Saturday, when “ A Doll’s House ” will disap-
pear from the Princess’s bill in favour of “The
New Magdalen.”
iif iff
Comic opera at Melbourne Alexandra made
a colossal beginning on Saturday night. Many
weary weeks have elapsed since the city was last
supplied with large doses of legs at one time, and
a furious struggle to be present at this feast of form
resulted in several thousands going empty away.
The feverish cheeks and joyous howls of such as
packed themselves into the big house testified to
the wisdom of Solomon, who has the ball at his
feet and a fertile field to himself. Neither the
music nor libretto of “ The Beggar Student ” is too
high-class for Alexandra audiences. They don’t
want their harmony to give itself any airs of
superiority, and they can fathom the homely
humour of one pocket-handkerchief between three
countesses. There is, moreover, enough bright-
ness and bustle to please any audience, under any
circumstances, and the performance, by the same
company, which made “ The Beggar Student ” a
big hit m Sydney, can bo safely trusted to sing its
own praises in the meanwhile.
* *- * *
“ Othello ” is spreading himself at the
Opera House, amidst subdued murmurs of admira-
tion from the ladies, who think it serves him right
for being so jealous. The Anderson case lias
attracted much attention to Shakespeare’s tragedy.
People are saying that if Othello had gone right
out for a divorce the evidence of honest lago must
have resulted in a verdict for petitioner, with costs
against his lieutenant, Cassio. Being a dusky
juggins with a fatal tendency to show his teeth,
Othello simply stifles the lady on suspicion, and
dies with a repentant gurgle in his throat as
aforementioned. Mr. Miln’s act of self-exter-
mination is a splendidly-executed crime, but
the bolster episode, strange to say, is com-
paratively unimpressive. The Mikado would
find fault with it for not being sufficiently
lingering, while the local medical talent are
unanimous in considering that Desdemona doesn’t
kick as much as she should. Otherwise Miss
Jordan is a sweet embodiment of the character,
and the American cadence of her tones no longer
obtrudes itself upon notice. Most of the minor
characters are well played by Messrs. Hodson,
Greenaway, and other smart young men, but
Hoderigo is rather more of a blazing idiot than he
might be. He wants to be gilded over and used
among the beautiful scenic effects.
* He He He
“ Silver Falls,” too, has caught on firmly
at the Royal. There is a pleasing background of
girls to this drama. Sometimes they are simple
English villagers, sometimes they are warm-
blooded Mexican maidens, and they always pop
up at the end of an act in, festive-coloured stock-
ings. Their male relations seem to rush about in
herds under the charge of a sheriff, who is con-
tinually creating a diversion when necessary, and
conducting his mob somewhere else when they are
in danger of being de trap. A lot of domestic
interest attaches to the conduct of a newly-
married husband, who smokes a church-
warden pipe on the night of his nuptials,
and then goes off for a walk until his first
wife drops into the bridal parlour to ask what
the other woman means by fooling around her
Adolphus in white silk and orange blossoms, itus
situation is getting positively too delicate for any-
thing when a mob of men create a diversion
which is more needed than usual It is a nice,
mixed-up play very well acted. It would be even
better if Miss Edith Blande didn’t shake her gory
i oc ks quite so much. One of these nights her
beautiful head will fall clean off
rm , „ **** „ „
l ® . S s^®J v °
ea tlie Athericeuin for Sydney after Friday,
and the Jolly Nash crowd are clearing away from
bt. George s a oout the same time.
Next Saturday afternoon a performance of
“ othell ° ” wi]l be g iven at , tlle °P era House, ™
aid of the dead Melbourne firemen, or, rather, in
, d( j 0 f b l tei r bereaved families. Mr. Alfred
Dampier, as lago, will assist Mr. Miln in the good
worb .
‘ ... ... ...
“** * .
At the Adelaide Royal Jennie Lee has
been casting a gloomy depression on holy minds
her realistic impersonation of Jo. She has
apparently improved her clever interpretation of
the character, and presents the “ chivied ” cross-
ing-sweeper in all his pitiable wretchedness. The
support rendered is good, and business is very
satisfactory, when it is considered that the atten-
tion of the devout inhabitants has been chiefly
attracted towards the spicy details of the Ander-
son divorce-case “The Grasshopper” will be
the next production. Ihe Cogill Brothers open
LOWER GEORGE STREET SKETCHES BY A PROMISING AMATEUR.
at Garner's for a short season. Duval manages
and the dollars should roll in.
** * *
In a certain N.S. W. country town the
Church of England spreads itself out o’ Sundays
in a skating-rink. The congregation usually
disport themselves between naps by reading the
notices placarded all over the walls:—“Persons
using bad language will be ejected“ Go gently
round the corners “ Smoking strictly prohi-
bited “ Don’t spit on the floor;” &c., while right
behind the reading-desk a flaming poster, an-
nouncing the arrival of a champion skater, lights
up the bald head of the venerable parson as if
with a halo of glory.
* -;K- *
Willis, M.P. (N.S.W.) travels with a copy
of Shakespeare and the MS. of an original
play called the “ Overseer ” in Ids portmanteau.
All his constituents are familiar with it. One of
them was bold enough to ask him —Why he killed
off all his characters in the last act? Whereupon,
putting his right hand in In's bosom, and glaring
fiercely at his interlocutor he inquired—“ Didn’t
Bill Shakespeare kill all the characters in
‘Hamlet?’” “Yes,” humbly replied the now
tottering back - blocker. “Then,” majestically
said the bush-dramatist, “ what Bill Shakespeare
hath done Bill Willis is going to do.” This is
probably a lie. In fact we know it is. We made
it up ourselves.
** * *
A Melbourne paper tells us that the
Marble Man is now safely locked up in Sydney,
it being the intention of its owner, Squatter
Buchanan, to take it to England for examination
by experts.
** * *
Surely Desdemoua (Mrs. Miln, at Mel-
bourne Opera House) should not jump out of bed
ip the last act. Just before doing so she invites her
hubby in with outstretched arms, but that pair of
sharp-toed, high-heeled boots sadly shocks the
sensitive spectator. They should be kept under
canvas.
# * *
The Echo (Sydney) publishes as a new
thing the story of the fining of the parent of a
seventy-eight inch youth for school non-attendance.
As it all happened some weeks ago and as the boy is
now on s j low j n Sydney, this looks much like an
unassuming “ad ” Has the agent “ got at ” tho
paper, or is it sheer native behind-the-times-ness ?
„ „
„ * r 'i * * £ „ ,
Evangelist Yarley had another full house
on Saturday night in Sydney, the occasion of his
lecture “to men onlv ” He comnlainsi bittorlv of
themoralcowlrd°ce of the dX and savs
they ignore his efforts to fight the Devil in his
best strongholds ; or, at the best, give him only a
few brief lineS; while they devote columns to sp^ rts
which beget gambling, and to the police-court
penalties paid by the thereby created
But the vigorous evangelist omitted to credit the
a P?™ wbl ? the number and variety of other
devils with which they sometimes try a fall on
their own account. A gazelle-eyed and grey-haired
map, who occupied a seat near the writer, was
visibly impressed with some portions of the
address ; with head bowed low, he ejaculated at
intervals his approval, after the manner of a
Salvation Army convert, and for a few minutes
he actually looked like a man who would never do
that sort of thing again. i>ut the old. Adam was
only scotched—not killed. A lost soul in the
gallery, possessed of the courage of its opinions,
dared to be a Daniel in response to the invitation
conveyed in one of the hymns, and the gazelle
promptly illustrated his newly-acqnired Christian
forbearance by leading the yells of “Chuck-’im-out!”
which followed. Reverend Yarley is a speaker of
the robust sort who apparently means well butex-
presses himself m inflammatory type variegated
with highly-coloured oratorical posters. He gets
an immensity of applause and the collection-plates
ensnare all the fleeting “ thrippennies ” that have
escaped the churches. He has also got a writ for
libel, and will probably get some more if he doesn't
abstain from the personal denunciation of citizens
who don’t happen to occupy the same pinnacle of
the elevated moral iceberg on which he reclines
while he toots his little horn to the theme of
David and Solomon, the Queen of Sheba and
Yarley.
* # #
By the way, how is it that Varley has such a
fearful assemblage of structural and apparently
intellectual wrecks with him on his platform ? We
do not say that they are deliberately put there as
awful examples of sin, but people will insist on so
regarding them.
The Enough - Boucieault coalition have
caused much peeling of bananas inside the walls
of the Brisbane Gaiety, lately, “Betsy” and
“The Pickpocket” have fetched ’em. Young
Dion’s laugh as the waiter in the latter atrocity
has infected a fledgling reporter on the local daily
press in an alarming way.
-*- -;ji a -;k
Herr Raimond Pechotsch and wife, long
well-known in Brisbane, are off to Dunedin, N.Z.,
to fulfil a musical engagement at the forthcoming
Exhibition, and ultimately settle in Young Reekie.
They got a big send-off from their professional
brethren in Queensland last week. The Herr can
fiddle like a house a-fire, and little Madame has a
pretty well-developed contralto of her own.
Several ladies unsuccessfully endeavoured
to present bouquets to Mrs. Maybrick while she
was on trial. Thus do money and beauty gild
over crime, and thus is it made evident that
there are few people so constituted as to be able,
without bias, to decide the guilt, innocence, or
relative measure of turpitude of a fellow creature.
At Poverty Point.
The American actress, Lotta, is well taken care of by
her mother, Mrs. Crabtree. Singularly enough, an
equally attractive professional lady, npw touring the
Australias, has an equally careful ma, whose name is
also “ Crabtree.”
Miss Achurch says that the part of Nora, in “. A Doll’s
House,” is the hardest she has ever played. . During the
whole three acts she is absent from the stage only five
minutes. : ,
Melbourne footballers are flocking to see Miln’s Othello.
They applaud rapturously when he stamps about the
stage shouting : “ Ber-lud, lago, blood, blood, ber-lud !”
Cassio they have christened “ the central umpire of the
play.” . / . iu
Once at Dublin, Satan was conducting Faust through
the trap-door which represented the gates of Hades.. His
Majesty got through all right—he was used to going
below—blit Faust, who was stout, got only about half-way
in, and no squeezing w ould get him any further. Sud-
denly an Irishman in the gallery exclaimed, “Thank God,
hell is full! ”
At Buda-Pesth, the other day, a thought-reader charged
with swindling was asked to name the number of docu-
ments the judge held in his hand. The prisoner gave the
correct number at once. When the judge was about to
pronounce sentence the accused exclaimed : “ I have read
his thoughts again ; he is going to send me to prison for
four days!” Judge; “ Quite so. Right again. You Will
go to gaol for four days. Call the next case.”
Dan Barry’s dramatic company has pitched its ark on
Ararat (Vic.), and with the “Parson’s Oath” and “Face
to Face ” is making the locals fairly sit up.
Manager Berry says in the ’Frisco paper, Music Aim
Drama, that Australia is one hundred years behind Sacra-
mento. Some folks are never satisfied. Berry reckons he
made a big mistake in not discovering a good show-place
along with Cook, Captain deceased.
Although she followed the Fisk Jubilee Singers and the
Sautley company, which gave two concerts there, Miss
Von Finkelstein has attracted crowded audiences in Mait-
land during the last fortnight. On her return she would
have given another week in Newcastle had the theatre
been disengaged. The native of Jerusalem is already
advertised in Adelaide.
The father of Miss Nelly Strickland, of the Katie Put-
nam Co., was an actor in Launceston (Tas.) in the early
days, and afterwards became a clergyman. Some actors
occasionally see the error of their ways and quit a vexa-
tious life. Many at present on the Point lament the fact
of their not being able to turn their attention to the
pulpit.
It has been suggested of Imano, the baritone, whose
acting lacks animation, that his sleepy style seems to say,
“ I’ve got to do this sort of thing every night, you know.”
Charlie Holloway, with a repertoire of pieces forwarded
him by his brother, Plain Bill, of that ilk, will probably
soon appear with a company at Sydney Gaiety. , .
Mr. Dymock, the Sydney bookseller, just returned from
London, there met Phil. May, who bad just dropped in
from Paris, in the Criterion bar, not long ago. And at
that moment who should walk in, just back from America,
but Fred Storey, of the Gaiety Burlesque Company. Aus-
tralia and old friends were discussed at length.
It is admitted (for a wonder) by American performers
that pieces are much better staged in Australia than in
the States.
Mr. Joe Macmahon concluded arrangements last week
w'ith Mr. John Solomon whereby Snazelle, the monologue
entertainer, will appear on Sunday night at Sydney
Criter on.
Jos. Billin, proprietor of the Victoria Hall, Melb., re-
turned to Australia last week, per Mariposa, after an
eight months’ trip round. He met with several Australian
performers in various parts of the world, and travelled
from Liverpool to New York on the City of Paris, which
had 1371 souls aboard.
Horace Bent has joined F. E. Hisoooks’ London Pavilion
Company. You see they can’t do without Australian
talent, after all their importations.
Turner, whom a certain paper reported as having been
shot in Dublin not long since, is alive and never was shot.
It is the elder Bonhair’s intention to start a circus soon.
They all find Australia a fat field.
Manager John Solomon’s Wild West Show is expected
here at the end of this month. ,
A certain theatrical proprietor was dining at a well-
known Sydney hotel one day last week, and ordered some
oyster soup, which was brought. In vain he looked for
the bivalves, so he called the waiter and remonstrated.
Fresh soup was brought with exactly three oysters in it.
“Ah,” said the theatrical man, “this is steeplechase
soup—a beastly small field."
A well-known hotel-proprietor who wished to ensure
honesty amongst his employees dressed them in serge
suits without pockets. A witty theatrical manager hear-
ing of this, remarked that they ought to have been dressed
in tin suits, as they could be shaken and the rattle of coin
would be heard.
Harry Leston was originally a mesmerist, and hypnoi.
Used in Melbourne with success. •
Howard Vernon was at one time in his career a tenor
singer in a minstrel band.
A nervous utility actor bad once to come on as a tailor
and say “ Your lordship’s coat, my lord.” This is how bo
delivered the line: “Your coatship’s lord, my coat.”
True bill, and happened in Dunedin (N.Z.), in 1879.
“Aladdin” will be the subject of the pantomime at
Sydney T.R. this year.
Charles Santley sang to a shilling pit at Newcastle.
When are Brough and Boucicault going to give Sydney-
“ Masks and Faces?”
Mary Anderson has been medically advised to take 18
months’ further rest.
Minnie Palmer has not been engaged to play Cinderella
in the pantomime, at Her Majesty’s (London).
Florence St. John has been granted a summons for libel
against the proprietor of an obscure London paper named
Wasp, in which it was asserted that her Gaiety salary •of
£3500 a year was largely added to by questionable means.,
That excellent actor, Mr. J. W. Sweeney, is about the
most “marked” colonial Mr. George Rignold has in hia.
company. Sweeney made his first appearance some IS
years ago at the old Vic. as policeman in Garnet Walohe’s
pantomime, “ Truckulentos.”
Manager Macdonald tells us that he received an appli-
cation from a magnificent society female deadhead for
eight free seats for Marc Antony’s benefit, and when he
told her by note that it was impossible, he got hack a most
villainously abusive letter. The‘correspondence is to bb
published.
The following “ad.,” from a Baltimore paper, will in-
terest those who remember the Turners: —
First-class Ice Cream and English Opera.
Two seats for 26 cents.
At Harris’s Academy of Music, Baltimore.
The Thompson Opera Company in
Balfe’s “ Bohemian Girl,”
Mr. J. K. Murray, Miss Annis Montague,
Mr. Charles H. Turner, and a full
company.
Also Ice Cream and a Souvenir Napkin.
Reserved seats, 25 cents. Two for a quarter,
when they come together at matinees,
“ Johnny” Solomon reckons his show cheap, thinks he’s a
patron of the arts, but here you have Annis Mdntague and
Charley Turner at sixpence per head, and ice-cream
thrown in. Soprano screams, tenor screams, and ice-'
creams, with a napkin to wipe your chin. You can’t wipe
it out ! Alas ! for Annis Montague. Who has ever heard
a sweeter singer or known a better-hearted woman ?


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the age.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY YEARS’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. XI. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street. Melbourne.
Eb. Blane’s Plant.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Many of the old identities of ’52-’53 will
remember the license-hunting and shanty-raid-
ing days when blue-bloused Tasmanian “pen-
sioners,” as they were called, did duty as gold-
fields police and levied toll on sly-grog-sellers by
the threat of “ laying information.” These were
good times for the blue blouses, who, if reports were
true, also stood in with their brother Derwenters
in most of the tent-robberies and bushranging ex-
ploits that were of such ordinary occurrence as
scarcely to cause a ripple oxx the surface of camp
life. In those days even murder caused little
sensation unless it happened to be of more than
ordinarily brutal character.
_As an instance of the coolness with which in-
cidents leading to a violeixt death were treated I
will mention one of many that came under my
notice. One of the petty prowlers had made a slit
in a tent close to the head of the occupant’s bunk
for the purpose of extracting a pair of trousers con-
taining the week’s gold- in those days usually kept
in a match-box by one of the party till sold—but the
owner of the garment being only half asleep
felt them slowly sliding from under his head, so
he coolly settled the question of ownership by pull-
ing his pistol from under his bunk and letting
drive through the tent in a straight line with the
slowly-disappearing pants. A loud yell was heard
outside, and the shooter’s mate, who had been dis
turbed by the firing and yell, lazily asked :
“ What’s up, Bill ?”
“Shot a cove,” replied Bill, laconically. “He
was fossicking for my breeches. ”
“ Hit him?” qxxeried his mate.
“Think so,” implied Bill; “I heai’d him squeak.”
And, pulling their blankets over them, they were
asleep in a few moments, as if nothing uncommon
had happened.
The next morning, when Bill and his mate
turned out, they found the would-be petty-
larcenist lying about four yards from the tent,
stiff and cold, with a bullet through his clxest; so,
after a morning nip, they went over to the camp
to report the occurrence.
_ “ Catch him in the act ?” asked the Commis-
sioner, after hearing their story. The men nodded
affirmatively.
“ Where is he ?” was the next question.
“ Outside the tent,” replied Bill, grimly.
‘ ‘ Quite sure he’s dead V s
queried the official.
“Dead as mutton,”
answered Bill.
“Humph,” muttered
the law - administrator,
“well, then, the best thing
you can do is to go and
bury him,” and, turning
on his heel, he left the
pair of them to carry
out his instructions—and
buried the man was,
coffined in an old pack-
ing-case supplied by a
local storekeeper, in an
unprospected gully close
at hand, where, if still
preserved from the dig-
ger’s pick, the trousers-
stealer awaits his trial be-
fore another and a higher
court.
The above incident has
nothing whatever to do
with my story, but will
serve to illustrate the
times and people in the
early part of Victoria’s
golden days.
Sly grog-selling in those
times was punishable
with a fine of £5O or im-
prisonment—confiscation
of dwelling, which was
either pulled down or
burnt standing, while all
liquors and goods found
therein were forfeited
to the Crown. At this
time there were no public-
houses on the diggings,
and as a consequence
grog-selling was a highly
remunerative occupation
when it wasn’t interfered
with. The price of a nobbier varied from a shil-
ling to one-and-six-pence (cartage was then £lOO
per ton from Melbourne), but the “ well-doctored ”
liquor soon covered its cost, for so long as it rasped
the throats of the miners, they never com-
plained about price or quality. In consequence,
grog-sellers accumulated a pile in far quicker time
than even the most lucky of the diggers.
“Hobart Town Kate’s,” at the head of New-
chum GMiy, was a favourite shanty much affected
by bibulous diggers at the date I speak of. This
was not only due to the superior quality of the
iiqiior she sold, probably due to a larger infusion
of tobacco and bluestone water, but by the fact of
her being known in the Gully as “ one of the right
sort.” jo
. Kate had a husband who muddled about fossick-
mg, chopping wood and fetching water, and was
generally to be seen at night by the chimney-side,
puffing a dirty black pipe and listening with the
greatest equanimity to the coarse jokes bandied
between his “ missus ” and her rough customers.
She knows Imr way about,” he used to answer
when he was chaffed about his wife’s flirting pro-
pensities, and his opinion was pretty, generally en-
dorsed by the residents of New Chum.
Kate was reported to have rather advanced
views on the subject of matrimony; this was due,
no doubt, to the liberal education she had received
in Tasmania as well as to the scarcity of the female
element in New Chum ; for it was even positively
asserted that she had been heard to declaim
loudly against the monopolistic egotism of some
men, who expected to have a wife all to themselves
sentiments loudly applauded by New Chum
society —who recognised that a greater elasticity
in the matter of marital ties was an absolute
necessity where the disparity of the sexes was so
marked. The proportion of one lady to between
two and three hundred gentlemen (the average
at the time I write about) not being considered
satisfactory to the males, however advantageous it
might appear to the lady.
Kate’s shanty was never without a customer
from morning to night, and she looked forward
to her retirement to the “ Tight Little Island ” at
no distant date; probably also she entertained the
by no means original idea, that a very respectable
saint could be made out of an old sinner, provided
her banking account showed a big balance.
Anyhow she thrived, and waxed fat on the spoil
of the diggers and her sway and “swag” no one
had yet dared to interfere with.
Kate’s immunity from police interference arose
from three causes: firstly, most of the “ foorce ” had
known her in her chrysalis state on the “ Island,”
before she had been transformed into fourteen
stone of solid charms, and boss of a grog-shanty ;
secondly, Kate was very liberal to her old friends,
so that when a raid was contemplated she always
got the “ tip soon enough to clean out any con-
traband material before they paid her a visit ; and
thirdly, because she was very careful not to supply
strangers with anything stronger than lemon-
syrup, unless they happened to be introduced by
some well-known customer.
A little distance down the gully resided a tall,
lathy Yankee, who made a very good thing of it
by carting the diggers’ washdirt to the creek to be
tubbed and cradled. Eb. Blane was his name, andhis
house, or, rather, tenthold was presided over by
a little, perky, voluble lady compatriot of Kate’s,
who had known the diggers’ Hebe under less
favourable circumstances than her present ones.
Between the two there existed a feud, that evi-
dently had originated in the knowledge possessed
by the ladies of each other’s antecedents on the
“other side,” and whenever they came, into colli-
sion New Chum enjoyed a sensation greater in
its interest than the advent of a circus in a small
country town. Both had matriculated at the same
seat of learning, viz., the “ Factory,” a well-known
Government seminary provided for ladies of their
description in Tasmania—and the delighted miners
were on various occasions treated to a full display
of the florid accomplishments of two graduates in
that choice Anglo-Saxon affected by the original
settlex-s.
Eb. Blane, was, however, a great favourite with
Kate, as he was with all the residents of the Gully.
He was an oily-tongued, good tempered specimen
of the ordinary American type—and his quaint
stories and original style always attracted a lai’ge
attendance at Kate’s when he happened to be
there, which was pretty frequently. Hence, per-
haps, the virulence displayed by Eb. ’s wife when
she called to fetch him home at such times.
“ I’ll lay you out! ” was the threat often uttered
by Eb.’s wife to Kate on these occasions. “En-
ticing men into your dirty shanty and half-robbing
and half-poisoning them. I’ll put you away ; you
“PASSING THE DOCTOR”
PASSENGER: “What people are those coming on
board? ”
QUARTERMSTER : “Them’s Hemmigrants, sir.’
P.: “They are an unhealthy-looking lot, I hope
they won’t bring any disease with them.”
Q.: “There ain’t no fear o’ that, don’t you see
them ‘passing the doctor,’ that cove up
there talking to them ladies, that’s him.”
mark my words if I don’t,” and the little woman’s
voice would be heard muttering threats all up the
Gully, as she marched off the placid-looking Eb.,
whom nothing appeared to ruffle,
J n spite of Mrs. Eb. ’s threats, camp-life and
Kate’s business went on as usual, till one day Eb.
poked his nose into Kate’s shanty, and looking
round mysteriously said in a half whisper to Kate :
“You’ve been having a big lot of stuff in lately.”
Kate nodded in the affirmat i ve .
~ ~T „ ~ , . , , . ~ , , ~ „
• about it,
fid Eb. seating himself, somebody’s been over
to , the f cam P a ? d laid “formation. I think they’re
going for you to-night.
Kate s fat, rosy face turned a shade pale, as she
“ It was one of them pensioners over at the
cam p ” answered Eb, “ and he told me you’d better
haV( f an empty store before 10 o’clock to night-
and c h an g e your plants—as they had been told
w y ie re to find it ”
.< W ho split on me ?” asked Kate spitefully.
» Well, [ kinder guesS) ” replied Eb. coolly,
« that it was that old woman of mine. She ain’t
never been much gone on you in the way of being
neighbourly, you know, and I guess she’s trying
to bust up this shanty. ”
Kate’s face assumed a purple tinge and her
strong white teeth came together with a snap like
a terrier dog’s, as she strove to suppress her rage,
“ What am I to do?” she asked Eb., “ that fool
0 f a man of mine has gone off to a new rush, and
won’t be home till to-morrow, and I’ve over a
hundred and fifty pounds worth of stuff in the
place that has never been opened (that would
mean about £4OO after it had gone through Kate’s
improving additions.)
“Waal,” said Eb., after apparently reflecting"
awhile, “I never went back on a woman in my
]|f e —and your women’s quarrels ain’t going to
stop me doing the square thing by you. I’ll tell
you what I’ll do. I’ll have my dray here at dark,
and [’ll just hump them stores to a plant I knows
on, and when the pensioners is vamoosed I’ll
hump ’em back again the next night.”
“You’re the right sort, Eb.,” replied Kate,.
gratefully; “you’re not the man to see a woman
robbed of her hard earnings.”
“ You’ve just struck it,” remarked Eb. “ Then
Government sharps ain’t no right interfering witt
property. If it was a private party,” continued
Eb., “as wanted to make a rise and did it clever
I shouldn’t hev nothing to say in the matter.”
Eb. ’s sentiments as to individual rights in besting
one another were exactly in accord with the teach-
ings of the moral lexicon of Kate’s youth, and
after a parting nobbier everything was left to him.
Eb. ’s warning was no false alarm, for the same
night a sergeant and a squad of “blue-bellies”
put in an appearance, the whole of them walking
unceremoniously into the shanty. Kate was
seated by the chimney mending her husband’s
jumper, the model of a modest, industrious house-
wife. She looked up reproachfully at the party
and said, “What, again? It’s a pity you chaps
ain’t got nothing better to do than to break into
respectable people’s places and worry ’em for doing
nothing at all. ”
A reciprocal wink was exchanged between the
officials, and the farce of searching was gone
through. Nothing, of course, was found to war-
rant the visit, and the leader, after apologising by
remarking that “dooty was dooty, and borders
was borders,” left the shanty with his men. Eb.
put in an appearance and mutual congratulations
were exchanged as to the cleverness with which
they had deceived “the traps,” Eb. taking his
leave shortly afterwards on a plea that his horse
wanted feeding.
Eb.’s course up the Gully towards his home
might have easily been traced, dark as it was,
by a series of cachinnatory sounds that appeared to
surround him like an invisible halo, sounds of the
same description also issuing from the tent after
his arrival with the addition of a shrill treble ac-
companiment—and then well, my story is
nearly finished, and the reader will find out where
the laugh comes in.
On the following evening Eb. did not put in an
appearance at his usual time. This was, of course,
accounted for by Kate on the supposition that Eb.
was looking after the plant. Later on in the
evening her husband arrived dusty and tired.
“ Rush no good,” said that worthy, laconically,
“ rank duffer, don’t go two pennyweights to the
load.”
Kate didn’t appear to be interested either in its
failure nor her husband’s return, but snarled at
him and said, “ Better by half have stayed at
home instead of flying about to digging-rushes.
Nice fix I should have been in if I hadn’t had a
man (this with great contempt) to help me. The
traps have been here. ”
The man looked frightened for a moment and
then asked timidly, “ Did you get rid of the
stuff ? ”
“ Did I get rid of it ? ” replied she with an ex-
ultant chuckle. “No fear of ’em catching me—
no fear —they didn’t find so much as a nobbier—no
thanks to you, though. ”
The man looked relieved, and then said, “ who
helped you to plant it ? ”
“Not you,” replied Kate, with a sneer, “Eb.
Blane carted it away to a plant he knew of. I ex-
pect he’ll be back with it to-night. ”
The man looked dazed for a moment, then jump-
ing up he gave vent to a volume of blasphemy
strong enough to have lifted the roof off, and
stamped round the shantyjlike a lunatic. “ Had !
by G !” he concluded addressing Kate, “ and
you call yourself fly. Why, a baby could walk
round you. He bring it back ? Oh, yes, he’ll run
after you with it. He’s the right sort, he is.
Kate, I’m ashamed on you. You’re a disgrace to
the Island. Why, I met him and his wife 14 miles
away from here with all their traps on a dray, and
they were loaded up with kegs and cases, and
they asked me to have a drink from my own stuff.
Oh, he’s a beauty and no mistake”—and he sat
down exhausted with his outburst of rage.
It was quite true Kate had been got at, and
badly too. The Yankee and his wife had been
too clever for her. Eb. ’s wife had laid the informa-
tion for the purpose of Eb. carrying out his scheme ;
they made a good rise out of the spoliation of
“ Hobart Town Kate,” and enjoyed many a hearty
laugh at the success of their operations.
I will not attempt to describe Kate’s rage at
being outwitted, nor will I put into print the lan-
guage she used on the occasion. The stern censor-
ship exercised in a neighbouring colony by a
“novel moralist” on realistic literature, forbids
me to risk the confiscation and incineration of the
journal containing this story, but, from the des-
cription I have already given of the lady, my
readers can easily supply the omission. I will
only remark that she called up all the reserve
adjectives in her vocabulary to hurl after the
faithless Eb.—an exercise that appeared to ease
her considerably, though I don’t think it affected
the treacherous Yankee and his wife.
I met Kate on many rushes afterwards, but res-
pect for her florid eloquence always prevented me
from alluding in any form to “ Eb.’s plant.”
JEFF CRAMER.
It is said that Mrs. Maybrick is in an in
teresting condition. It is very rarely that a womav
who is tried for her life isn’t, and some of the
criminal-defending lawyers often wish they hac
half as good a plea to urge on behalf of their mak
clients.
At Queanbeyan Sir Henry Parkes told r
little story of a well-known M.P. who was a Pro
tectionist “ because his father was one.” Parkes,
who never in all his life said anything original
plagiarised the story, which in the original runs
“Why are you a Roman Catholic?” “Because
my father was one.” “ Why are you a bachelor ?’
“ Because my father was one.” (Great laughter.
Dear Bulletin, —Sergeant Sniffin, of tin
N.S.W. police-force, considered that he had beer
hardly treated in not having his name prominently
mentioned in a Gazette notice of the clever, &c..
arrest of a certain bank bezzler, so he filled five
sheets of foolscap with his pensive plaint and for-
warded the lot to the Minister for Justice, wire
thereupon asked Sub-inspector Wiflin for an ex
planation. Now, the sub. is nothing if not his-
torical. He turned down a corner of the memo,
and wrote :—“ If Sergeant Sniffin had been with
Wellington at the Battle of Trafalgar, he would
have claimed all the credit justly due to that
deceased gentleman. ” Two weeks afterwards Mr.
Sub-inspector Hume Gibbon Macaulay Wiffln was
politely but tersely informed that (1), Wellington
was not present at the Battle of Trafalgar; and
that (2) it would be advisable for him to send the
desired explanation without delay caused by his-
torical research; and (3) to buy a history and
study it.—Yours always, J. Pannikin. P.S.—I
would like to ask Sub-inspector Wiflin two ques-
tions, viz. : Who was the father of Edward Y. ?
and who struck Buckley ?
The Empty Chair.
The dying barber’s hands were crossed
He moved his lips in prayer,
And muttered, as he lay and tossed,
“ There’ll be no parting there ! ”
His work was done; his weary mind
No longer was perplexed
With visions of the man who whined
Because he wasn’t “ next.”
Across his face, so worn with care,
There stole a peaceful hush;
He stood once more beside his chair
And feebly muttered “ Brush ! ”
Then all was still; his tired soul
From earthly cares had flown
And sped towards that blissful goal
Where partings are unknown.
EX
Labour Logic.
Brawn and Brain ! The ponderous engine with
its wonderful propelling power, coupled to the
long train full freighted with the richest products
of the intellectual looms of the Centuries. What
obstacles can stay the progress of this mighty
force, when once under full steam along life’s
highway ? But with brawn or brain impaired, a
man is badly handicapped in the mad race for
success which is the marked characteristic of the
present age.
The Physical System is a most intricate piece
of machinery. It ought to be kept well regulated,
so that it will work harmoniously in all its parts,
then it is capable of an immense amount of work.
It is said that a watch, if expected to keep perfect
time, must be wound daily. It will not keep good
time unless it “runs regular.” More men break
down because they don’t “run regular” than for
any other reason. It is claimed by physicians
that few men are killed by hard work. It is to
the irregularities of modern social life that the
high death rate is due. Men burn their candle at
both ends, they wonder why it burns out so
quickly. The main thing in preserving the human
machine in good working order is to keep the
regulator all right. “The blood is the life,” and
sound health is assured so long as the blood flows
through the veins a limpid stream of purity.
Regulate the regulator with Warner’s Safe Cure,
the best of all blood purifiers, which, prepared
after the best formula, has stood the test of time,
and with the vigour of brawn and brain which
must ensue, in your life’s slexicon you will find no
such word as “fail.”
There are many common ailments that are taken
to be independent in their source and origin, but
are in reality the offspring of kidney or liver
inaction —for instance, rheumatism. Every re-
putable physician will tell you that rheumatism is
caused by an acid condition of the system. With
some it is uric acid, or kidney poison ; in others,
it is lithic acid, or liver poison. This acid condi-
tion is caused by inactivity of the kidneys and
liver, false action of the stomach and food assimilate
ing organs. It affects old people more than young
people, because the acid has been collecting in the
system for years, and finally the system becomes
entirely acidified. These acids produce all the
various forms of rheumatism. Warner’s Safe
Cure, aeting upon the kidneys and liver, neutral-
ising the acid and correcting their false action,
cures many crises of rheumatism. Warner’s Safe
Rheumatic Cure following the use of Warner’s
Safe Cure completes the work, and rids the system
entirely of these accumulated acids. Bladder
Disorders. —High medical authorities tell you most
of the bladder diseases originate with false action
of the kidneys, and urinary tract. Uric acid con-
stantly coursing through these organs inflames
and eventually destroys the inner membrane,
producing intense suffering. Sometimes this
kidney acic solidifies in the kidneys in the form of
gravel, which in its descent to the bladder
produces kidney colic. Sometimes the acid
solidifies in the bladder, causing calculus or stone.
Warner’s Safe Cure has restored thousands of
cases of inflammation and catarrh of the bladder,
and has effectively corrected the tendency to
formation of gravel and stone. It challenges
comparison with all other remedies in this work.
And so we might go on to dilate upon congestion,
blood and stomach disorders, constipation, piles,
headaches, etc., etc., all traceable to the one
source.
These are scientific facts.— and from the
Vay we have set them forth, it will plainly be
seen, that the statement we make, that Warner’s
Safe Cure is the most effective remedy ever dis-
covered for the greatest number of human diseases,
is justified. It is not a remedy without reputation.
Its sales the past year have been greater than ever,
showing incontestibly that the merit of the medicine
has given it a prominent place and value in the
hearts and minds of the people.


Horsford’s Add Phosphate,
A BRAIN AND NERVE FOOD,
For lecturers, teachers, students, clergymen, lawyers,
and brain-workers generally.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglls & Go.,
4 & G Dean’s Place, SYDNEY
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
T. _Z\. IST 33 iAG-EWTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Print oil List Businesses for Sale Issued Bally.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
When is Lord Bertie coming back again ?
The A.N.A. are about to erect a statue to
Adam Lindsey Gordon. To the poet or to the
jockey?
The Rev. J. G. Teuison-Woods, the
scientist and litterateur, lies dangerously ill in
Sydney.
Mrs. Proctor, widow of Sir Henry Parkes
friend, the Astronomer, is about to travel
lecturing.
Gladstone has only three lingers on his
left hand. The index finger was shot off 47 years
ago by an accident.
Judge Higinbotham is the most dis-
tinguished of Australia’s Chief Justices. He is
the only one who is not decorated.
Sir George Bowen, in his book of vice-
regal reminiscences, tells the secret history of
Graham Berry’s Black Wednesday.
It is said that Queen Victoria was present
in the House of Commons, closely veiled, in one of
the ultra-private boxes, during the first division on
the Royal grants.
Sir George Chetwynd hasn’t lost his social
position along with his character, for at last
Goodwood meeting he was under the immediate
patronage of the Prince of Wales.
Sir James Stephen, who tried Mrs. May-
brick, is known as a hanging judge. In ‘'Oceana,'
Fronde says that Sir Alfred of N.S.W. resembles
his relatives, the English Stephens.
Baker Weeding is to make another a'tack
upon Dr. Rose in the Melbourne Divorce Court.
Weeding estimates the damage done to himself, or
to his wife—the Church having made them one—
at £5OOO.
The Shah’s standard for female beauty may
be judged by this : When the Duchess of Leinster
was mentioned, he said, “Hem!” But Lady
Rosebery, “Ah ! beautiful.” Lady Rosebery
weighs over two hundred pounds.
It is common talk in London that Tummy
has won several thousands from silly young Lord
Lurgan and equally silly young Dudley. This is
goad news for British taxpayers, so we rise to
remark “ God bless the Prince of Wales.”
There have been 22 Supreme Court Judges
iin Victoria. The longest holder of office was the
retired Sir Robert Molesworth, who sat for over
30 years, and is now over 84 years of age. Out of
the 22 judges only seven were engaged in politics.
David Buchanan, of the N.S.W. Bar,
lately asked a police-witness whether it was not
true that he was drunk on a certain occasion.
■“ No,” said the constable promptly, “ I am a
istrict teetotaller.” “ Ah,” retorted David, “that
accounts for your domnable stupidity.”
The members of the N.S.W. Legislative
'Council are subscribing for a bust of their Presi-
dent, Sir John Hay. The late Tom Holt (or some
relatives of his) modestly, and without having
■been asked, sent out his plaster to be placed in the
House, but the aged legislators are said to have
ishot it into the dust-bin.
’ Beethoven had a brothera chemist, who had
tsome money and was rather fond of displaying his
wealth. This brother called upon Beethoven and
deft a card; “Jean von Beethoven, landed pro-
prietor.” This so enraged Beethoven that he re-
turned the call upon his brother and left his card :
“ Louis von Beethoven, brain proprietor.”
Last week, by the death at Windsor,
iN.S.W.. of Edward Butler, M.A., of Sydney
'University, a priest of the R.C. Church, Aus-
tralia was deprived of one of her brightest and
most learned sons. The deceased, who was a
.native of Windsor and but 34 years of age, su
'Climbed to phthisis. He was a brother of Mr.
'Thomas Butler, the Sydney University lecturer.
The onetime manager of one of the biggest
'branches of the Bank of New Zealand, whose
little defalcation consisted of misappropriating,
■embezzling, and running away with the wife of a
New Zealand M.P., is at present employed in a
business capacity on the staff of the London Sun-
iday Times. This billet he owes to the pro-
prietress, Miss Alice Cornwell, the “Princess
.Midas,”
Burglars have been threatening the re-
sidence of the Wagga police-magistrate. This
■ official, if properly sampled, will be found an
.awkward customer. He went out in 1863 to chase
bushrangers, and had a hand-to-hand encounter
-with Morgan and Clarke, the former of whom
-wounded the P.M. in the knee, a wound from
-which he still suffers. Mr. Bayliss has been at
Wagga for 28 years.
An anecdote is related of a distinguished
iretired N.S.W. Judge which redounds greatly to
Shis credit. Many years ago, when in a small up-
■country town he was presiding in what was then
(known as the Court of Requests, a well-known
wirago was summoned for a small amount owing to
ra local storekeeper. After hearing the evidence,
Ithe presiding Commissioner —as the officer was
(then called -said ; “ Mrs. , you ought to pay
your just debts.” The virago turned furiously on
him with “Mr. —% if your father paid every
shilling of his debts there would not be so many
widows and orphans now mourning for the loss of
their money.” His Honor was taken aback at the
onslaught, but he quickly regained his self-posses-
si®n and dignity and said: “Mrs. , if I live
and have health every shilling of my father’s debts
I will pay ’’—and to his eternal honour, be it said,
he kept his word, though, in performing the task,
be had to slave for years.
The London Printers’ Register refers to
•a pressman'having “joined the Hansard staff in
Victoria, Tasmania.” ’Twill be a blow to the
P.R. to learn that the tight little island was mt
annexed last year.
Melbourne Age seems to have bowled out
'the Evenin’ ’Rald on a charge of palming off
’the Age cablegrams as interesting communica-
tions from “ our own correspondent in London.
For some time past David Byrne has observed that
the Herald angel sang his own particular tune
about Searle and the wharf-labourers and similar
items from “home.” His awful suspicions were
aroused. There was no peace in the house of
David until an idea struck him. It didn’t strike
him at once —in fact, David was about the last
man to get in the way of this inspiration. But
when it once landed right there startling results
ensued. The Age manufactured cablegrams about
“ Jack the Ripper ” and Slavin. The Herald
came out with “ another ’orrible murder by the
Ripper,” and a “ severe accident to Slavin.” Then
the Age “exposed” the Herald, and nobody
thought anything much except that there is no
humour in the poor old Age. Had there been one
solitary wag in the office he might have lured the
Herald into announcing that the Queen was
spending two millions in deeds of charity.
According to a paragraph in a recent issue
of a Sydney daily, Ex. Governor Swineford, a
traveller, with that veracity for which the typical
Yank is noted, has asserted that the American
Eagle flaps its wings nearly half (pronounced haf)
around the world. Considering that the western-
most point of Alaska is within the 170 degrees
West, and that the Easternmost point of Maine is
about 68 degrees West we fail to see this. Governor
Swineford further alleges that Sitka is nearer to
Portland, Maine, than it is to the extreme west of
Alaska, whereas the former place appears to be
about double the distance of the other. Let the
American geographer sing the boundaries of his
country:—“ Amurka is bounded on the East by
the Garden of Eden, and on the West by the
setting snn ; on the North by the Auroraboreahs ;
and on the South by the Day of Judgment, and,”
says he, “ the Eagle soars, and soars, and soars,
till he saws his blessed head off. ”
v Somebody has sent us a marked newspaper
containing the announcement of the retirement
from the Victorian Customs service, at the age
of 64, of Mr. Michael O’Reilly, a gintleman
who distinguished himself by hanging out a black
flag in Dublin on the occasion of her Gracious
Majesty’s first visit to Ireland—“as a protest
against the wanton extravagance of the Dublin
Corporation at a time when the poor were starv-
ing.” Alike subsequently sailed for Victoria, and
for over 20 years owned and edited the Banner
of Belfast, an organ of public opinion which
circulated extensively among the potato-miners of
Yambuk and Koroit, not to mention Yangery and
Tower Hill beyant. The Banner was a festive
sheet, nearly as lively though not so classical as
Thadeus O’Kane’s paper at Charters Towers. We
used to know a large variety of good stories about
Mr. O’Reilly, but we forget most of them, and
those that remain are of far too hilarious a
character for so sedate a paper as The Bulletin.
One little anecdote relates to an occasion on which
the distinguished journalist accidentally dropped
overboard from a boat in the alleged harbour of
Belfast. One of the crew saw the editor’s scanty
locks rising to the surface and made a violent grab
at them —only to find that Air. O’Reilly’s head
AT AN ENCAMPMENT.
SENTRY: “HALT! WHO COMES THERE?”
VOLUNTEER OFFICER: “ BLAWSTED FOOL-LET ME PASS.”
SENTRY: “BLAWSTED FOOLS CAN’T PASS.”
wasn’t there at all but only his wig. However,
Michael wasn’t born to be drowned and is still to
the fore. We have no doubt he will re-enter the
journalistic arena, and when you notice a news-
paper-office with a lot of excited people outside
waiting to kill the editor —well, that will be Mick
O’Reilly’s office, and good luck to the ould man.
“ Jos.” Symes points out that the silly
people who sent money for the relief of the Dock
Labourers to the London Times might just as
logically have sent it to the Dock-owners.
It transpired at the hearing of a civil ac-
tion in London lately that publisher Yizetelly
paid 4d. a page for the work of translating Zola’s
novels—a little over £3 per volume. This knocks
spots off the sd. an hour to the Dock Labourers.
Dear Bulletin, —Duncan Gillies, the Vic-
torian Premier, has again come forward generously
he has subscribed the magnificent sum of one
pound towards the relief of persons flooded out
and in great want in a portion of his old consti-
tuency, Echuca. There are about 500 sawyers out
of work and out of house, living in tents with their
families on the high grounds, and their ex-member,
whom they no doubt helped to keep in Parliament
and draw fat salaries for nine years, sends twenty
shillings sterling for their relief, whilst other people
who never saw Echuca are sending 10 and 20 times
the amount. Duncan, it will be remembered, once
tipped the “boots ” at the Palace Hotel, Echuca,
one penny, and this during an election campaign.
All hail, Duncan !— J. J. Richardson, Echuca,
16th Sept., 1889.
POLITICAL POINTS
Abigail says he can’t follow Park os.
Parkes has given the bone to another dog.
The local optionists profess to have formed
a “ third party ” in the N.S.W. Assembly.
“Ten English locos, are being shipped to
Sydney and 31 are being built.” Another whirl
of the Eddy ?
The N.S.W. “ Freetrade and Liberal '’
Association and the Sydney daily press are now
waving the bloody shirt with both hands.
The Queensland Banks are going straight
for Freetrade, and are bringing every possible
ounce of pressure to bear on members to go solid
for Pattison, Morehead, and Macrossan.
Mr. Toohey is sorry that British trust
funds are not invested in the Australian colonies.
We’re not. At present it would merely mean so
many more absentee suckers on the country’s life-
blood.
The talk in Brisbane political circles of
a National and Protection Coalition under M‘l I-
wraith and Griffith. The Protectionists on either
side of the House do not see why it should not
come off.
Only the other day Mr. Frank Farnell,
M.P., publicly thanked Heaven, in the N.S.W.
Assembly, “ that he was independent; ” and now
he is resigning his seat owing to bankruptcy pro-
ceedings.
The Times paid £20,000 to the Irish con-
stabulary for assistance in getting up their ease
against the Parnellites. Nationalist Sexton, M.P.,
consequently moved that the constabulary vote be
reduced by that amount.
In the N.S.W. Assembly of ’Bl-82 there
were 101 members, among whom were 22 Roman
Catholics ; in the present Assembly there are only
12 Catholics out of 137 legislators. Yet the
Heduoation Hact is in danger !
Members of the N.S.W. Assembly con-
template treating Dan O’Connor to a picnic for
his services in passing the Payment of Members
Bill. A bushman always spends part of his
cheque on the publican who puts him in the way
of a job.
B. R. Wise (holding a brief, as usual)
asserts that the N.S.W. Preetrado clique is “a
political and national organisation, which does not
enquire into the race and creed of its adherents.”
No, it only enquires into the race and creed of the
members of the rival organisation.
W. H. Suttor, M.L.C., says that he has
driven a team of bullocks, shepherded a flock of
sheep, and driven cattle to market, but the N.S.W.
Legislative Council is the most awkward thing
he has ever attempted to drive. Driving bullocks
does not teach one to handle mules.
M ‘llwraith is being asked either to come
back into the Queensland Ministry or to promise
to support it right through. If he goes back he’ll
have to play second-fiddle and shunt Protection
indefinitely, and, if he bursts up the Government,
he will be keeping in power men to whom the
country has never, and never would, give it.
The alleged murderer of Cronin is, it is
alleged—by the local D.T.—at large in Sydney,
at which city he arrived by last Yankee mail.
How is it that the Nooze has not discovered that
he has come to reinforce the Home Rule delega-
tion ? How is it that Pulsford has no figures to
prove that he will contest East Sydney in the Pro-
tectionist interest ? Hurry up, Edward.
Now that payment of members is law in
N.S.W. there is a movement on foot to so raise
the Premier’s salary (now £2000) as to make it at
least equal to the Chief Justice (£3000). The
Chief Commissioner of Railways gets £3OOO and
the Governor £7OOO and perquisites. The Bul-
letin recognises the incongruity of the situation,
and believes that the proper step is to lower the
other salaries instead of raising the Premier’s. K
is monstrous to pay the gubernatorial gewgaw
£lO,OOO annually in money or kind while giving
the real head of the State a fifth of the amount.
Victoria has had fourteen Premiers in all.
M'Culloch was Premier four times; O’Shanassy,
thrice; Graham Berry, thrice; Haines, twice;
Service, twice; Nicholson, Heales, Sladen, Mac-
pherson, Duffy, Francis, Kerferd, O’Loghlen, and
Gillies once each. Out of the lot six are dead, four
have retired from politics and live out of the colony,
one has climbed to the Supreme Court bench, one
is still in office, and the other two are watching
their opportunity.
“ Billy ” Pattison, the Queensland Trea-
surer and Mount Morgan millionaire, is the man
behind the meat-block all over. He is short,
stout, and sturdy, with a clean-shaved face bar
whiskers, and he has the nose of a hawk. He has
played a magnificent game. He was as mild as
milk when he hadn’t a portfolio. Now he rules
Queensland with a caucus majority who daren’t
kick, although he and his Freetrade crowd couldn’t
carry 10 seats if they went to the country.
Says the perspicacious Sydney E. News :
Mr. Frank Cotton, the single-tax man, gave an tin"
answerable poser to Mr. Rose, the Protectionist, last
night, when he pointed out that machinery and inven-
tions, according to American official reports, enabled a
workman to turn out six times as much as he did ten
years ago. That is to say, the monopolist manufacturer,
by the aid of machinery and inventions, depreciated the
need for human labour fully five-sixths.
What the monopoly of the implements of produc-
tion in the hands of the few has to do with either
Freetrade or Protection we know not ; but Alfred
Bennett will have a better grip of the question
when his new type-setting machines—which save,
according to his own account, “ fully 800 per cent,
of labour ” —are in full blast.
The International Labour programme :
1. Eight hours a day for the maximum day’s work fixed
by international law.
2. At least one day’s holiday in each week, and no work
on fete days.
3. Abolition of night-work, as far as is practicable, for
men and women, and entirely for children.
4. The total suppression of children’s labour below the
age of fourteen, and protection of children (regulation of
child labour) up to the age of eighteen.
5. Complete, general, technical, and professional educa-
tion.
6. Overtime to be paid for at double rates, and limited
to four hours in each twenty-four.
7. Civil and criminal responsibility of employers for
accidents.
8. An adequate number of qualified inspectors, to be
nominated by the workers themselves, and paid by fbe
State or the Commune, with full powers to enter work-
shops, or factories, or religious establishments at any
time, and to examine the apprentices at their own homes.
9. Workshops organised by the workers, with subven-
tions from the municipalities of the State.
10. Prison and workhouse labour to be conducted under
the same conditions as free labour, and to be employed as
far as possible on great public works.
11. That no foreign labourers he allowed to accept em-
ployment, or employers be allowed to employ such labour,
at rates of wages below the Trade Union rates fixed for
their trade.
12. That a minimum wage be fixed in every country, m
accordance with a reasonable standard of living.
13. The abrogation of all laws against the international
organisation of labour.
14. Equal pay and opportunities for women and men for
equal work.
Last week the untilled province of N.S. W.
attempted to hold ‘'an agricultural show.” At
which humorous idea the Heavens laughed until
they cried—and swamped the affair in a deluge of
rain.
The newsboys of Melbourne now refuse to
be dictated to by newspaper-proprietors and com-
pelled to sell a certain paper only. All the
youngsters now sell and sing out both the evening
papers.
A man, arrested for drunkenness in Mel-
bourne General Cemetery the other day, deposed
that he had visited Melbourne to spend a holiday,
and, having taken too much drink, he thought ho
was going home and wandered into the cemetery.
He was from Geelong, of course.
A Sydney writer, signing himself “Simara,”
points out by means of statistics that the offences
of murder and rape, the only crimes punishable by
death in England, are increasing in number, white
other offences are rapidly diminishing. It is only
fair to argue that this shows the non-deterrent
effect of capital punishment ; nay, more, at all
events in murder cases, it is also fair to assume
that this disregard for the sacredness of human
life on the part of the community is to some extent
the cause of the similar disregard on the part of
many of its units, which leads to a yearly increase
in the numbers of murders committed.
We read that “ Nathaniel Montgomery
subscribed for the Pittsburg Gazette, in 1786,
paying his subscription with a bushel of rye, a
bushel of potatoes, and a wild turkey. After his
death, his son continued to take the paper, so that
the name of Nathaniel Montgomery, father and
son, has been continuously on the books of the
office for one hundred and three years.” When
we ran a certain N.S.W. bush paper we found the
name of John Smith, father and son, on the office-
books as our oldest subscribers, and yet neither of
the blaggards had ever sent in any turkey or any
money. Their only contributions had been—one
abusive tetter with £lOO libel damages hanging
thereto, and a monstrous turnip with insultingly -
worded application for “ a local.
The four enormously-endowed daughters
of Baron Sina, a Viennese banker, have been
enjoying a bad time since papa died, ihe eldest
got a divorce from her husband and subsequently
suicided. The second damsel married a man with
a disastrous taste for baccarat, is generally
escaping from destitution by the skin of her teeth.
The third heiress was whacked by her heart’s
delight until she could stand it no longer, after
which her only son out his throat. And the
youngest of this lively quartette hitched herself to
someone who kilted himself to avoid imprisonment,
leaving his lone widow to file her shovel. It is a
sad story with a crushing moral. Each of the four
married a count, a duke, or a prinoe. There
were two princes, and they panned, out wprse than
the less exalted nobles.


Payment of Members in N.S.W.: The First Pay-day.
The Junior Menber of Whangabanjo has com to draw his pay; he is sean in the distance. The busincess-like gentlmen in the foregrund are ahead of him


“The New South Wales Postmaster-General has let privately, and without competition, to a Sydney syndicate, the right of advertising on the backs of 1110
New South Wales postage stamps.” —Daily Paper.
p
p
&/hi ft Q t(, )' C c
fteVegu-z . ?
mm
I i I
p
p
p
p
~JII lr
w
p
V.
v
p
p
'ijpsi!
p
p
f : pfliHii ii
■ii
>vV|
■M'l
p
p
p
p


“HOGS HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
P. B. WHEELER & CO.,
265 Clarence Street,
S "X - JD IT IE IT.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY*
F. W. .lOVSOV, Pitman's Certificated Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Fees in Advance.
♦ JJ -*■ 1,1 -* J- J j *''»
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
AYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XT©w Pianos from the c ebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Hebei, Tenrich, Lipp, Bonisch, Bluthner, Collard, and
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianoa at £45 and XSate-sr Organa. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Tkrms.
Society
Great events from little causes spring ; and
the bottom may some day be knocked out of the
‘ ‘ Constitooshun ’’all along of that excessivemodesty
which seizes on Baron Carington whenever he re-
sponds to a toast in which he has been treated like
a white man. At the N.S.W. Agricultural Show
shivoo last week ho had it “very bad.” “I know
the compliment paid to me is not due to any per-
sonal merit of my own, but because of your loyalty
to the Queen, whose representative I am.” Which
is the very feeblest kind of drivel, and an insult
to his entertainers. Such as they are, the compli-
ments are paid to Charles Robert Carington
Smith, because he is personally not half a bad sort
of fellow, donoherknow; not exactly an orator
perhaps, but a gentleman of fairly good manners,
with irreproachable linen, well-cut trousers
(never bagged at the knee unless he has
been Lancer-ising for a couple of hours) and
a sort of blarneying way about him which
—in the classical phraseology of A. 8., Esq.
—“ gives pleasure to all.” He can part un-
grudgingly with a fiver in case of distress, kiss the
precocious infant who hands him the bouquet of a
railway-platform demonstration, loan the State
carriage to a damaged footballer with number 18
boots, sign a four-barrelled death-warrant, or edge
upcloseto MisS BridgetO’Hooligan, of Ballyhooley
station, with a Prince Regent beam in his vice-
regal eye, while she sticks a button-hole in his
coat with a safety-pin in token of welcome, as well
as any gov. who ever landed in Australia. For
some of these —mixed with other reasons here
unstateable —he is popular in certain circles, and
there is no more “ loyalty to the Queen ” business
in his receptions by the public than there is lager
beer in an artesian bore. Which bore, by the
way, is symbolical in its depth of the good-
nature with which the suffering and inoffensive
inhabitants of this island submit to be bombarded
with Imperial balderdash and vice-regal fiddle-
faddle. “ God Save the Queen” by all means.
The contract is not an Australian one.
Dear Lady Loch’s testimonial has resulted
in a volcanic eruption of Melbourne’s upper-crust
and a furious issue of boiling palaver. Peering
down the burning crater for particulars, we find
that a committee meeting, dominated by the
dreary Macßain, carried a proposal “That the
money subscribed be devoted to the purchase of
diamond jewellery, the selection to be placed in
the hands of Lady Loch’s sister, Lady Lytton, and
that a cable be sent stating the amount available.”
Probably the Macßain faction, having contributed
five-sixths of the national token, saw a splendid
opportunity for opening up a cable acquaintance
with another member of the blessed aristocracy in
dear Lady Lytton, They would have asked the
Queen, or Albert Edward, to undertake this busi-
ness only they didn’t feel cocksure of getting the
goods. It was a precious piece of impertinence to
ask a woman of whom they knew nothing
to go shopping on behalf of a sister
she may not care twopence about (sisterly
love seldom counting for much, especially in the
case of twins like the Ladies Loch and Lytton)
but Macßain and Co. meant no harm in their
vulgar way. They were just drawing those silken
bonds tighter, and so forth. The high-toned
arrangement was no sooner made, however, than
all the humble adorers of Lady Loch —the “ from
five shillings up to a fiver” subscribers—began to
howl in the interests of local jewellers, pointing
out that there would be £4OO odd of duty to pay
upon an imported testimonial. Bah ! the money
was subscribed by Imperialists, so let it be spent
abroad. And as for the rot about £4OO duty, who
imagines that duty will be paid on a present for
dear Lady Loch ? It makes one ill to observe
how some people choose to forget that grovel and
jobbery work together. God save the Queen -may
the long-suffering province of Victoria, ere the
jewellery arrives, have a Commissioner of Customs
with a stiff upper-lip.
# * *
Some of the Sydney police-court solicitors
are squabbling again on the everlasting question
of touting. Business is pushed very hard outside
the minor temples of justice. For instance, a man
in trouble is approached by his would-be legal
adviser, “Got any money?” asks the adviser.
“No,” says the client. “Well, have you got a
watch?” enquires the enterprising attorney. “No,
pawned it,” replies the client. “Well, have you
got the ticket ?” “ Yes, got the ticket.” “Well,
that will do ” —and then the ticket having been
handed over, the professional gentleman pro-
ceeds to jot down his instructions on the back
thereof. One morning, years ago, an old woman
ascended the witness-stand, and while she was
being sworn mysterious quackings were heard to
proceed from beneath her well-worn red shawl.
“ What is that noise ?” sternly inquired the P.M.,
who, having been up at the club till 4 a.m., had a
head on him and felt very nervous. “ It’s only
this,” said the old woman, throwing back her
shawl and holding up to the view of the Court a
pair of fine fat ducks, “I had no money, yer
wortchip, and Mister (pointing to her counsel)
said he wouldn’t take up me case until I guv him
a pair of birds.”
BUCOLIC THEOLOGY.
LADY TEACHER (who has just—to explain what a miracle is—related the story of Aaron’s rod
which was turned into a serpent); “NOW, BILLY, WHAT IS THAT WHICH
I HAVE JUST TOLD YOU?”
BILLY (promptly): “A SNAKE YARN, MISS.”
A Sydney woman, who lately divorced her
husband, is now seeking to make him bankrupt.
This is “ rubbing it in ” with a vengeance.
# * *
A Woman’s League is to be founded in
connection with the A.N.A. in Adelaide. It is to
be run on the same lines as the Primrose League,
but we are afraid kisses are too cheap to be traded
off for votes in Adelaide,
* * *
Never did a Melbourne suicide make such
a deep and wide impression as that of Crisp, the
lawyer, associated in business with the equally
well-known Lewis and Wilks. He was in the
land-boom, and believed last year that he had
made an enormous fortune, but his business went
the way of poor Lachal’s, while sweet Death did
not come of itself as a relief. What most galled
Crisp was being taken in by religious men, he
being a member of the religious world. He leaves
a large family of unmarried daughters, and here
is the pinch that killed him, as the press has
pointed out. In every church and chapel there is
a nicely graduated social scale, not of piety, but of
money. The classes mix no more than oil and
water. Crisp felt he had gone down on the
thermometer. The Crisp family is widely ramified
amid the Wesleyans, and emanates from Tas-
mania. The pitiful thing is that there is nothing
shady about this suicide. Indeed it is due to the
dead man’s_ exaggerated sense of honour. Un-
doubtedly his land-speculations will come right in
the long run, but saints who can weather the storm
will receive all the benefits.
* # #
On David Christie Murray’s arrival in Mel-
bourne, at one a.m., he was met by his agent and
an emissary of the Age, whose proprietors were
anxious to secure the use of his pen during his
stay in Australia. Having come out chiefly t
recuperate, Mr. Murray said he did not care t°
bind himself to anything. On the following day
the AbGUS sent one of its ex-noblemen to see him
on the same errand with the same result. Then, in
order to dilute and slacken his obstinacy the
Argus wined and dined him. A very pretty
embroglio ensued. The Age claimed his
services on the grounds of prior application,
while Editor Haddon asseverated that he had re-
ceived an unconditional promise from the much-
solicited author. Finally, the Age asked D.C.M.
to put a price on his services, and he named what
ho thought was a prohibitory sum, but, to his
astonishment, the Symes agreed. Things were
then so mixed that, in despair, the worried world-
trotter cleared out to Sydney, but was met on the
way by a representative of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, prompted by the wily Age people.
Exhausted by such importunity and the toil of
travel, the 'novelist-lecturer, anxious for a quiet
life, caved in, and his articles on “Poverty at
Bay ” are now appearing simultaneously in the
Age, the Sydney paper, and also in an Adelaide
journal. And the Age folks are chuckling loudly
at having thus circumvented the Argus, while
getting also a little to windward of Mr. David
Christie Murray.
# # *
Mr. Oscar Meyer, who is to represent
N.S. Wales at the N.Z. Exhibition, seems to have
unconsciously spoilt some fun which not long ago
appeared to be in store for certain N.S.W. mag-
nates, at the forthcoming Dunedin show. A good
deal of wire-pulling was indulged in to induce the
N.S.W. Government to exhibit in New Zealand,
and it is alleged that Mr. Hoddle White, who had
reckoned that he was to be the Burdett Smith of
the concern, had arranged to go over in style as
Commissionah in his own beautiful steam yacht.
However that may be, it is quite certain that after
tormenting Parkes day and night until he pro-
mised to show, and after forming in silcntium a
royal commission which arranged everything
beautifully, to the smallest detail, the coterie
turned down the quilt of the downy bed they had
prepared for themselves and found snugly en-
sconced there in a child-like slumber, the “ downy”
Meyer. “This is too bad!” they screamed.
“ Why,” blandly asked the Premier, “ didn’t you
tell me you wished to go ? I really had no idea ! ”
And so on. Moral: Never reckon without your
Parkes.
* # *
A young man named Mugg, prompted by
ill-luck, has committed suicide at Adelaide. It is
only the “mugs” who kill themselves in S.A.;
the others work the Y.M.O.A confidence-dodge
and clear to Honolulu—or embezzle another man’s
wife and marry a rich Sydney heiress when the old
man takes action in divorce.
* * *
A Main (S.A.) clergyman has been com-
mitted to the Adelaide Lunatic Asylum. We
suppose there were no vacant pulpits.
* # *
Unfermented Whine—the “Social Purity”
cry.
* * *
The Anderson alliance was not so much a
January and May, as a November and July,
transaction.
* * *
The Melbourne Anglican Cathedral goes
ahead quickly and will be open next year. The
inside makes a more favourable impression than
the outside. Yet how unworthy the place of a
city like Melbourne with such boundless possi-
bilities ! The Roman Catholics are wiser, slowly
constructing their vast St. Patrick’s on the cham-
pion site, Eastern Hill, where it will ultimately
shoot up two towers each 250 ft. high and a central
one 350 ft., each bearing spires. But this cathedral
has been over 30 years building and will be 100
more !
* # #
Some difficulty in regard to a service of
plate-testimonial given away in one of the Mel-
bourne newspaper offices. Oollins-street jeweller
wants his money. Secretary says he cannot get
in the subscriptions. Hip, hip, hip, hurrah ! He’s
a jolly good fellar and all that, but where’s the
nimble guinea ? Moral: Get the coin before the
hollering,
# * #
The Melbourne Debating Institute has
commenced discussing important topics. It used
to be Imperial Eederation. Now it’s barmaids.
Someone moved, the other night, that they be
abolished, and hinted vaguely at the “degrada-
tion attached to the calling,” but the other fellow
said that the “business was not an illegitimate
one,” and that it would be a shame to ask the
Government to prevent young women from earn-
ing a living behind the bar of a hotel. He won
the day in spite of the other side’s contention
that a barmaid does not earn her living behind
the bar.
* * #
Most astounding has been the conversion
of the Hon. Jack Woods, M.L.A., Victoria, over
the Sunday Library and Museum opening question.
In former years he brought forward furious
motions in favour of the opening, but he went to
Calcutta and Bombay, with Bosisto, Bent, and
Thomson, and was horrified to see the nigs work-
ing on Sabbaths. So he has turned right round,
but it is very absurd for Woods to suppose that
the Victorian working man cannot prevent him-
self, and his free Sunday, from falling into the
same pickle as Bombay niggers. Jack, however,
is an astute politician. One time he said, in Par-
liament, that Sunday trains “ took the greasy
saints to their superstition-shops.”
* * *
One of the numerous aristocrats in the
train of Australian vice-royalty lately evaporated
from the South—-to Hingland. His financial con-
dition may be judged from the fact that his tailor
wants £2OO for clothes alone. In addition, His
Nibs took a big slice off the silver-side of the
affections of many friends who were not tailors.
* * * .
Mem. for Varley. The Chinese Amuse-
ment Syndicate, Limited, has been formed in Lon-
don for the purpose of establishing a switchback
railway, a merry-go-round, and other similar
amusements for the Chinese. There you are ! Ho
the same thing here. Make Speight chairman.
Entice John on to the melly-go-lound and switch-
backee lailway. Have a big accident. Down with
the opium-dens. Load to Luin. Kai-La !
* * *
Alluding to the betrayal of a confiding
husband, an American paper says :
“ Once give a lady a genuine taste for champagne,
oysters, terrapin, vol-au-vent —let those delicacies be con-
sumed to the lascivious strains of a harp, flute, and
fiddle —let the air be filled with the perfume of flowers
let there be absolutely no limit placed upon the extent
and character of these things-let the host be liberal,,
amorous, and entertaining, and the ordinary woman who
has once crossed the threshold of this Eden will forever
look with regret on the corned-beef and cabbage and
stale beer of the domestic table.
This, we know, is horribly wicked. But it is also
dreadfully true.
* * *
An old maid is entitled to call herseit an
article of vertu.
* # #
A Melbourne councillor has been burgled
of a silver cup inscribed : “ Presented to Mr. This
from Mr. That. ” A lot of mistery about all these
municipal affairs.
* # *
By way of a grim joke one of the Mel-
bourne Volunteer Eire Brigade stations caught fire
last week. The station and all the flame fighting
“ plant ” were burnt up, so now, when that home-
less corps are summoned to a conflagration they
have to blow it out best way they can.
* * *
Judging from his story, told in the Adelaide
Divorce Court, the most pathetic incident in th»
career of poor old George Anderson occurred at
the time he was reposing beside his young bride
at the Hotel Metropole, Paris. “ Are yon going
to allow this man to come between us?” was
George’s muffled wail. Whereupon the lady
(first making sure that no man had come
between them at the moment) gave her aged
adorer a gentle dig with her shoulder-blade and
sighed, “It’s all in a lifetime.” What a cruel
equivocating reply to-such a tremendous enquiry |
* # #
Grief and sorrow, in the shape of a big,,
blackthorn stick, has come upon a certain Castle-
maine parson. Not very far from the madding
crowd of that exploded township live Mr. and
Mrs. Black, whose marriage-ceremony was per-
formed by the reverend sufferer aforementioned.
Things are terribly quiet down Oastlemaine way;
and the Blacks seem to have been making ructions
lately, probably just for the sake of something to
do. Rows are absolutely essential to existence in
districts of that description, as Mr. Black is
doubtless aware. Anyway, Black looked at his
wife, the other day, and felt that she was getting
to be like the relict of a certain warrior they
brought home dead. “She must weep, or she will
die,” thought Black. So he made Mrs. Black
weep, and saved her life on the spot. Very likely
she made her old man weep, too ; but particulars to >
hand merely state that there was an “unpleasant-
ness ” between them, which is a wide term. Concern-
ing this unpleasantness, foolish Mrs. Black went
round to consult the rev. gentleman aforesaid..
He spoke words of comfort to the lady, we sup-
pose, mentioning that marriage is a holy state andi
TOKEN OF UNIVERSAL LOVE AND
ESTEEM.
Here’s a nice corroboree !
Swells of Melbourne snobbery
Kicking up a bobbery—
Making speeches slobbery,
Insinuating jobbery,
Not to mention robbery—
O ! Jehosophat!
Dickery and dockery !
Murmurings and mockery
Heard among the “ Block ”-ery—
Women smashing crockery—
All this social shockery
Caused by Lady Lochery—
Only think of that!
Committee ceremonial
(Folks with notions toney all
And money patrimonial)
Vote that Testimonial
Shall not be Colonial—
Not sufficient “style.”
Others call it foolery,
Sending Home for “ joolery ”
Getting off their woolery.
We preserve neutrality,
Having, in reality,
Little partiality
For the vain formality
Of a Vice-Regality;
Choking nationality—
We look on and smile.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Si DISCOUNT BANK,
90 —KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
0 Months
3 Months ...
5 per cent, allowed on daily
... 9J per cent.
... per cent.
... 7o per cent.
... 5j per cent,
balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country wdl bo
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Write for plana £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 0G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
jf.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,.
9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea.
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1889.
GOLD MEDAL SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Lever Brothers are now in a position to execute orders
for the above, and regret the inconvenience to clients
owing to having been oversold. A continuous and regulai
supply may now be depended upon.
PRIZE COMPETITIONS.
Competitors having stated their inability to ohtainthe
soap wrappers, Lever Brothers will extend the time up to
which lists may be sent in to September 21st.
The following prizes will be given to the successful
competitor who complies the most Enghsh words from
the name Australasia: —First £5 ; second, £2, thud, £l.
Also, 11 prizes for children under 14 years from the name
“ Sunlight Soap,” viz.: One, 40s ; two 20s ; four 10s., four
5s each. With each list a Sunlight Soap wrapper must be
attached, and sent to Lever Brothers, Sydney.
What Scott’s Emulsion HasDonel
Over 25Pounds Gain in Ten Weeks.
Experience of a Prominent Citizen.
The California. S octets' foe the I
Suppression of Vice, >
San Francisco, July 7th, 1886. J
I took a severe eold upon
my chest and lungs and did
not give it proper attention *
it developed into bronchitis,
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco, Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 155 to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. R. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ROBERTSON’S WHISKY.
£2OO PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS ;
16 of £5 eacli, 35 A 3, and 70 At,
Pamphlets from the Agents,
ALLT
& CO M CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
so forth. But when Black heard that his wife had
gone up to consult the parson, when it dawned
upon him that she was alone with a teacher of the
terewth —his matrimonial instincts warned him to
hurry off and join the consultation. He took the
big stick with him, and at latest dates the good
pastor was “suffering a good deal from the bruises
he received,” Mr. Black was in custody, and poor
little Mrs. B. was weeping worse than ever. Her
heart was sore. But not so sore as the ribs of the
shepherd.
# # #
The Rev. John Thomson, of Melbotirne,
has not a very elevated opinion of young Austra-
lians. Taking them by small and large, they drink
and swear and neglect church, but he believes
“they would make first-rate warlike material,” and
thinks as under
“Many of them would find that blood is thicker than
water, and that the Union Jack is the flag to live under
and die under, and that the old British lion in their own
veins would make short work of the cobwebs drawn
around them by cosmopolitan sceptics and poisonous
renegades, supposing another and more serious emergency
than the Soudan campaign arose, and new Daileys sent
out new contingents from Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane,
Adelaide, and Wellington.”
This is excellent in its way, it is so like the little,
bilious parson who loves to tell men what they
should go and do in the way of chartered brigand-
age whilst he cackles securely in his pulpit to the
old women, and enjoys the comforts of worked
slippers, and female adulation, and buttered
muffins, and the many other comforts of conven-
tional Christianity.—
A Melbourne clergyman affirms that the
girls employed at hotels are almost all vain, im-
modest, and practised in deceit. It is well for the
parsons they are kept behind bars.
* * *
An Anglo-Indian lady boasted that her
Chinese cook was much cleaner than her neigh-
bour’s Indian chef. They visited the respective
kitchens. The Indian’s pots and pans and utensils
of all kinds were filthy. The Chinaman’s vessels
shone like mirrors, and Chang himself was sitting
on his box, washing himself in the soup-tureen.
# * *
A wail comes from the far West. Way
back as far as one can get the district-surveyor of
the largest district in N. S. Wales came across a
small township. He wanted to post some letters
to Sydney, so went to the local Post-office and
proceeded to lick some adhesive labels ornamented
with the portrait of an emu. “Hi!” said the
postmaster, “them sort won’t do here, you’re in
Queensland.” “ That be dashed for a yarn,” re-
plied the district-surveyor; “I’m running the
boundary, you’re five miles inside New South
Wales.” And so they were, but the cute Banana-
landers had been quietly “copping ” the stamps and
taxes and customs all the same. Here’s a chance
for Parkes to breathe fire and brimstone and
slaughter against Morehead and Co,
* * *
Last week Melbourne City Bench was
hearing the charges of embezzlement against
young Washburne, who was connected with the
management of the Royal Palace of Amusement in
Bourke-street. Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, for accused,
had a witness, also of the Palace, on toast for
nearly three hours. Asked who lived in Wash-
burne’s house in St. Hilda on a certain date, wit-
ness said, “A tiger, one monkey, two or three
birds, some Indians, a dead leopard, and a man
named J. Thomas.” Shades of Noah ! how they
lau^hed! * * *
Lord Hopetoun, the new Governor of Vic-
toria, made two attempts to qualify himself for a
command in the British army, but the trumpery
exam, was altogether too stiff for his noble intel-
lect. Hopetoun, then, is a boon and blessing for
which Australia is indebted to the Grand Old Man
whose Bill for abolition of purchase in the army
closed the profession of arms against this erudite
young earl, and drove him back into the ranks of
“Excellencies.” Lord Carington, by the way,
bought his commission in the good old days before
officers and gentlemen were required to arith-
metically state how many beans constitute five, or
tot up the total cost of fifteen pounds of butter at
tenpence per pound. The rising generation can
grasp the significance of Gladstone’s sensational
Bill by comparing Carington and Hopetoun the
one able to buy a position in the army, the other
denied that privilege. Also, they can understand
our Gracious Queen’s antipathy to the Grand Old
Man, seeing that he compelled her to make th©
Bill law, by Royal prerogative, when the House of
Lords had refused to put it through.
* * *
The authorities who control the Sydney
street-traffic are dabbling in reform. Under the
new regulations no coffin or corpse or person who
is dead-drunk, or who is noisy or violent, or any
substance of an offensive character, may be carried
in a cab or ’bus. Also, no woman is to be per-
mitted to ride on top of an omnibus. It is here
objected by somebody that women ride on
top of ’buses in Adelaide. That, however, is
no argument : it is exactly what we should
have expected of Adelaide under the Social
Purity regime —a condition of things under
which the women always take the place of the
men. Complaints, it is said, have in Sydney been
made more than once of women riding by the side
of ’bus-drivers and taking the reins. Severe
penalties are enacted against people who fraudu-
lently evade paying cab-fare, and it is provided (in
the interests of the’Bus Co.) that passengers are
to be legally compelled to put the fare in the fare-
box themselves instead of merely tendering it to
the driver. If the authorities will now introduce
a regulation to prevent fat ladies depositing, on
hot days, large bundles of butcher’s meat or
washing upon the knees of young gentlemen with
tight light trousers ; also to stop elderly ladies of
2001 b weight crowding into busses already full,
the Sydney public vehicle system will be almost
perfect.
# * *
The telegraphic correspondent of a daily
paper describes the jurymen who found a verdict
of adultery against Mrs. Anderson of Adelaide
as “an uneducated-looking lot of country yokels. ’
In the country, you see, people are not educated
up to believing that a military masher of the
Clendenning stamp could, under the circum-
stances set forth in the evidence, have entertained
a purely platonic affection for the young wife of
the ancient Mr. Anderson. By the way, how is
7}
— ■
N Alligator was
one day reposing
Qy beneath the shade of
a gum-tree, think-
ing of nothing in particular, the while a pleasing
smile played over his expressive features. Presently
he was accosted by a Jabiru who happened to pass
that way. The latter, for the sake of conversa-
tion, complimented the Alligator upon his teeth,
“which,” he remarked, “are a remarkably hand-
some set, if real.”
“You may judge for yourself,” replied the
Alligator, opening his mouth wide and allowing
the Jabiru to place his head inside of it for a
closer inspection ; but before the bird could quite
make up his mind as to whether the teeth were
natural or only artificial, the reptile closed his
jaws and the interview at the same time.
Moral ; It is sometimes better to trust to
appearances.
it that perjury-prosecutions never follow convic-
tion in divorce cases ? The truth is the truth, wo
presume, whether it’s told about or by a man or a
woman. And similarly, lies are lies. At present
men are privileged to lie about their relations with
the fair sex and vice-versa. The judicial oath is a
mere mockery, so far as co-respondents are con-
cerned —on the principle, probably, that anything
is fair in love or war.
Undertaker: “What kind of trimmings
will you have on the coffin?” Widow; .“None
whatever. A plain casket. It was tnmmms that
killed him.” Undertaker: What? Widow.
“Yes. Delirium trimmins.” — Amer.
Mrs. Squatter: “I saw Bridget Ann in
the strate to-day. Small nade of a Solomon to
tell she’s your dawter !” Mrs. Goathill; 1 hey du
say she’s the very picter of me. Mrs. Squatter:
“And true for ’em! But what need, ye care so
long as the poor thing has her health . x ank.
A Big Scrub correspondent sends us the
following extract from the exercise-book of one of
his pupils:—“My father is not as ambitious as
Napoleon was. He said our last twins was very
singular; but that shows he has forgot his
grammer, because twins is plural as allmost any-
body knows.”
A French mayor, an ex-stipendiary magis-
trate, was about to perform the civil service of
marriage, “ Mademoiselle X , he said, ad-
dressing the bride, “do you to take Mr.
7. here present, for your wedded husband .
And, after the young lady had replied in the
affirmative, the mayor, turning to the bridegroom,
delivered himself as follows: “Prisoner at the
bar, what have you to say m your defence I
Australian young men, you hear,
You’re given o’er to sin and beer,
You’re rarely clothed in righteousness,
But ramble in a carnal dress —
The only garb of grace you’ve had
Has fitted like a liver-pad.
You loaf about the streets till late,
Methodic’ly neglect the plate,
You play at dice, and crib, and 100,
And blaspheme till creation’s blue,
But not in vain you’re living, for
You’re grand “material for war.”
And when the money-lending band
That run the Dear Old Mother Land
Are troubled o’er their foreign loans
You’ll do to offer up your bones,
And oome in well for savage blacks
To chop asunder with an axe.
The Alligator and the JABRU.
A story For The Young
A New Toast.
At a recent banquet given by the Imperial Society
of Australian Grovellers a very pleasing addi-
tion was made to the usual lists of toasts. After
“Success to the Loyal Press” had been drunk
with enthusiasm and duly acknowledged by
Messrs. Worm and Creeper (of the Melbourne
Tory Tarradiddle and Sydney Mornino Dreary)
the vice-president of the Society, Sir Donald
M'Greaser, K.C.M.G., took the floor and spoke
as follows
“Your Excellency, baronets, knights, C.M.G.s,
and distinguished colonists, —On this national
occasion, when we are assembled, by special and
approved invitation, for the purpose of draw-
ing tighter the silken bonds which bind us
to the dear old Mother Country-(applause)
—and asserting the devotion of Australia to
the lustrous British Crown-(applause)—a. de-
votion which is born, bred, and educated, as
I may say, in the columns of the loyal Press.
(Loud applause, during which the chairman was
observed to smile cordially at Messrs. Worm and
Creeper. ) On this occasion I venture to propose
the health of an institution even more important,
though less publicly recognised and understood,
than that we have just delighted to honour, i
refer to that noble, that invaluable, that ancient,
that mighty yet noiseless institution, the Sup-press.
Tremendous cheering, in which the chairman
heartily joined.) Your Excellency and gentlemen
speaking from a long and profitable experience, I
say that we cannot over-estimate the subtle in-
fluence of the Sup-press in a young country like
Australia—a country upon whose virgin soil the
dangerous seeds of indiscrimmating truth are
scattered by a certain red-covered weekly print,
which I will not pollute my lips by naming.
(Sensation and ejaculations of disgust.)
“Picture to yourselves what would have been
the present condition of our adopted country ( hear,
hear,’ from nine distinguished colonists who came
out under the protection of the British Govern-
ment), already, alas ! disfigured by a rank growth
of irreverent radicalism, but for the ceaseless
working of that powerful and carefully-lubricated
engine, the Sup-press. (Cries of ‘Ah!’) The
selected representatives of loyal journalism
whom X now see before me, at a side-table, could,
I doubt not, tell you that the grandest services
they render to the Constitution are of a negative,
rather than a positive, character. (Vehement
applause.) Not so much to the Press as to the
Sup-press is our glorious society beholden for its
very germ of existence. (Applause.) Your Ex-
cellency and gentlemen, the evil attendant upon
th. 6 disclosure of uncultivated facts is recognised
by every leading citizen whom I ever had the
pleasure of meeting at a banquet of this descrip-
tion, else would he not be absent from such gather-
ings. And in saying that without the Sup-press
the social and political life of this country would
be blighted and ruined—in making that sweeping
assertion, I feel confident that you all, from your
Excellency down to the humblest landowner, will
respond with a fervent ‘amen.’ (Loud and long
continued cheering.) In the beautiful words of a
poet, whose name I cannot, for the moment, re-
call to memory—
“ The gentlemen seated round this board have no
need to be reminded how important enterprises,
public and private, are made possible by the silent
encouragement of the leading organs of national
opinion, which so faithfully refrain from publish-
ing circumstances calculated to excite any opinion
whatever, upon matters concerning which that
opinion might clash with the best interests of
society at large, and this society in particular.
(Cheers). To what base uses might 'not a vulgar
demagogue put many facts, which are now hidden
from his prying gaze by the beneficent cloak of the
Sup-press ? (Loud applause).
“The loyal journal, if I may introduce more
metaphor into this already o’er-long address
—(cheers and cries of ‘ Keep on !’)—the loyal
journal, then, is an umbrella, shading the Throne
from a fierce undisciplined light that vainly strives
to stream down upon its august associations, and
preserving it, in a measure, from the beating tor-
rents of radical invective. (Loud applause.) That
priceless parachute is held, not over the Throne
alone, but over every great work requiring protec-
tion from the biting wind of cruel criticism, and
shelter from the storm of irresponsible indignation.
(Enthusiasm.) Your Excellency and gentlemen, i
never peruse the columns of such journals as the
Tarradiddle and Dreary without blessing them
for their dumb eloquence and discerning blindness
to things that are best unperceived by an un-
charitable world. (Applause.)_ The truism that
speech is silvern, but silence is golden, fittingly
describes the relative values of Press and Sup-
press. (Great cheering.) Long may they work
together for peace and property! (Sustained
applause.) In the words of another poet—
Of solid Pact the masses need but little here below,
Some things are told to them, indeed—the rest they never
know.
“Your Excellency and gentlemen, I have the
honour to ask you to join with me in drinking—
* More power to the Suppress !’ ” (The toast was
drunk amidst a scene of wildest excitement, and
the orchestra, at His Excellency’s request, played
“God Save the Queen.” Subsequently the whole
company sang, “Cover it Up” in excellent time
and tune).
#
Quite by accident a copy of the above, printed
for private circulation only, among members o»
the I.S. of A.G., fell into the hands of The
Bulletin.
St. Paul’s, London, is to be re-seated. St.
Paul’s, Melbourne, will be receipted when the next
land-boom gets religious.
David Christie Murray says he lived on
the Thames embankment for four days on water.
We know lots of men who have lived for years
on colonial beer.
Melbourne Argus is carrying its freetrade
policy to such an extreme that for years past it has
imported nearly all its reporters from the other
colonies and England.
There was a braw Scot named IS!‘Duff
Who of riches had more than enough,
He went on his knees
To the Princess Louise,
Who said “ Yes,” being well up to Snuff !
The clerical organ, Melbourne Daily
Telegraph, in reporting the burning of a local
drapery-emporium, speaks of fire as the King
of Terrors.” Now, Death is the king of terrors,
and surely, Editor Fitchett, death doesn’t always
mean fire.
A set of twins are reported to have come
to light at Geelong (Vic.) which were joined
together by a ligature at birth. The doctors,
however, have since severed the connection. Who
says the Scriptures are not losing their grip.
“Those whom the Lord hath joined together let no
man put asunder.”
Dr. J. P. Ryan, writing in the Speculum
of his Franco-Prussian war experiences, says that
so far as he remembers he saw only one bayonet-
wound. He adds that Guthrie, whose experience
was drawn from the Peninsular War, says that
bayonet-wounds never occur, for the excellent
reason that when a charge is made, either one side
or the other runs away before a collision takes
place.
The daily papers serve the State,
And vested interests shield,
By rising early, working late,
To keep the Truth concealed.
What scandals of a painful kind,
What stories of distress
Might stir the passions of mankind, _
Save for the good Sup-press! (VisiMb'emotion.)


Amusements.
Q. A I E T Y THEATRE.
L. Foley ... Lessee.
Manager for Miss Putnam .... Matt. L. Berry.
Business Manager H. Lbston.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
Of the charming Comedienne,
Miss Katie Patnam,
GEORGE C. BONIFACE, Jr.,
And Miss Putnam's excellent Comedy Company,
in
THE ELF.
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
TO" EW OPERA HOUSE.
Doors open 7.30. ; Commences at 8 o’clock sharp.
GREAT SUCCESS ! GREAT SUCCESS !
of the
WORLD’S CHALLENGE PRESTIDIGITATEUR
Prof. Robert Jensen.
To-Night, and Every Evening,
Jensen’s Congress of Cabalistic Wonders.
Prices, 35., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Acting Manager .... .... JOE DAVIS-
LITE SKATING RINK.
The Manager is pleased to announce to his many Patrons
and the Sydney Public that he has RESUMED BUSINESS
at the CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY, York-
street, during the Repairing of his ELITE RINK.
SESSIONS
Morning Session; —Ladies and Children, Admission Free •
Skate Checks, 6d.
Afternoon Ladies and Children, Admission 6d ; Skates,
Free. Gentlemen, Admission 6d ; Skates, 6d.
Evening:—Admission, Skaters, Is.; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, 6d.
Monday and Thursday Evenings:-—Admission, Ladies, Is.;
Skates, Free. Gentlemen, 2s. ; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, Is.
Saturday Afternoon ;—Prices as usual.
The Rink will be OPEN for Special Afternoon Session
from 1 till 2 p.m. Admission 6d.; Skates, Free.
The NAVAL ARTILLERY BAND in attendance every
Evening and Saturday Afternoon.
Objectionable persons will not be admitted.
K. A. SKINNER, Proprietor and Manager.
H E A T R E ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessor, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
The Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
Few Nights THE MIKADO
Admission— ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY
JULIUS CiES AR!
RIGNOLD as “ MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
B©NDIAQ U A R I U M.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
QYCLORAMA. QYCLORAMA.
The Grandest Exhibition ever seen in Sydney.
Opposite Redfern Station. Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Adults, 25.; Children, Is. Sunday, 3to 10. Half-price.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
—THE MELBOURNE LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural
and providing, in addition,
NO END OF LAUGHTER)
Popular Prices. Popular Prices.
J OWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
Ihe extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, tlieHall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
To Butchers, Country Hide Buyers, and
AT a Meeting of Tanners, held on Friday. 13th
inst., it was decided that on and -if
FRIDAY, the 4th OCTOBER, tL Tanners wHI
BUY NO HIDES witl, OFFAL attaX”), h
offal to constitute face pieces and shanks.
T. T. FORSYTH,
Chairman.
A YOUNG LADY, tall and fair, good-looking,
is desirous of corresponding with tall
gentleman m good position. Photos exchanged
“Genuine,-’ Bulletin office.
F
lOR SALE. -Second-hand Quad-Pemy
7.?- by Hakkild ’> Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.40.
To-Night, Thursday, at 8 o'clock sharp,
Barbara, Barbara,
A play in One Act by Jerome K. Jerome.
To be followed by
THE R-O-C KE T,
an original comedy in Three Acts by
ARTHUR W, PINERO.
.The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
Business Announcements.
LARMER’S
—CELEBRATED—
Health-Giving
AND
Invigorating Tonic.
THE TONIC OF THE ACE !
1 his being one of the best Restoratives yet offered
to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution, at
the same time acts as a Strengthening’ Resto-
rative in all cases of
Nervous Debility, Mental Si Bodily Weakness,
SICK HEADACHE,
Bilious Complaints, Fever and Ague,
&C., &c.
Bottles at 2a. Gtl.
I’ost, Is Extra.
W. G. CAINS,
King Street, SYDNEY.
CHUBB & PRAEG-ER, Photographers,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“Empire Galleries,” 483 A 484 George Street,
(over Beale’s), SYDNEY.
TV L f ' , ch Pleasure in making reference to the
t, favorahle notice of The Bulletin, Ist June and
Daily t kleg r apii Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in ah
goSd oSsiiSi nent a bonti,man ° e ° f the same
iV ote our Moderate Prices:
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visits, Bs. 6d. per Boz.
SnM'inlitv tra pf f* Hctt » e . Groups, Parties, Houses, &c., a
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
Moderate Charges.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils, COLOURS 4 Pa,NTS
WALL PAPERS From VroL
PA I
529 BathurstSt
Brickfield Hill.
Shipping.
TJNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling 1 at
. AUCKLAND and HONOLULU
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
it , , , .of Cape Horn.
„ It ,!, Contract with the Postinasters-General of Now
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamer** of mic. t
andSa PO p ted -° leaVe Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San I rancisoo every four weeks, sailing as under
Steamer.
Mariposa
Zealandia
d with a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the Voyage ™ U ”" g a
eSSSSSK 10
toS^SSSKS»of^ e
KIRST-oZr 011 T
tio^appfy 15 l^idge'-street 01 ™ 3
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
Orient Square glue,
Extract of Soap,
■ Uinegar, glacking,
&C., & C., &G,
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
JJIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL sttam
navigation company. e m
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
! Parramatta
Rosetta
Massilia ..
Oceana
Rome ~ ..
4771
3525
4918
[6362
Ison
Commander.
R. U. Murray ,
Gf. VV. Brady .
O. Fraser
P. S. Tomlin
Sep. 28
Oct. 12
Oot. 26
Nov. 9
A, W. Adamson Nov. 23
g
Oct. 4
Oct. 18
Nov. 1
Nov. 15
Nov. 29
►4 T)
■<
Oot. 7
Oot 21
Nov. 4
NovlB
Dec. 2
•r,T^'iil enceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
irom England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
„Jf or all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
QOMPAGNIE MARI-
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA. ’
, T,le service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
.. —. 111 ui eacn monin.
. Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers
RETURN TICKETS issnpd nf. . gerS *
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
niieipreteiß meet wirougn passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
,r N-B -.7 P^ ss ? l}?ers ’ lu =l?age conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
re *»ht, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
11. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
JJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable) ■—
Steamer.
Salier
Hohenzollern
Kaiser Wil-
helm 11. ..
( Leave
Commander. Sydney
noon.
1889.
0. Thalenhorst Oct.
H. Bodeker .. I Nov.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
1889.
9 Oct.
6 Nov.
Leave
Adelaide
Sema-
phore.
1889.
14jOct.
ll'Nov.
L. Stormer ..'Nov. 30Dec. s'Dec. 12.
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
ior 1 HEIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Aoknts,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
Quantity of Second-hand
N EWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer. Bulletin Office.
Furniture, &c.
JV E w t~oI~~TFS uis,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
n\ t} tati WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
_ AND
bedding manufacturers.
SP'RTXrn*°' V ROOM «, AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
FULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TAP,I E
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS
alLto match. Newton & Lamb.
'ELF-ADJ U STIJS' G HAMMOCK OHAnT
1 Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
Ripply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255,
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Fashionably
t Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in ail WoodsT inc
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Lmbroidery, Plush, &c. Newton anil
Lamb.
p
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
I Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
p
DR A WIN G-ROOM
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
P T 4^9?C ORTES l) y R - LIPP and SO UN.
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
p
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Yeey Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF- ADJUSTIN'G CHAIR and COUCH*
for Jnvalids and Medical Men.
X> OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
JLII/ restful—a y speciality. Newton & Lamb.
p
B
EDS TEA DS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
pp
SP RI N G MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
13. Gd. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from27s. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. Gd.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Oheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
N
EWT O N
AND
LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory j
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


(jAwson
- 5
DAW SOM'S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, KOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
24 CLARENCE STREET, SYOKTBY.
First Award;
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION
buggies, m:m , mboabss,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express k Lumber Waggons,
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
i
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery
t
Special Advertisements.
I
K
p
rf
O
U
3>
o
r>
Co
O,
C/l
w
CD C/>
9*
*
W «
73
"O
H
cn
softem SifiuMVM&oMeX'
CltAsCO jsx>t£o Cl4tC>
Smts cuxciu). t
p
CUao Uve-
z SciA lutyucaivt
fc .ix-ac-lca
co o f
I. B. WHEELER & CO.,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, September 23, 188!)
Tenders fop public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
Office •
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quean -
beyan
Supply of Gas, &c., Public Build-
ings, Bathurst
Additions Police Officers’ Quarters,
Goulburn
Repairs, &c., Courthouse and
Lockup, Nimitybelle
Drainage, &c., Technological Mu-
seuin
Additions, &c,, Courthouse, Tam-
worth
Bridge Cox’s Creek, road Coolah
to Mulally .
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Bingera
Bridge, Camden Haven, road Port
Macquarie to Tinonee
Bridge, Cooper’s Creek, road Bex-
hill to Numulgi
Bridge, Bombala River at Bibben-
luke
Station Buildings, St. Leonards
Stoneware Pipe Sewers, Wool-
lahra, Waverley, and Rand wick,
cont. No. 53, Sydney sewerage
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
| Corowa
Bridge, Rainville Creek, road,
Sidmouth Valley to Tarana
Do. Wallamundra Creek Road,
Condobolin to Wagga Wagga
Approaches, Bridge, Murray River
at Mulwala
Bridge, Yango Creek, road Wol-.
lombi to Yango
Bridge, Myall River, at Bulleda- (
lah (Pier’s Contract, No. f) j
Bridge, Myall River, at Bullede- j
| Jah (Erection, Contract No. 2) j
Bridge, Scotter’s Creek, road Dun-
gog to Weismantie’s
! Bridge, Strike-a-Light Creek, road
Cooma to Braidwood
Bridge, Gulgoa River, road Con-
dobolin to Wagga Wagga __
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Booligal
Construction of Iron Screw Hopper
Barge
Boiler and Engines for steamer
Thetis, Manufacture of
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
jSTo. 50)
Additions, &c., Australian Mu-
seum.
Additions, Court House, Gosford
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Contract No. 2
Wednesday
October!),
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
October 23,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
Nov. (!,
at 11 o’clock..
W ednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 10th August, 1889.
REWARD FOR EXTERMINATION OF
RABBITS.
ITH reference to the notice issued by the ■
Department of Mines, dated 31 st August,
1887, to the effect that the Government of New
South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000 to ■
any person or persons who will make known or
demonstrate any method or process, not previously
known in the Colony, for the effectual extermina-
tion of rabbits. It is hereby notified, for general I
information, that no scheme for the destruction of:
rabbits submitted after the 30th September, 1889,,
will be considered in connection therewith.
JAMES N. BRUNKEK.
The Love of Home.
There is firmly Implanted in every human breast
a strong desire for the possession of some portion
of the earth’s surface where the fortunate owner,
sitting down under his own vine and fig tree, may
see a happy and vigorous family spring up around
him. Some men, however, are gluttonous, their
earth-appetite is so inordinate that 99 men out of
every 100 are debarred from indulging their
appetite under any circumstances, can find no
vine and fig tree to sit down under, unless it be
the property of another, and therefore have to pay
heavily for the privilege of contiguity to fruit and
shade trees, even if the trees be of their own plant-
ing and watered with the sweat of their own cease-
less toil. Year by year over the civilised world
the soil is rapidly passing away from the hands of
the many to those of the few. One man rears the
fruit, another stretches forth his hand and takes
it; and not only is the owner fast superseding the
resident worker, but the tendency of the age is
towards the aggregation of the whole earth s
surface in the hands of the few. But what i s
ordinary earth-hunger? Simply the desire that
the natural craving of man for a permanent home,
for a dwelling that he can regard as his home so
long as he chooses to dwell in it; for a piece of
land which he may cultivate, improve, and build
on, as his interest dictates, without fear of ejection
knowing that it and its advantages are his while
he chooses to occupy it, and his to dispose of,
should he feel inclined to retire. Surely a very
natural, very laudable, very innocent desire. A
house and land enough for employment should be
the natural property of every man. That it is not
we need scarcely say. L' ok at our great cities*
where, in the alleys, the neighbors can almost shake
hands over the heads of the passer-by ; where th e
atmosphere is foul, and dwellings filthy, and
the residents have to climb weary flights of stair®
ere home (what a travesty of the word!) is reached’
where, in cold or over-heated, ill-ventilated
hutches, dwell sickly, overworked men and
women —pale, ill-fed, ill-clothed, ill-trained,
stunted mentally as well as physically littl e
children. Your case, reader, may not be so terrible,
but still you may be dominated by the incubus of
rent, if not crushed, like these miserables of whom
we have spoken, under your burdens. Yet they
are so heavy that at times you struggle beneath
them, and you ask: Is there no relief ? Surely ! The
air that vibrates with groans, complaints, and curse B
is also vocal with the sighs of those filled with a
desire for the amelioration of such evils. It is
resonant with the trumpet calls of the great
reformers, though the day is yet afar off when social
regeneration shall be a fact accomplished. What
is the moral of it all? Is it not that you should not
wait for the millennium, should cease to dream of
the coming of relief through the regeneration o f
society and determine to battle with the things
that are, with the weapons that lie nearest to your
hand.
You want a home ! You know not how to ac-
quire one. You feel that of all your burdens Rent
is the heaviest; that the money thus expended
keeps your children sweltering in cities, driven to
breathe impure air, to associate with undesirable
companions, and you would fain alter your en-
vironments, but scarcely know how. Ihe necessity
of the WHY is apparent. Come with me and I
will show you the feasibility of the HOW. You
can’t afford to purchase land, can’t afford to buy a
house. Well, if you are convinced that, by the
same expenditure, during a limited period for pin -
chase, that you now disburse as rent, that land
and a house in a pure, cleanly, healthy neighbor-
hood can be obtained, don’t you think you will
feel disposed to take advantage of it, and
become free from the shackles of landloidism
Surely ! A large estate of 200 acres known as
Harcourt, situated seven miles by road from the
metropolis and within easy of thiee
railway-stations, is open to you for selection, and it
will be tapped by the new loop-line to Liverpool.
Tor the comparatively-speaking insignificant sum
of one pound seven shillings and sixpence per month
you can after payment of the first instalment,
lake Immediate Possession of your property. You
can at once proceed to fence, build, and cultivate.
iiNor will yon, as in all new suburbs, meet with
many inconveniences. Here the roads—fine, wide
thoroughfares, running from one chain up to a
chain and a-half—are all made, kerbed, guttered,
and channelled. Everyone of them is aligned by
dry, smooth footpaths; everyone shaded by
avenues of trees. Moreover, the ground of tins
aptly-named Model Suburb is not only naturally
well-drained, but everything has been done for
the carrying away of storm-water that expeiience
could suggest. Father more, in order to stimu-
late buyers to early settlement the sum of
£lO,OOO sterling (ten thousand pounds) will be
divided among the first settlers, apportioned in
accordance with the date of erection and the value
of buildings. Not only will Building Bonuses be
distributed, but punctual payers will participate
in the sum of Three Thousand Pounds (£3000),
which will be distributed during the first three
and a-half years after purchase. Nor is this all.
It is intended to furnish the residents with good
street-lighting by means of electricity, thus setting
an example to the neighbouring boroughs of Lux-
wood, Ashfield, aud Croydon, which they would
do well to follow. Here it may be remarked that
the scenery in the neighbourhood is beautiful, the
walks many and varied, while good fishing is to be
had in the waters of Cook’s River, which borders
the Estate. Then, in purchase by this system, there
need be no fear of forfeiture. For should anything
prevent punctual payment, on application to the
vendors, the owner will be allowed a period oi
Three Months Grace in which to regain his
pecuniary equilibrium. From this system the ex-
tortion of interest on balance due has been wholly
eliminated. There are many other advantages
appended to the purchase of Harcourt Estate
that cannot here be detailed. Intending
buyers will be given Free Railway Inspec-
tion Passes, descriptive pamphlets, _ tables of
terms, plans and maps, on application at
the Company’s offices, while the Burwood agent
will drive them over the Estate and make every-
thing clear to them. The address of the vendors
is Phillips and Co., Austral Banking and Land
Proprietary Co., Carrington Chambers, No. o
Caatlereagh-street, Sydney.
CORRESPONDENCE
“C. A.” (Condoboliu); Will have it illustrated.
“Maryborough Bard”: Will consider “ Poet : You
can pronounce and spell Achilles how you please, we ate
hound to pronounce it according to usage.... “Q.H. •
AVhat do you mean? “J.R.”(Bruce, S.A.); Yes,square-
If you nominate some Sydney friend of yours, he can see
•the whole thing through “Scotty”: Will privately
give you his name. Send along the sketches,...
“ Bumboora”: Many thanks....“ H.S.P.”: Yes, thanks,
have already used it.... “ Chas. S.R.”: Until you write
more legibly no editor will read your manuscript. He
will only pretend to have done so. Your only chance
will be to have your contributions type-written
“G.M.A.”: Good. Will print.. ..“ Jack Daly” (Oueair
beyan): You can’t find it. He drank it all “Stop-
ford J.” (EugOwra); Many thanks. ...“H.V.A.”: Yes,
thanks “E.L.A.”: Signed articles are well enough in
certain cases, but anonymity is better. Under the latter
system arguments stand on their own feet..,. “C.E.W. .
There would be no chance of the accused haring a fair
trial in a Little Pedlington with a “ vigilance com-
mittee ”in full blast. The hangman would be practically
foreman of the jury, or else the foreman would constitute
himself counsel for the accused,.. “Q.E.F.”: You are
quite mistaken in imagining that the remarks had a per-
sonal application. The case is a typical one, and we hare
met scores of instances of it. From what we have heard
of the man you name we believe the character attributed
by- you to him is deserved— “ E.W.” : There is a mediinq,
dear sir, between Yarley and the devil, and you, judged by
your letter, are much nearer to the devil than you are to
Yarley. Y r arley is sincere as any fanatic; the man you
patronise is a conscious impostor, and if we are not
greatly mistaken, you are one of his “ buttoners
“ W.A.E.”: The Bulletin does not approve of rowdyism
at political meetings, but, all the same, it recognises that
the boohooing at Sydney Foreign-trade gatherings is, if
genuine, a fair, though useless, reprisal for the unblush,
ing suppressions and distortions of the capitalistic press
which is in possession of the floor. However, judging
from the tortuous acts of certain representative Free-
traders, it’s as likely as not that those who boohoo at the
Calico meetings are people subsidised by the Shoddy
authorities to make a row so that the morning press may
have something to “mag” about....“ Verax ” : \ery
good, but we aren’t going to give a free advertisement to
any smarty tailor . “A.N.A. : Many thanks. As
you will see, the matter has been attended t 0....
“John”: Foreign-trade means English ascendancy in
Australia, and Australian Nationalism is before all things..
“D.R.W.”: Received “Constant Reader”: Will look
the matter up “W. Duncan”: Y T ou overlook one
thing; no citizen may be flogged in Scotland. The
English flog, but the Scotch don’t— “W. Watkins ”: Will
attend “B. Finkernagel ” (Barraba) : Many thanks
“Native” (Tasmania): Will inquire for you “Spring
Yale ” (Bega); What ghastly hieroglyphics ! Please dis.
miss Chow Hong, your writing master, and buy a Call-
graph or something.... “R. B. Jun.” : Good, but we have
already noticed it ... “B. Hamilton” (Grand Central):
Will use your yarn in some shape or other.—[Many letters
held over. ]
Judging from the malignancy with which
Sydney Evening News follows up the Irish-vote
business, there must surely be a renegade Irishman
on the staff. Name?
Morehead, in the Queensland House of
Assembly, speaking on the Church of England
Property Pill, said i ’ he was a buttress pf that
Church—that is, a supporter from the outside.”
The Israelitish hosts could ne’er
Have seen their land of Goshen,
Had someone not discovered H. A.
Rose’s famed Eye Lotion.
The Slundykit now proposes to make ad-
vertising hoardings of the back of the N.&.W.
Government tram-tickets. Also, there is a scheme
to poster-plaster the interiors of all the IN.b.W.
Government railway-carriages.
Young Flanagan, of TiMES-Parnell noto-
riety contemplates leaving London for the Kaw-
linies. In wr ting “ Parnellism and Crime ” this
renegade “son of the ould sod” metaphorically
meant murder but only succeeded in committing
suicide.
A London perfumer says that Mrs. Langtry
rubs her face with veal to improve her skin. Ac- •
cording to all accounts many calves browse round
Mrs. Langtry.
Little Nellie Wick, the baby-barberess,
recently clean-shaved five men in twelve minutes.
Her father, Teddy, holds the championship, won
at the Royal Aquarium.
Serious fears are entertained for the safety
of Mr. Malcolm Macmillan, son of Mr. Alexander
Macmillan, the well-known publisher. Mr. Mac-
millan, who ha? been travelling in the Last, un-
dertook the ascent of Mount Olympus, and has
been lost on the mountain. Another Irish outrage.
The. assassins have been reading Wises article in
old Mac. ’s Magazine.
One of the inmates of the Callan I aik
Asylum made his escape from that institution a
few days ago. After preaching from several pul-
pits with great acceptance and giving a masterly
exposition of the principles of Foreign-trade bet ore
the “Freetrade and Liberal ” Association, he was
arrested in Sydney Domain and returned to his
former custody, pending the general election.
Mrs. Muckles : ‘ ‘ Henry, I do think you
might use your manners when we are alone as
well as when there is company here. What would
you think if I were to sit around with my feet
cocked up on the table, like you do. Mr.
Muckles: “I think the chances are that the
table would break down.”—Louisville Courier-
Journal.
A month ago a Sydney jockey of no repute
“ tipped ” the writer Ellerdale for the “ Awksberry
And leap, ” Singapore for the Derby, and Arsenal
for the Metropolitan. Mentioning the circum-
stance on Monday night last to a friend, tha ■
astute person remarked, “Well, yon didn t back
the first twoj and they won; now, take my tip and
let the third horse run without your coin, for it
you back him lie’s sure to run second. And so
it turned out. Abercorn beat him.
Hodgkinson, perhaps the best debater,
certainly the brightest all-round intellect m the
Queensland Parliament, read last; week s -Bulle-
tin “Plain English” article, “l or the Term of
His Natural Life,” during a discussion on the
necessity for curtailing the jurisdiction of the
Judges. It was good to watch Griffith and Ins
learned brethren squirm while the article was
being read.
There are strained relations between the
Judges and the Executive up in Queensland. The
Ministry appointed a taxing-master to fill an ad-
mittedly long-felt want. This appointee installed
himself in an office before a table and some
pigeon-holes, and proceeded to tax everything he
could lay his hands on, but when some of his
taxations came before the Bench for ratification
the Full Court repudiated both, himself and his
labours, telling him as he was appointed without
their concurrence or knowledge he might consider
himself as having no official existence, -in tact,
their Honors gave the Ministry a direct slap in
the face, and declared the appointment null and
void. But the “National” Administration is
not weak-kneed, and now an Amended Supreme
Court Bill is being hurried through the legislative
laboratory to enable the Executive to flatten out
the judges at their sweet will.
Our old friend, Lord Beerthirst, has been
touting for subscribers to the Hurst Park Club
Co., a superior sort of scheme for reviving pony
races in England. « Pendragon, of the Referee,
says that “the very thing to make (so called) pony-
racing, which for many years was not quite so
respectable as dog-fighting, and nothing like so
honest, a reputable institution, has been engineered
through this club.” Further on he echoes what
has several times been uttered in The Bulletin,
concerning the mushroom clubs springing up
Snd Melbourne. . Tlras r " What moot stake,
the horse racing visitor who does not happen to
be informed on the subject of racing pony and
galloway business is that the typical pony of
commerce—the little fellow of robust build—does
not exist in the pony racing calendar. Competitors
are simply undersized racehorses. that last
sentence, word for word, appeared in The Bulletin
months ago. We compared pony races with
regattas for dwarf oarsmen, and still maintain
that they should have no official recognition if
the “ Turf ” is interested in improving the breed
of horses.
Evervhody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Wallach Bros.’ furniture exhibits at the
Sydney Agricultural Show failed to obtain a
mention from the judges, although some of the
suites were duplicates of the gold medal exhibits
at the Melbourne and Oolindenes Exhibitions !
Why is this thus ?


Tobacco, etc.
TUB
DEAD BIRD”
Has Arrived !
What Is the “ DEAD BIRD ?”
iß' You are A Smoker the answer to this ques-
tion is worth noting.
The “DEAD BIRD”
.8 » NEW BRAND of the Finest AMERICAN
TOBACCO, the tirst shipment of which has just
arrived from the famous Factory of
DUNLOP & CO.
(Successors to I). B. Tennant & Co.),
Alio have eclipsed all previous efforts in producing
the “HEAD BIRD.”
To be had Cut and In Plug from all Tobacconists
and Storekeepers.
Ask for it where you deal.
Smoke it.
It will realise your Highest Expectations.
“DEAD BIRD” TOBACCO,
Manufactured Solely By
DUKTLOP & Co.,
Successors to D. B. Tennant & Co.
Wholesale Agents—
CRAIQ & AITKEN,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET.
CRAIG & AITKEN
Have just opened and are displaying a Large
Shipment of
Vulcan. & O."V. Briars,
manufactured at the PARIS EXHIBITION from
Highly Seasoned Wood. Warranted never
to Burn.
All Slew Goods. New Shapes. New Patents.
Pulque Mountings.
Special Advantages to the Trade.
New South Wales Barters' Supply House,
Send for Price List.
Everything you can possibly want in stock
from a HANDCUT-COMB or an AMERICAN
CHAIR to a BARBER’S POLE.
Competent Assistants Engaged for Town
and Country Customers.
Note the Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barbers' Supply House,
680 and 682 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
£ \
( £ HAW t.
-59=2
AT A SUMMER RETREAT.
First Floor Boarder (dozing); “Dear me, what a dreadful cough my next-door
neighbour has! ”
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BEIDGE & 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY , SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL, BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac,
AUCTIOUEEES.
o-n-A-xiKr s^.x_oE!S3vrE;jNr.
DR. SFEESIFL’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES op MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
I .m
X a
m ns s
OlCTiidt^
TO YOI7KTG MSDNT.
DR. FLETCHERS
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This, admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W,
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
«'■« Mi*
■reoX
]
Rii f i
t V
iu,uy
I
ST. SY
ELECTRIC PHOTOENO. CO
The Oxford Hotel, Igixi. s Street, Sydney.
H- THORPE ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES.
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
JUST ZLj -A. IST X) Z IST <3-.
KTettlielm, «& 00.
AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
x STREET, x SXDNTEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details inelndintr
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Spkciat. Links: Peerless
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials, PT' Indents Executed onFavourable Terms! ’ * UWail
stock:
Farleig-h,
TANNERS
YORK
16
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOM 5
LTI
CONSU
3
Hilt
-Ssa.
DP. RlCHARDS-
jnT^rrrarrrr;;
r
WfTIBR
•’.uni i
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring- Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
jXTe'W areh-ouae.
■
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
Hfr above absurd adjective is not to be found in the me
Honarv vet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming,steaming, oi . g
jno* temper-trying, hateful washing daj. The
throw-out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept mjtorttfl
dinner for the family, and a warm reception tor anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony-
Happy indeed, is the home where washing daj
toffig of’the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the prese
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
eadv morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woln,Tmel to arrVforan early break asi. and j then
to attack the week or fortnights batch or soiiea linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
nared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken tne speeoy
ending of toe dreadful day. The children Packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
toe housewife anxious to get everything finished in gooa
tone, and the professional laundress,
make toe work last over two days. With the greatest,
impartiality the laundress divides her v^ltest
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
many*of^u? 5 to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in toe l«Mo ' fheir ow
washing In every family, m our climate, irequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there aie
toe house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance o a
daughter, if there is one old enough It is not.that_the
husband who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses aie
many economy is imperative, days of depression and o
trouble must be provided against. So toe washing is to
be done and toe wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the: breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her
is cheerless that the apportionment of toil is bejonaner
share aMbeyond her strength; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair y o ™f r and that
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they y age faster than they ought. The husband is wdlmg
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and-to make
her kit easy, but how ? She does not complain, only says
Sh Now! as'purveyors of household implements, we have
lone seen our opportunity to enlarge our business y
introducing a thoroughly efficient Wadungr and Mangling
Machine Both these services must be combined in tne.
one article This we have most perfectly and assured.y
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
S ° Wei-esolvedto introduce nothing until absolutely certain
, , experiment, and test, that the implement
npuld be a success There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads are injurious, or are
useless We say and we prove that the Beale latent
Washer will save in labour of washin|in proportion our
Sewing Machines do m sewing. Andin a higner aegree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious. _
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follow* .
The vertical tub is very carefully made, w lth sides.
It, is stationary, only the water and the clothes hen
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is worked
bv a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dl ’°£P ed ln ’ n 'i
arrangement or packing being wanted The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process toe clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ,
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
beino- merely suspended in the water, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, whieh insensibly
rips tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longei
than bv hand-washing, however careful. When toe wash-
ino- is done, the tub should be wiped out, that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Whsu you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
182 & 181 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484 George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent subuibs. the
Showrooms are the largest and finest m the
Southern Hemisphere,, for the. due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines. .
All goods may be had upon easy time-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free b>
post.
No matter where you live, we will, supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout IN ew South
Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
“ ’ THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearingf Machine.
IASTOBALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Okders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
p p
TJSE
lsebig- COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
M'Nato’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Grold JVledal for Excellence at
GALLEY
MNE OLD N °
w •
I
r=
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“ SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.
J
CO.
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE:
9 ELIZABETH STREET.
K.
% -~»v
m
m?- - °
PHOTOGRAPHIC
STOCK
IMPORTERS.
c
*r SEND FOE OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE la
AMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
CHEAP
amateur outfits.
Business Announcements*
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 246 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for 1 ixed
Deposits: —
o Years .... 10 per cent.
12 Months !! 9 per cent.
6 Months g per cent.
3 Months .... •• • • P er 0611
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Month*
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
U years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital. City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILD I r« G SITES!
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
£lO
Large Allotments- Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy T Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OP CHARGE.
inquiry COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
lie Intercolonial Investment tie,, Limited,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
G 4 PITT STREET, and 588 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. R GIBLIN, Manager.
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
rd efperienSas S; that no watch is better than a
W GiUmovmt o s?%welledin six holes, keyless(lo turns
fn wind') enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished" nickM cases that will wear excellently ; in fact,
real goo’d-looking, handsome little watches, and magmfi
° C Twidve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Twelve moiu j, 6d (ls pos t a g e ), and have one
forwardedby post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST «Sc shipham,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney,
TT
p
p
*k
Photog
PHIC,
VttWS
SK
iff
Wiivit
'OzSj
fttOWt-lfiES
«//K E/k -
ttffy ss islands
p


Business Announcements.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK & STATION AGEKTS,
HAYING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it
- we are prepared to
SHIP TJ2STX)ES. LIBEEAL CASH AHVAHCE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homehush and Corporation Yards.
H 3P 3 Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Home bush, Biacktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all furthe r
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LEMiOKT SQTJEBZERS, &c., &c.
McLean. H3ros, <Sz
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT TO ALL USERS OF MACHINERY.
J. C. LUDOWICi & SON,
Manufacturers and Importers of Superior Oak Tanned Leather Belting, and every description of Leather Goods used for Machine and Engineering Purposes.
i
:
i
m
m
a
■y'i
O
pp
Full Stocks of
Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
RAW HIDE BELTING,
COTTON BELTING,
Raw Hide Laces, Lace Hides,
TANGYE PUMP LEATHERS,
HYDRAULIC LEATHERS.
p
All Goods bearing the above
Trade Mark are warranted to
give entire satisfaction, or may be
returned at the Maker’s expense.
Highest Awards
—AT—
AD E L AID K JUBT L E E
Exhibition, 1887-8.
Melbourne Internationa!
Exhibition, 1888-9.
INDIAN & COLONIAL
Exhibition, London, 1886.
Sydney,
1869, 1870, 1872, 1877, 1878,
1879, 1884, 1885.
■
.
m
y
Office and Factory: 162 Clarence Street, between King and Market Streets, Sydney
Contractors to the New South Wales Govevam&nt. Prices and Catalogues posted Free ou Application. No Agents.


Public Companies.
the austealian meeoahtile
Loan A Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL .... .£500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch:
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 3? Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending -
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,-
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... fi per cent.
Six ~ ... 7 „
Twelve ~ ... 8 ~
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1| per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
BUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
£he (Anglo-(Australian (Investment,
finance $ (Land Company, (Ltd.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £lOO,OO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 260,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office .. .. 31 Lombard Street, E.'J.
Chairman'. Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mms Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET.
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia-
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits :—3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATE
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs, Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies,
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed _ an extensive and
similar establishment at Ounningar, near Harden.
Por further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER,
EPPS’S
GEATEFOL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
JUSOn/USeS
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
V
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L. A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
()
Reserve Capital Account ....
Reserve Fund ....
Total Assets over Liabilities ....
£250,000
61,431 10 10
311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .••• ‘ Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... •••• 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices
JN.S.W.
[Victoria
: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
;: Lara,
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O ;
74 per cent, for 3 Years
7 ~ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
j. s. F. Cowell,
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Manager.
Federated. Squatters
AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
Q,TJ-A-Y, S3TX)IsrSY-
WOOL and PEODUOE BEOKEES, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
Hotels.
wr
MBourke S t
ELBOURNE
TRAMS RASS
EYEtorSW minutes
PALACE HOTEL
hfl-il
mm
;'■ v,.,
Mg|
JppBe|pp§
j.A.WILSON
I proprietor
G.WCLARE
L» MARACtR
The PALACE HOTEL, EOUEKE STREET HAST, MELBOURNE,
—is— ' '
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three HtnidredL MZagnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatobies and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modem Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
jgy T’WO SS IE IST C3-lEIR. OTIS LIFTS.
)-(
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms.
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Si Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms s Single Bedroom, 2s- 6d. per KTiglit.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
. —'
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical.
SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVEEMACHSS’S WORLD-
PAMIB GALVANIC BELTS
POE THE CURE OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy. ” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST & SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strbet West, Melbourne.
Free
Are to be found in the “ Light ami Life,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD k CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent cr chronic discharges o! the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
JT. FERR E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dk. de spencer,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation;
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S "ST D DKT E "ST-
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allknds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited,
pT C. NICHOLAS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks*
City Buildings;
•736 GS-eorge Street, 730
H .A. YT im: AEKB T-
;.|.;
Steam Works ;
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
J • /■*-'* ....
Wedding Cakes, See., Made to Order.
-AUSTRALIAN—
IJoIIer j|lour and grain J|tore6,
GrRANVILiLiE, N.S.W.
Sydney Ofpiob: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Boiler Hour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order .of Merit at every Competition,
AND k
“Special Recommendation” of the J nrora of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition!
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
recovered.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Stdnht,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.


Medical.
imniin minim.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
tT??^^ I T?S T^ NTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an irticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
10 famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
OUAEANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISONOUS
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Creen colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joephson’s Oint-
merit for I iles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
-f* l6 great _ demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
, Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
. I? George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows :
That I feel it a duty I owe to the publDto
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
UV my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
sTEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tome. Try it.
ri'nvT I n T ' ULEKS WI H this newly-invented
lUN IE answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We remmmed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Eor General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitter 1 n valuable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Oi meglass two or three times a day after
meal? uiluted with same quantity of water. Tor
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. how and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITIERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflcted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
-r-u t, Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING :
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
BOW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sous Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Miscellaneous.
2ESTU - srt.GrXajn.ii.--B. xT.
Tas Drift'll Australian r
F*re, Marine, and Accid-
lunnted,
nd Kaw Zan!and
nt Insurance Co.,
85 E
ISSUES
LIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
POLICIES indemnifying Household
against loss by BURGLARY,
ers
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligli Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHBOEDEE
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire ; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men s Hacks.
THOISAS M'CREERY:
VEDICAL HERBALIST,
S 3 Oxford Street, i doors a":ove Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
FRE-E BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
. , EI Y CAIj , Treatise by that eminent French
d 1 hysician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
LABONSKI, showing sufferers h w they may
(mi-e themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
Mk (^C> ) without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 706, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
TDATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learnino- the
Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted-Stationers.
H. HILDEB,
IiOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Wcl>, Grindery, «lc..
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
589 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO A CIGAR IMPORTER
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havana all Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor rte Bonito ”
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.”
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xj. BEBTIASCOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coflee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
Tobacconists^
SMOKE
NOTHING
BUT
PIPES.
p
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
331 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTE'S.
MELACHRINO')
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO i
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL TUB
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
—Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
"W-A.MI.3E33Xr & ROWW.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney,
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 6 Cigarette . .. 85/- per 1000 : 9/- per 100.
» No - 8 66/- 7/- * „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied b y cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Medical.
\\ \t MaA fcV V
I
*■
805>>, >• ?,
X ; s
\ >*,
£.*zJk:
v v;
4' *“
/ ,t w;
L iPJ^eOS
I\\\
=--%-
V-
Manly Purity
No tongue nor pen can do justice to the esteem
In which the Cuticuka Remedies are held by the
thousands upon thousands whose lives have been
made happy by the cure of agonizing, humiliating,
itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the skin,
scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
Cuticuka, the great Skin Cure, and Cur , /ia
Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier, prepare from
it, externally, and Cuticuka Resolvent, the new
Blood Purifier, internally, cure every form of skin
and blood disease, from pimples to scrofula.
Having been a sufferer for two years and a half
from a disease caused by a bruise on the leg, and
having been cured by the Cuticuka Remedies
when all other methods and remedies failed, I
deem it my duty to recommend them. I visited
Hot Springs to no avail, and tried several doctors
without success, and at last our principal druggist,
Mr. John P. Finlay (to whom I shall ever feel
grateful), spoke to me about Cuticuka, and I con-
«euted to give them a trial, with the result that I
am perfectly cured. There is now no sore about
me. I think I can show the largest surface where
my sufferings sprang from of any one in the State.
ALEXANDER BEACH, Greenville, Miss.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuka, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
Pi!ll P3^ BS », bl ack headB, red, rough, chapped and
s Iht j oily skin prevented by Cuticuka Soap.
If I had known of the Cuticuba REMEDIES
twenty-eight years ago, it would have saved me
$200.00 (two hundred dollars) and an immense
amount of suffering. My disease (Psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger than a cent.
It spread rapidly all over my body and got under
my nails. The scales would drop off of me all the
time, and my suffering was endless and without
relief. One thousand dollars would not tempt mo
to have this disease over again. lam a poor man,
but feel rich to be relieved of what some of the
doctors said was leprosy, some ringworm, pso-
riasis, etc. I took . . . and . . . Sarsaparillas over
one year and a half, but no cure. I went to two or
three doctors, and no cure. I cannot praise the
Cuticuba Remedies too much. They have made
my skin as clear and free from scales as a baby’s.
All X used of them was three of Cuticuba,
and three bottles of Cuticuba Resolvent, and
two cakes of Cuticuba Soap. If you had been
here and said you would have cured me for $200.00,
you would have had the money. I looked like the
picture in your book of Psoriasis (picture number
two, “ How to Cure Skin Diseases ”), but now I am
as clear as any person ever was. Through force of
habit X rub my hands over my arms and legs to
scratch once in a while, but to no purpose. I am
all well. I scratched twenty-eight years, and it
got to be a kind of second nature to me. I t.bnnir
you a thousand times. Any one who reads this
may write to me and I will answer it.
DEMNTS DOWNING, Waterbary, Vt.
UAiy HC Soft, white, and free from chaps and
IWll'iytJ redness, by using Cdticuba Soap.
Address :
R. TOWNS & CO, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Gold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KEKTT STREET, SYD3STEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40!b Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s, per lb.
n-..
r
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
■
“No, John; no more Tea from you. I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company."


Medical.
NERVOUS HEN.
J /j
5?
eureka
\s
ELECTRIC BELTtV
* /va, . . s\. .
“"SNin
m
\rf'
A NEVER FAIRING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, ,we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
.mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring thdm to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney,
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
' L.E.C.P., M.E.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN —
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. 'Curable Cases Guaranteed.
|3P“ All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“ Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
Bs. 6d. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling- to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
f The Public are requested to notice the
WmII wlUIi ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off" on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
iST" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or RT POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials;
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
“I have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnia
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon)— “l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my oowa, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 14lb. ss. 6d. ; 661 b., 18s.
6d. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Oolony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
81 HTsTNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to V>e worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as win 1 and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
c ma
&
PATENT
PILLS.
$
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ayes these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
briny about all that is required. No female should
he without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for -removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
-S a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St, Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IM. and 2s. fid. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
COLEMame&sohs
Eucalypti Oils.
p
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
mUS&arf^
The only pure Eucalypte In the World
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Prof. E. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Mqore & H
OGG
p
H THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases rff the Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOLBULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
CJPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
O Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings arid Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, Qeoirge Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
*2O BUCKBOARD BUGGIES *2O
No. 45—Turnout Seat—£3s.
COPE <3c N E W MAN
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
BEST I\ THE WORLD
for £3O.
Tl»e Largest Coacli-
Works in Australia.
EteacS. ! Head ! Read !
“ THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by. The Bulletin’s well-
* known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY. •
Frice - Slxillixxsr
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, Oeorsrc-street.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ For Framing a Picture Heat and Well.”
8 —-x :x
D BERNARD S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-;- t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&e,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
p
2l
MANUfAtTURtRS
& IMPORTERS OF
HATS CAPS&c
436 CEORCE ST
3VDNEV 3
C/o/}o3iCe LassttCers
p
Branch :
6 7 8 GEO R G E STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
Oi\IHTCASTLE*S%
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNIY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
fIUCH'S
(
fl>
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
m
r-.
fiUCH's
■* -
INC
PO
22S
HA
°CN/INNOb SarlovrS*
cJcU ty aU « SMeAetfirro % . Jfli
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass-’ Ale,
FIRST QUALITY..
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London,.
By Special Appointment.
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully fotyed labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
tor sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the per pet rat rs of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
Ask for kupper’S elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
Wholesale Agents :
SYDNEY.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
j received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bouoiit or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER .HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
Hotels.
oO±
i S
i||Hffl|BOWDeNSJpwnEHs
Horn
'1
-• m
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.) ( Sydney.
JOHN C. BOWDEN ... ... Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-st., East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated. s
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warmambool, Victoria;
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a Fiest-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and.within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. &S’ Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood. v
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Gold Sea Water Baths, which are unaur*
pawed in the colonies.
livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office few Cobb & Co.’t Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupon* taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE ■ Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long 1 as
any other leather, "tsa
x-
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool,
London Fashions,
' AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 259 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China* and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
rOHN IV ALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. ME'LyiN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
m
I
II
IPS]
P. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
"W IFTBS, x SPIRITS, x RREE S_, x UHTC.,
Cteorge and Crlpps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES;
John Jameson’s DyMn Whisky (5 to 101 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunvillk’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Mennbssy s, Martell s and Sazbrao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
kbs?~ l °l ces \ a ™ l Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
oi liou'Lßo Ale and biour, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
SQiolesale anil jingle Bottle SEpaittmßnts, ?S8 ans Qcnimß.st., Svilnoy.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHHKBT ROOM & LAYATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
T_ )X{
Produce Stores, Gipps St,, and Darlingliurst Hoad,
HEAD OFFICE = OIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS,’
UXTIES'W'
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
i O,OOO Bedsteads,
From. lOs. 6d. to £35.
Q
yr~r..
ISE
' 1 ' ’’ "C-;
SATIN
y I
a»*
ffitfSr-*
TRUNKSjfcCaC
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES. ■
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited. . S
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations,
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by-
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers. , *
B. P. BROWN & CO., I
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs,
B3T* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY. N
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not boon
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once 1
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London.' Pur-
chasers should lock to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
INU I N E SWEDISH MADE
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from ?
O. -A.. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOE AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY
Country Agents Wanted.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR 'SALE. — A Quantity of Second-Land
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
*>
3
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY.
The Brighton of New South Wales.
A T tlle GLAEENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties are
W:S3S3Stt&Ste&SBS!- " Sl “' by M - Klt ™“ -
KILMIIiTS'TER., ClaresurioML Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JjONQ-'S IMPEEIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Itooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
J O'HN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
T 0 W N SYILLE.
thomas Wallace,
Proprietor.
m
AIR
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,'S
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour. i
ROWLANDS’
O DON TO.
A pure, NON-gritty Tooth Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness'
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
T A. MT O- Y £is
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 h.p.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
msm v
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xiatb.es.
mi MACHINES,
&C., - &c»
W-
wm
■ -.
*
St., Haymai'ket, Sydney,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUE-MILL IE
ENGINES
FOR
'
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Muliituklar Sellers,
CORNISH BOILERS.
&C., &C.
We invite all
requiring Machinery of anykmdfor any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock
Visitors, whether.buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive S
128, 131, 133 A ■«.' ~ m _ ___ ''ML.; ./■ .
s-■x* ft'3Ss x: 1", ’ sJjL Or, iwc
Howrooms 11 * a^e immediate delivery.
3ES T, SYDKTEI TST.
