

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J- S- FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.” — Lancet.
HNK.
FOR SALE,
Winslow Vineyard Snails,
15s. per Pair.
Considerable Reduction to Wholesale
Buyers.
Raymond Extension Skates*
Same Price.
3$
Kill'll®
'
(S 5
m
Instructed Free °f Charge.
V alse on Skates
Every Afternoon Free of Charge
By our Floor Manager.
C-A.IRJNTI'V-A-L TO-ITJCa-HT I
THURSDAY, JUNE 13.
ct>s_p* *-*»—=_* g^fDya-o
&" VALUABLE PRIZES TO BE BIVEN!
R. J. Aginton - - - Manager.
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ
“ The Bulletin’s ” History of Botany Bay.
Price, Is. To be had of all Ag*ents and Bookstalls.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
0
TJSE
liesis COMPAHY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
BY TAKING —
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to jelll OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &0., accompanying each Bottle.)
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d„ 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
>ii
m
ONIONS
*
*
o
o
33
O
0
x/
yovrc
SiR ROPER
lrJsk%i
Vr
too
z_^
DIXSONS
Dr. FUDGE'S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
And is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
m
ADC
jffi) tonsfqtience tf Imitations 'of THE' WORCESTLRSH/RE
SAtyCE. which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
have ,to request that Purchasers see that the Label en every bo!tU
\hear* Ripnature thus—*
without 'watch m bottle of .the, original V/OR CEBTERSWfBM
•SA UCE is genutne.
disk for LE Aland' PERU IKS' Sauce, and see Name-an fTi api&r, Label, BoTfU and
Stopper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse sjsPi
' XUuck&ell, London, 6rc., &rc. ; and by Grocers and, Oilmen throughout the World.
■** - nnunriiiuwwni I ii Timin' ■ i —r-im 1
• •
HIGHLY NUTRIUVa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN ÜBELUDjmSJ3ft,PACKf ISJHBOUGHOUTJiIE COLONY.
WILLIAM ™ CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment Of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER
CEMIA of the LIYER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUDEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spooKfuSs, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoon ful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
ţ
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.— For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITHL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HALTEKIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
ODIUM HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA water,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers
j & E. ATKINSON,
24 OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark-" White Hose'; on “Golden
1 Lyre," with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capita) .. £130,42:>
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,680
Deposits Received ..
Advances Made .. • ■
Total Income .. .. 200,106
Year ending
Oct.. 1880.
~ £350, 000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
-M-
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
891,356
307,828
797,990
Year ending
0(%, 1888.
. £5BO, (HK»
251,015
. 1,123,049
625,826
. 2.048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent,; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 pa:' C3.it.
Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To iiersons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
u to* sums at a Fair to and [dt EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
POSITS i; KM MX IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
ui-porlunity. Dei Heitors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
UPON THEM! Dairy Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers. Terms Liberal.
Mi*
i
u
IB
■ -- -acrr
I t II t «
E it!
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
*§2s Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders m
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 94., towards which sum they had con-
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
-{ : y
Hon. John Nimmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary._
m
mi
*
%
V
i
HE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
OOBNKK OF
King; and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Fivk Hundkkd and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SfKial DM* aalmM Lad"*, ml, *»h OuitiM and Table Appointment, Unequalled in the OH*
LARUE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent ALWi, presided over by an experienced CSW/, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
MILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Kot, Cold and Shower Baths.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Cohen
Manager -


The Bulletin
VoK 10—No. 487.
SATURDAY, JONE 15, 1889.
Price 6d;
tvsl
1 rn MiT 3B
“SULTRY” WINTER: EDITOR “MELBOURNE HERALD.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
i
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
■ PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 Pxtt street, Sydney, New South W ales.
4 TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
f (payable iu advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ® ®
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Draft*, etc., and alt Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
1 The. Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
i ngth, or say ftOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or N ewspapei’-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
vesire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
Tee are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
- By sending direct loThe Bulletin' Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
van have Tin: Bulletin posted regularly to yon ereryweek
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. JUNE 15, ISBO,
A New Sermon on an Old Subject.
Some vvepks ago “■ Qatoms Umbra” wrote tq
the Sydney Morning Herald and asked :
“Shall qur girls be flogged by male teachers?”
The qqestiqn should rather pave been
whether girls qf tender years should be
beaten by tiny teacher, male qr female. I’be
trainers, who cannot discipline and instruct
young children, girls particularly, without
the cape should choose other professions.
As pedagogue!? they will always remain an
abysmal failure. It appears that in the
half-time school referred to by Cato’s shade,
the teacher whiles away a portion of the
time by “slashing at a 10-year old girl till
her poor, tender fingers hang quivering,
black and swollen, merely because, she has
something wrong iu lier lessons.” In this
land of ours it is to he hoped that there are
some families whose heads, under the cir-
cumstances named, would interview this
peripatetic schoolmaster and endeavour to
bring him round to their way of thinking.
But this whole question of punishment,
corporal and capital, is so absorbing and sq
significantly avoided by public men and pub-
lic prints, that no excuse need be offered for
alluding to it once again. Owing to circum-
stances which it would be tedious to re-
capitulate Australia finds herself to-day the
sole country where the people call them-
selves free and elect to he governed like
convicts.
. * * * *
generally, a nation's advances in
civilisation and humanity may be fairly
gauged by examining its criminal laws. If
t he latter are brutal their brutality is but a
Reflex of the nation’s. There are isolated!
cases, however, Where, while the laws have
stood still, the nation has advanced, so rliat
the criminal code is not a fair measure of
Society as it is, but as it was. This is the
state in which all the Australian colonies
particularly New Kbuth Wales —find them-
selves at tiie present moment, and it is rt
liiost perilous position to he placed in. If is
the legal state in which France found herself
at the time of the Revolution, when a great
upheaval was required to sweep away the
wheels, scourges, and criminal laws which
too long had made the country a land
of serfs misgoverned by seigneurs and strum-
pets ; it was the state of England far into
the present century, when the stupid sav-
agery of the code not alone helped to retard
further social advances but did much to
bracket the words Briton and brutality in
the world's eyes. Nor did A merica escape.
For the insensate laws introduced by the
Puritans made the Plantations afterwards
the Union—-an extremely unpleasant place
for humane men during the whole of the
Eighteenth Century and a great portion of
the Nineteenth. As most men are better
than the religion taught them by their
priests, so we fain would hope that New
South Wales society is in advance of the
laws which through some singular perversity
it still retains in its unique code. We shall
now point out a few of the social dangers
which are as inseparable from the retention
and administration of inhuman punishments
as the rlr'Jow from the tree that easts it.
5S Vt ii
Elderly men can remember wmn, almost
every Monday morning, London poured out
its highest and its lowest —the sweepings
of saloons and slums —to witness batches
of executions at Newgate. Surely, if the
sight of the death-penalty could repress
crime and raise the moral tone of the spec-
tators, the England of 60 or 70 years ago
should have been an Arcadia. But we have
the evidence of observant aliens to the effect
that society, instead of being softened, was
hardened by such spectacles—hardened to a
degree which seems impossible to ns of a
newer generation. This might have been
foreseen, for there never lived a man who
was bettered by witnessing or hearing of
torture. When, at the beginning of the
century and long afterwards, half-naked
men and women were dragged through Eng-
lish towns, their shoulders scored and bleed-
ing from the hangman’s lash, was crime sup-
pressed or society served ? So far from
either result being attained, England, in
the eyes of the immediate neighbours was a
Pandemonium in which crime and cruelty
went hand-in-hand. It is clear then that the
sight of punishment, capital or corporal, has
a directly opposite effect from that which its
advocates prognosticated. When, therefore,
it became evident to the upholders of the
Draconic system that they were merely
brutalising and destroying the society they
presumed to save—much as witnessing the
punishments meted to early Christians had
a share in undermining the Roman Empire
—the ground was cut from beneath them.
There was nothing for it but to remove the
gallows and the triangles from the public
gaze and reduce the list of offences for which
the culprit could be turned over to either of
the ghastly contrivances. The result is that,
in the England of to-day, murder is the only
crime for which death is awarded —robbery
with violence the only offence for which a
culprit pan be flayed, Many persons—by no
means “ piaudlin sentimentalists,” the
favourite term applied to reasoning men by
those who would re-introduce red-hot pincers
if they could —hope to see both bloody insti-
tutions buried, ere long, deep down with the
thumbscrew and the scavenger’s daughter.
It is now time to turn to Australia.
* i) #
In China, some months ago, a French
traveller saw hanging to a wall a cage in
which a man wfis slowly starving to death.
Lost his decease might be uneventful and
c •mfortablo, many passers-by approached
with stoqt bamboos, tipped with rusty nails,
jpid artistically dug the lat or into thp
tenderest parts of his body. When the
horrified European asked why they tortured
the wretch so instead of killing him at once,
the answer given by the astonished tor-
mentors was “ ho should not have deserved
it ” A short time since in Siam a British
\vandercr savy a map thrown to tigers and,
when lie inveighed against the barbarity, was
told that the wretch “should not deserve it. M
Drolly enough, precisely the spine answer was
given the other day by a prominent New South
Wales politician from a balcony in Oxford-
street when one of the crowd asked if he was
in favour of t rturc —“ Certainly, if the man
deserved it.”’ Wherein lay the difference
between this statesman pud his Chinese and
Siamese confreres ? If there was any, the
superiority lay with tfhem. For they, at
least, killed their victim outright, even if
they did it slowly, v bile he was for mangling
him and then letting him go. Nor is this
all it is, indeed, but a small portion of this
odd subjecL The number of offences for
which a citizen of any Australian colony —
more especially of New South Wales—can
have his skin removed in tatters from his
shoulders, on the evidence of a trull or of tin
ignorant or malicious policemen, and by order
of an inferior civil servant without the int er-
position t fa jury, wouldmake Judge Jeffreys
gape with envy, if the devil would but let him
visit Sydney. A tipsy chimney sweep while
being led (this is a mere euphemism for
“scruftcd”) to the lock-up, declared, in
strong Saxon, his conviction that Moses
and the Prophets wore humbugs. He re-
ceived 25 lashes—and now, of course, gives
in to none in his respect for the patriarchs.
A tipsy sailor goes miles into the bush with a
too-willing female ddmpanion. He secures
25 stripes also and the lady a month. An
iiViperfect!y'-sober policeman strikes a match
in an’open paddock on a dark, windy night,
and sees two unfortunates huddled for shelter
in a dry corner! They are sentenced to be
flogged, and, billy escape by the interposi-
tion of the Minister for -Justice 1 . A cata-
leptic woman has a fit. The first man that
lends his aid is liable to pay for his benevo-
lence by feeling the hangman’s scourge. So
far is this from exaggeration that there is
worse behind.
# # *
What worse can there be behind ? The
following : All over Australia men are fre-
quently condemned to death for other crimes
than murder. Through some palliating cir-
cumstances, or some apparent flaw in the
evidence, the sentence is commuted at the
final meeting of the Cabinet and a “milder”
punishment substituted. The milder punish-
ment generally consists of imprisonment
for life <>r for a period tantamount
to life, together witli two or three
savage lashings thrown in. In New
South Wales not long since a case of this
kind occurred. The other day in Victoria a
similar one arose when, for some reason, the
capital sentence was mercifully reduced to
20 years’ pena' servitude and two scourgings
by the hangman. If any public man or
public journalist can point to any other
country in the world where such savagery,
ghastly and insensate, would be tolerated for
a day, we offer to publicly apologise for this
article. Bearing all this in mind there is
something shockingly grotesque in hearing
an Australian judge deliver such sentences
and add with complacent mockery that
“ the law was guided by mercy, not ven-
geance !” If this is mercy, it would be
really worth while to hear what vengeance
is. For it must not be forgotten that no
possible object, so far as the interests of
society are concerned, can be secured by im-
prisoning a person for life and torturing him
at intervals. If you publish his sufferings in
the daily journals, giving an artistic descrip-
tion of the effect of each stroke as it fell, you
brutalize the community, even more surely
than the English did by hanging hatches of
offenders in public. Some newspapers, it
is true, give the correct details, and we
have seen on the tea-tables of respectable
Sydney matrons really finished descriptions
of how blood was drawn at the third blow,
while at the twentieth the person's back was
not unlike a fresh, well-pounded beef-steak
which the cook was about to place on the
pan. If you keep silence the public know
nothing of the punishment, and the sufferer
himself, who has to remain in gaol all his
life, will have no further chance of com-
mitting fresh crime. It is gratuitous
malignity, nothing else, and—deplorable to
say—entirely peculiar to Australia.
V il
To conclude—the Australian Colonies are
the happy hunting-ground of the duly quali-
fied medical practitioner, the policeman, the
trollop, the fiogger, and the hangman,
Buttner’s is a case in point, He was to
have been hanged on the 28th May, and
would have been hut for the merest chance,
The jady came from Queensland, where, for
some years, she had divided her time between
hysterics and street-walking, A Tydney
doctor was found to swear that, prior to her
entry under the prisoner’s roof, a vestal
was a Magdalen compared with her,
This man should have a future before
him. The police did the rest and, but
for the merest chance, Buttner would
have ended the farce and his life together,
e have no stock in this gentleman ; but
it is not improbable that Ifis hardly-acquired
knowledge of Australian law will induce
Ipm to rpmove to ’ some country where a
inan’s life is, at least, not at the mercy of a
pqnk and a dunce. Perhaps the darkest
side qf till to the picture is the callousness
shown by Australian legislators to the
abominations perpetrated in the name <>f
law. It shows h°w, even when the felon
tiint has disappeared from a people, the
felon spirit remains. The insensibility
shown to human life, liberty and suffering, ip
a land neyer Died of prating of its institu-
tions, is marvellous. Talk of what was done
in France undqr tpe universal suffrage in-
troduced by Hortense’s bastard ! Ip
‘' Sunny New So,nth Wales,” by the sanction
of laws framed by representatives elected
by manhood suffrage,, there tire things done
every day that would send a thrill of in-
dignation through the nations were they but
bruited abroad*
Lynch Law-Again!
“ Pace aepuse o, Rian o£a crime a,nd people will lie ready
enough to believe hilii guilty. Place the most honest ana
pleasing face bell hid' these tails and it at once becomes
aj face that expresses every passion.” W. B. Halley.
The Bulletin is fully alive tp, the sadness of thje
circumstances attendant on the death of Constable
Sutherland, \yho was shot in Macleay-street,
apparently by one Morrison, an alleged
burglar, now in custody ; and it is quite aware of
the necessity which exists for effectually dealing
with 11 rise who carry firearms to aid them in their
profession as robbers. But there i ( s yet another
thing which is also necessary in New South Wales.
It is that every accused man shall have a chance”
of getting a fail; and impartial' trial according to
t ie letter and the spirit of the no man’s,
trial shall be wantonly prejudiced by newspapers
run in the interests of clumsy sensation-mongers,
•lust read this, cut from the Evening News’s
second edition of Tuesday, June 4 :
OUTSIDE THE COURT.
Afl tlie prisoner Morrison was brought into court
securely handcuffed, all eyes were cast upon Him. The
prisoner, who is a young man, is a desperate-looking
character, and ids villainous countenance was the theme
of conversation aiifong' the hundreds of spectators. Ife
was drdsscd in a respectable suit of clothes, provided for
the occasion, and wore it Huge hard felt, hat, under which
a wotlnd on the left eyebrow could lie clearly observed.
The'eye itself Was black.
Later issues of the Ev'ENlNq News aforesaid con-
tain rude drawings said tq be based on instan-
taneous photographs taken during the conveyance
of t he accused from the gaol to the Coroner's (Quirt,;,
also an attenuated and self-gratulatory account of
the means by which the photographs aforesaid were
produced. The photographs of alleged murderers
and their prey published in the Sydney daily
papers from time to time afford a theme for pink •
sophising. Whatever may be done by the news-
paper-artist with reference to the victim (and very
often the latter is doubly a victim by reason of
what the public are given as bis “ likeness ”) it
seems the general practice to make the accused
person as hideous as possible, with a view, it
would almost appear, of prejudicing his trial and
thus expediting the course of what in New South
Wales is too often, unhappily, regarded as jus-
tice. Innocent or guilty, how would the news-
paper-proprietors of Sydney look if handcuffed and
in the custody of the police each proprietor with
a black eye and a “ bashed ” forehead —assuming
that he had any,forehead to ‘ bash ” - and two or
three days’ growth of stubble on his jowl ? How
would they look thus paraded before a loafing
crowd * each proprietor attired in a misfit slop-
suit and a two-shilling felt h- three sizes too big for
him —on the road to court to be tried for his
miserable life ? The wretched prisoner who averts
his battered face to avoid the photographic camera
with which he is being shadowed in the interests
of commercial savagery, is under a tremendous
handicap which, in the interests of calm and dig-
nified justice, it is to be hoped the authorities will
yet see fit to remove. The Bulletin hopes that
should the evidence be strong enough to convict
Morrison or any other man the jury will find a
verdict accordingly ; nevertheless it holds that
unless we are going to have lynch law in the land
—unless the vigilance-bell is to toll at the door of
Darlinghurst Criminal Court-it is brutal and un-
manly, we will even say un-English, to pre-judge
by innuendo in this fashion a man who is to be
tried by the Supreme Court of his country, and
who, should he be found guilty, will be sent to his
last account within a few weeks from now. We
have no present rc aso i to believe that Sutherland
was not, as has been represented, a brave and
careful officer who met his death in the strict dis-
charge of his duty; nevertheless one story is
always good until another is told, and any intelli-
gent man who knows anything of law or of the
police, could easily set up an hypothesis, which, in
the absence of evidence to controvert it, would
palliate or altogether excuse the shooting which
appears to have been done by Morrison. The
contempt of justice displayed by the Evening
News, and in a less degree by other papers, in the
sordid search for a sensation, altogether over-
shadows that for which a Melbourne attorney was
fined and sent to gaol the other day. How glad
people should be that prisoners arraigned for
capital crimes before the Supreme Court of New
South Wales are invariably afforded trials which,
in point of calmness and obvious impartiality, so
strongly contrast with the frenzied and malignant
utterances of certain of the daily prints ! Look at
the Mount Rennie trial, for instance ! And what
a splendid success Buttner’s case was !
The Bar as a Profession in N.S. Wales.
The Fancy Profession.—Crowds of “Johnnie
Raws.”—Fkeetradk Excise on Local Pro-
duct.—Nice to be an Examiner.—Thirty
Guineas a Try.—From the Crowbar to the
Bar.—Judas’s Rope.—The Final Harle-
quinade,
(By a More or Less Briefless Barrister.)
“ Reading for the Bar ” is an excuse that has
covered more laziness than anything else except
wharf-fishing. The fact that barristers know all
about those “shocking divorce cases, my dear,”
and wear habiliments, when they've got ’em all on,
in comparison with which the night-gown and
hood of clergymen appear but as the “commonest
commonplace,” and the further fact that barristers
aife popularly supposed to make on fie average
£10,006 a year by orating on behalf of justice W Vi
a horse-thief ope, &c.—all these things tend to
make a man who is reading for the Bar rather a
conspicuous and haloed kind of being. He then
becomes especially interesting to his own and other
people’s female relatives, and by discounting his
coming fame he secures quite “a good time.”
Beyond that, reading for the Bar is a business that
general impressions decide can be done at any
time. The parson can do some of it while the
choir is wading through a long hymn, th,e choir-
master can do, some more when the parson is.
wrestling with the long prayer, and Adolphus can
allege that he is thus engaged when he locks him-
self into his room, whereas in truth and in fact he
ijS on the broad of his back reading a chapter by
Quid aor Hawley Smart’s latest. Moreover,
thpre is a large indefiniteness about the time that
this reading may occupy. We know one man
who has been reading for the last 23 years and
doesn’t know enough yet to, argue a case with a,
fish monger. Judging from the amount of leam r
ing sq, far acquired it seeing possible that he may
be calk'd in time to move the probate of his,
youngest grandson, but there is really no certainty
about that even. Sq, from all these causes itj
happens that whereas fpere are now 103 practising
barristers in New Sopth, Wales, there are about 40>
students and 124!) othprs who are “ reading for the
Bar.” Homy of, which latter number may be calledi
during the present century.
# * %
We are often asked what is the best way off
qualifying for the Bar ip Sydney. The best way
is to go to England. The examination fees are.
less altitudinous there, the rules, ape npt sq ghastly,'
in their austerity, and the exapiinprs don’t require,
a candidate tf> knmy any more law than, say, a,
District Court Judge, and tjjen, after being called;
in England, a barrister has only to pay a fee of 25,
guineas to gain admittance here. Come to think
of it, though, that 25, guineas is a pretty heavy
poll-tax it represent# ab'pfif 50 per cent, on the
average; barrister, and plenty of them.,
woujd make money by staying ip, bond for ever,
rather than ppy it. Aiuithbr way of qualifying is.,
by going ‘through the University and passing thq.
LL. I). If you do that they call you “ Dr.,” and)
the verdant juniors grovel and think you know
something. But this way is not very popular
just now. The examiners liave plucked all
the candidates for this exam, for the hist two
ye'ars. It is rumoured that LL.D.’s are only
passed in Jubilee years, and there is a nasty
row going on between pinchers and plucked.
The common way of getting called is in the
words and figures following that is to say,
the sucking barrister, having filled himself with
his subjects, applies to the Barristers’ Admission
Board to be admitted to examination. This ap-
plication must be supported by two testimonials,
oneof which must be from a barrister or a University


graduate to the effect that the applicant is of good
fame in the neighbourhood where his tailor resides
and not officially known to the police. If the
Board are not satisfied they may adjourn the ap-
plication or demand an affidavit from the milkman
to show the hour at which the applicant usually
returns from his studies, hut the Board generally
are quite satisfied. They are not very exacting,
and their definition of ineligibles possibly very
much resembles that contained in the Association
Articles referring to directors of a certain Sydney
newspaper —“no oneshall be elected who has served
a penal sentence or is an uncertificated insolvent
or a member of Parliament. ” Being admitted to
exam., the candidate enjoys his first privi-
lege in being permitted to deposit the £3l
10s. which gives examiners the right to
pluck him in five subjects. These are Euclid,
Algebra, Latin, History, and either Ger-
man, French or Logic. As Logic would cer-
tainly be useful it is not made compulsory but as
the candidate has a huge and necessary mass of
law to learn thereafter, he is compelled to go
through the Odes of Horace, Cicero De Oeficiis,
and the Germania of Tacitus in Latin, just to
give him a taste for study. If the candidate
manages to hump this classic swag successfully he
becomes a Student-at-Law; if not, he may be
allowed a post mortem, or else may be permitted to
come again at any time after twelve months have
elapsed, and if he then brings 30 more guineas he
can have another try. But he mustn’t come for a
fresh exam, before the 12 months, as the Board
thinks that once a year is quite often enough for
any forensic goose to be plucked. A student must
immediately upon admission to that degree cease
to interest himself in the vulgar labours of this
world ; he may be a parson or a journalist—both
of these classes being rightly esteemed as equal in
refinement and virtue—or a school teacher, but if
he does any work for reward such as a common
clerk is paid for, he is liable to be slated in some
nndescribed manner. And he must pass two mor
examinations. Roman Law, Constitutional Law
and International Law in one lot, this being the
catalogue of joy comprised in the little-go, and
finally an examination upon all branches of law as
administered in the Courts. _ Of course the privi-
lege of beholding the examiners is not to be ob-
tained ffratis. Ten guineas must be paid to each
of them for the joy of being passed or plucked,
and such things as reduced excursion fares for
students or semi-annual clearing sales of examiners
have never yet occurred.
* * #
Having possibly acquired the opinion that the
existing tests and disqualifications were not suffi-
cient to prevent barristers from crowding the pro-
fession, the Board in 1887 erected some ad-
ditional barriers. They placed an additional ex-
cise on the local production of recruits for the
“higher branch” of the Devil’s own Brigade.
First it was made a condition that three years
should in any case elapse between the first and
final examinations, and to that was superadded
the condition that even literary work should be
abandoned during the twelve months preceding
the “call.” What good to anyone except barris-
ters in practice these merciless rules could do no
one has yet attempted to show. No greater
efficiency has been secured, for the examination
standard remains as formerly. The struggle for those
who would enter the profession has been made
more arduous than before, men who would have
entered have been shut out, and the inducement to
qualify in England, where the restrictions are less,
has been largely increased. These comprise the
results of the operation of the rules of ’B7. The
sons and nephews of barristers who desire to follow
that profession are not affected, for they are caught
green and require at least three years to ripen,
during which time they can read in pa’s chambers,
but to the ordinary crowd of intending barristers
—the men who want to go to the Bar, not because
pa can shove them along, but because they think
their own talents can do the necessary shoving—to
these the additional restrictions in many cases are
an insuperable bar. The great majority of the
best men now at the bar have graduated from
other trades and occupations. One rapidly
ascending junior was formerly engaged in rapidly
ascending gangways with bags of coal on his
shoulders—an occupation so lucrative cx rela-
tione sud—that it is a wonder he ever thought of
trying anything else. Another at one time was
wielding the uncertain pick on a western goldfield;
three more were once clergymen, but as vye bear
them no malice, and desire not that past error
should be raked up to disgrace anyone, we will not
even suggest their names. Yet another, now aji
eminent senior, once sold calicos and such things,
and dozens besides these have come from journal-
ism and school-teaching, while several, in their
misguided youth, have chewed blotting-paper in
Government offices. Men of such varied experi-
ence are above all others fitted to succeed at the
Bar, where knowledge of human nature and busi-
ness is an invaluable qualification- But it will
now be difficult for such men to get through ; to
tile curly-haired boys whose pa is on the bench or
before it, the Bar must now look for its recruits.
That these unjust, class-fayouring rules haye pot
been over-ridden by Parliament is another in-
stance of the stupid reyerence paid by tlm. com-
munity to the errors and cruelty of constituted
authority.
' # W t *
H aving removed all obstructions in his path to
the Bar the successful student has finally to be
called. But first lie must get Ifis “ robes ” and
wig. The former costs anything from two guineas
to five according to quality. The genuine article
contains a caricature of a pocket stuck on just
about where the left shoulder-blade presses ; this
was used eight centuries ago to carry the fee in.
The barrister of those days was so infinitely re-
fined that he e mid not bear to take his groats in
the vulgar fashion, and so the client who
stood behind him had to pop them into this
pocket, or else the refined one would not accept
them at all. The transaction being carried on be-
hind his back he could not be charged with guilty
knowledge. The barrister now-a-days is not so
“nice” ; he grabs the fees with both hands if he
can, but, alas! too generally he can’t. Juniors
are not very particular about having this pocket
sewn on. Ordinary pockets are quite big enough
to hold all they expect to make for the first decade
or so. The gown has one other peculiarity in the
;form of a long ribbon attached to the left shoulder
and falling down in front, cut \>iivs en directoire.
This was once used by clients as a means of stay-
ijng the impetuous speed of barristers unwilling
ifrom excessive modesty to undertake the client’s
■case. Barristers are not built that way now, npr are
ttheir clients ; tjie dpuble process of rushing away
and being stopped is performed by the suitors,
itheir advocates having long since ceased to exhibit
,excessive or any other brand of modesty. This,
the correct history of the ribbon ; those
who insist that it represents the rope which
•ludas Iscariot used with signal effect have
been misinformed, and their statement is not
worthy of any credence, Now-a-days the barrister
never uses the streamer except to hold himself up
b.V, as he implores a jury to “look at my client’s
ease in the broad sunlight of justice assisted by
the farthing rushlight of technical law.” The wig
likewise has a history. When the monks were
forbidden by the English Justinian, the first
Edward, to practise in the Courts, they got there
just the same, but were obliged to wear wigs to
hide their high foreheads. So to this day it is
absolutely necessary for any barrister in every
tribunal higher than a police-court to wear an
article which boils his brain, makes him look like
a waxwork out on sick leave, and costs from 7 to 14
guineas. Of course they can be got second-hand
cheaper, but—and this appropriately is a second-
hand joke—no junior likes to assume the aban-
doned habits of a predecessor.
•# * *
Having dressed for the occasion, the chrysalis
about to wing his butterfly way through the ether
of his new world (metaphor mixed here, but it is a
quotation) gets a senior to “ move ” him. Ihe
senior remarks that the applicant has passed his
exams., and then formally moves his admission.
The presiding judge, in black cap, says : “Let Mr.
Foozleburg be admitted as a
Mr. Foozle burg, do you move anything ? ’
Foozle., who is standing, dare not reply even in a
monosyllabic negative to the question ; he solemnly
bows, with whatever dignity the painful absurdity
of the situation has allowed him to retain, and sits
down. This farce in operation is grotesque to two
degrees. Any more ludicrous attempt at cere-
monial is never seen outside a pantomime. It is
symbolical of the wrong-headed forms and stupid
observances still lingering around legal proceed-
ings, but to a sensitive man it must act as a chill,
distinct if momentary, to aspiration and energy.
The ceremony ended, Foozleburg has reached the
position which men are so anxious to obtain and. so
glad to renounce. In legal slang he is now “a
junior.”
PLAIN ENGLISH
Medical “Experts.”
The goddess of Justice, as she appears in New
South Wales, doesn’t often manage to walk
a chalk-line, but when “expert” evidence comes
to her assistance she zig-zags most marvellously.
The calm recklessness with which caligraphic ex-
perts, duly coached for the occasion, will swear
that a certain signature is a forgery is only to be
equalled by the readiness with which a batch of
experts readied up by the other side swear that it
is genuine. Each lot of witnesses know the kind
of evidence they are subpoenaed to give, and hav-
ing an unconscious bias in favour of the side from
whence their fee comes, they give their opinion in
a cock-sure kind of way which impresses a jury in
the desired manner. But the most risky and
dangerous of professional witnesses come from tire
medical profession. In a will-case, where the
whole question turns upon testamentary capacity,
it is common enough to find the doctors on one
side swearing straight that the testator was mad
enough to be chained up in an asylum, while
the experts of the other side swear equally
hard that he was clear as a bell in the
thinking part of him. Neither lot of medicos
commit perjury, but they have been enlightened
as to the evidence required and they acquire the
necessary opinion forthwith. In any suit where
medical evidence is called by both sides the pro-
fession gets shown up horribly, as in the celebrated
ease of Cross v. Goode which caused, some of the
doctors engaged to dislike one another very much
for quite a long time. They complained very
much of the injustice done them by the opinions
opposed to their own, but probably bestowed no
thought regarding the manner that justice would
be wobbled by the partisan evidence offered. That
is the chief offence of medical witnesses: they are
always devoted to their own side and will swear
all that is necessary to buttress the opinion which
for the purposes of the trial they have conscien-
tiously acquired. The very green barrister de-
fending in, say, a rape case, courageously cross-
examines the doctor called by the Crown, and
thereby obtains more or less gaol for his client.
But the experienced defender knows that doctors
and policemen are equally imbued with the spirit
of the prosecution and will swear just as much
against the prisoner as their opportunities allow.
They are built that way and can’t help it. It does
pot take any sign worth speaking of tp enable a
doctor to swear that somebody was vinjo intacta up
to Wednesday week when she first saw tlje accused,
and if it afterwards turns out that the witness is
aboqt ten years too subsequent in his duties, so
small an error is not reckoned as being of much
consequence. And the present system by giving
special privilege to medical witnesses aggravates
the eyil. All other witnesses are bundled out of
court as shop as the case is opened : doctors are
promoted to P front seat, hear all the evidence
given and then are put into the bqx and asked to
pqt their own conclusion upon the symptoms
And if'more than one doctor' is in
the case each can hear the evidence of the other
and give his version in nice accord with the opinion
already advanced. Cross-examination as to colla-
teral points fails to have any effect under these
circumstances and it becomes impossible to test the
value of the evidence. Perhaps it is impossible to
remove the partisan ferocity pf medical witnesses
by any method short of capital punishment, but it
is at least possible tp prevent doctors from remain-
ing in Court while other witnesses are being ex-
amined. Let them be treated like other witnesses
and examined on their pwn knowledge, npt upon
the opinions they may form while hearing the
ca*e. And for the rest of the remedy reliance
must be'placed qpon jurors. Since recent revela-
tions no sane juror in New South Wales would
convict a man upop the always-confident dictum
of a medical expert.
A Victorian Job.
The Government of Duncan Gillies has recently
made an amusing show of endeavouring to nullify
a grand old job perpetuated at the expense
of the colony of Victoria as far back as
1872. Four years previous to that date a
Mr. Williams was allowed to purchase from
the Crown three acres of land, upon the
Yarra bank fpr the inexorbitant price of £300.
'Hie government of that period, according to Chief
Justice Higinbotham, knew perfectly well that
tllpse three acres were worth £1200 or more, so
they toned down the transaction with a condition
of sale to the effect that the Crown might at any
time resume possession of the Yarra bank allot-
ment on repayment of the purchase money, with
interest at 10 per cent, and fair compensation for
improvements. Whether any senator raised a pro-
test against the deal, sinful enough as it stood, has
not been mentioned. Probably not. Anyhow,
Mr Williams waited his little four years, at the
expiration of which time Mr. Grant, the original
Minister of Lands who was so accommodating
before, had come back to his old billet. 1 hen
Williams worked Grant to issue a fresh grant of
of the three acres, free from any resumption
clause, and this valuable State property was
chucked away, once and forever. Six years later
in 1878, the Government (presumably under out-
side pressure) lodged a bogus caveat restraining
any second disposal of the jobbed earth. The
entirely sham character of this blessed caveat can
be estimated by the fact that no further action was
taken by an}' Government from 1878 to 1888, when
Mr. Williams quietly disposed of his ancient
bargain to Messrs. Goldsbrough and Co. for
£25,000. And now the business-like Gillies has
lost a little more of the public revenue
over a tardy law-suit to recover those three
acres from their present owners. Chief Justice
Higinuotham seems to have decided that the
caveat of 1878 was useless at the time, and has
now “ lapsed ” in any case. Also, that as Grant
and other parties to the job are more or less dead,
there can be no direct evidence of crookedness in
the forgotten past. The judge’s decision is
doubtless good law, as law goes, and the Yarra
bank land has gone for ever, right enough. But if
this delectable little suit of the “ Attorney-
General v. Goldsbrough and Co. {not v. Wil-
liams, who is splitting his sides with laughter all
the time), doesn’t make the people of Victoria
pause, the public spirit of that alarmingly “loyal’’
colony . must be deader than Julius C.esar.
Nothing has recently occurred to indicate
that the Governments of to-day are more
honest than the Governments of 1868 or 1872, both
of which had such a burning desire to drop a plum
into Mr. Williams’ mouth. What went on then
is possibly going on now, in an aggravated and in-
tensified form. If the public will make up their
minds to choose honest men to represent them in
Parliament, and those honest men will turn up
recent transactions in Crown lands, or what not,
there may be opportunities for flooding the Law
Courts with caveats that will not be merely lodged
and left until there is no evidence to show how the
State cow was milked so many years ago.
♦
i_Th.e Pharise? Parkes and the Publican
John Davies.
On reading the evidence given before the New
South Wales Casual Labour Board it is almost im-
possible to resist the conclusion that Premier Pakkes
deliberately s it down in the witness’s chair for the
purpose of giving to the world a verbal caricature
of himself which should be so strikingly accurate
in its main features as to be accepted by the world
as a faithful likeness. Asked a simple question to
which either “Yes” or “No” with very slight
qualification should easily have been given as an
answer, he reeled off a lot of magnificent balder-
dash about the Prime Minister of Hingland and
Lord Frederick Cavendish. Asked a question
about John Davies he proceeded to fasten upon a
dead man, the late Chief Justice Martin, the
tremendous political responsibility of having in-
troduced Mr. Davies to him. Asked whether the
propriety of making roads with public money
through the private estate of hh colleague Mr.
Burns by Horns, ever came before the Cabinet,
he blathered off half-a-column of Hansard about
Sir Robert Peel and the Corn Laws. Let him
speak for himself in the following selected extracts
from his testimony (the italics throughout a' e The
Bulletin’s) ; —
Chairman : Did you pursue the same practice with re-
gard to members of Parliament who brought such docu-
ments ?
Pakkes : Yes.
Chairman And personal friends?
Pakkes : Well, I have no personal friends in public
office. If my son applied to me for anything I should
subject him to the same rules as the greatest stranger.
Chairman : Was Mr. Jamieson in the habit of seeing you
frequently,?
Pakkes: Oh, yes. He is a gentleman I have been
acquainted with for many years, and he used to presupie
upon his acquaintance to see me often.
Chairman : Is this your signature to a deed of r.ss’gn-
ment dated October i-2th, 18S7 ?
Parke? ; That js my signature, [Deed put in and
marked X.]
Chairman : I see in schedule the name of John S. Jamie-
son for an amount of £1400 ; can you tefl ipe how long
that amount has been due ?
Pakkes ; Oh, it accrued during many years. But I
doubt very much whether this conjes wi thin the scope of
your inquiry, but as I have no reason for concealment I
may as well answer the question, I think that had been
accruing fully seven or eight years, A considerable
amount of it is for interest.
Chairman : Were you a shareholder in the Holt-Suther-
land Company ?
Pakkes : 1 had ten shares, which I imagine ary amongst
the assets of the estate.
Chairman : Do you recollect when you transferred them ?
Pakkes : They never were transferred,' to the best of my
knowledge. I think they were held in connection with a
mortgage by the Colonial Mutual Provident Society. But
surely you are not appointed to try the Prime Minister of
the country— who appointed you ! ! ! —to inquire into his
private affairs !
Chairman ; What I want to get at—and I have no doubt
you will see it is relevant to the inquiry—is whether, at
the time you approved of the construction of these works
and roads on the Holt-Sutherland Estate you were or were
not interested in the property ?
Pakkes : Well, suppose that I was interested, I resent,
with indignation, the supposition that I would be influ-
enced by any interest ,1 might haye",in the property. I
desire this taken down. Other persons may allow their
conduct to be influenced, py suah piotioes pnd such objects,
but I do not. My whole life gives a negative to my doing
it. I do not think I ever thought of the shares ; they were
virtually gone from-mc, because they were gone,put of my
bauds at the time this matter came before me. I "can,
with the most distinct sense of duty, dec-re that I never
was ip the slightest way influenced' by the cirCTimstahee
of piy having at pne tivne'had ten shares in tftis'property
Of course nobody says he was sp influenced— In
fact the Board expressly absp yes ’him from
all imputation pf dishonesty—but people dp
say that it is a most ghastly and unfortunate
fact, in view of all the other circumstances
set forth in evidence before the Board, that such
gross malversations of public funds should have
occurred iu two notorious cases directly through
the medium of the proud Pharisee Pakkes’ old
pal the poor publican John Davies, and
indirectly iu one notorious case through the
medium of Pakkes’ dear old'friend, Calico Jemmy,
to whom he had owed'£14()(), including “ interest,
which had been accruing for seven or eight'years.”
Pakkes’ bombastic? about the history of his‘life
giving the lie to sinister suppositions are all
Well and convincing so far as those people lire con-
cerned who from personal experience arc aware
that he is cold-blooded enough—holiest enough, if
you like to put' it in that way—to politically or
socially slaughter without remorse in the course
of justice any erring mail from whom‘he may have
received large pecuniary favours. But ordinary
flesh-and-blood is _ not built that way, and so
it happens that politicians weaker (or if you choose
less honest) than Pakkes do good turns a't the ex-
pense of the State for the friends who have
obliged them. New South Wales may never
get another Brutus. Australia may never
again see another man whose life is a
contradiction to the world-old rule that
“ the borrower shall ever be servant of
the lender.” As The Bulletin has for years con-
tended, there is no country on earth which can
afford to have its borrowed money spent by a man
who claims in the terms italicised above to be
above the laws which as he himself admits (“ Other
persons map allow,'’' kc.) apply to the actions of
the general community.
The O’SulllVan says that a large proportion of
the so-called squatters of New South Wales are
mere boundary-riders for the banks, and proceeds
to prove it thus : Of the N.S.W. pastoral leases
023 are standing in the names of banks and other
financial institutions, and of the occupation
licenses 553 are similarly held. This means that
fully one-fourth of the land which is to be affected
by the land legislation now before the New South
Wales Parliament is not in the possession of bona
tide squatters, to whom Parliament is asked to
extend its sympathy.
♦—
Millionaire Monahan, who recently died iti
Melbourne at a dismal old age, was one of those
pioneers that are alleged to constitute the secret of
Victoria’s greatness. He contributed to the suc-
cess of the colony by running one of its first pubs :i
and sinking all the profits ill towh allotments,
which increased and multiplied in value while Mr.
Monahan built houses on them and raised the
rents as often as possible. He was a splendid
example of how rich a man may be made by the
industry of other people if he only gets to the right
place first and buys up the dirt at a low price.
Victorian Men of the Time described Monahan
as one who “ never gave a bill or a bond, an LO.TJ.
or a mortgage.” The Bulletin may add that he
never gave anything at all worth mentioning, and
probably died earlier than he need have done
through being too economical in his scheme of
daily life. The other departed rich Victorian,
Mr. J. B> Watson, of Sandhurst, did play a more
useful part, in-so-far that he personally dug gold
out of the ground, and subsequently hired others
to operate on rich quartz. But he, like Monahan,
has left behind him little save his money and
sorrowing memories of the possible good works
that he never accomplished. Dust to dust.
-♦
Now that the full text of Parnell’s evidence
before the Commission has come to hand it is
painfully apparent that the cable was a more con-
scienceless liar than usual when it flashed alleged
“ damaging admissions ” under the deep blue sea.
Parnell’s answers to Sir Richard Webster,
counsel for the Times, were a series of flat denials
of any sympathy for crimes, or knowledge of the
men who committed them, and nobody was
damaged by his admissions, save the editor of that
gullible journal which he (Parnell) has brought
to such dire grief. True, the Irish leader did can-
didly confess that he made a “grossly exaggerated
statement ” in the House of Commons, when lie
said that secret societies had ceased to exist in
Ireland, but the politician who never built a little
fiction upon a strong foundation of fact will
assuredly be wafted up to Heaven without dying,
Moreover, the existence of secret societies estab-
lishes no connection between Parnellism and crime,
for the siipple reason that Parnell himself con-
founded his adversaries with the .statement that he
had not in the whole course of his belonged to any
more bloodthirsty organisation than the Ancient
(Order of Foresters,
- * ■
Apropos of the Payment of Members Bill, now
once again before the New South Wales Parlia-
ment, and of Parkes’ stubborn but illogical ob-
jection to the measure, the following remarks
made by Pepys in his Diary in IG6B have value :
At dinner we had a great deal of good discourse about
Parliament. All concluded that the bane of Parliament
hath been the leaving off the old custom of the places
allowing wages to those who serve them in Parliament, by
which they chose men \vho understood their business and
would attend to it, and they could expect an account
from, which now they cannot; and so the Parliament has
become a company of men unable to give account for the
interest of the places they serve for.
Up until the 17th century members of the English
Parliament were paid. When Peter Taylor,
some twenty years ago, introduced a Payment of
Members Bill in the House of Commons, he set
out in the first lines of the measure that the object
was “to restore the ancient Constitutional prao
tice.” Sixty years ago, the grandfather of Lord
Randolph Churchill proposed in the Commons
that county members should be paid at the rate of
£4, and borough members at the rate of £2 per
day. There is actually a whole literature on the
subject of Payment of Members.
Thus Pastor Jefferis
“When I read of Australian councils held about the
government of Australian men in which the clergy alone
had a voice, and of the resolutjions of such a council being
transmitted to’Keane to he approved or condemned by an
Italian pontiff, I laugh again as I think of a Christian
laity consenting to such a travesty of government.”
Very true, good Pastor, but what about the “be-
loved Queen ” you pray fqr every Sunday, and the
transmission of our Divorce and anti-Chinese Bills
to Windsor “to be approved or condemned ” by a
German puppet Queen? If you laugh at “the
ipse dixit of this foreign ruler (the Pope) being
received with servility in this country, then you
laugh illogically if you do not also caochinate at
the ipse dixit hi Queen Victoria being received
as Jaw by men of Australian Parliaments, the
representatives of the people.
Nearly all the officers <>u the Brazilian
man-o'*-war Almifante Barosso took advantage ot
the stay of their vessel in Sydney to get a com-
plete refit at the premises of the London anil
American Tailoring Company, Sydney Arcade,
and, what is more, have given the manager of the
company a highly flattering testimonial signed by
eighteen of their number.
Banker Rosenthal, of New York, directed
his book-keeper to address a sharp letter to Baron
Y., who had promised several times to pay what
he owed and had as often neglected to do so.
When the letter was written, it did not please
Banker Rosenthal, who is very excitable, and he
angrily penned the following ; “ Dear Baron Y.—■
Who was it that promised to pay up on the first
of January ? You, my dear baron, yOu are the
man. Who was it that promised then to settle on
the‘first of March ? You, my dear baron. Whb
Was it that didn’t settle on the first of March ?
You, my deaf bfiron. Who is it, then, who has
broken his word tty ice,' find is an unmitigated
scoundrel? Your obedient Servant, Moses Rosrn-
\hai..”
At Oxford a good deal of fun is poked at
the'Welshmen, who crowd to Jesus CoAege, and
are currently believed mostly to answer to the
name of Jones.’ There arrived one evening at the
porter's lodge a stranger, and a colloquy began as
follows Stranger : “Kindly direct me to the
rooms of Mr, Jones.” Porter: “There are forty-three
Mr. Joneses in college, sir.” Stranger: “The man
1 wish to see is Mr. David Jones.” Porter ;
“Twenty-one Mr. David Joneses in college, sir.”
Stranger :“ My friend Jones lias red hair.” Por-
ter : “Seven Mr. David Joneses have red hair.”
Stranger (in despair); “This is very awkward.
Mr. David Jones asked me to come and take wine
with him.” Porter: “Why didn’t you tell me
that at first, sir? Second staircase, ground-floor,
right. All the other Mr. Joneses drink beer.”—
Exchange.


< Hen - Franklin Printing 'Office
AN T D
ME 11C ANTHi E STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
> W M. MACLARDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress IVinter, Die-Sinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &c., &d.
Maclardy's 15 Box of Stationery a Speciality.
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address:
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Kow Opening, a Large Assortment of Xmas Ga'rdS
and Fancy Goods. Inspection Invited.
[?]
84C Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, June 12, 1889,
My Bear Moohabixda, —
The date of the first winter At ’Ome at Sydney Govern-
ment House on 6th inst. should be marked with a large
red letter in the vice-regal almanac, for very few people
put in an appearance, and they didn’t seem to “ carry on”
in the usual style. Lady Carington received her visitors
(or rather her visitants) in the “red” drawing-room,, as
the afternoon was somewhat raw and cloudy. She wore
deep heliotrope poplin trimmed with moire ribbon on the
skirt, the bodice consisting of a loose jacket over a helio-
trope velvet vest trimmed with bars of passementerie ;
gold-crowned bonnet ornate with mauve plume and deep
heliotrope velvet bows and short strings, tan gloves, dir*
mond bangles and gold-spotted fall ; while the Baron,
who supported her through the ordeal of handshaking,
wore sombre black, carried a tan-coloured “ hard*
hitter,” and smiled all the time. On the whole,
thei - e was nothing very special about the dressing,
though one lady caused a small sensation by appearing in
a perfectly shocking get-up of smudgy pink silk worn
with a derelict pink gauze bonnet and a brown boa
another sweet creature had quite eight yards of vivid
scarlet gauze tied under her generous left ear. A girl
with a boiled-porkish complexion wore brown stripes,
and, hideous to relate, a bunch of autumn leaves at h r
waist ; and one caller appeared without any hustle and
her back hair loose. There were hardly any men—in fact
I only noticed two, and each had a straw in his mouth,
from which I concluded that there were two or more cock-
tails in a cupboard somewhere on the premises.
The principal topic of conversation at the “ At Homo ”
was, of course, the Potts Point murder. Ope gentle
denizen of Macleay-street, who isn’t lovely enough to
tempt St. Anthony, impressed upon her listeners, “ How
I was aroused from my beauty sleep by a horrid pisl ]
shot,” and she didn’t appear to think she spoke in
parables.
If you see Potts Point trooping down the block brand;
ishing its brother’s walking-stick, don’t be alarmed. “At
Home,” Lady Carington leant on a malacca cane in lieu of
an umbrella.
The next vice-regal “ At Home” is to take place on the
Pith prox. at Government House, Sydney, and will be the
last function of the kind for some time, so I am told by
a usually reliable authority.
1 hardly recognised the erstwhile gloomy Sydney Opera
House when I went to see the “Beggar Student” the
other night. The d.c. was just crammed, and evening
dress the rule. A handsome gown was in the Empire styp,
of old gold silk combined w ith black velvet. Tw o spark-
ling frocks were of white satin with bodices ornate with
crystal heading. Black was almost everywhere. The large,
black-haired, stout lady wore pale-blue satin, decollete ovi V
scraped-carrot shoulders ; and Mr. Henry M’Quade’s big
good-natured happy countenance shone from a box. As
to the opera, the stage is rather circumscribed, and ti e
scenery just a trifle crude in the last act, but the singing,
acting, dressing, and general “go ” of the thing make up
for all that. By the way, if there is anybody in the wide
world who doesn’t know how to hug, let him keep one eye
on the chorus in the “ Beggar Student.”
An average d.c. assembled to witness the first perform*
ance of the “Union Jack” at Sydney Royal on the Bth
inst. Mrs. Hoffnung wore an Indian silk opera cloak edged
with beaver ; Miss Hoffnung sported an art gown of sun-
flower yellow, with white plush opera cloak edged with
swansdown. In one of the boxes appeared a white satin
gown with diamonds (at least I hope they were diamonds)
glittering everywhere, white plume fan, and bouquet de
corsage of white roses. Miss Ethel Grey wore black, with
Ascot mantle of black lace edged with jet. As the night
was chilly a great many wraps were worn, mostly of
plush ; white crimson seemed to be the favourite colour,
but the best dressing was undoubtedly behind the foot-
lights, some of Miss Bishop’s gowns being distinctly taste-
ful. In the first act she wears a ficelle velvet-draped polo-
naise over a ficelle silk skirt, folded silk front and wide hat
laden with feathers en suite. In the second, a French grey
silk redingoteovera white jupe and front, the jacket finished
with white revers and large grey buttons, the sleeves
slightly ridged on the shoulder (which reminds me that
ridge sleeves are coming in again), grey picture-hat lined
with white and ornate grey plumes. In the third act, an
ivory satin ball-gown, the jupe designed in panels, white
aigrette in the hair, and white plume fan ; and in the
fourth, black velvet negligee over white muslin. As to the
men, it was remarked to me that most of them “ more
resembled book-canvassers than gentleman,” (hough the
remark cannot be held to apply to Mr. AVilmot Eyre, who,
under the circumstances, looked like a drawing-room
comedy character, dragged into the blood-and-tbunder,
I must protest against the display of jarring colour in the
final tableau—Mrs. Bland Holt and Miss Lewis donning
parroqueet colours with indescribable effect -purple'in the
one case, vivid red and green in (ho other !
The Crystal Palace Pink held a “Carnival” on sth
inst.-, when a crush resulted from an early hour. Fancy
dresses were legion. A small “Kiilaloe,” shillclah and
all, was very true to Leslie ; “Spring” wore white satin
almost covered with snowdrops. Another white satin
dress, worn by “ Skat cress,” was (rimmed with white fur ;
the wearer had a pair of skates hanging at her side. “ My
Sweetheart” was there in great force, hut it was unfor-
tunate that the girl who personated “ America” was such
a shocking linker; it was simply awful fora sens!-
tive person to sec the “Tar Bungled Spanner” coming
down whack every other minute, and ultimately getting
drawn out, a crushed and tattered thing, from under a fat
man got up as a Chinaman.
Apropos of music. The Sydney Orpheus Club have
raised the subscription to two guineas. It is also decided
that ladies can be independent subscribers for one guinea
a year; entitling them to full membership for everything
but the smoke concerts. How we are getting on, to be
sure !
This is how they report rink doings in New Zealand :
Aliss Molloy looks charming in a light pink sateen
gown, with cream lace trimming; and black jacket.
Her undulations are picturesque. Air. Harris is de-
veloping into a proficient skater. His black coat and
vest and light grey trowsers are becoming.
Beautiful, Isn’t it? It reminds me of the time when The
Bulletin used to say ‘ 1 Aliss Smith looked nice as usual ”
The always popular Sydney Alercantile Rowing Club hall
is fixed to eventuate at West's Rooms, Castlereagh-street;
on Friday, July sth.
The S.AI.H. cable out with the wrong date the other
day. Printers again,. I suppose, Which reminds me that
the intelligent compositor made me appear to say that
Emma Temple wears a large yellow hat 'On Change. I
wrote “ sash ’’—hut there ! let it go.
Apropos of the Brough and Boucicault Company, two
Melbourne cricket clubs joined - in presenting Airs.
Brough With a beautiful diamond bracelet the other day
Boucicault has no wife as yet, and, therefore, he hasn’t a
share in a diamond bracelet.
A simple-minded soul writes to a Sydney daily, from a
Sydney club, re the late Constable Sutherland “ Sir,—
As one who had m'et Constable Sutherland in his official
capacity , it is with pleasure that I Can testify to his worth
as a public official and man ” Quite so.
Aliss Bessie Doyle—the violinistic prodigy hailing from
Australia—has just gained this year's “ Mozart ” prize at
the Leipsic Conservatoire and been entriis' ;d with the
first performance of a new concerto by the principal viol i
professor at the school I It would be a thousand pities
were she to give up her studies now, as they say she must,
unless money be sent f j enable her to continue. The
Doyles, I hear, ‘ ave little money, and unless the plate is
ELECTRIC. CO., 8 BRIDGE-ST.; SYDNEY.
[PHOTO, BY BREWSTER & CA BEE T
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
circulated on their behalf, Miss Bessie will have to go to
, work at once to support her mother.
Not a very large crowd fled to Randwlok on steeple-
chase-day, though the Baron was there in all his glory,
and the Hon, James White’s English Derby colts were
paraded during the afternoon. Nearly all the women
present wore green, one gorgeous creature coming out in
bright green moire from head to heel; a twine-coloured
cloth with rovers and jupe of seal-brown velvet afforded a
grateful contrast to tire unvarying verdancy of its neigh-
bours, and the large imposing personage—l hate fat
people—wore a black velvet dolman boldly designed in
gold.
Several people were overwhelmed with mingled feelings
of all kinds on reading in some of the dailies lately that
“ Nellie Stewart asked for a divorce ” on the usual grounds
in the Sydney divorce court. It was not until they had
waded half through the report that the statement oc-
curred : “ Petitioner worked in a- boot factory ! ” In other
words, Miss Nellie Stewart the actress is no way con-
cerned in the proceedings, and I consider that it was
rather bad form for the reporters not to have expressly
stated, so.
The back-blocks have been dissipating. A Tweed River
correspondent writes of a perfectly gorgeous ball,given in
aid of a piano-fund for the local School of Arts, when the
belle wore pink net and a pink silk bodice, and dancing
was kept up till next day. From Forbes 1 hear of a suc-
cessful dance given by .Air. and Airs. Stewart, of Lake
Cooral station, when the guests danced till dawn and
stayed to breakfast and many handsome dresses were
worn. From Cooina lam told of a “ radway ball," when
the local swells came out in groat, force - a local duel less
seizing her husband by the coat-tails as he was about to
turn a pretty dressmaker in the “ Lancers,” and ac-
tually pulling him away. From Little Plain (N.S.W.)
comes (he report of a Queen's Birthday hall,
when, though it was raining a drencher, society waded
to the hail room with its dress-clothes on its head, danced
(lie progrannn-e through, and then, as it was still raining,
danced it through again ! While from Petersham word
comes of an enjoyable bail given in honour of the birth-
day of the eldest son of Mr. and Airs. Dawson, of Atmaii-
dale Hall, When the hostess wore cream lace with crystal
panels looped with pearls and relieved with ciel-blue rib-
bons, and dancing was kept up till 3 a.m;
Those rOcoco people—priricipally men—who jeer at the
utility of the “ Ladies’ Club ” now in course of incubation
in Sydney, can never have reflected what a boon the thing
will he to those convivial women who, as things are now,
must repair to the unsympathetic shelter of the restaurant
when they Wish to raise high the flowing howl, after which
a cold management shoots then) into a hdnsoni driven by
a derisive Jehu, or else into their own barbiiche, when they
are solemnly driven home with their bonnets over their left
eye and their feet on the front seat. Were the club estab-
lished, the damask - rose-nosed society person could hie her
thitherwards, and ring up her little gallon of Me, and
could then soiilersault to her Club bed and sleep Off the
effects - of her potations in security and unimpaired social
prestige. Who gays now that the Club is a superfluity ?
Yet—
This all reminds me that at a recent Australian vice-regal
“ At Home ” one of the local aristocracy was beautifully
“razzle dazzle.” -With a far-away fishy gaze she clung to
a friend’s hand, and vainly attempted to formulate a
farewell “goo’-by”; after which she took out her hand-
kercluef, waved it faintly, and then subsided into silent
laughter. As the vice-regal buffet had decanters of
sherry, port, and so on, I suppose she couldn't withstand
the Tempter, but if this sort of thing continues some of
the people who go to Government House will have to be
served with a prohibition order by the aide-de-camp.
A class is now forming at Liverpool-street, Sydney,
where “ladies and nurses” (mark the distinction) are
thoroughly trained in the art and science of “ massage”—
a delightful treatment, radical enough to cure hereditary
wooden legs, 1 believe. Let us hope the class will be a
success.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson (Miss Maggie Moore) is at present
in America on a three months’ visit to her sister. Mr.
.1. C. Williamson is in Brisbane hovering round the panto-
mime.
On (HI that Virgil Power, live Brisbane barrister, put
Mr. John Dillon’s name down in the Queensland Club’s
honorary-member-book, from whence it was immediately
erased by an outraged committee.
I am requested to announce that the United Grand
Lodge of N.S.W. holds its annual ball on the 11th pro ,
in the Exhibition Building, under the auspices of Lord
Caringtou. On the 21st hist, the North Shore Rowing
Club's annual ball is to happen in the local School of Arts,
On 4th prox. the Masonic Lodge St. Andrew holds its
annual dance at West’s rooms.
A Sydney fashionable drapery firm recently announced
that “ Our sale is not for casli only but we are also selling
for credit.” The firm is very fashionable, audit knew how
slowly (lie goods would go off if its customers wore called
upon to pay cash-down.
I have just heard a sad story about a girl who was o; •
gaged to a gay and gallant somebody who, a few months
previous to their marriage had occasion to take flight to
England, Whilst he was away (how history repeats itself!)
his fiancee met and loved Another (with a large A), and
so overwhelming was the new passion that she eloped with
him oh the day her lover, or ex-lover rather, set out for
Australia. When he arrived there was trouble of course.
In vain did the “old man” offer every remaining
daughter ; the ex-lover refused to bury his sorrow in that
manner, until at last “Papa,” in an inspired moment;
offered hint a thousand pounds, which he gratefully
accepted arid immediately ceased his lamentations.
An authority informs me that those enjoyable dances!
given by the “ millingtary officahs ” last season at the Gym-
nasium, Victoria Barracks, Paddington, are to be coni
tinned this year, when, if they prove half as successful as
they were last year, people Will have something to charui
away the blues for one Or two evenings in the season.
Though the weather was siiiiply perfect tire Suburban
Bicycle Club's second meeting at Sydney Association
Ground on Bth hist. saW a very sriiall attendance. AS
there Were far more men than women on view there isn’t
much drapery to worship, unless, like the N.Z. scribess, I
entertain you with an account of the beautiful gloss of de
Jones’ “boxer ” or the graceful hang of Brown’s coat-tails.
A tailor-built gown of seal-brown cloth, topped by a brown
velvet toque surmounted with high bows of brown moire,
was the most stylish get-iip visible; While a sage green
cashmere relieved with tan; tan shoes, tan gloves and a
small green hat with tan feathers, looked rather too Skit-
tishly opera-houffe-y for the promenade. In the evening
the Suburbans entertained their visitors at the Grand
Hotel.
At a Sydney theatre, the other night night, a “gushing
maid sina man ” Went talking right through the perform-
ance, regardless of the basilisk-glare of their Suffering
neighbours, until it came to’ a love-scene when the maid
placed her golden head within an inch of his collar-bone
and loudly gurgled: “ Don’t talk while they’re making
love, Gawge 1” Gawge desisted.
I hear that the Board of Directors of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society have ukased that their slaves
are not to commit matrimony without the sanction of the
“Board,” unless they are over 21 and haVe two hundred
a yeaf. The same rule obtains iri banks, where the gush;
ing thing in large checks and a sheep-hurdle collar has to
put his botmdless, deathless love in salt until he has £250
a year, signing a paper' to that effect on entering the bank.
The names of Lady Golding and Miss Ruby Golding
ppear in the Orizaba passenger list. Ruby Golding must
be a easily type of girl, with a lot of money in her own
right, I should think.
Clara writes me that the widowed daughter of a recently-
deceased Melbourne millionaire is not expected to lose
much time ere conferring her hand, heart and possessions
upon a gay young admirer. As the widow in question is
the only surviving child of the old gentleman, it may be
taken for granted that she will get a pretty bit of money,
and the husband presumptive, according to' all account
is not likely to let the coin turn rusty for want of a good
shaking up. But perhaps rumour does him an injustice,
1 have known the giddiest men to turn serious, and grow
beards of formal cut, when a wealthy marriage put an
end to their bachelor embarrasments. Besides, widows
were ever skilled in the art of managing those dreadful
men.
Next summer mantles are to-be worn with long shoulder-
sleeves of lace, hanging to to the very bottom of the skirt,
and made just as full as you please. This style in black
should go well with tan gloves, don’t you think?
I have received the following atrocity:—“ My dear Miss
Smith,—The petition of one Scotus to the Tmperatrix fit
Dietatrix of Fashion in Goat Island and adjacent depend-
e icies of Australia, New Zealand, and Tasmania. I write to-
ask you to write down a horrible style of dress which I see
daily in the city of Yarrawonga. I know not, oh ! I know
not if it obtains-in the village of Sydney. lam not up in
fashions, but I can describe the make. The front part is
folded in four or five pleats from neck to—l was going to 1
say waist—but it ends in-a bag like the bottom of a fish-
ing-basket. You can-sec no waist from the front. From
the back you can see the waist (if there is one) backed up
by bag mentioned.. Now, I’ll tell you how to- get at- the
side-elevation and then you.TI understand the build I want
to explain. Take a writing 2 say, an inch high. The-
tail is the improver.. Now, draw a 6, an inch and a quarter
high, starting from the dot of the 2. This gives you a-
sectional elevation of the front. It puts one in mind of a
pelican’s- crop, or perhaps it’s Australian, copying the
kangaroo’s pouch. Anyway, it’s abominable. Do you
remember (when you and I were young) that it was
fashionable in Paris-to make up just a wee bit fatter than
nature ? — Yours as ever, Scotty due Wrinkuer,
In a very fashionable-and not inexpensive Sydney hash-
foundry, where the morning meal consists of the familiar
fried chop and the smooth and darksome hash, boarders
with a leaning eggwards- are requested to hand the cook
certain shillings-a week extra, Australia has millions-of
vacant acres and a lot of lazy people, but it apparently
has no hens. Else why should “ fresh eggs ” (with em-
bryotio chickens thrown in) he three shillings a dozen ?
A gorgeous Melbourne scribess writes: “Some ladies 1
know in Melbourne never wear the same dress twice,”'
Quite so—but how long do- they wear their stockings?
T.iat is the question.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
They are making preparations in Mel-
bourne to stick up the statue of holy Swashbuckler
Gordon.
Sydney Government House circles were'
greatly shocked the other day when the result of
that club ballot was announced. The Union
seems to be becoming quite Radical in its ten
dencies.
Ethel: “Do you think lie loves you,.
Nellie ? ” Nellie ; “ Oh, I’m certain of it. Why,
he wants to marry me so much that he has bor-
rowed money off papa for us to get married on—a
tiling - his proud, sensitive soul could not brook if
he did not love me.”— Exchange.
Fancy a man putting in a challenge as art
ad. backing himself to be “ the Elashest Man in
Australia!” Stakes, £lOO. He did then. And
he is alive now, aged 05, and still flash. He laughs
when you tell him of it. The funny thing is that
he is not annoyingly loud. Hundreds of people'
ask him how he dyes his hair so naturally, but a)
doctor got a lock and tested it, with the result
that the dye is nature’s gift. Poor old cabby !
What sing the songsters on the trees ?
What are the bees to roses humming?
What sighs the gentle evening breeze ?
“ Harris’ trowsers are becoming ! ”
I thirst for such information on the point of “ Ladies’
Clubs,”
And I’m going iri for “ queries ” spite of myriad frowns
and snubs,
And I must have them answered if they want to have nij
name
Upon the list of members in the roll-book of the same;
When the thing is fairly started will you stay out late stt
night,
O come home with your hat hashed in when morning
dawneth bright ?
You’ll keep a full-dress at the club, of course, “ just like
a man ”
And, see-more gown, long gloves; small shoes, some
bangles and a fan.
And then you'll stay and dine there and let hubby dine
alone,
And when you hare to “ feed” at home you’ll do it with a
groan?
You'll have a bedroom there, of course; and sometimes
use it, too',
As hubby does ? And if he does of course why so can you !
Will cigarettes bq proper-and, oh!—will spittoons
abound ?
Will euchre and dcarte in the reading-room be found ?
Will you season soup with cayenne and take Aloet rather
dry?
Sappho anxiously awa'ting a r p'y.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOAVS FOR COMING AVEEK, ,^4
Theatre Royal “ Union Jack.”
Her Majesty’s “ Romany Rye.
Opera House “ The Beggar Student.
Criterion 44 Bucriclois.
The Cyclorama The Battle of Gettysbuig.
Darlinohurst Skating Rink Darhnghurst.
Elite Skating Rink Reatern.
Crystal Palace Skating Rink York Street.
Trocadero Skating Risk Newtown,
Metropolitan Skating Risk Ultimo,
MELBOURNE SHOAVS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Pointsman.
Princess’ •••••••mm***** Comic Op6i
Opera House.’!*.!!'! Katie Putnam Company.
\lexandra 44 Madame Midas.
St. George’s Hall Harry Rickards.
Victoria Hall Frank Clarke s Company,
Hiscocks and MacMahon’s show is upheld
by one of the strongest athletic aud gymnastic
combinations which has ever appeared before a
Sydney audience. The Silbons are still to the fore ;
the younger of them, Walter, repeats his terrific
leap and double somersault in space, and causes
one to shudder as he falls from the top of the lofty
ceiling into a net suspended near the floor. A
great novelty introduced is the Stirk family (five
in all, three being of the fair sex) who, in addition
to being most accomplished jugglers, perform im-
possibilities on the bicycle. The heart of woman-
kind is immediately seized by the very clever tricks
of an infantile Stirk on tiny wheels, A\ 7 ho seems to
be quite as much at home on her steed of steel as
are the older members of the family. Our old
Sydney favourite, Harry Warner, by far the most
talented of native-born broad comedians, has lost
none of his spirit and humour, and he is a little
less inclined to the vulgar than he used to be.
The Girards are again dislocating their indiarubbei
anatomy. The electric light is a brilliant success,
and the audiences fill the big building to over-
flowing nightly.
if * if if
At Sydney Opera House, Simon the
Poacher, merriest of beggar students, pursues his
rollicking way amid tuneful music, good scenery,
and the alternate smiles and frowns of pretty
women. Simon has a vastly better time of it than
most operatic heroes ; instead of languishing
under his lady-love’s displeasure or being
done to death by a powerful rival, he is
gradually wafted up the ladder of comfort in a
fashion calculated to crowd the land with aspiring
beggar students. Simon begins his theatrical
career with a hay-loft couch and a poached hare
supper; from this haphazard lot he is trans-
lated to the delights of prison fare and the
“fatherly” city gaoler; from the prison he
finds himself flung, in princely disguise, at
a lovely and anything but coy bride, and eventu-
ally is recognised as the saviour of Poland for
having temporarily personified Duke Stanislas.
Bo long as Simon the Poacher calls himself Prince
or Duke he —it is the ivay of the world —wins the
reward of diplomacy ; the minute he thinks of
telling the truth he runs a fair risk of losing lady-
love and liberty. ■
* * * *
On this casuist s tale are strung some
charming melodies and capital character-drawing.
Miss Lilian Tree as Countess Laura, a young lady
witli a singular lack of reticence as to her matri-
monial views, has scope for arch and lively acting
and brilliant singing, her “Love and Grief,” with
its roulades and cascades and bird-like piping brings
down the house, as Love and Grief should ; and
her “Only Suppose” duet with her mock Prince
(Mr. Bracy) is a strikingly pretty little bit of
satire : nay, is not the “ Begigar Student ’ a merry
jest right through, and cannot we hear composer
and librettist laughing in their sleeves at
life’s shams and shows ? A very big sham,
the “ let us be genteel or die ” theory, is
personified in the Countess N oval ska (Madame
Lablache), who keeps up family pride with hot
potato dinners, allows one handkerchief in weekly
family wash and dress up a species of walking
ghost (Mr. Stephens) as family footman. After
all, daughter Laura .is to be excused for
ogling a rich suitor, and daughter Stephanie
for sighing for a wedding breakfast. Stephanie
ivho falls in love ivith the Prince’s secretary, is
brightly represented by Miss Clara Thompson;
and the part of her lover —who proves the best
match in the end, originally alloted to Mr. Flavelle
—was taken with great spirit and at a moment’s
notice on Monday night by Mr. Magnus.
* # #
Mr. Ford has a capital part, capitally
acted, as Count Ollendorf, a species of human
turkey who prates of his prowess in a gobble-
gobble fashion, and turns tail on the last provoca-
tion ; his share in the minuet with Countess
Novalska is a never-to-be-forgotten sight. Miss
Isabel Stuart is the pertest little Saxon officer who
ever did the “Aw dear boy ” business, and divers
little strokes of fun, cunningly slipped in, keep
the audience as merry as the stage-folk ; but the
most popular incident is the “ Simofl-the-Poacher
chorus with its unsavoury bouquets, and its rag-
and-tatter singers. < _
-■ if *’ if if
The “Union Jack” at the Royal has a
distinct though unexplained connection with snow-
scenes, English lanes and toll-houses ; that being
the last impression left on the popular mind is
the most vivid and if you ask any of your neigh-
bours what the play is about you will inevitably
be answered, My dear felloiv, such a
snow landscape, makes one long to snow-
ball.” The landscape is not cpiite so attractive
to the unfortunate young heroine, Ethel Arden,
who, having escaped from the house of the
guardian who drugs her with opiates, falls in a
dead faint before the toll-house. Previous to this
Ethel has had what the French call an “accidented”
love story. Her virtuous young man, with whom
in childhood’s happy days she shared green apples,
returns from sea most inopportunely for the arch-
villain who wants to secure her hand and fortune ;
the arch-villain’s aide-de-camp and Ethel’s guar-
dian wisely do ditto ditto with the sister and
co-heiress. Ivy ; jo add to the complication the
arch-villain has cruelly wronged the sailor-lover's
only sister/- Having so far indicated the chief
items, no melodrama student requires to be told
why Ethel Arden is d ispovered lying on the snow.
# * *
Naturally the villains attempt to fasten
their sins on the virtue >'.us with the result that
Jack Medway the sailor (Mr. Howe) first suspects
George Stanley, his friend, ai?d Ivy Arden’s
fianci, of tampering with his sister's honour,
in proof whereof the injured , Ruth Med-
way is j. discoveredbehind the curtains of
Stanley’s Aldershot rooms. The consequent mis
understanding favours the suit of villain the 2nd
(Mr. Holloway) while Jack, having learned the
truth and assailed the traitor (Mr. Norman) is
conveniently locked up ; the sisters are separated,
Ruth is spirited away, and everybody is miserable
all round. Who docs not know the rest by heart ?
Jack escaping with stereotyped British pluck
through a regiment of gaolers, Villain A murdered
by Villain B, while Ethel, witness to the murder,
is imprisoned and drugged, and Jack falsely
accused. The instrument of justice is represented
by Mr. Bland Holt, who, as a jolly tar with a
flirting Poll (Miss Vivienne) contrives to make
everyone but the murderer happy ever after.
* * #
HoAvever, you don’t go to the “ Union
Jack ” for its drama, but for its staging, which is
superb though incorrect in several items, and for
the dresses which make the dames of the circle
turn green with envy. If the mind is not satisfied
the eye is feasted, which is something in these
starvation times.
if if if if
Mrs. Langtry proposes to make a pro-
fessional descent upon Australia. She comes too
late. One of the Gaiety girls annexed the only
unmarried “ silver king ” south of the tropic of
Capricorn, and others of Nellie Barren’s associates
bankrupted and gaoled most of the stage-door-
and-front-seat-in-the-stalls dudelets. If Langtry
comes she will have to be content with a few bald-
heads Avho were young in the Miocene age.
if if if if
Gettysburg Cyclorama, Sydney, still keeps
on the even tenor of its rotundity, though the
recent rains at one time threatened to wash old
John Burns out of his boots and convert the Battle
into a naval engagement. Lecturer Black says
that though his snow may bo washed out, it can’t
be wiped out.
if if if if
“ Romany Rye,” at Her Majesty’s, pursues
the even tenor of its way, and there is a great
reaping of shekels and much joy on as much of
4?C"' v g v w i< '
G,.q.&!(
ţ
3^
iMtw
A JJ*
. Jts
Cllcto'c PtJ&Tf £n c C *
ť
“THE UNION JACK.”
BLAND HOLT’S LATEST. SYDNEY THEATRE ROYAL.
Manager Macdonald’s face as can be seen through
the hole in the box-office. And, note well that
“ Bachelors ” is staged at the Criterion this week.
-;jf *)c- if Sc
The rinks arc much as usual, thank you
for speerin’. Manager Aginton, of the Darling -
burst, announces a big carnival for to-night
(Thursday) ; and W. S. Maltby is proving a 22-
carat attraction at Skinner’s Elite Rink, Redfern.
if if #
Wc have received from Dr. C. NN. McCar-
thy a very interesting letter, which will appear
next week, in vc the “ Petrified Man. Ihe
Doctor deals with the subject from various scien-
tific standpoints, and says, we conceive, pretty
nearly all that can be said on.his side of the
question pending a section of the specimen.
rC* v’c
Mr. John Fands has arranged to dispose
of his valuable collection of engravings, &c., by
Art Union ; 25 per cent, of the gross proceeds
will be handed over to the trustees of Glebe 1 oint
(Sydney) Hospital for Sick Children. Five
thousand tickets at one guinea will be issued and
every ticket will take a prize, every prize being
worth, according to the published price, not less
than one guinea. Second drawing to take place
about the end of August.
in * if a
At.the Adelaide Royal a ucav stage is being
constructed on the latest principles, and the
athletic form of Charles AVarner will be allowed
the first opportunity of testing it. “ Hands Across
. the Sea ” opens the proceedings of the company.
Frank Lincoln’s extraordinary success has com-
pelled him to remain at Garner s for an additional
week. Tommy Hudson opens with his burlesque
company in “ Young Monte Oristo.” 1 lie names
of Misses Colbourne-Baber, Amy Horton, Musssri,
D’Arcy Stanfield, Harry Lester, &e., are in the
cast. At the Town Hall baritone Santley is trying
to lift the roof off.
if if if
The black shadow of a bitter Avrong fell
athwart Melbourne last Saturday night, when an
inscrutable Providence permitted something called
“ Lena the Madcap ” to supplant poetic drama at
the Opera House. This novelty—ahem !—in four
flabby acts has its motive and cue for passion in
the person of Miss Katie Putnam, a petite young
American lady of over seven, who is_ hereby
called upon to explain what she means by it. Per-
sonally, Katie is not vastly different to a dozen
other song and dance comediennes, except that her
singing and dancing are calculated to the
death-rate, while her histrionic powers are limited
to pinafore heroics and played-out sass. But,
lacking any suspicion of Maggie Moore’s genius,
possessing neither the voice and vitality of Carrie
Swain, nor the diamonds and millinery of Minnie
Palmer, poor Miss Putnam has come fooling
around here Avith a very poor chance indeed.
The misguided Katherine received a hearty
reception followed by a patient hearing.
Now and again a mildewed wheeze, handed
down to posterity by Father Abraham, aroused
a passing cackle among the gods, and when
the prevailing misery was drawing to a close
it happened that the gambols of a nigger
minstrel performer, garbed in muslin skirts,
instigated a beggarly proportion of little boys to
whistle, whereupon the man in muslin took a
treble encore, and yet he was not slain. In addi-
tion to this inflated Ethiopian one or two other
members of Miss Putnam’s company seem to have
crossed from America with her, but their inability
to do anything in particular doesn’t call for notice.
Mr. Lawrence and Mrs. George Gordon worked
nobly to conceal their knowledge that it was
too bad, aad Mr. Will Bernard impersonated a
character called Cloudy without stopping to "bewail
his preposterous fate. “ Lena the Madcap” re-
ceives every possible assistance from the scene-
painter, but it is an outrage upon human under-
i- ’ r • i r dontmed rl-v-o IvA+io
standing and a failure of the deepest dj e. ► Katie,
I iitnaiu herself is, so°-n,d
if Mr. Frank Clark, the lessee mid manager, is
well advised he, will bring along Good end Mary
Ann, from the Victoria 1 lall, to prop Katie up.
H:- ii:- -;K- DS
. . , a .
Comic opera at the Frmcess IS Hat, Stale
and generally off-colour, and unless “ Boccacio ”
happens immediately the most gorgeous the-a-ter
in this Hemisphere will be sickbed o’er with the
cerulean aspect of despair. “Patience,” a thread-
]rare satire on things forgotten, is wobbling wearily
along just now 11 “ ( ''/ A' i!.'vi?/'.il,d'*bmhstic ner-
W <xlKei! Marnock, that Luge an 1 j
•sonage being cast for Hie role ot Arcnioalci uros-
veuor which is.altogether too light and bnoy*ant
for Mai nock’s massive tread. None of the others
are as good as they used to be, and those that used
not to be at all are a distinct falling off from them
that were. The gap left by Alice Barnett seems
to yawn in all the Gilbert and Sullivan operas
produced since she tore her little self away from
is. Nellie Stewart remains, alas ! an invalid, and
, u fi u:, „ f..;., „nnie ao-nin
tuke it altogether, chaos bids fan to come again.
It is doosid sad.
$ J;-
. ~r , -,,1 )> i
Madam Midas, a (llama tieasuieci in
Sydney's memory for the sake of an all-pervading
Frenchman with a wicked smile and a large,
delusive dimple, made a promising start at the
Alexandra on Saturday. The sublime magnifi-
ARAiiiiuiti j j -j
bunco of villainy attained by the a tor tea in
foreigner, the easy affability with which he sticks
one man through the liver and then doubles up
another man by saying “Yon have killed him,”
must inevitably command liberal support at popu-
lar prices. Another intellectual feature is the
apparition of Madam Midas in a “shay” pulled
by two minute ponies that are understood to be
started upon a mad career after Mr. Midas has
struck his wife senseless by belabouring the
back of the shay with a soft bludgeon.
The ponies, however, are too polite to cause
their unconscious mistress a moment’s uneasiness,
and they only walk off upon a mad career with
the husband in front, just as though it was a
funeral. Mr. Phil Beck repeats his picturesque
creation of Gaston Vandelonpe with deserved suc-
cess, showing a skilful management of the lights
and shades in crime, and never forcing the' French-
man’s moral awfulness upon public notice at
wrong moments. The”remainder of the bill is
creditably tilled by Mr. Dampier’s people, Mr.
Baker making .a. mark of the Midas’ .husband and
Miss Lily Dampier giving pleasing indications of
a desire to wake ftp. The drama, however, was
never much else than Phil Beck, and he is excel-
lently mounted on the present occasion.
HoAvever, “ The Pointsman ” keeps on
working the wrong lever with splendid pecuniary
results at the Royal, and another cheerful circum-
stance is the arrival of Harry Rickards at St.
George’s Hall, a place of amusement that has
lately been under the apocryphal spell of a brass-
headed nail alleged to be a mesmerist. Coming
after such a dreadful visitation, Harry Rickards is
like a burst of sunshine flooding a dungeon cell
when the culprit has escaped. His show is
generally considered to be as good as it was before
only rather better than ever. Moreover, it moves
along so fast that some of the performers can’t
stop to accept a vociferous encore, an arrangement
which keeps the pot of success boiling on the fire
of enthusiasm until it is time to shriek a final
blessing at the show and depart. If Rickards had
another name he would get a poem just here, but
he only rhymes with quickards, and that isn’t a
dictionary word.
$# & *
Things maintain a good average at the
Victoria Hall, and Jo-Jo is filling the Waxworks
day and night. Long and careful study of Jo-Jo’s
countenance awakens a dim notion that he must
be distantly related to a certain great statesman,
which accounts for him seeming such a gay young
dog and involves his origin in mystery too deep fo v
Avords.
At Poverty Point.
We often see divorces granted when it’s six of one and
eight or nine of the other.
In the not-so-long-ago a certain theatrical magnate got
mashed on a plump and pretty vocalist who warbled in
opera. He bought her diamonds and then prevailed upon
her to accompany him abroad. One day, not long’ after-
wards, the fair vocalist was left to sing a lament for the
loss of her masher, and more particularly for that of her
diamonds, with which he had eloped for parts unknown.
She soon returned to Australia, and later on so did he, but
with another fair charmer, who now flashes the costly
jewels and means to keep them if she knows her little self.
“ Amos Clark ” is to be the next production at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and after that Rignold, who is nothing
if not playing kings or emperors, is to impersonate
“ Julius Ciesar.” James Cathcart will play Brutus.
Crawford, late of Crawford and Turner, who migrated
from America to Sydney and sprung a “chestnut” upon
the audience on the night of ids opening at the Academy,
lias now joined Hicks’ Georgia Minstrels.
The Taylor-Carrington Co. have been making Coota-
mundra weep with that fine old five-act snuffle, “ East
Lynne.”
One Beaupins, a Polish pianist, has the cheek to take
Melb. Town Hall for three nights. Whether he is a Ketten
or even a Kowalski is to be proved.
Melbourne is agog about two new theatres. Both must
be done before this year fS out. AVilson swears the Bijou
shall be ready for the Cupb Plans, by G. R. Johnson,
architect of the Opera House and Exhibition, already on
view at Palace Hotel. Architect Pitt is working up the
other theatre for a syndicate. Site mentioned : corner of
Bourke and Russell streets, knocking down Tom Nunn’s
old Hummums.
Now- that Jenny Watt-Tanner has made such a success
in “ The Bookmaker,” at Terry’s Theatre, Lonnon, here’s
an idea. Fergus Hume, who had the impudence to
christen his piece “Madam Midas,” might turn “The
Bookmaker” into “Joe Thompson.”
Despite his blow in the face over the Bijou fire, Wilson,
of the Melbourne Palace Hotel, goes ahead with his im-
provements. He has opened a fine big music hall, free,
the performances being by Gazliardi’s string band, nine
instrumentalists. Waitresses serve liquor at the tables.
Dan Barry avers that he has engaged Santley to do the
country districts, and sing “ The Yeoman of the Guard.”
And, by-the-way, a lady of Dan’s company married a
doctor the other day, and her father had to pay Dan a
big cheque for breach of engagement.
Manly Aquarium is very fatal to the sharks exhibited
there. On an average three per month are removed from
their sphere of earthly usefulness. If the Manly Aquarium
were used as an adjunct to the N.S. W. Supreme Court
there would be a paucity of “gent, ones.”
Colonial actresses have apparently more pluck than
their brethren so far as essaying an appearance on the
boards of London or American theatres. Mss Jenny
Watt-fanner, Miss Annie. Mayor, Miss Maggie Knight, and
others we can’t just now call to mind, have all made the
venture and with success ; and now Miss Myra Kemble is
going to follow suit. Her benefit on Saturday at Sydney
Royal will be a bumper.
Plain Bill Holloway writes that, after inspecting the
London theatres, he pants to put Essie Jenyns on tire
stage, if only at a matinee. But, then, Essie is not under
. Bill’s management now.
“ Lorgnette” Marshall should have a ben., tor the burn-
ing of his printing-office next the Bijou. His rival, J. J.
Miller, was started in the printing-trade by public sub-
scription. How so? ’Well, by the Monster Sweeps.
Harry Rickards has huge placards out in Melbourne,
announcing that “ The Murphys Have Arrived.” They
would have been welcome six months ago, when a “Spud ”
could hardly be got for love or money.
Maud AVilliamson, in the “ Pointsman,” is wonderfully
like Eloise Juno, 20 years ago, with exactly the same voice
and deliver#. Clynds is a cross between Chas. AVarner
and Walter Carle.
Comedian Norwood, who has joined the Brqugh-Bouci-
cault aggregation, is the author of several smart
comediettas including “ Hook and Eye,” which is already
known to Australian theatre-goers.
At latest dates the Baby Ogden troupe were at Auckland
Opera House ; Simonsen follows. The Payne Family have
been doing well in Dunedin, having fairly caught on.
The Dunedin folks are to have a new theatre built. It’s
about time. -
Mrs. Brown Potter and Kyrle Bellew have entered into
partnership to,tour in America next season. Cleopatra,
“ Camille,” and other plays of that type are supposed to
form the repertoire.
Judge Owen (Sydney) has ruled that George Rignold s
services as an actor in “ Romany Rye ” are worth the £4O
a week claimed. In other words, the Supreme Court
lakes the modest and Beautiful George at his own price,
This is a big contract.
Dear Bulletin, — In passing down Castlereagh-strcct,
Sydney, on Saturday evening 1 was suprised to see a mini,
her (about 30) of the N.S.AA’. Permanent Artillery Force
going into the stage entrance of the Theatre Royal, and
upon making inquiries was still more astonished to learn
that they had been engaged to act as supernumeraries in
the “Union Jack.” In conversation with some regular
supers, who were standing disconsolate at the entrance,
I was further informed that they (the latter men) had
been deprived of the work in consequence. Surely, sir,
the employment of State-paid soldiers is an act of’injus-
tice to regular stage hands, many of whom are married
and have families. How delighted Dr. Creed, M.L.C., will
be to learn that almost the whole of the army has taken
to the stage! AVhen the Russians come and the gallant
N.S.W. warriors are called out, it will probably be found
that they have all gone to rehearsal. Yours, faithfully, A
Greaves-


-A-
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM,
Doctoring in the Dark.
No sensible surgeon will attempt the performance
of an operation involving human life in a room
secluded from the proper amount of light. A
practitioner will not attempt the diagnosis of a
complicated disease unless he can see the sufferer
and make an examination upon which to base his
opinion relative to the course of treatment neces-
sary to bring about a complete restoration of
health.
Notwithstanding the impropriety of such action
there seems to be a great deal of doctoring done iff
the dark.
By this it is riot iiitended that a liberal hieailing
be inferred, but that A great many nlistakes are
committed because of the darkness which n the
result of ignorance. It needs no illustrations to
demonstrate that gross ignorance has caused many
fatal mistakes to be made in the treatment of
diseases by some who profess to be learned in the
art of healing.
In many diseases several organs are more or less
implicated and what seems a primary ailment may
be one quite remote. For instance, a severe head-
ache may have its origin in a disturbed stomach.
On the other hand, sickness at the stomach may
be caused by a blow on the head. The seat of
typhoid fever is in the upper part of the bowels,
but most of its worst symptoms are often in the
brain.
Symptoms of disease as well as diseases them-
selves are oftentimes followers or concomitants of
some unsuspected organic disease, and this is
peculiarly true of lung, liver, brain and heart
diseases in general, for it is now known that they
are the result of kidney disease, which shows its
presence in some such indirect manner.
Several years ago a gentleman became convinced
of the truth of tin's, and through bis efforts tire
world has been warned of kidney disease, and as a
result of continued effort a specific known as
Warner’s Safe Cure was discovered, the general
nse of which has shown it to be of inestimable
benefit in all cases where kidney treatment is de»
sirable or necessary.
When consumption is threatened see to it that
the condition of the kidneys is immediately in-
quired into and if they are found diseased, cure
them by an immediate use of Warner’s Safe Cure
and the symptoms of lung decay will rapidly dis-
appear.
■ There are too many instances already recorded of
the terrible results produced by a lack of know-
ledge concerning the cause of disease, and human
life is of too much importance to be thus foolishly
sacrificed.
For Thirsts anil Mglii Srvrnls
ran iiorskord’s acid rnosi’iiATK.
Dr. Thomas L. Whistler, M.B.F.R.C.S., Prince ot
Wales Terrace, Bray, Ireland, says: “I have found it
extremely grateful as a drink with water, and valuable in-
chronic dyspepsia and general debility. lit is-also valuable
to allay thirst and sweats consequent on consumption.”
Pepper and Salt
/ “Hundreds of houses, sapped to their
foundations by the water, floated away, and were
dashed together by the flood, the inmates all tho
while shrieking for help.”
“Johnstown was piled with debris and crowded
with refugees when the fire occurred, and eve y
minute floating houses, crowded with inmate-,
were dashed into the flames. The x-ailway officia’s
compute that fully 1500 persons were roasted to
death. ”
“Bands of ruffians are robbing the dead and
murdering the living wholesale for plunder.
Several Hungarians have been lynched for cutting
off the fingers and ears of corpses in order to
obtain the rings and ear-rings.”
“Two thousand corpses are being slowly con-
sumed in the flames which broke out among the
pile of debris
“ Thousands of bodies are floating down the
Conemaugh valley, and the atmosphere is tainted
for miles around.”
‘ The effiuvixxrn from the decomposing corpses is
terrible, and it is feared that a pestilence will
break oxxt among the survivors in the locality,”
&c., &c.
Extracts froth recent cablegrams in Australian
daily papers.—
At Williamstown (Melb.) Police Court, a
man was charged with belabouring the wife of his
bosom with a stool as she lay insensible in a pool
of gore. He was under an impression that he had
“ knocked the—— stuffing out of her, and fairly
done for.her this time.” The woman had some more
stuffing left, however, so her loving husband was
fined £l (twenty solid shillings) for this alleged
assault. Let us tune our lay—
Much surprise has been expressed in Mel-
bourne because Duncan Gillies was not amongst
the knighted ones—
A movement to erect a church for the ex-
clusive use of the deaf and dumb has been started
in Melbourne. This is a brilliant idea ; fancy the
deep religions calm of a sanctuary devoted to the
dumb; picture the devout Hock immersed in
sacred quiet whilst the smug shepherd dolefully
ticks oft his sermon in dumb show and signals his
blessing according to the prevailing code —no
tittexlng in the gallery, and no smothered criti-
cisxns of Mrs. Brown’s new hat amongst the young
ladies of the choir. Rest at last !
IN FIVE YEARS’ TIME.
The Marquis of Salisbury sapiently insinu-
ates that although the present rulers of Europe are
earnest in their desire to avoid war (with any
stronger Power) it is quite uncertain whether they
will occupy their positions in five years’ time—
An absconding embezzler named Frolic
has been arrested at Adelaide. A religious Frolic,
no doubt.
According to a Melbourne weekly, Duncan
Gillies is a man of “considerable calibre,” An
awful bore ? .
UGH!
This catastrophe sudden and ghastly
With its records of roasted and drowned—
O ! our Press is enjoying it vastly,
In corpses the journals abound ;
No event so unspeakably solemn
E’er chanced in nxore fortunate way,
l'o poison the cablegram column
With odours of human decay.
We trust that the public are noting,
While horror be-curdles their blood,
How foul, swollen bodies are floating
In swarms down the Conemaugh flood—
That sweat-drops appear on the forehead
Of every subscriber who reads
All about that effluvium horrid,
And thinks of the fever it breeds.
We hope sickly women are spuming
When, sitting at breakfast, they see
An account of the fire consuming
Those dead ’uns among the debris ,
And picture the crow and the vulture
(Whose presence the bard has supposed)
Flying round as the troops give sepulture
To heaps of remains decomposed.
Enough ! Let the newspapers linger
O’er ghoulish achievements in crime ;
Men cutting off dead ears and fingers
Ye gods ! what a vision sublime !
For ourselves, if the water is handy,
•Inst half fill a tumbler, quick,
And then add a quartern of brandy,
For The Bulletin’s horribly sick.
If you want a little pleasure that is cheap.
And won’t conduce to headache on the morrow,
Just strike your household treasure off to sleep,
And dance upon her misery and sorrow ;
He who dissipates expensively’s a fool,
No need to go a-slinging money round
Stop at home axxd fell the missus with a stool,
And warble as she bleeds upon the ground.
For a pound, for a pound,
“ I’ve knocked the stuffing out of her.
I’ve hammered in her head ;
Although I’ve just a doubt of her
I think she must he dead ;
If she ain’t it doesn’t matter,
I can always stop her chatter
With a batter, batter, batter
For a pound.
No great surprise to us, that same,
The Duncan knows what he’s he about,
For when he adds “sir ” to his name
The folks down South will fire him out,
Tho’ England’s sov’reign he hath pleased
And grovelled low with unctuous zest, 1|
He knows which side his bread is greased,
And loves Australian sov’reigns best.
That yet he wants no tinsel crest
A hint he’s sent them home, mayhap ;
And till he’s feathered well his nest
He’s wise to want none in his cap.
CHISELLING.
About that '’gure “ petri-fied ”
The truth we’ will not garble—
It either is a man who lied,
Or else a piece of marble ;
Perhaps ’twas born, possessed a soul
Which upwards had to mizzle ;
Perhaps (most likely, on the whole)
They carved it with a chisel.
So, whether ’tis a human form,
Or work of joke-concoctors,
’Tis good enough to raise a storm
Among a crowd of doctors ;
And more about tips question vex’b
To swear we are not willing—
We wonder what they’ll dig up next
To catch our little shilling.
Our Melbourne staff will do its best
To make this venture hum ;
For need of calm to sleep hi grows
Existence burdensome.
A chapel fixed with elders and
With parsons deaf and dumb.
Than this what arbour can be more
Conducive to repose?
All hail! the silent church-house where
No preacher e’er will prose,
Nor elder break the sacred calm
By praying through his nose.
Not there will gruff responses boro,
Nor half-demented ringers
Drive folks distracted with their bells—
Nor will the lady singers.
We know for truth the choir will there
Perform upon its fingers.
There’s satisfaction in the fact
That, being deaf and dumb,
The flock will be no wiser when
One drops his modest “ thrum ;
Into the plate, nor know “by ear' 1
The value of the sum.
Too long our bard has hungered for
A church within whose doors
lie may in blessed comfort sleep
Unharmed by prosy bores,
Or saints who sneak to club him with
A hymn-book when he snores.
IN FIVE YEARS' TIME.
The Kings of the Earth that are reigning,
Are reigning in glory to-day
With rifles and cannon maintaining
“Rights ” founded on hollow display —
Will bells on their birthdays be ringing
A “loyal” and car-rackingchime,
Will they still to their billets be clinging.
In five years time?
Will the People be bowing and scraping,
And cheering dull diadem’d drones—
Will they still fi nd a 'pleasure in gaping
At pictures of monarch.* on throne-,
Who rake in the dollars, while sinew
And muscle work hard for a dime—
Will the humbug that has been continue
In five years time?
Will the lessons of wisdom have quickened
The slow-beating pulse of the clod —
Will soldiers be wearied and sickened
Of slaying at autocrat’s nod ?
Perchance, e’en the fools we are shocking
With this little Republican rhyme,
At all they now love will be mocking
In five years time.
POLITICAL POINTS
Parkes seems very much troubled over the
John Davies affair.
Here are snobs, fools, wanting to get the
English soldiers back. Faugh !
Another batch <f 50 N.S.W. railway
clerks leaving the service this month !
Bent says Dcakin’s aversion to truth is
like that of a snail for salt. Good for a market-
gardener.
Mr. Wall, M.L.A. for Mudgee, is starting
out as a lecturer under the auspices of the N.S.W.
National Club.
How Conservative is Chief Justice Higin-
botham ! What a change from the Robespierre of
the old Assembly !
The N.S.W. Attorney'-General is getting
cautious. He refxxsed to file a bill against one
Frost, of Lake Macquarie, charged with assaulting
a female.
In a second-class railway carriage, New-
castle to Sydney, on Thursday, 23rd May, out of
eleven soxxls only two paid fares. The rest were
as dead as door-nails.
Victorian Speaker M. H. Davies did not
get the knighthood he expected on Widow
iitfcs finssl:
fmoh °h
Lt^ ar
Wettin’s birA.May. Tl iei>e is one Davies too many
already movakepng, round with the Order of St.
Mike.
Queen Victocih’fft dislike for Gladstone
dates from the period, S 3" years ago, when he ad-
vised her, for obvious diplomatic reasons, to have
a royal residence in Ireland, and she brusquely
declined.
Premier Atkinson, of N.Z., has parted
with Minister of Education Fisher. Atkinson
says he always has made it a rule to call a spade a
spade, and he couldn’t endure a man who called a
spade an agricultural implement.
Abigail’s “More popery than Fiscal”
manifesto is _ going the rounds of the British
papers, and is causing shrieks of merriment. It
usually gets into the column headed “ Humorous
Extracts,” and is another, “fine advertisement for
New South. Wales.”
On June 15, 1843, just forty-six years ago
to-day, the first partly-elective Legislature of
N.S.W. met. It consisted of twenty elected and
twelve nominee members, and of them only one
now lives —in the person of Robert Lowe—Lord
Sherbrooke—who left Australia for good in 1850.
There was a lot of hand-clapping in the
new Victorian Parliament on opening day, but the
fiery young Australian Native members were
subsequently advised, that legislative applause is
restricted to shrieking and stamping on the floor.
Etiquette must be observed in the House, donoher-
kiiow.
Jimmy Munro has solemnly promised to
“dry up” concerning the awful effects of drink
while he remains leader of the Victorian Opposi-
tion. The canny Scot perceived at a glance the
inconsistency of denouncing liquor in the place
whence his devoted followers would be rushing oxxt
to see a man, meanwhile.
Parkes, Burdckin and Brunker were
standing together the other day when Abigail,
disputatious as usual, approached with a friend.
Abigail loquitur •. “Ask any of these hundred
men.” Friend : “ What hundred men?” Abigail:
“Why, Parkes and the two noughts.” We con-
gratulate Francis, not on the joke, for we believe
it’s a stolen one, but on his intelligence in knowing
how many noughts go to a hundred.
No less than £lO,OOO was received by the
Irish delegates to Australia during May. This
news having been cabled to England the Primrose
League threaten to send out a lecturer “to
counteract the poison.” You might as well treat
black snake-bite with a bran-mash. The Primrose
Leaguers will fare badly in Australia. But we
hope they will make a serious effort to establish
them selves here, as their advent will help along
Australian Nationalism and sound the knell of
religious differences as a controlling force in
politics.
Parkes’ statement to the press that it was
not owing to any action on the part of the Queens-
land authorities that the N.S.W. Executive was
induced to make a further inquiry into Buttner’s
case, but “merely because certain information
had been received,” is pompous bunkum of the
most abject kind. The solid brutal fact is Butt-
ner was going to be hanged on a certain day and
he would have been hanged on that day oxdy that
the Queensland authorities put the Sydney autho-
rities on the track of a lot of most excellent reasons
for letting him out of gaol.
Melbourne has 02-k miles of cable tramway.
One mail-steamer a year visits the Danish
colony of Reykajavik, Iceland. As the vessel ap-
proaches her moorings the first question asked by
the islandlers invariably is : “ Is Bismarck still
living.” They never inquire about Parkes or
Duncan Gillies.
Old Barm y M ‘Manus used to say, ‘ ‘ Agorra,
thim Barrys are the cleverest people in Mel-
bourne!” “How’s that, Barney?” “Why, Sir
Redmond Barry’s the best judge, Father Barry’s
the best priest, Tom Barry’s the best clown, and
Jim Barry’s the best shoemaker !”
“The Vagabond” has to descend from
Paris to Geelong again. Good parts make good
actors. His Paris is first-chop; his Geelong a
trifle twaddly—
Hail, Geelongia, hail thou favoured spot :
What’s good is found in thee, what’s not is not.
This is only a burlesque on poor old Stitt Jenkins.
Lord Lonsdale, who lately strolled towards
the North Pole, hoping, no doubt, to freeze some
of the dirt off his name, boasts that he has dis-
covered in Alaska a waterfall, compared with
which Niagara is a mere cascade. Lonsdale’s
waterfall is one-and-a-half miles wide and tumbles
over a precipice 200 feet high, down which huge
icebergs frequently sail into the abyss with a
deafening crash.
President Harrison, the other day, was in-
troduced to Judge Morton, a Texan celebrity.
Forty or fifty years ago Morton made a bet that
he would neither shave nor trim his hair till Henry
Clay was elected U.S. President. Clay is dead
and gone this half-century nearly, and never was
elected President, but his faithful henchman keeps
the terms of his Wager and lets his white hair
grow luxuriantly about his shoulders.
Choice specimen of San Francisco jour-
nalism, with moral for Yarley and Co. thrown in
There is really no end to the enterprise of the fair sex.
A female reporter, who writes as “Nelly Bly ” in the
East, and who has been eulogised by the gifted Mrs.
Atherton, goes into insane asylums and prisons, and all
sorts of awful places, just to gather material for a sensa-.
tional article. But, by the ghost of Venus, Oakland can
now boast of a still more audacious female. And her
name is Fenn —Mrs. Fenn though she has quite recently
dropped Mr Penn as a most unprofitable portion of the
menage. Mrs. Fenn has undertaken the heavy task of
investigating the slums of Oakland. Alone and unpro-
tected this heroic woman went to every place frequented
by the amorous Oaklander, and exposed herself to the
embraces of those vicious Lothairios 1 knew a similar
case once, where a daring woman did about the same
thing, and made lots of newspaper capital. But she was
protected by her breath, I have no idea of the quality of
Mrs. Fetm’s breath, but if it is anything like the lady I
remember, she might go through Sodom and Gomorrah
unscathed.


Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Vviic-
ken’s Beaeonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Duly two hours from Melbourne.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Franks ton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
John M‘Ewan & Co. ?
AUCTIONEERS,
LiLKTU A-GEWTS,
Business Brokers I Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &e.
Printed List Businesses for Sale issued Daily,
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Calliope Kane is described in England as
“Kane and able.”
James Francis Hogan and Patchett
Martin don’t hit it in London.
Queensland's Chief Justice, Sir Charles
Lilley, was once a private in the British Army.
James Anthony Frond e has written a
romance. We have read it ; it is called “ Oceana.”
Mrs. Humphrey Ward is alleged to he
earnestly opposed to the political enfranchisement
of women.
Surely David Christie Murray, the novelist,
doesn’t imagine he will be a bigger man here than
in Loudon !
Editor Curnow’s brother, the Queensland
Commissioner of Railways, retires on a pension of
£5OO a year.
“Billy” Murdoch’s enormously wealthy
father-in-law, Mr. J. B. Watson, of Sandhurst,
died last week.
Vogel talks of starting a magazine to be
eallcd°l deas. Vogel has lived on that kind of
tiling all his life.
The Duke of Sutherland says he “hates
Pressmen.” Which is cruel, because pressmen
dote on dukes something awful.
Thadeus O’Kane, who is resting in the
South for a period, gives in his paper the Brisbane
address at which libel-writs can be served.
Dr. Elisha Gray (America) has just per-
fected his “telautograph,” an invention which
COHI'EMLP'U-r' IOfJ
dpyG Flc/\<>oH
Pacificator
expmA/Ogipl
SoucKAl I oh
NEGOfiM]OM
BO<HE-IWI ON 1
HRH/VDoH
EAASPeKA^IOH
DLSPep v \TioH
D KATioH 1
-TKIBULATiOH
A FELINE EPISODE.
transmits a e’egram in the sender’s own hand-
writing.
Dr. Henry H. Montgomery, the new
Bishop of Tasmania, is the eleventh member of his
family who has been elected to a bishopric.
Vicount Mandeville is to he prosecuted for
false pretences. It can’t be hereditary ; his father,
the Duke of Manchester, only floats companies.
At the N.S.W. bar in good practice are
two barristers who were Church of England
ministers and who took to law for conscience sake.
And they talk about Bishop Goe going
back to England, like Barry and he of Tasmania,
and he of Ballarat. They all do it. They all
do it.
The “Jubilee Juggins” has written a
book. It is to be called “ How I Lost Two Hun-
dred Thousand Pounds,” by E. Benzon, “The
Jubilee Plunger.”
A certain Sydney newspaper proprietor is
said to have made last week an abortive attempt
to buy into the Sydney -Daily Telegraph, this
is a sign of tlio times.
There were giants in the clays when the
brothers Abbott were raised. Stipendiary Abbott
is (iffc. 4in. in height; J. P. Abbott, M.P., is lift.
sin. ; and W. E. Abbott is Oft. (join,
Fergus Hume makes a queer blunder in
his last book, “ The Girl from Malta. ’ He pro-
ceeds on the supposition that in England a wife
may obtain a divorce for the infidelity of her hus-
band. ®
A seven-foot seam of coal has, it is sai
been found on Judge Windeyer’s ei t ite at Tomago
(N.S.W.) People are so glad. It will make the
Jedge quite rich and enable him to retire from
the Bench.
In an Apostolic Brief recently addressed
to Archbishop Murphy, of Hobart, Pope Leo
XIII. alludes to “our beloved son Patrick Francis,
Cardinal Moran, with the title of St. Susanna,”
Susanna Moran !
Varley, the hysterical evangelist, who is
trying to set the Yarra on fire, said in Melbourne,
the other night, that there are 50,000 young men
iu London who look upon him as their father.
Fifty-thousand !
If Captain Kane, of the Calliope, is to he
satisfied with having “ done his duty,” why did
Wolseley and Alcester get peerages for those nigger-
battues which were the one’s Waterloo and the
other’s Trafalgar.
Thomas Palmer, the last survivor of
the 14,000 Englishmen who fought under Sir
John Moore at Corunna, is just dead, aged 100
years. He has drawn a pension since the year
before Waterloo.
David Sutherland is not the first constab e
of his name who has been shot in the execution of
his duty. In 1872, Sergeant Sutherland was shot
dead at Beni Creek, near Cowra, N.S.W. His
murderer was never caught.
A contemporary says that Carington’s new
private secretary’s military training has made him
somewhat brusque. His invitation to take a drink
sounds like “Stand and deliver.” However, it
will take a lot of that kind of thing to stop people
from drinking at Government House reception.
Speaker Davies goes about smugly and
perkily, with his head on one side, as usual, bird-
like, and speculates as to what is the cause of this
thusness —in not getting the handle. He goes
softly, like Agag in Scripture.
Ever so many years ago, shortly after
Maiy Anderson’s debut, she had a habit of chew-
ing molasses candy on the stage. One night when
playing Parthenia her teeth stuck together, and
they had to ring down the curtain.
A Mr. H. M. Flagler has paid Dr. Allen
of New York, eighty-five thousand dollars for two
months’ attendance upon Ins daughter, who died a
few weeks ago. This is said to be the highest rate
of compensation ever paid to a physician save one,
Purves, Q.C., works tremendous double
tides, with the Natives’ Association and his prac-
tice. His friends advise him that the practice
will suffer. Isaacs and some of the others will 1 e
shrimping up and getting into his shoes. The Law
is a jealous mistress.
Says an American contemporary : —“ We
shall be very glad when Langtry, with her square
shoulders, well-moulded throat, bared breasts,
handsome dresses, racehorses, Nevada ranch, and
Gebhiwdt, shall be retired from the public gaze
with her Gebhardt.”
Cyril Flower —wo remember one of his
nearest relatives'in connection with a flour-mill -
who won the House of Commons steeplechase in
England recently, is an Australian, and is con-
sidered the handsomest man in Parliament. He
is married to one of the Rothschilds.
Evangelist Yarley lias settled at Kew, the
Melbourne Kew, our nearest approach to Ins
beloved Netting Hill. But the old Adam is too
strong for him. He is wearing himself away, like
the Apothecary who used to sit up wliole nights
watching over the British Constitution.
Mr. G. M. Pitt, of Sydney, still hale and
hearty, says he remembers the last horse-races in
Hyde Park, then known as the “Racecourse.”
They were held on September 13, 1821, just sixty-
eight years ago. Mr. Pitt, then of course a lad,
viewed the races from the granary stairs of a
Castlereagh-street hotel.
Mr. Henry Brett, of Auckland Star,
now touring the Continent, was much interviewed
by the ’Frisco pressmen on his arrival there. On
us way across he dined in state with the King at
Honolulu. A princess of the blood royal kept the
fb.es off the bald patch on his head with a yum-
yum leaf during the repast.
The Reverend Thomas Spurgeon has re-
signed the pastorate of the Auckland (N.Z.)
Baptist Tabernacle. This divine is the twin
brother of the man reported as assaulted by an
irate husband during the trip across to ’Frisco in
the Alameda. Thomas married about £7OO a year,
and so can do without work.
. „ r , i ,
The Prince of Wales, we read, is a tre-
mendous eater, and one of his favourite dishes is a
spring chicken a la crime au fond* (Tartichauts,
one of the most simple and yet at the same tin e
difficult dishes to make; in fact, rumour asserts
that only one man living can cook it properly—
Larsonneux, the famous chef.
President Harrison will never definitely
promise an appointment to an office-seeker, no
matter how influentially recommended. “There
are men going round Washington to-day,” said
the President, “ saying that Grant lied to them,
Hayes lied to them, and Garfield lied to them.
They shall never say that Harrison lied to them.”
The richest woman in Australia, bar none,
is a Sydney house-owner, who has £lOOO a week in
rents. As fast as her money comes in she invests
it in bricks and mortar. She lives in a neighbour-
hood with an nnclassieal name, and occupies by no
means her best house; rises every morning at 5
o'clock and cooks her own chop. She is 80 years
old.
Poetic Harry Britton grinds at his Mel-
bourne Exhibition book. When he “ did ” the
Duke of Edinburgh’s visit to Melbourne Public
Library for the Argus lie wrote : “ The portals of
the edifice were adorned with cressets of flame.”
Collier, in the Age, wrote: “On the gate-posts
were stuck burning pots of fat. ” But the Age is
now washed, shaved, and put into clean linen.
This is told of Sergeant Dalton, the
alleged inventor of the word “larrikin.” A very
hungry-looking man was before Sturt, P.M., on
the charge of vagrancy. When asked his trade o
replel, “Nut and bolt maker.” Not quite
eitching on, the magistrate, asked the Sergeant
what hid been said. “If yez plane, your Win--
shup, he says he’s a mutton-bone scraper’” Three
months.
The Bulletin recently published a
yarn about the Grand Old Man declining, on a
post-card, to contribute to a charity fund, and the
post card being sold at auction for two guineas by
the applicants. It seems, however, that Glad-
stone was not asked for ordinary chips, but merely
for a few bits of wood off a tree felled by his own
little axe. Not having a solitary splinter left on
hand he wrote the aforesaid post-card to that
effect.
Of the degree of knight bachelor, to which
Sir William Macleay has just been raised, there
are are but five others in N.S.W.—Sir Frederick
Darley, Sir George limes, Sir William Manning,
Sir Alfred Roberts, and Sir Henry Wrenfordsley.
In Victoria there are but four—Sir James M‘Bain,
Sir Charles M Mahon, Sir Robert Molesworth,
and Sir Francis Murphy. The degree of knight
bachelor is therefore an eminently respectable in-
stitution as compared with K.C.M.G.
Says the London Echo “King Tamasese
of Samoa, who has graciously consented to the
marriage of his daughter to M. Brandeis, the Ger-
man Minister accredited to his Royal person,
would be likely to esteem the honour of the
alliance less highly could the wire but enlighten
his Pacific Majesty upon a circumstance which is
now exercising the Divorce Court at Berlin. There
was a Madame Brandeis, who was left at home
when M. Brandeis went out to Samoa. ”
Joe Thompson, who is said to have made
f 150,000 in the Australian betting-ring, has just
been entertained at a sumptuous dinner by 100 of
the leading “sports” of England. A man who
had business with Joe one morning, while waiting
in the drawing-room of his sumptuous Don Juan
house at East Melbourne, examined the library, in
a magnificent blackwood book-case. The library
was almost entirely composed of the Bow Bells
Magazine, brand-new, from the very first.
.Joe, however simple in his literary tastes, has
three times as much brains as the ordira y res-
pro' able humbug who orders a ton of assorted
bodes, eh'efly classical.
K-'min, the (now) ex-Minister, whose
fading* 3 it with Premier Gillies is one of tlie sen-
sai U ns if the day, first came into notice as one of
the Em 'raid Hill Council. He used to have an
odd style of talking of himself in the third person.
Here’s one of his speeches, declining the honour of
a seat on the Public Works Committee : “Mr.
Mayor’ll! Hir-r ! When Councillor Nimmaw was
elected a member of this council, Councillor Nim-
maw thought that, as a professional surveyah, he
ought to be on the Public Wurruks Commytee,
but, Mr. Mayorli, Councillor Nimmaw was not
appointed on the Public Wurruks Commytee, and
therefoghr Councillor Nimmaw declines now to sit
on the Public Wurruks Commytee !


' tyU)TFn
TH£ /Sf}3 T/fa T HAUNT US .
7ji> /p///j (ditt foor,
tj tTusN
r^SicyP
nflC|oNi<)i v )
/)e}>tC r ’ f or a iaj ? k "
accord t; AM Ace //*r<o
v (?/' /gs? &£-■
S//?EEKy /d rfpLyAJC/E(//Els
snyctea-rs, fo />ac*
V/- «/^y*7?J,Zt-
/W *v* ?**(»&
CiREATm LmNC CDRlOlliy'
/vjftN WITH h
prnanwaflEK
foccffd off V/e
Hm fi/rOMJ nm
//j/ys of fJuHPtf
- /
Suir/SCE rur-i-^
°'j
W^s/ DfjE/
A 7p/rp/r 0>?-
jHxf+ ApacfpP
JT^y^c s fs
—idat *
en'osunriai earn of nonet hs culieclft} and a
[•iod established (gay the ’SuthpiJaad fund) iha
inif.’csT on which be annually divided ia prizes
.among the members of the force woo may haVa
(•istinemishcd thfffi*4lr'c?i t-y bratcry or other
* fC A r
l-ppf-PJ rpfj- ce Ccl-S r
p 7/jpr- n)/j r
//ns//y
Mnyru/sorvrtrci'/a ~
f if ™«'r w \
fa/ tffi a fora Jar/- af A^
'r 7A/>rP are fyera array/roy/ J
/f} / //> /Ten' States /? <??''/ # r ,
Y* P /"'9 '?/'•*
i b« Post iecs~a3 the delay m
completing the For t-office cioc\ ai extraordmar?
»nd urge.-* its prompt completion.
/7£Ar*nr/fu-£/e.r nr japyr/ ope s/apd
7/p 7$ r /fracj <Z?<T 'tf/r/* u.J /fe /o7n?e of
II mimi'i ml ' *lll* ■MI • ~ II I 111 I 111 mm—— I ■T"
JKniNCfThIE POLICE
JsyE do cdorsp rf/ay po 6ccc£ cc.
feyfuy foo y#/- pc f/oy
%
~77&r3cfP£-
OA/JT^J)r/\ \s^/3 A q
%r,dqrf- A'o*r.M,y Opf"?
Cco e/?s /. A
A]o,ke- '»**
Sf-asAf'cS spp S/voy/pg /eactybttce
Oar/ A //A «/ //Aip£ f#' ®
Oy6Ppf t ? * //g/
Tincture of Hop.


t
zs£_/ X
The Fountain Head.
CHAIRMAN: “Were you a shareholder in the Holt-Sutherland Company?”
PARKES: “ I had ten shares, which i imagine are amongst the assets of the estate."
CHAIRMAN : “Do you recollect when you transferred them?"
PARKES: “They never were transferred to the best of my knowledge. I think they were held in connection with a mortgage by the Colonial Mutual Provident Society.
But surely you are not appointed to try the Prime Minister of the country—who appointed you—to inquire into his private affairs..... Suppose
that I was interested, I resent with indignation, the supposition that I would be influenced by any interest I might have in the propery. I desire this
taken down. Other persons allow their conduct, to he influenced by such motives and such objects, that I do not. My whole life gives a negative to my
doing it." — Extract from minutes of evidence gice before the N.S.W . Labour Board.


QRESCENT BREWING CO.’S
“ Aurora ”
PILSEMER beer.
F. B. WHEELER. & CO.,
205 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
DEPOSIT s>n«l DISCOUNT
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received and Interest allowed as follows {
3 Years
12 Months
(i Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
!) i >er cent.
8 per cent.
0 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
‘zm
1
1
5
H
AYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTew
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
Fianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebcl, Fenrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthnor, Collard, and others.
No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Lash or ieems*
ix-t JS4IS. and Eetoy Organa.
Society
Sailors would seem to be usurping the
privileges of Sunday-school teachers. In four
recent Australian divorce cases tried in the
colonies of late the co-respondents were mariners,
# * *
De Freitas, the said-to-be Portuguese
nobleman, who came to Melbourne without a
copper, still keeps up the 8 o’clock “rush,” free
banquet, at his big Mechanics’ Restaurant. He
gives away about 600 meals a week to the poor.
Just compare this unostentatious noble chanty
with the puff and blow of charitable societies .
De Freitas is the only pious publican in Mel-
bourne. He has a big picture of the Saviour hang-
ing beside him at the desk where he is to be found
at all hours taking the money. A statue of the
Virgin and Infant Jesus is put up in the dining-
room, with fresh flowers in front. Now, here’s a
man who acts up to it. There is a story some-
where about a Pharisee and a Publican.
* * *
The 18th of this month will be the 74th
anniversary of Waterloo. Thus any soldier who
fought on that historic field at the age of 18 must
now be 92. Out upon our crop of Waterloo
veterans !
* # *
A certain much respected and once mous-
tachioed Sydney suburban clergyman has just re-
covered from a long and once almost hopeless ill-
ness. The other day a bearded cleric was seated
on the deck of a harbour steamer and got into
conversation with a man who seemed to know
everybody in the place to which they were going*
“ What a terrible thing,” said the stranger, “was
the death of poor Mr. Blank, our late parson !
Poor man, I hear he has died in the hospital in
awful agony.” u Indeed I” said the bearded
parson, “ what strange things one hears about
one’s self now and then ’ ”
i’f # #
A poor old lady named Kennewell, aged
95, died on May 28 at the Government cottage
homes, Parramatta. Her husband, 96, to whom
The bogus cable promise of a C.M.G. for
Mr. Burdett Smith (perhaps intended to be re-
cabled back to London with a view to bringing
the excellent Mr. B. Smith under his Gracious
Queen’s notice) reminds us that similar tactics ai e
employed to procure “hospitality ” for the Prince
of Wales. The confidential agents of lummy
supply sassiety papers with artful paragraphs to
the effect that “ His Royal Highness will be the
guest of Lord Poof, at Blue-blood Court, about
such-and-such a time, and a distinguished party,
including So-and-So, &0., &c., have been invited
to meet the Heir Apparent.” This is poor Lord
Poof’s first intimation of what he is expected to
do. If he isn’t quite stone-broke from too much
previous entertaining of Tummy he duly issues_ in-
vitations to the So-and-So’s whom Tummy desires
to meet, and all that was written in the sassiety
par. is fulfilled. But if Poof declines to take the
hint, then another prediction finds its way into
print, and the game is kept up until I ummy s
autumn engagements are completed.
#
The latest Battenberg baby, it is cabled,
is to be christened Frederick Charles. The kid,
by any other name, would cost just as much, hii
passant, the English plebeian notion of the collect
name for a prince is Augustus. All ‘ toffs aie
regarded as Augustuses at the East end of Lon-
don. We were a bit of a “ toff ” ourself once upon
a time, and it was our superior pleasure to stro 1
into a private box (about ten yards square and let
at a guinea) at the Britannia Theatre, Hoxtor,
with the intention of studying the habits and
customs of the proletariat at the play. We had
just settled ourself in the box, and said Haw
when a boy in the gallery directed the audience s
attention to the fact that “Augustus had come,
whereupon the house rose as one man, and in*
quired, “ How is Augustus feeling to-night ? We
folded up our overcoat, like the Arabs, and stole
silently away, dimly conscious that two thousand
voices, broken by emotion, were crying, ‘ What,
going so soon, Augustus?” It was enough, we
turned Radical that same night, and no wwe smile
scornfully at the memory of our old self, who was
a dreadful little ass that didn’t know any
The Augustus episode returns vividly to mind
every time we look upon Mr. H. H. Vincent, now
of the Triumvirate’s company, but formerly heavy
villain at the good old Brit. Vincent, or such is
our impression, was cursing the heroine and kick-
ing her cheeild at the very moment when tlie afore-
said boy remarked that Augustus had arrived;
# # *
Last week someone, probably a bashful
nobleman, wrote under a twin dc plume to Mel-
bourne Age, complaining in a tone of suppressed
aggravation that things were not as they should
be at the local Government House, and suggesting
that various monies be spent for the greater con-
venience of visitors. Amongst other expensive
changes this distressed individual howls for a new
theatre attached to the building. We will let him
know
A German dead-beat presented before
Melbourne City Court the other day described
himself as “ the wreck of a royal race.” He ought
to have gone to England ; the Queen would have
paid him to marry somebody.
ţ
she had been married for 75 years, walked to her
funeral and wept at her grave.
* * *
So far there has been but one Yoriek Club
in the world—the Yoriek of Melbourne. But now
the Junior Garrick Club, London, has burst up
and is being re-organised as the Yoriek.
* * *
Madame Melba’s father, honest Dave
Mitchell, the Exhibition contractor, hardly knows
whether to like this Paris Opera House business.
It is not known what the husband, Mr. Arm-
strong, says. Madame was educated at the Pres-
byterian Ladies’ College, East Melbourne, under
Professor Pearson. The Clergy Board of Manage-
ment are aghast at a pupil turning out a singer at
the Paris Grand Opera! Mrs. Tallowfat, the
pious millionaire squatteress, with five daughters
at college, wants to know—“ Are you going; to
make my daughters opera singers ?” No fear, Mrs.
Tallowfat; Heaven has forbidden it. While
Madame Melba-was at this sacred establishment
they wholly mistook her voice and fancied she was
a contralto—so Plumpton says.
* * *
Apt •opos of the intended visit of the Shah
to England, a London writer says that Christie e
Nilsson has the credit of being one of the few
people who gave His Majesty a candid opinion of
his style of proceeding on his last visit. It had
been arranged that he should be present at a pe •
formance at the opera in which Madame Nilsson
would successively enact the parts of La Traviata
and Mignon. It was also understood that he
would arrive in time for the first of these. r lhe
Prince of Wales, who was to receive the Shah,
arrived punctually, but there was no sign of the
Shah, until La Traviata (the first act only) was
concluded. Nilsson was in a fury. She had
ordered the most expensive dresses expressly for the
Shah’s benefit, and now he would only see her in
the rags which are appropriate to the part of
Mignon.* The Prince of Wales foresaw that she
would probably make it rather warm for lr r
manager, and so he sent behind the scenes
to suggest that she should bo presented to
the Shah that evening, as a consolation. She was
ushered into the royal box with naked feet, and
her hair hanging down her back, and without
waiting for any ceremony she walked straight to
the back of the box, where she found the Light of
the World eating peaches just like an animal.
“You are a naughty, wicked Shah,” she said in
French, gesticulating at him, to the amazement of
his attendants. “ Here have I put on my most
superb dress just to do you honour, and you only
come in time to see me in rags and without even a
shoe.” And with that she raised her right foot
(so the story goes) to within an inch of his nose to
point the remark. The Shah was, however, so
much struck with the originality of this mode of
address - to which he was certainly not accustomed
that he promptly announced his intention of
staying to see her act, and very coolly threw over
his engagement at the Goldsmiths’ Ball, in order
to do so.
Rank v. Rank is a divorce case pending in
Melbourne. The wife sues, pleading desertion
from herself and children on the part of hi r
hnbby :
Pinero is paralysing London sassicty with
his new play, “ The Profligate,” which deals with
the social sin, sorrow, and repentance of a mav.
The broken-hearted Profligate obtains forgiveness
from his wife through the tender medium of his
virtuous family solicitor. This new departure in
stage misery fills a long-felt want, the world hav-
ing grown rather tired of the tearful young worn n
who went wrong, and now preferring to fix i s
cold hard glare upon her conscience-stricken be-
trayer. Henceforth we shall have the leading
heavy man exclaiming (in the words of George
Darrell and Robert Browning) “I was so young, I
loved her so ; I had no mother ; God forgot me and
I fell.” “The Profligate seems to be another step
iu the Women’s Rights direction, and l'i K
Bulletin has cabled its best blessing to the autho .
Talking of Pinero, the unreliable ora' le who sends
“Social Gossip” to the Argus describes him rs
“that wonderful young man of 34.” He is close
upon 40, anyhow.
* «= *
A Sydney daily paper last week published
a letter from a lady (who incidentally managed to
ring in on the editor a very fine advertisement of
a certain type-writer) complaining that after all it
was impossible for a woman to get her living at
type-writing. This is probably true as regards
type-writing alone, but a well-educated andintell -
gent woman who, in addition to being a type-
writer is also proficient at shorthand-writing,
which latter accomplishment can easily be ac-
quired in a year, should always be able to get an
excellent living as a corresponding clerk or secre-
tary. A shorthand-writer is not of much use to
himself or 1 anybody else, unless he is possessed of
brains, and a professional type-writer -who dots
not know shorthand has a ghastly prospect ahead.
Apropos, we have just read in a London paper the
following :
Miss Ethel Dickens, who carries on type-writing ove r
All the Year Round office, is dissatisfied with women s
position. A lady, she says, can only earn at tin t
description of work from 25 to 30 shillings a week,
solely, she believes, because the work is done by women
rather than by men. That is possibly true ; hut the work
is merely mechanical, and a copying clerk does not, as a
rule, earn as much as that.
Which latter opinion exactly coincides with the
view advanced by ufi above.
# * *
In view of the discussion on the advisablc-
ness of furnishing the police with a better weapon
than the baton, it may be mentioned that in
France, in Germany, and in Austria the police
wear swords. In the United States they carry
both club and revolver.
* # *
Dr. M. .1. O’Connor will move at next
meeting of Sydney Hospital Committee that in
future honorary medical officers of that institution
shall be elected by open vote. Those officers
should never have been elected in any other man-
ner.
* * *
From a Sydney da ly :
•tttANTED, by a professional gentleman, Board and
VV Residence, where no others are kept, with
widow, 38, must be highly respectable, means, Pro-
testant, with view to business. Apply B lb, E. - -
Office, A.
Regarded either as an example of unintended
candour or as a specimen of guileless and bash-
ful simplicity this is quite unique. Again
A MIDDLE-AGED Widower with means, wishes to
-A- correspond with a middle-aged widow, with view
to above. Joseph, Park-st. P.O. Genuine.
Joseph will probably hear from Mrs. Rotiphar.
From the June number of the Parthenon,
that quite too delightful Sydney publication
“ edited by Lily and Ethel ” —God bless ’em . we
reverently clip the following
New Books.—From Messrs. Edwards and Dunlop we
have received; “Threefold Praise,” by 1 ranees Ridley
Havergal. A beautiful gift book, bound in dark-green
cloth, with fancy gold lettering. Each leaf is ot thick
gilt-edged paper, and contains some of Miss Havergal s
verses, with some beautiful sketch in soft sage-green, or
an artistic arrangement of coloured flowers.
Still more reverently we proceed to hew out this
announcement with our best electro - plated
scissors : .
Prize Page for June.—A volume of “Threefold Praise’
is offered for the jar of the best home-made marmalade
(11b.). All competitions obtaining neither prize nor certi-
ficate will be returned. Open to females of any age (un-
certain or otherwise).
We now reach down our gold-edged lute, with the
twisted silken strings, and let fly :
The Bulletin hears that Mr. Walter Hall
has bought some shares in Sydney Daily Tele-
graph. Mr. Hall, who began life as a clerk to
Cobb and Co., is an enormously wealthy man,
a 1 together apart from the colossal fortune repie-
s nted by his Mount Morgan interest, which
r turns him £15,000 a month. Mr. Tom Hall, his
brother, has £30,000 a month from the same
source, but nevertheless chooses to retain a bank
billet of, say, £OOO a year. Walter Hall lately
b night a splendid site at Potts’Point and built an
elaborate house thereon, but it is stated that he
intends building a mansion at Melbourne and
living there.
£30,000 a month 1 £7500 a week ; over
£lOOO a day, over £4O an hour- just about 15s. a
minute. Roughly speaking, 3d. a second ! Beer
c sts threepence a pint. What joy it would be tor
1 its of men if they could only have a pint of beer
evei y second out of their income without trenching
on their principal !
# #
It is now certain that neai’ly all the money
entrusted to a certain defaulting Sydney solicitor
was embezzled by him and accounted for to his
c'ients by means of vouchers consisting of forged
deeds. “ How hard you work, Mr. !” said
oio of these victims of misplciced confidence to his
trusted legal adviser, as he saw the latter leaving
h : s office one day with a fat black bag. Yes,
r plied the man of law (he was a very pious church-
warden, and was so trusted by the women that
o ie of them actually lent him £2OOO after a, three
minutes’ conversation) —“ yes, I do work hard
every night.” And so he did -at forging deeds.
There has been so much of this thing in
Sydney of late that the public are now thoroughly
alarmed. When a ceitain haughty and well-con-
nected “ gent, one” collared his little swag,
amounting to just under £lOO,OOO, there was a
meeting of attorneys, at which it was proposed to
make good the defalcations, but when the amount
thereof transpired it was, of course, seen that to
refund would be impracticable. One result of the
wholesale robberies by attorneys has been a mar-
vellous increase in the?, business of the Perpetual
Trustees and Executors’ Company. Of late pro-
pertied people have been looking up their securi-
ties right and left, and the clerks in the Titles
Office have lead a hard time.
■•■ # * *
Parkes alludes to Macleay-street as “ the
most aristocratic part of Sydney.” Now, who
lives in and about Macleay-street? Why, a
lit of people whose money was made out of
THE ISMS THAT HAUNT ITS.
“If prayer will bring rain, why shouldn’t it exterminate the rabbits? Try
it, ye wise men of the Nation, and send us that £25,000."
Gentle scribe, we love your style,
Not for quite a longish while
Have we met your like for giiile
In a country where the guileful are not few.
Say, perhaps, you’d like a pub.,
And a hashhouse full of grub
In addition to the club .
That the sweating nation runs for such as you !
If, in answer to your scrawl}-
Duncan Gillies built a hall,
You’d expect when paying call
On the Robinsons, no doubt, to see a play •
A dramatic scene or so,
Or an opera high or low,
Or a nigger minstrel show,
But for which you know you would not have to
pay.
As it is, your precious set
Runs the nation into debt
To provide you with a pet
And a model of “ British ” social life*
Don’t he show you how to bloat
In the style of the elite,
Also where to put your' feet, _
And the wickedness of eating with your knife !
Educated by the State
To the manners and the gait
Of the “ swagger” and the great,
You might let the blessed country have a rest,
Or the men who foot the bill
Of your game may get their till
As no doubt in time they will—
And just turn and foot 'the Guvnahs with more
zest.
Oh ! Mr. Rank, that you live now
To Providence you should give thanks,
A few brief years ago they would
Have shot you for deserting ranks.
MISS-USED MARMALADE.
0 ! Frances Ridley Havergal,
Thou mother, wife, or maid-
gay, is it meet thy poems shall
Be swopped for marmalade ?
go nicely bound in dark green cloth,
The name in gold displayed !
Imagine, if you can, our wrath
That book for marmalade !
Sweet sketches, too, in soft sage green,
On lovely leaves cream-laid,
With verses scattered in between,
For a jar of marmalade !
Shall such a paltry, sticky price,
For such a work be paid ?
Observe the little clause precise
(One pound) of marmalade !
No gushing o’er the poetess
For which she sighed and prayed ;
Ah ! Frances Havergal, we guess
You’d like that marmalade.
The pets who run the Parthenon,
Not you, we’re much afraid,
Will soon be operating on
That toothsome marmalade.
Then, Frances, heave your direst curse
At naughty girls who trade
Your volumes of immortal verse
For home-made marmalade.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Si DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years
12 Months
G Months
3 Months
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
' Geneuai, Manager.
9 t per cent.
B’j per cent.
7 h per cent,
55 per cent.
Sweat Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Mer/istif/uin .” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. Gd.,
ss. and 10s. Post free to atxy address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne.
Everybody should use Pemell’9 latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Co.,
i and 6 Dean's Place,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
QOLOMAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS. A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF
THE PREMIUMS PAID be ing RETURNED as-an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period , or in the event of Survival, FULL
PARTICIPATION IN TONTINE SURPLUS. Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
grog, a few aristocrats who try to make
money out of hash-vending, and a whole
heap of IGO per shent usurers of the most cheeky
order. The place is only redeemed from down-
right vulgarity by the presence of Editor Gullett,
a decent lawyer or two, John M‘Elhone, and a
few others. When old Chief Justice Martin died
most of the true aristocracy—that of intellect —
departed from Maoleay-street.
# # %
Maihi Paraone Kawiti (Marsh Brown),
one of the last of the Ngapuhi chiefs, whose death
has been already recorded in, The Bulletin, and
who died in the Mormon faith, was buried in the
Anglican Cemetery. While the burial service was
being read several Morman elders looked on from
afar in masterly inactivity. The Mormans just now
are making a big bid for the salvation of Maori
souls, but as the dusky sons of the Land of the
Moa have been polygamists for generations, long
before they knew how to pick the missionary
breast-bone, there seems to be nothing novel in
the little game.
# # #
They were passing under the elevated
railroad, and the din overhead was almost deafen-
ing. “This bustle makes my head ache,” she
said. “Probably,” observed he, “if you were to
wear a smaller one “ Sir ■!” she indignantly
cried, “ I mean tho noise confuses me. — American.
* * #
The Bulletin doesn’t know what the
“Victorian Grand Lodge” is, but it does know
that the fact that the Prince of Wales has con-
sented to become its patron gives it dead away.
The excellent show made by the Victorian
Artists’ Society at their Exhibition is being re-
warded with little enough encouragement in the
Way of sales. Toorak likes its works of h’art to be
Hinglish, with occasional exceptions in favour cf
pictures like “ Down on his Luck.”
# # #
Periodical appeals to the public on behalf
of a Disabled Curate, or a Paralysed Clergyman
remind us that nobody ever sends round the hat
for an Afflicted Congregation.
# # #
Literary America is rent in twain over a
very pretty quarrel between two of its leading
female literary lights, Mrs. Ella Wheeler Wilcox
and Mrs. Gertrude Frances Atherton. They are
both yassee old hens and were, until the other day,
fast friends. Then Ella wrote a book, “ Poems of
the Passions ” —very clever but savouring of the
would-be-so-naughty-if-I-could. Gertrude then
“turned dog ” on her friend, and asked, with cut-
ting sarcasm, how a woman with such meagre
bustial development as dear Ella could write erotic
verse. Ella retorts that Mrs. Gerty’s swelling
bust is plain, cheap everyday cotton. The moral
of this of course is that a woman should never
make a bosom friend of another woman.
# # #
A divorce “ suite ” is how the Age printer
put it,the other day. So it is, very “ suite.” We
just love td read about divorces.
# # #
Mrs. Butler, widow of Edward Butler,
Q.C., died at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, last
week, aged 35. Poverty did not compel her to die
in the hospital, as she was wealthy. She was Mr.
Butler’s second wife and the surviving daughter of
Mr. Edwin Daintrey, said to be the best common
law attorney of his day. Daintrey’s ambition was
-to see his only daughter wife of the Chief Justiee.
Butler, then a widower and Attorney-General,
had the best prospect of Sir Alfred Stephen’s cast-
off robes, but Parkes, as usual, threw his friend
over—and appointed Sir James Martin. Match-
makers at the “ Point ” endeavoured to fix up a
union between widow Butler and widower Dailey,
but without success.
# * #
A woman’s rights advocate, in a letter to a
Melbourne daily, the other day, triumphantly re-
marked that 12 months ago Sir Henry Loch
privately favoured the enfranchisement of women ;
One of the cleverest of Melbourne business
men, so far, is Tom Small, said to be worth his
quarter of a million. His brother, J. W. Small,
has retired with a fortune from the Sydney busi-
ness. He Used to be a Manly councillor. Now he
lives hi a superb mansion he has built at Can-
terbury, near Camberwell, not far from Melbourne.
What jumbles we have of English names ! If ever
there was a man with his head screwed on to
rights, it is Thonias Stephen Small. His first
great achievement was the invention of a trick for
making albumenized paper for photographers.
There Was a fortune in this alone, as Sydney and ;
Melbourne photographers will testify. Tom is
besides architect, surveyor—goodness knows what.
Tie is a Monsieur Midas, everything turning to
gold in his hands. He manages a big land com-
pany. While others have been going to, the dogs,
his directors lately raised his salary from £lB a
week to just double, £36. And this is only one of
his side-shows.
Aii associate of the Smalls is Janies W.
Hunt, president of the Victorian Temperance
Alliance, and founder of that great concern, the
Modern Permanent Building Society. He is as
good a model for a young man as any in “Smiles’s
Self-Help.” He began life working in a blue shirt
at a brewery in Richmond. Bookselling at Ca -
tlemaine b oke him. tint he started canvassing for
the Age. Pluck, luck, and a prudent marriage
have pulled him into the millionaire rank-#
# # *
Touching those awful floods in Pennsyl-
vania the cableman wires Many of the wealthy
families of Pittsburgh resided >in the localities)
named, and intense anxiety is felt concerning their
fate.” - -
It must have made the mouths of all tho
women water to read that Brewer Montgomery , -
of Melbourne, had bought a £770 necklace for his
wife, just as it must have given them great
pleasure to learn that Mr. Montgomerie, who
appears to have smuggled the gaud in question
across the border, has had to pay the remorseless
Customs another £450 on account. That necklac ,
therefore, cost considerably over £lOOO, audits as
f’ ,:
v >* v< Q "
a Q-v>
/Tt 1 h
">• i ' „
/ / Vz £>. OC S-J'/
ftaf ffy* Return (Vex.) a /ailare
a/fet all owiyqr to owr-k,*f>°)
history has been so well advertised it is hardly
likely that the lady for whom it was bought will
care about wearing it in public. Whatever may
b j said about Mr. Montgomerie several things are
evident: that he is a good husband ; that he can’t
smuggle worth a cent; that brewing tanglefoot
pays better than writing paragraphs.
* * #
Mr. Campbell Praei, it is cabled, has been
awarded damages for a libel against his .wife in
the Gentleman’s Magazine. We presume that
the Mag. has been alleging that Mrs. Campbell
Praed’s writings were adapted for reading in con-
vents and Sunday-schools.
■# # s
To stout girls :
YOUNG MAN, with good income and splendid
prospects, wishes to Meet with Young Country
Girl, view to Matrimony; stout preferred. Ad-
dress “ Constancy,” Woollahra P.O.
With the advent of winter every constant young
man tries to nestle in the bosom of a fat girl.
# # #
The death of Frank Stubley three years
ago is brought to mind by the marriage of his
comely widow —a Sydney girl, by the way—with
Mr. Hamilton Fisher a few days ago at Hawk -
burn (Vic.) Stubley’s career wes among the most
romantic that Australia has witnessed. He beg n
in a blacksmith’s smithy ; in a few years he held
interests in ships, goldmines, and stations which
aggregated something like £5,000,000 of capita 1 .
The bluff, sturdy, illiterate adventurer pushed
ahead. He kept no books, and apparently made
no investigations as to how-his affairs progressed.
At last a crash came. He could not tell where it
cams from or how much harm it did. The present
writer remembers how Judge Noel badgered the
unfortunate, dazed man in the witness-box of
Melbourne Insolvency Court. Stubley was sent
to gaol out of the witness-box, but the almost
unanimous opiliion of those in 'court was that the
punishment was altogether unmerited—that
Stubley was at the time simply stupid. Noel is
dead now and so is his victim. Stubley lies near
Foote’s Waterhole, on the Normanton-Croydcn
road. Stubley, a f ter losing his all, started out as
a pioneer of the Croydon field and dropped dead
on the track of gold—he was on its track to the
very last; unlike many a thousand others, he did
not fall while chasing a “ duffer.” Comrade dig-
gers lately erected a stone at the spot, and on it
inscribed the words : “An old miner, an honest
man, and a true friend.” That headstone speaks
the truth.
* # #
Actuated by a desire to keep their em-
ployes on the path of rectitude, the directors if
the Queensland banks are about to institute a
searching inquiry into the private residential
arrangements of their employes. We have
drawn up a few questions, for an examination
paper, which clerks might be asked to answer :
(1.) Where do you live ?
(2.) Are you married or single ; if single, are you en-
gaged? If not married or engaged, state what are your
other domestic arrangements? Are you allowed a.latchkej ?
(3.) Give the names of your (a) bootmaker, (b) tailo-,
(c) shirtmaker, and produce letters from them certifyii g
that you are not in their debt, or if indebted, stating the
amount of your indebtedness in each instance.
(4.) Produce instantly a receipted washing-bill of recent
date.
(5.) What private bar do you frequent ?
(6.) Do you back your fancy or make a book? AVhat is
yourbest break at billiards ? “
(7.) Do you ever play Murnuubidgee, Nap, Yankee
Grab, Devil’s Pool, or Two-Up? Would you order a man
up on the Joker, left, and seven ?
(8.) Name the church you attend and how much do you
plank on the plate annually ?
(9.) Do you belong to the Y.M.C.A. ?
A truthful answer to these questions will enable a
young man’s employers to form an opinion of the
wisdom or otherwise of retaining his services.
- * * *
Bishop Thorold, -of Rochester, has sig-
nalised his return to England from his flying
Australian tour by issuing a ukase against the
fashion of overdressing girls presented for con-
firmation. He objects to “mock pearls in the
humbler classes,” but as the humbler classes can't
afford real pearls, perhaps the Bishop means to
keep a few strings on hand and to hire them out
cheap. “ White satin shoes,” he further declares,
“should be gently but firmly eschewed in the
higher classes.” So, you see, this bold bad bishop
takes the girls all in from the neck to the ankles.
It's a way the clergy have got.
Mr. Partridge, the well-known London
police magistrate, fined a poulterer 10 shillings for
selling partridges out of season.
A man named James Herring has been
severely hurt on the railway line at Toongabbie
(Vic.). An apt illustration of the folly of drawing
a herring across the track.
Stanley (raising his hat): “Emin Bay, I
presume?” Emin Bey : “Yes, sir; is there any-
thing I can do for you ?” Stanley : “ I have come
to rescue you.” Emin Bey (compassionately:
“ Thanks, my good man, thanks.” (To native) :
“ Umslopogaas, take the poor fellow out and give
him a square meal.” — Exchange.
Of oourseho did, the Gov. would be
Ungrateful otherwise;
The women all should ever shine
Angelic in his eyes.
To set his face against their claims
Would-prove his want of nous ;
He owed that brave six thou, to the
Old ladies of the House.
Alas ! those wealthy families —we fear they are no
more;
The families don’t matter that were common folks
and poor ;
They have to live and die, and flesh, of course, is
only grass— , _ -
But O ! we do feel anxious for the ones that had
the brass.
This life it is a river, and We float adown the
stream,
And some of us are nothing much, and some com-
pose the cream ;
The “ nothing much ” proportion they can fi ;
watery grave,
But let us pray that Heaven all its precious cream
will save.
The New Chum.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Comes to Melbourne —soon to know it,
“ Decent city ” —tells you flat,
“ Ne’er could equal London —blow it!
For bombastics equal that.
Chaffs oiir “ style,” yet tries to prig it
And colonialised become,
But in all lie does (you twig it),
He’s a brand-new chum.
Thinks our girls “ quite Piccadilly,”
And our chappies “ far from slow,
Tries our drinks and walls ’em- swilly,
They're not English, don’t you know* -
Puts down all internal troubles
To our whisky, gin, or rum,
And our beer —it fairly doubles
Up the dry new chum.
Now and then the pink of swellahs,
Proud to let you know “ I’ve come
Just from home to see you fellahs
There’s-an-honour sort of chum :
Mighty manners, barely civil,
Means -“remittance” —needful sum,
But he quickly finds the level
Tho’ a “tall’’now chum.
Chummy scorns that ancient maxim,
“ Do as Romans when in Rome,”
Oft’ avers —tho’ no one ax .him—
“ That’s not how it’s done at home.”
While his praises often stinting
(Mind I only speak of some)
Cracks up home while more than hinting,
He’s a “ fly ” new chum.
If in luck, inclined to brag it,
“ No up-country ” then he votes.
When he’s down he’ll gamely swag it,
Then new chummy’s minus “ notes,”
Tho) his last and he have parted
(Meaning “ rough on rats ” for some) :
Still more game than chicken-hearted
Is the “ broke ” new chum*
Settles down a steady party, ■
Best of chummies, tried and true,
Time but leaves him hale and hearty,
Chum in all things, save the new.
Fortune favours, lab ur tones hini.
Soon indeed the time has come
When Australia proudly owns him
As a grand, old chum#
Melbourne.
W. E. IMESON.
One Sunday morning, revivalist Moody
entered a Chicago drug-store, distributing tracts.
At the back of the store sat an elderly and
distinguished citizen reading a morning newspaper*
Mr. Moody approached this gentk'juan.and threw
one of the temperance tracts upon the paper before
him. The old gentleman glanced at the tract, and
then, looking benignantly at Moody, asked : “Are
you a reformed drunkard.?” “ No, sir, I am
not !” cried Moody, drawing back, indignantly.
“ Then why in h don’t you reform?” quietly
asked the old gentleman.
Mrs. Henry Clew’s bathroom, says an
American exchange, is a grotto of onyx ; wall,
floor, ceiling, basin, tub all being of the sculptured
stone. Distilled and perfumed waters flow at a
touch ; it is like a cool cave where Undines sport,
and no Monte Christo could project a thing more
fanciful and costly. That of Mrs. Cornelius Van-
derbilt is very beautiful. The walls are of mirrors,
over which run painted vines of morning glory and
passion flowers, forming an arbor suggestive of the
bower where Venus bathed, and the reflections
doubtless furnish Titianesque hints of attending
nymphs.
The last appearance in New York of our
dear old friends, Nellie Farren and Co., was, says
a local paper, marked by an ovation of calls,
shrieks, and shouts that would have done credit to
a cafe chantant or a travelling circus. One young
fellow, well known in rather different scenes,
threw a dainty bunch of violets to one of the dan-
seuses, which she acknowledged with a most fetch-;
ing smile and glance. -Not .ten minutes later the
posy was distinctly seen decorating the shirt
bosom of a coatless scene-shifter as he crossed the
stage. It is unnecessary to say that profound,
silence filled the box from which the sweet-scented
offering had emanated.
Gross perjury from a Queensland paper :
Sir Henry Parkes has all the features of a typical
Australian aboriginal; if he were only to burnt*
cork his face he could beg as much tobacco in a
day as he could use in a year. The other day an
aged native, with long grey hair and whiskers,
was soliciting' the usual “ tehick pen ” or bit of
“backer’’from passers-by on the Circular Quay,
at the top of Pitt-street, in the sister Metropolis,
when a guileless foreigner accosted a colonial and,
to the latter’s infinite disgust, asked innocently,
pointing the while towards the dusky solicitor :
“ Excuse me, sir, but I’m a stranger in Sydney :
will you kindly tell me if that is Sir Henry
Parkes ? ”
Story related to a Sydney pressman by the
N.S.W. hangman, beautifully illustrating the
humorous side of capital punishment : I had one*
very tough case at Goulburn once ; the man was
simply careless, and when I went in, said, “ Oh !
you’ve come at last. Right you are, I’m ready. ” We
pinioned him, and! said to my assistant, “Get round
and help him! ” “Go to -’’he said, ‘ ‘ what do I
want you to help me. Go on ! Where’s the place. ”
He went on to-the drop, and looking down at the,
people asked, “Now, what do all these want
here ? Come to see the fun, I suppose ! Well,
don’t keep them waiting. Stick the rope on and
let me go.” When I put the knot on his neck, he
remarked calmly, “ Now, don’t choke me : good-
bye ; I’ll see you later on in ” and the next
second the bolt was drawn and he died without a
kick.


A smart Yankee has invented a cartridge
which, it is claimed, when filled with oil and dis-
charged, will pacify the stormiest of seas. The
receptacle is of ordinary cartridge size, but is made
of heavy paper, and weighted at the further end
with a small piece of lead. It will hold about two
ounces of oil. It is fitted in an ordinary cartridge-
shell, and fastened to it by means of cotton shreds.
The cartridge is put into a breech-loader, and the
trigger is pulled. The cotton connecting the car-
tridge and the shell is ignited by powder. _ It is
burned, and the cartridge, filled with oil, is sent
spinning away over the waves. Then, at any
point the navigator may wish, the cartridge, be-
cause of the lead at its head, will sink into the
waves. The oil being lighter than the water, rises
to the top of the sea, and spreads over it like a
film. By means of these cartridges a path an
eighth of a mile broad can be made through the
heaviest of seas.
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
OF
R O M A. KT Y R Y E.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE*
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
Acting-Manager . .. Mr. H. J. Magee.
Positively for Three Nights Only !
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), 13th JUNE,
Friday, 14th ; Saturday, 15th.
Bachelors! Bachelors!
With the whole of the Original Cast,
and Re-appearance of
Mrs. BROUGH and Miss PATTIE BROWNE.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Business Manager, Mr. B. N. Jones.
Bland Holt’s Dramatic Company every Evening in ,
THE XTJXTIO3XT JACK.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
fJIHEATRE ROYAL.
Complimentary Farewell Benefit
TENDERED TO
Mies Myra Kemble
(prior to her departure for England),
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 15,
Under the patronage and in the presence of his Excellency
Lord Carington, P. 0., G.0.M.G., Lady Carington and
suite, members of the Ministry, Mayor and Aldermen,
Major-General Richardson, Colonel Roberts, and Officers
of the N.S.W. Forces.
On which occasion all the leading members of the
Dramatic and Musical Professions in Sydney have
kindly volunteered their services, and a
Gigantic Programme will be presented.
Prices as usual. Box Plan now open. To avoid
disappointment secure your seats at once.
New opera house
King and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. John Solomon.
Musical Director .... Mons. Henri Kowalski.
. Stage Director .... .... Mr. Henry Braoy.
Treasurer & General Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
MONS. HENRI KOWALSKI.
Every Evening until Further Notice.
The Beggar Student!
The Beggar Student!
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
Admission —Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, Is.
Private Boxes, £2 2s.
Doors open 7.15; Overture at 8; Carriages at 10.20.
Manager for Mons, Kowalski, Phil Stuart.
qyclokama.
Battle of Gettysburg Cycloramal
Battle of Gettysburg Cycloramal
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... From 10 A.M. TO 10 P.M.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 r.M.
Admission, Two Shillings; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CYCLORAMA.
XTOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR,
’**’ Under the patronage of Lord and Lady Carington,
—IN—
Aid of the City and Suburban Hospitals.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park.
Opening Buy, 12H» September, 1889.
The honorary Secretaries would be pleased to
receive the names of persons willing to assist the
ladies by promises of help with contributions to
the various stalls. Flowers, plants, &c., for the
Flower Pavilion ; presents of Dolls for Doll-Stall;
Hand-painted Articles, &c., for Art-Stall; Fancy
Needlework, &c., for Miscellaneous Stalls ; Per-
fumery and Cigarettes for Perfumery Stall; Gifts
of Cakes, Confectionery, Jams, Jellies Preserves,
Tea, Cocoa, Milk, Butter, Cheese Hams, Ac., for
the Dairy and Refreshment Stalls. Contributions
( f Prizes for the “ Grand Art Union ” in con-
i eition with the above would be thankfully
acknowledged. The whole of the proceeds to be
devoted to this Hospital Fund. This object is a
noble one and worthy of true assistance.
Tickets, 2s. each, may be had at all the City
Warehouses and by letter addressed to
MRS. ALFRED ALLEN, \
MISS JULIA BELISARIO, /
1 lon,
Secs.
Town Hall, Sydney.
Amusements.
jg| LITE SKATING RINK
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission ... One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455. ; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair : wholesale, 17s. 6d.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons carried free.
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford -
street, opposite the Rink.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY
COMPANY, Limited,
York Street, Sydney.
The most popular Skating Resort in Australia.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate
The ICE PALACE, MONTREAL, CANADA.
The Ics Palace of Australia.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
the well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York-street, Sydney.
Great Improvements Pitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of competent Instructors.
Good Music by full Band, under the superinten-
dence of Mr. George Vassib.
Exhibition in Skating by best Talent in the World.
A. F. Smith ... Manager.
TyTETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK,
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfern Raihvay Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony, VS
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.—Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission ; Ladies, 6d., Skates,
6d.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, 6d.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d.
Double Ticket of Admission, Is. 6d.
Weekly Tickets; Single, -35.; Double, 4s. 6d.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Mamager ... D. W. HIGGINS.
rjl ROCADBRO,
KING STREET, NEWTOWN,
Most Complete and Klegant Skating Kink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere ! The Open
Roof a Boon to Skaters !
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
Electric Light;
Skates Unequalled in. the City !
TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR,
Look Out for
Novelties I KToveltiea!
fAND THE
Children’s Carnival and Singing Competition.
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
George Ocghton ... General Manager.
HURST SKATING RINK.
The Largest and Rest in the World. Remember-Seven
Times Round One Mile. Everyone Delighted.
Three Sessions;
10 a.m. to 12 noon, Ladies and Children only ; Admission
FREE—Skates, Cd.
2.30 to 5 p.m. and 7.30 to 10 p.m.
ADMISSION .... .... ONE SHILLING.
Full Band in Attendance.
tW" Season Tickets arc Now Ready.
Terms : Ladies’ Tickets, 305.; Gentlemen, 355. ;
Floorage Tickets, 15s.
Special Prices can be arranged for Family Tickets.
R. J. AGINTON, Manager.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, Id.
Miscellaneous,
S. FREEMAN I SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS,
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
gnent gquarc fjlue,
Extract of Soap,
Hincgar, flacking,
&0., &0., &o.
Steam Works and Brewery ;
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY *
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
JOHN BRIDGE <fe 0 0.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET,
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dec,
GrRA-INT s A.X.ESMBIW.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk nds r f Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
A. Trial Solicited..
jojeust sjytntids 7
ART UNION,
FOR THE BENEFIT OF
The Hospital for Sick Children*
Glebe Point, Sydney.
Trustees :
His Honor Mr. Justice Stephen ; Hon. Geo. 11. Reid,
M.L.A. ; E. L. Monteflore, Esq. ; Professor T. P.
Anderson-Stuart, M.D. ; C. Cecil Griffiths, Esq. ;
H. C. Kent, Esq.
MR. JOHN SANDS has the hrnour to
inf rm the Australian public that he has
arranged to dispose of his very large and valuable
collection of high-class
ENGRAVINGS, ETCHINGS,
PHOTOGRAVURES, <ScC.,
By means of an Art Union officially f auctioned
by the Hon. the Attorney-General.
25 Per cent, will be given to the Hospital for
Sick Children.
5000 Tickets at One Guinea Each 5000
UNPRECEDENTED CHANCE!
EVERY TICKET WILL TAKE A PRIZE-
UNPARALLELED OFFER!
Every Prize Worth not less than
One Guinea.
£l5O First Prize. £l5O
Will consist of Twelve Magnificent Engravings,
Etchings and Photogravures,
ALL HANDSOMELY FRAMED.
Second Prize, £100; Third Prize, £5O; Fourth
Prize £25 ; Fifth Prize, £l5 15s; 3 at £l2 12s. ;
29 at £lO 10s. ;40at £8 Bs.; 40 at £7 7s; 80 at
£6 6s. ;80 at £5 ss. ; 150 at £4 45.; 190 at £3 3s ;
250 at £2 25.; the remainder, 4133, at £1 Is. each.
EVERY TICKET TAKES A PRIZE!
THE DRAWING
will probably take place about the end of August.
The Prizes are now on View at
JOHN SANDS’ NEW FINE ART GALLERY,
322 GEORGE STREET 322
Tickets and Prospectuses may be had on appli-
cation to
J. A. STANLEY ADAM, Secretary.
ssm
*svSis£
Pass 6 ."
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
, —FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Pbila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 . Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 ' Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
Furniture, &c.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BE DDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
EAST CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
lANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
B
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
IVE POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAN Ik
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas,
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
ť
/N ANYAS FOLDING
Vy COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
UPERIOIi WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6x8,8 x 8, 9xB, 10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
ŧ
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb,
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, 6s. fid. ; 8 x 8,
9s. ; 9xB, 9s. 6d, ; 10x8,10s. fid. ; 12x8,125. fid.;
12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
t
•Jmerican patent
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.-
NEWTON and LAMB.
ţ
Q ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NE W TON and LA MB,
Furniture Warellousemen,
Spuing and O’Connell Streets.
AWN and I’ARK SEATS, (sft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. (id. each. Newton
and Lamb.
tT ARDEN 7 SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
JT Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB. -
"O ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
15s. ; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
(id., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, ail descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & La jib, O’Connell Street.
ewton and lamb,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
AND


T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
June 11, 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Erection of Stables, &c., Police
‘ Station, Adelong
Additions, &c., Public Buildings,
Dubbo
Bridge, Karuah River, at Wash-
pool Crossing
Newtown Courthouse, Painting,
&c.
Erection of Two Weatherboard
Cottages for Surgeon and En-
gineer, Trial Bay (timeextended)
Erection of Three Weatherboard
' Cottages ft r Warders, Trial
Bay (time txten ed).
Fresh Tenders.
Bridge, Galong Creek, road Ga-
long to Burrowa.
Fresh Tenders
Erection of Shed and Mooring
Piles -at Wharf, Tweed River
Heads.
Crane for Bowra Wharf, Nam-
bucca River.
Repairs, &c., Police Buildings,
Wagga Wagga
Goulburn Old Courthouse, Re-
pairs.
West Kempsey Gaol, Alterations,
&c. •
Ulladulla Police Buildings, Re-
pairs, &c;
Courthouse, Moruya, Repairs.
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia, Ironwork —Cont. No, 1
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
oannia, Erection —Cont. No. 2.
Brewarrina Post-office, Repairs.
Erection of Stables, &c., Hospital
for the Insane, Newcastle.
Bridge over Barwang Creek, Road
Douglas to Harden
Wednesday,
June 19,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
July 3, '
at 11 o’clock,
BRUCE SMITH.
Cleaver's
Transparent
Soap
Best & Cheapest
Baritone!!
Complex I^o
ROWLANDS
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin ; is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co’our.
ROWLANDS
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemi.ts and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England. **
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
#
m
THE PREMIER TOBACCONISTS.
OUR ONLY ADDRESS:
6 PARK STREET, SYDNE1
(off GEORGE STREET).
American Cut Tobaccos.
LONG CUT ...
R.C. RUBY ...
WHITE OAK...
GOBBLE AT ...
2ozs., 9d.
2ozs., 9d.
2ozs., 9d.
2ozs., 9d.
ť
Colonial & Bngliali Cu/fc TotoEbCscoa.
FINE CUT (Dark) 2ozs,, 6d.
FINE CUT (Bright) 2ozs., Gd.
GOLDLEAF 2ozs., Od.
LONDON SHAG 2ozs., 6d.
MIXTURE 2ozs., 6d.
BRISTOL BIRD’S EYE ... 2ozs., Gd.
These Tobaccos
Out Fresh every Day. Special Reductions for 11b. Parcels,
—o —
Note the Address : (j PARK STREET (ONLY).
A PUZZLE PICTURE: FIND THE WHISKY
A Melbourne suburban undertaker is ad-
vertising for a partner “with the ability to im-
prove the business.” He wants a doctor.
Those torpedoes which the Victorian Navy
has a knack of losing in Hobson’s Bay cost £4OO
each.
We hear from Melbourne that the Victo-
rian Postmaster-General has interdicted the pas-
sage through the post of a certain gay and festive
New York weekly newspaper and has ordered the
hangman to burn a supply which arrived by a late
mail. They are getting “ real pious ” down South.
Essie Jenyns’ big photos., in wedding cos-
tume, are nauseous even in the Melbourne photo-
graphers’ cases. The worst of these Good Actresses
is that they Pose so, and show about an Inch of
Leg in a Rosalind costume, “ letting I dare not
wait upon I would, like the poor cat i’ the adage. ”
But just fancy hauling on your wedding-dress
again, and smirking with your head braced up
by tlxe photographer’s irons! We are beginningto
believe that those Cathedral pews were smashed
by claqueurs.
Editor Loughnan, of Lyttelton Times,
N.Z., was frequently exercised in mind by Pro-
prietor Reeves asking him to find places on his
staff for useless young fellows who had come out
from ’Ome laden with letters of introduction from
distinguished personages. At last Editor Loughnan
got “full.” “Does he know anything, Loughnan?”
asked Reeves one dayjieoncerning a particularly
unpromising specimen of the journalist in nuhihus.
“Know anything!” said Loughnan tragically.
“ Know anything !!” (This hysterically.) “Why,
my dear sir, he doesn’t even suspect anything.”
The Sydney Canister Works, Collins-
street, Sydney, provide ample demonstration of
what energy, industry and ability will do for a
man. Mr. Bengough (the proprietor) started some
four years ago in a back yard in the Glebe, when
his weekly output did not exceed 10 cases of tin .
He now owns the premises occupied by himself,
and'employs over 30 hands, has the latest im-
proved machinery worked by-an Otto gas engine,
and supplies all Sydney with confectionery and
biscuit tins, canisters, &c. He is prepared to sup-
ply the entire continent, and is now in fact a solid
man.
Some wild-eyed searchers into the mysteries
of Nature at Auckland, N.Z., spent their Gracious
Majesty’s birthday in an excursion, the object of
which is disclosed in an advertisement from which
the following is an excerpt:—
The object and purpose of this excursion is to disprove
the present absurd notion of the Rotundity of “the
Earth” on which we live. Anyone interested in and
desirous of assisting can obtain further information from,
&e., &o.
The savants, besides telescopes, etc., had plenty of
whisky on board, and when, at 2 a.m.
on the morning of the 20th, the : leader of the
expedition returned to the wife of his bosom,
he exclaimed “ Mar (hie !) riar! I come to
co’elusion (hie) theory earth flat all b’re’rot!
.Spheric theory (hie !) d'itto ! The foo’path got up,
struck me s’often co’vinced bloomin’ Earth’s per-
pendishclar (hie).”
When the Prince of Wales and his wife
wish to go to the theatre, notice is given to the
manager, who prepares his largest box, or knocks
two boxes into one for the royal party, and sets
aside another box for their, suite. If the boxes
have already been sold, the persons purchasing are
in'ormed that they are wanted for royalty, and
arc requested to call and get their money back.
Half-a-dozen programmes are printed on coloured
satin, a lot of banquets are purchased for the
ladies, and an immense amount of scarlet cloth is
■used in decorating the house. The manager re-
ceives the party personally. The raising of the
curtain is delayed until the royal party is seated
and the orchestra plays “God Save the Queen.!’
At intervals during the performance, refreshments
are sent to the royal box. All this is at the ex-
pense of the management.
The murderer sat in his dungeon cell,
Musing amidst the gloom,
Haunted by tolls of that awful bell
Which knells a murderer’s doom :
He nervously mopped the ice-cold sweat
That lay on his forehead’s slope,
And murmured —“ Reprieve may be granted yet—
While there is life there’s hope.”
The hangman sat in a room hard by,
Enjoying a cheerful booze,
As lie thought of the man condemned to die,
And fingered the fatal noose ;
Hot beads of joy, with a grimy sleeve,
He wiped from his forehead’s slope.
As he murmured—“ You’ll never get no reprieve—
While there is life there’s rope.”
The Bulletin deeply regrets that it can-
not find space in this issue to print the now cele-
brated Murphy correspondence. The pleasant
Mr. “Jim ” Murphy is a gentleman equally well
known in Sydney land-dealing and amateur
sailing circles, but until last week his abilities as a
diplomatist were to a great extent hidden beneath
a bushel. He was once manager of a Sydney fire-
insurance company, and worked up the biggest
business ever got together in the time by any
company in the world having an equal population
to draw upon; but he gave up fire-insurance
because it interfered with his appetite. “ I never
could eat any breakfast,” said James, “ when I
was managing that infernal company. I’d get up
in the morning and open the Herald. There it
always was: ‘ Great Fire !’ and if there was an
insurance my company had a bit of it. Then
I’d try and avoid the telegrams till after
breakfast. I’d turn to the leading article instead,
but sure as fate the Herald would have a leader
on the blessed fire. And then I’d have to read
the wires I couldn’t get away from them:
for just as a man is fascinated by the spot
at which lie has committed a murder—just as a
man is fascinated by the lamp-light in the window
of his be J girl’s house, to was 1 fasc'nated by that
ghastly telegram-column. The whole telegraph
system seemed to be devoted for a season to the
work of recording my fires, and so I gave the thing
best. Fresh eggs had lost their flavour and my morn-
ing coffee appeared to be composed of grated horse-
liver.” When the final crash comes, when Ans-
ralia has to go down on its marrow-bones to Bis-
marck and we are forced to implore Bung Hi not
to stink-po * us from his junks, the Murphy must
be put in the van of literary diplomacy. An ordi-
nary mortal is quite satisfied when Government
sends down a crowd of men to make beautiful
roads on his private estate with Treasury money.
But Jim Murphy isn’t satisfied with getting mere
roads for his company for nothing. Jim wants
them gravelled - he wants “ a few loads of gravel.”
If we had his cheek we would not run the Holt-
Sutherland estate alone, but the whole earth.
Boy : “ I want a half-holiday.” Teacher :
“ Why ?” Boy :“ My grandfather is going to be
hung to-morrow.” — Epoch.
The other clay at Melbourne a man was
fined ten shillings for telling a policeman to go to
heaven. The policeman called it “insulting
language.” It was worse —it was horrible
blasphemy.
Prenlier Parkes offered Buttner the price
of a free passage to ’Frisco, but would give him no
monetary assistance if he determined to remain in
N.S.W. Premier Parkes should hang on to the
principle herein involved. With a little twist-
ing about it might be applied serviceably to the
next Bankruptcy Act;
Dentist, who has just taken an “ impres-
sion ” and order for a two-guinea set of teeth :
“ Will you kindly give me your addres ?” Oh !
I do not live down here ; I am only staying at a
hoarding-house for a few weeks.” “ Then, sir, I
should prefer not to take your order, unless you
like to go to a higher figure. Our boarding-house
teeth are 25 guineas ; they are tested in cutting
out tin pastry prints, but even then we cannot
warrant them for more than three months !”
William H. Crane, the comedian, tells a
story which he says was given to him by Edwin
Booth. It seems that an old lady 80 years of age,
lying at the point of death, sent for her elfei'gy-
man and availed herself of the spiritual consola-
tion that holy man was qualified to administer.
This important office having been discharged, the
moribund octogenarian fell to ' discoursing about
the manner in which she wished tb, have her
obsequies conducted, and she insisted that she
should be so attired as to. present a pleasing ap-
pearance. , “Tell me, sir,” she asked feebly,
‘ ‘ what kind of coffins are now the fashion for
ladies.” “There are two styles, my dear sister,
answered the pastor* soothingly. “The coffins
for married Women are lined with red _ silk, and
the coffins for maiden ladies are lined With white
satin.” “Well, then,” said the. old lady with it
sigh, “I suppose you’ll have to line my coffin with
white satin; ” and in a moment she added,
brightening up, “but you can put in some strips
of scarlet plush; for I was pretty gay when I was
a girl.”— Chicago News,
J, W. Lyon, who had a good deal to do
with the initiation of that huge enterprise, the
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia, and who
has now gone back to his native Canada, used to
tell a story of his early days in the book-trade.
When he first started as a book-agent in Toronto
he went into the shop of a black barber opposite
his office and canvassed him for a certain book
\vhich Was then largely sold. The barber, a most
affable old fellow, listened to him even as the barber’s
own customers used to listen to their dusky
shaver. He hearkened with great interest to every
thing that Lyon said agreed with him on every
point—and finally, after the visitor had talked for
a solid hour by the clock, the black barber cour-
teously declined to take the book. Lyon, grievously
wounded in his amour propre —for a book-
banvasssr has ’some of that quality—tried him
again, but it was “no go.” However, though
there were some hard nails in Toronto, Lyon never
met anyone so hard as that barber, and, prospering,
he began tb employ canvassers of his own.
When a man came to him for work as, a
book-agent he would say tb him: “Ifou
blaim that you are a man bf business tact. Now,
you see that barber’s shop right over there ? Well,
the darkey that runs the place is a very nice sort
bf chap, but he hasn’t taken this book, and a
fellow I sent to him the other day can’t make him
budge an inch. “Oh !” would be the reply, “ I’ll
soon put a head on him ” —and off the canvasser
would go and talk for an hour, and the black
barber would listen for an hour, and then Lyon
Would look through his window and watch with
fiendish delight the dejected face of his emissary
as he went down the street tb have a drink td
brace him tip again. And so it was with canvasser
after’ canvasser. At last one day the black barber
appeared at Lyon’s office. “You don’t look very
well, ” said Lyon; ‘ ‘ what’s the matter ?” ‘ ‘ Well,
Mr. Lyon, I have come to strike a bargain with
you. If you’ll promise to send no fnore book-
agents to me any more I’ll pay for that volume of
yours, and I’ll shave you for nothing as long as
ever you stay in Toronto,” The barber was van-
quished*


Sporting.
Adam Bede’s
Benevolen t Consult a tions.
“ALL TUB YEAR KOL'XO.”
Twenty years before the Public.
Melbourne Cap Programmes now r.ady.
One tenth of Adam Bede’s commission on dll
future events ivill be devoted to charity.
NOW OPEN
Coronation Handicap,
Run at Canterbury Park, Sydney,
JUNE 29, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
EIRST HORSE ... £800
SECOND HORSE ... 300
THIRD HORSE ... 200
S triers, 1300; Non-Starters, £400; t j be
divided amongst them.
ŧ
t
m
m
July Handicap,
Run at Rosehill,
JULY 20, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FIRST HORSE ... £1000
SECOND HORSE ... 000
THIRD HORSE ... 400
Starters, £000; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided among-1 them.
iktiam. IE3<sci<e 7 s
Is the only fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have liven run.
Subscribers must reqisteb their letters to ensure safe
delivery, and must enclose stamps and envelopes for
reply and result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
Address—
“ ADAM BEDE,”
Care of H- N. Abbott, Rost Office Chambers, .
Sydney.
jack
Member of Tattersall’s (Sydney), and Victorian
Olub (Melbourne},
Desires to warn the public of Australia that he
has no connection with any advertised or other
consultation promoted by a person using the
hame of “J. Thompson.” Previous warning
have been giyen, but the swindle is still being
— teamed on-successfully.
Books Open on Forthcoming' Events.^
Country communications dealt with promptly.
K.B.—Jack Thompson’s ONLY Addresses are-
220 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
ANP
- TATTERSALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention this Paper.]
ţ
Square & Compass
A . _ CLUB.,
ss. Consultations. ss.
An unlimited number of members
at 6s. each. .
FIRST HORSE ... 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE 30.. per cent.
THIRD HORSE ... 20 per cent.
Jj.'B.— Tiir Square and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race - thus showing the
hona tides of the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
are posted can he visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the Sunday
Times and Referee following the races. ,
Motto : “ Fair and Square.”
took at the Dividends we have paid on the Don-
caster Handicap : - Russley, £95 3s. (id. ; Plutarch, £7
2s. 9d. ; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. lOd.
' CONSULTATION ON EVERY EVENT.
Note the address of the original.- r _ .
Square Sl Compass Club,
CA R E OF M. PAI. M,
630 GEORGE STREET 050
COLONNADE.
*■ TATTERBALLS”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the.principal raesi through -
ent the y» ar.
See Euening ' News “ Bre itie*” for full par
ticulars, or write to “ Tatter-all, ’ care if Cx o.
Adams; Pitt-atreet, Sydney.
Public Notice.
FISH I FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Pish Consumers in Town & Country.
o
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
'fish Frozen in Solid Blacks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish
Price 3d 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
’ ■ fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
•carry Jo any part of the colony , for 2s. Gd. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they wil| keep, for several days. The fish are
obtained direct'from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will bo Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ordor for the Amount.
All orders to be Sent to the Works—
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
The proper name of Benalla (V IC -) 18
3enalta. It received its misnomer, so says Judge
Quinlan, through a clerk being too lazy to cross a
“ t.” Somewhat similarly, a great N.Z. gold-mine
received the name of “the Alburnia.” The share-
holders had decided to call it the Hibernia, but
the man who went to register it could neither spell
or pronounce the name. So the clerk made a
dive thereat, and the concern has turned out
thousands of ounces of gold under the style of
“ the Alburnia.”
When next you bake try P.emell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Bookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
ilso in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous
miptions, and' produces a beautiful complexion. Ask
lealers in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton
Harden London.
A new sort of ram lias appeared. It is a
boat furnished in the forward part with a heavy
cylinder like that of a steam-engine, about fifteen
feet long, with a piston-rod twelve inches in dia-
meter. This piston-rod, which will extend through
the bow of the boat, will be the ram. It will be
driven by a force equal to six hundred and fifty
tons, sufficient to pierce the side of the heaviest
iron-clad with one blow. It is, in fact, a steam
torpedo-boat.
Dingman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lanes, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform hall
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Special Advertisements.
DR.
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 020. Dr.
3peer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
/ears to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
iPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
lospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat-
ill complaints with excellent results. All applying to
dm will receive his honest opinion of their complaints,
experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
i positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. 'His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, ox,
In other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
i certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
xe claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
horoughlv informed in his speciality-CHRONIC and
SPECIAL' DISEASES ok MEN and WOMEN. People
•esiding at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail he treated at home. The course of treatment will
xot in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
ion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
h’EER M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Street's Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
„> „ ... ’io ; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
Special Advertisements.
C. ELEY
o
<<
&
S
&
&
$
<b
G*
3F
A
*
£
<o
O
V
V
&
S'
*2
&
-V
sr
O
o
"V
£
(2
r
*
o
AT
&
O
<2>
&
o
Y*
&
o
v
•V
£
xX
390 a GEORGE S T
r
— 23*
B}L*
(V oXL-s
■
n
ii'SS' :
a
5
- v
b.Tf'a' si! £,13
He
PUOtC
B'6BlDt£-ST« SHWH*
Tlie Oxford Eotel, King Street, Sydney.
PROPRIETOR.
H. THORPE
JONES 9 SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just laudhstg-.
farleigh, nettheim & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
ALSO Import
IMPORT
D . ( x )
meters of UeouHtes for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
” P D LE VI hS &c ; and of the following Spkc.al L.nks : IV.-.-less «!•»». Sal » 1 olisl., Nubian
“ niackiiig Tanners’ Tools and Materials, &T Indents Executed on Favourable fenns.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROO ms
LT
CONSU
WWTHEj
D« RICHARDS »
Mil
rlllS
Hilly Ska®
asJArjinßii
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PEIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with the:e widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to h g
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un.
happiness than any other c'ass of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficult ies, a whitish or dark ropy s ediment in
'he waiter, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bow-els, specks before the eyes,
baGrfulnet-s, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
uzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
Tar that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow' or blood-shot eyes, impure
iPod, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hack : ng
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
anity and death, should consult him, for ho has
aia tered these d fflculties.* On receipt of CJ. in
stamps he w'ill send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing p’aiuly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoioughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenca This
hook w ill prove a valuable c mpanion, and even
hough 3 on be p rfeefy well its general inform-
ion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been p onounc.d incurable ly his medical at-
tendant
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
,r Remcd’es necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Phon'd you require med'cal
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan- •
geious, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your (hamber and write to the doctor,
le'a ; ing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a 1 tte-, write yon, promptly
p.nd courteously, a candid and stra'ghtforwai\l
nponion of your case. If 3on do not think you
nderstand the ca e, f cnl for his famous nodical
woik, 'he pries of which isb it s'xptnce ; enclosed
j i the volume wi 1 be found a 1 st of carefnlly-pre-
■an d questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are careful'y per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patien's may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret beteveen the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their wiitten evidence of his success, AU
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
S YDFTE Y.
Be sure to mention this paper when waiting*
CONSULTATION FREE.
VISITOR: “ WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL THEY TOLD ME THAT IF I DID
NOT GIVE UP DRINKING COFFEE I SHOULD LOOK SILLY.”
LITTLE GIRL: “WHY DIDN’T YOU, THEN?”— LIFE.


A recent South Sea traveller was relating
some wonderful instances of the effect that tropical
climates have in changing the natures of animals.
“ Why, my dear sir,” he concluded, “ I’ve actually
seen a couple of sheep at Rarotonga snarling over
a bone, and another hanging by his tail to a cocoa-
nut tree barking at them. ” A very new American
consul hauled out his little note-book and ejacu-
lated, “ Most remarkable; I must jest put that
down.” “ Got it down?” said the traveller with
a smothered snigger. “ Yaas,” said the Murrikan
‘"And I’ve added that St. Paul must have re-
ferred to tlie people of the tropics when he dic-
tated to his type-writer gal the memorable words,
‘ All men are liars I ’ ”
Miscellaneous.
The Brifisli anil New South Wales Investment
and Financial Limited.
Incorporated, etc. Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office ; 240 PITT STREET.
T)ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
(i A S~! GAS! GAS!
O
Protect yourselves against explosi.ns, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
Join the Gas Consumer’s Protective
Association,
No. 110 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
F. W, CURNOW, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 tj 1 on Saturday.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Holler ipour and Grain J|tOfca,
GK A N VIL LE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office : - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Poller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
General Business Sc Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
LZEOIN'.A.IRTID GKW
MUSICAL.
TMTKNT SCALE INDICATOR, for Pupils Learning the
J Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. (id., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted-Stationers.
Holt & NAT" inning,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 DOWN STREET, COLLINGWOOD,
MELBOURNE.
All kinds of Scenery made on the Shortest Notice.
ows
);' vSOLD J
'.\E\/ERY S WHERE{'
ť
Hotels,,
HAWKESBURY RIVER,
SUMMER SEASON.
Sanitorium Hotel,
PEATS PERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished ; boating and fishing ; three-
quarters of a mile from the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
Sec that you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, See.
Por the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice,
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents, Terms very moderate,
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor,
Business Announcements.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
New establishment
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
- TO BE THE -
Largest & Most Complete Gentlemen's Outfitting Warehouse
Anywhere, either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES & SHAW are now showing the whole of the Goods contained in the Two beautiful
Cases recently shown by WELCH, MARGETSON & CO. at the Melbourne Exhibition.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Stylish Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in Hats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts.
For Cheap and Good Ready made Suits.
VISIT
I’eapcs
Shaw
For Boys' Beady made Clothing,
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys' and Youths' Eton Suits
Visit Peapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
REMEMBER! |y The LARGEST and CHOICEST SELECTION of GOODS
'OR — 1
MEN, YOUTHS & BOYS
t PEAPES & SHAW’
Right opposite their Old Shop in GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ŧ
EVERY LAD Y HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BY USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
> “ WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OF FASHIONS,” contain-
ing Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of the country
on receipt of (XOd.) Postage Stamps.
' 3VEa.cAa.xxxe WEIGEL,
IGI KING STREET, SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
PfD
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
FOR PRIVATE USE IS UNSURPASSED.
Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use* Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each
Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor, 10/G ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is,
Bend Post Office Order;
CRAIG A AITKEIT, Potosi Hair-Cutting Saloon,
Nine Haikcutters Always Employed !
680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY*
Photographic
VSws
=55*5F
HtH
Lichtner &
318 a George Street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK IMPORTERS,
Late LICHTNER & CO., 32 O’Connell Street.
LICHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both Amateur
and Professional, of the late Firm that, having effected a change by the admis-
sion into Partnership of Mr. D. C. KILBURN, and removal into more commodious
and centrally-situated premises at
3NT o. 318 a GEORGE STREET,
(Between Hunter Street and the General Post Office,)
trust tl at they will receive as generous and continuous patronage in the future as has
been acco.-ded for the past years. They also take advantage of this opportunity of
returning thanks to their numerous clients for favours bestowed, and will endeavour
to still deserve their kind attention in the futures.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Companies.
- —THE- * - •
Imperial Land, "Building & Deposit Co,
(Limited), New South. Walks,
Hoffnung’s Buildings, 171 Pitt St., Sydney.
Managing D4rectors:
ALEX. MILSOP, Esq., J.P., Chairman".
H. L. SUMMERFIELD, Esq. WM. MARTIN, Esq., .T.P.
E. V. MANNING, Esq. WM. BYRNES,'Esq.
• General Manager :
WILLIAM P. SMAIRL, Esq., J.P.
rpHIS Company undertakes all usual Banking and Buila-
ing Society business on the most favourable terms,
fixed and Current Deposits received and Interest allowed
at the following rates: —12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months,
6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Advances to Munici-
palities on the Security of Rates on very Liberal Terms.
On (Ji.ty, Suburban and Country Properties at Lowest
Current Rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed,' the punctual repayment of interest or prin-
cipal,'or both. Dividends collected in the United Kingdom
or the Colonies. Communications addressed to the
General Manager will receive prompt attention.
Western Australia,
s ■ The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly 'processing. Her vast Mineral Resources
are being opened wp, and property is hardening in
—— value: ——
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
The Ca ttal City.
Allotments right in the City!
3-T* r o m. £33 ZEIJI a c I,
Allotments close to the City,
From Ten Pounds each Xaot.
Goon Land. Well Situated. Easy Terms.
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Free to any
»• ’ address oh application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
the FEDERAL HELP COMPANY.
Wanted— General Servants, Cooks, House-
maids, Nurses, &c.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Storej > Free of Charge.
Offices : 72 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Hunter Street).
J. Strafford Dixon ... Secretary.
Tobacconists,
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CANT B BEAT.”
Mick Simmonds, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “Can’t B Beat.”
Something New 1 Something New !
The Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
{AW Smoker’s . Companion I *HA
containing the following :
lib. Williams’, Jib. blocks
lib. Imported Dark Victory
lib. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist;
pure American Tooacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 II S Manila Cigars
I Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Klectro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
|lb. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
ilb. Long' Cut, American
fW Delivered Free at Redtern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can he left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its p’ace. All can be a commodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 60 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkkt, Sydney.
SMO ICE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
B
PIPES.
THE BEST lIT THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO,
231 Clarence Street.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACIIRINOA
MELAOHRINO
MEI.ACHRINO I
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO
MELACIIRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
-Have the Largest Sale in the World!—-■
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
WARREKT & EtCrWHOV
11 Run-nek Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette .... 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100'.
„ No. 8 „ .... CG/- ' „ 7/-
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-'
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,-
will receive prompt attention.


PFestern Australia: the Coming Colony.
Now is the time to Invest your Pew Pounds!
To Heap very shortly your Thousands!
, -rx- • - e rml ctilvpv Tin and other Minerals have been made, and with RESPONSIBLE
The eyes of the world are now on WESTERN aV^AST^SHE^MOVES in time! Call on the’w.A Agents (CL W. Dent & Co.),
GOVERNMENT (acertaimty) it may, truth said— Ai LACsi to an . • V. «^Tl 0 at for Sale to suit Lame and Small Buy<
GOVERNMENT (a certaimty) it may, witn om m saiu— xxx r
near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY, while you can get it almost given you.
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
• • x* i iayi p ho vv a ii’T w uHiib ol tin cl secure tin allotment in or
Buyers, fom £10 to £20,000
119a ESliszsLlDetli.
“That, invalid wife, mother, sister or child can be made
the picture of health with l»r. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.”
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Berth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, !>G Bathurst-stroet, Sydm y.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must I* true
—that Pemell’s Sxow win® Patent UofcLKtt Flour is the
best in tiie market.
Land at Perth, W.A., and best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
!)() Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., HI
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
K
o
s
o
S
T
u
/ICENTS .
DELISSAe. PHILLIPS
3**s Barmck Street.
The Re feree.
As little Ringmaster is being raced at
“ home ” without plates it is probable that Engli; h
trairiers will begin to consider seriously whether
they cannot adopt the sarnie system with advantage ,
Hitherto they have kept the shoes on horses for ns
better reason" than that it was their fathers’ custom
and so it shall be theirs, never troubling to follow
the American arid Australian fashion, although
Common sense should tell them that it is worth
a trial on soft turf. Quite a stir was niade some
nine years ago when the American plunger, Walton
pur.shaded an English trainer to take the plates
off a two-year-pld named Montrose for a dead-heat
“rim off.” The experimerit turned out success-
fully, for Montrose won the decider pretty easily;
Nevertheless the new idea (in England) was only
a nine days’ wonder, other trainers sticking to the
old faith as tenaciously as ever, and the improved
form shown by this youngster minus his shots
being attributed to anything save the apparent
cause.
# # #
When Donovan’s defeat for the Two
Thousand Guineas was cabled The Bulletin sug-
gested that the Colt had riot been thoroughly
wound Up, and Would cut a better figure for the
Derby. As everybody now knows, Donovan
started an odds-on favourite for the great Epson!
race, and pulled the public through. All previous
records are already smashed rip by this lucrative
horse, who has annexed more than £40,000 in
stakes. Donovan’s sire, Galopin, was also a Derby
winner in addition to being a champion two-year-
old performer, while his dam, Mowerina, was one
of the speediest mares that ever flew over six
furlongs. Both sire and dam belonged to the
Austrian sportsman, Count (afterwards Prince)
Batthyany. >.
# * *
Baseball Spalding writes to the London
papers saying he is delighted with his Australian
tour. Some people are easily pleased.
# * *
A. C. Haskings, of Nambucca, writes to
The Bulletin that he has been defrauded by a
sweep promoter calling himself “J. Thompson,
whom lie believes to be the same person that The
Bulletin has warned its readers against.
* * *
The Y.R.C, have copyrighted their lists
of entries for leading turf events, in order to pre-
vent said lists from being printed on the back of
land boom advts., &c., as they were last year. As
a business notion this is sweet. It should inspire
the Triumvirate to copyright their theatre pro-
grammes lest some enterprising tradesman might
give, say, the “Pointsman” a gratuitous shove
along by publishing particulars ot the show on his
Great Clearing Sale handbills.
# * #
Pony racing was played about as low as it
will go at Morelialloc (Melbourne) last week. For
the Selling Race a pony over height was allowed
to weigh out, and was backed 5 to 4 before being
duly measured and disqualified. This withdrawal
of the favourite left the race a seeming “ moral ’’
for an animal nominated by the chief promoter of
the meeting. Whereupon the bookmakers rushed
the weighing yard and swore ghastly vengeance
against everybody concerned. Further tumult
iTas averted by the unexpected defeat of the pony
belonging to the promoter, who promptly called a
meeting of the stewards (consisting of himself and
one other person ,) and the stewards decided to dis-
qualify the offending jockey for three months.
Subsequently this righteous sentence was com-
muted to a “ caution.” The whole meeting was a
“caution.” ,
The next Australian Eleven that goes
“Home” will probably have more than ever to
fear from young George Lohmann, who has started
the present English season by making 102 runs
against good bowling. Lohmann is of Israelitish
descent, and when a shapely member of the steady-
nerved Chosen People devotes his naturally acute
intellect to cricket he wants a lot of beating at the
game. Attewell, another of our recent visitors,
who is still on the sunny side of thirty, seems 1 1
be in good form this year.
# * *
The champion Edinburgh football team is
composed of young Australians, and is called the
Australasian Club. It was only defeated once last
season.
# . * #
Hon. Treasurer of St, Vincent’s Hospital
acknowledges the receipt of £5 ss. from Adam
Bede per the manager of The Bulletin. And
apropos of this we are requested to mention that
in the future Adam will advertise the complete
result of all drawings of his consultations in ) he
Bulletin. This course is adopted because in a
few instances investors have, through the laches of
the Post-office, failed to receive the result-slips
which are invariably posted immediately after
each drawing.
« * *
Since 18(34 the Y.R.C. have disbursed
£310,255 in stakes alone.
# * t #
“Pendragon” advises Scarle to got his
match with O’Connor off in August or Septembr
“ because late autumn chills simply cripple most
Antipodean colonials. ”
* * *
The modern exodus. The following Aus-
tralian boxers are now in, or are on their way to,
America Jackson, ]■ itzpatrick, Mulhouand,
Meadows, Gofman, Billy M'Carty, Smith, and
Murphy. ■ , .
# * *
Most of the Sydney sporting prophets
would make first-rate billiard cues -their tips are
Warranted never to come off. „
# * *
Of the modern English cricketers who
recently visited South Africa only five intend to
return to England. The good-hearted Africanders
linked in putting the visitors oh to “ good things”
in the Transvaal mines, and the manager of the
team, Mr. Bowden, made £3OOO in a scrip deal
during the progress Of one of the matches.
* * *
Running in Sydney there is a ped. who
bears the ominous ilame of G. Stiff. " Over 500
others are far better entitled to it.
See
This Nights Evening Howl
RELEASE JF BUTINER
"The
MACLEAT street murder
Murder
CO N STABLE
ARREST OF THE CuLPfl
ONE GOES, ANOTHER COMES.
THE FINISHER OF THE LAW (sol): “THE LORD WILL PROVIDE.
The Bulletin’s article on the N.S.W
Pedestrian Boom has borne good mult. The pro-
prietors of the running -grounds are now showing
malefactors no quarter. ' > ‘ '
Rumour asserts in San Francisco that
Black Jackson achieves his victories ■ over his
opponents by “ mesmerising ” them. They say
that he comes of a famous family of Myall men or
mesmerists in the West Indies, Some tune ago
we used to hear of John L. Sullivan’s animal
magnetism and enthralling l eye. Black J.’s mag-
netism is his thumping power, we believe.
« * #
One effect of the Sydney footracing boom
is seen every Sunday at Uandwick, where a
number of youths and children run off a ss. handi-
cap (entrance, a “thrummer”) with a (id. tote,
bookmakers, heats, and the usual bad language
from disappointed backers.
An English society, journal says that Mat
Dawson will be asked to train Uou James White s
youngsters, but will likely decline the honour.
Old Mat trains for “ the best of the aristocracy,
and probably would “lose* caste ” if he dealt with
a commoner, but in the name of Henniker Heaton,
h this the way to clrawthe silken bonds tighter ?
# * - •* ■*(“
The Americans are a practical nation even
in their sports. Trotting takes the place of the
turf. Even the trotters that never win are useful
animals, but nine-tenths of the racehorses ire not
even fit for cat's-meat.
Lady Loch and Lady Lytton are t\\ .ns.
Henry George will arrive in Sydney about
Christmas next.
The S.A. Governor’s nickname amongst
intimates is “ Kin.”
A Sydney man who has just “gone hung”
owes his milkman £l2O.
One drink, too much ! Two drinks, not
enough.” —Aboriginal Proverb.
Buttrier was sustained through all hG
tribulations with Marshall’s lonic Nervine, and
it, Morehead and Crick pulled him through.
“Society note ” front Mount Morgan in a
Queensland ladies’ paper i
This is pay-week, arid things are beginning to he a bit
livelier. .
Sir- Thomas Grattan Esmonde, who, in
Ireland, “used to folloW. the hounds regularly,”
tried his hand at jumping fences in Western V ic-
tpria the other day, and got a nasty cropper over
a two-foot obstacle. Sir Thomas’ horsemanship is
not calculated to impress the people of the country
which produced Tommy Corrigan.
Gladstone predicts that next British general
election will give the Liberals a hundred majority.
The Bulletin predicts that in 20 years the Con-
servatives will have ceased to be a power in British
politics, and that the rump of Tories will be
coalescing with the least liberal of the Liberals to
stem the advance to power of the Social Demo-
crats the coming great party.
One of the best whiskies now on the Aus-
tralian market is Dawson’s Perfection Scotch
Whisky, really a fully-matured wholesome spirit,
and already a favourite with whisky-drinkers.
The Australian agency is in the hands of Messrs.
Vaughan, Rogers and Co., of 108, 1 itt-street,
Sydney, and they are now establishing agencies
throughout the continent.
Prince Albert Victor’s ’pa decided last
Christmas that his son should be allowed to own a
racehorse or two, and from that time until the
beginning of May, “ Cuffs’’.spent the most of his
time studying combinations of colours, and when-
ever he has been observed to be unusually pensive
he has never failed to look up with a passing gleam
of interest and ask, “ What do you think of pale
blue?” or whatever other colour was for the
moment in his alleged mind. His final choice con-
sists of blue and white hoops, red sleeves, and
blackcap. ......
CORRESPONDENCE
Thanks “ E.L.” : The sky-
palaces of Melbourne don’t let over-well, anyhow ...
<< (Leichhardt) ; Would like to talk with you on the
subject “Frank Chand’os”: Two or three are excel-
lent.... “Mark W.”; Hoiv can you say so'in face of the
tact that the Papal Government under Pius the Ninth
recognised the Confederate States Government? ...“'Of.
Fainnan ” : Will communicate with him. What address?
....“Constant Reader” ; Mill tell you all about it
when we have got - through with the barristers....
“IL T. Ranee”: Next week....“ Young Kangaroo”:
Verses unsuitable....“ A.W.’ ; Bertrand has bed 23
years in ga01.... “F.T.R.”: We sympathise with a great
many of your remarks on the drink question, but after all
the tendency to over-indulgence in liquor i.s almost in-
variably an inherited disease having its prig-in in remote
■causes “L.K.”: The newspaper portraits of criminals
don’t amount to anything unless they are produced by
photography instead of by the pencils of so-called artists.
Depend upon it the sort of murderer’s picture given to
you by the E. Noose or Daily Telegraph is not the sort
■of picture which the average murderer used to send to ins
best girl. You know what the newspaper racehorse
“block ” is. Well, then, that’s the sort of thing the mur-
derer’s portrait printed in thenewspapers i 5.... “ Waldo ” :
Your letter •doesn’t touch the chief point, which is that the
N.S.W. Full Court in suspending Mr. Harry Bevien for 12
■months from practising Ms profession -as a solicitor has in
a case involving no fraud and no dishonour inflicted twice
the penalty which was imposed upon an attorney who had
■clearly “ had” his client. The public recognise the Chief
Justice’s honest endeavour to purge the roll of attorneys,
hut altogether disapproves of the Court’s action with
regard to Mr. Levien “ Lemke”: What you urge is
•quite beside the question. A “Prime Minister” must,
not only be pure, but he must do his best to appear
pure in the interests of his country. Anyone who did not
know Parkes always to have Veen above suspicion in poli-
tical money-affairs might easily suppose him to have been
wilful in this matter instead of having been merely care-
less. Why he did not know better than to allow a lot of
irresponsible nobodies headed by John Davias to finger a
quarter of a million of money, while there were responsible
men in the public service, is a mystery. The man who is
too fond of doing everything himself is bound lo come to
grief; the control exercised by Parkes over the gigan-
tic expenditure in question appears to have amounted
to letting the money take care of itself “Womera”
(Croydon, Q.): Your story is dying of senile debility.
'“W.S.O.”: If the mailman likes to take your
letter and put a string round it he can carry and deliver it
as a parcel and pocket your stamps ; hut should the P.O.
authorities he able’ to' get you to give evidence that the
money was accepted hy him for The purpose of buying
stamps then it will be clear that the P.O. has been
wroimed and he will be fined....“ W. garden ” (S. Hills) :
The secret of John Davies’ prominence has been that he is
a rather good-looking man with a sober, level head and an
imperturbable temper ; that he looks eminently respect-
able and dresses the character well, accrding to his black-
coated and long-tiled idea of what constitutes Respect-
ability ; that lie lias done good turns, sometimes no doubt
at Id's own expense, for hundreds and thousands of poor
people ; that he never passes a man lie knows without
ceremoniously shaking hands with him ; that lie has been
a workman himself and lias never been known to break his
word to a Corporation labourer ; that he has never shown
any religious party-malice ; that iie has on the whole
behaved gratefully to those who have done him kind-
nesses ; and that, without being aggressive, he has shown
a resolute front to his enemies. In every mixed Sydney
crowd of men you can find hundreds of people who are
John Davies’ personal friends-and as for the women—
well, they always believe in the M.B. who gets the “poor
oukl man ” sixpence a day advance in his wages. And
there you have the better side of John Davies, or what we
have seen of it in 10 years “ A.K.” (Crookwell):
Thanks “G. Lawson ” : No. Manhood suffrage is not
in force'in England....“ H.E.” (Wickham); Send along
“Pretty Cocky ” and if we can honestly do so we will
scratch its poll'. [Many letters held over.l
The British Weekly', a social-religious
paper, asserts that the Australian students at
Edinburgh University are by far the rowdiest,
drink the hardest, and in every way lead the
fastest lives.
From what has just happened in Sydney
it is quite plain that ere you hire a private detec-
tive to watch your wife or your husband, as the
case may be, you should take quite a large num-
ber of things into consideration. One young
woman (whose evidence, however, was disbelieved
by the Judge and contradicted by witnesses)
averred that she had been engaged to “ freeze
on ” to a married man for the purpose of making
divorce evidence against him. In another case a
man swore that he had given a Sydney private
detective £‘2o to watch his wife—with whom, it
subsequently transpired, the detective himself was
consorting* 1 We want an Australian Sardou.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - .£500,000.
Sydney Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLL!!SR STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices: ... Hunter Street
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS : '
Three Months
Six ~
Twelve ~
Mid a Bonus declared to
renewed, 2 per cent. 6
... 5 per cent.
deposits of 12 months,
months, II per cent.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
she (Anglo-Australian (Investment,
finance A sand Company, (Ltd.
Capital Paid-up
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled)
Reserve Fund ..
£lOO,OOO
250,000
60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office 31 Lombard Street, E.C-
Chairman-. Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
mms Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising- management, has won
its way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
Deposits received in Large or Small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMBS
Manager.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
FINANCIAL COMPANY. LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 h.)
CAPITAL
Sydney Office:
£200,000.
301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia
Immediate advances trranted. Bills discounted daily-
granted. Bills discounted daily-
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits :—3" years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
Of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous- -
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suecess-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
IKZ IB IB GST’S
Patent Unbreakable Saddle
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Factory and Office—24s Castlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
New Premises, 245 Castlereagh St,, Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive prompt attention.
68T None Genuine without our Trade Mark. ISi
Caution, —The Sole Right of the above Patent
having been purchased by the undersigned, Sad-
dlers and the Public generally are cautioned against
any infringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
TAmj
F. C. Hedemann, \
L. C. Henderson, /
•Trustees.
Hotels.
Bourne S t
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PAS S
EYEfc Y FEW MIMUTES
jg'
t ■ ' I
PALACE HOTEL!
m
hj
am
J.A.WiLSOM
I PSOPRiETOP
G.W.CLARE
MANAGE*,
The PALACE HOTEL, EOUSSS STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hundred. Mlagnificent Setirooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT. 4 COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
US' Each Eloor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by th<
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxuriou
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
TWO PASSEHGEE OTIS LIFTS.
)_(
Ladies’ Boudoir* Drawing* Smoking* and Reading Rooms.
)_ (
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hot Vi
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6d. per KTiglit
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
i. i „■) ■ —»Qc» '4 m -
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
AMERICAN
Exchange Hotel,
—Corner of—
George Street & Queen’s Place,
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange Hotel,
which has just been opened, is
situated in the heart of the city,
and in close proximity to the
principal Banks, Exchange, Post
Office, Government Buildings,
etc., etc.
». SJ&.'SS
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
The Dining-Room £ every rS
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
AND
READING ROOMS.
Pull particulars as to Tariff, eto.,
may be obtained on application at the
American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
\s
t;.e
MOTEL
808* 1
MIEF
X
J
ryw Btzrn' kWt
m
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilmxnsteb to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. tttt .ivrTivrHTßßj Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THOM’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONff - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hots l,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured!
The Greatest Success j
of Modern Times. \
CONSULT
/All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable.
MR. H. E. KXJGEXARSAkISTINr,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more ;
[corv.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. E. Kuqelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that 1, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a tree statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand ; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a -day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curs
not being Effected.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Eight and Life,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WARD Ss CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR lE3,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
BEHAN’S
Black Oils or Embrocation,
FOR
HORSES, CATTLE and LOSS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Soars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888,
Unequalled as a Dressing for
Fresh Wounds, Sore Backs, Girth Galls,
Broken Knees, Greasy Heels,
Sand and Quarter Crack, Itch and Mange;
and as an
Embrocation for Sprains, Curbs, Stiff Joints
and Enlargements.
Prepared Only by J + Behan k Co M
135 Uizab tJi Street, IScill'crn, Sydney.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Redfern.
Price - 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sold by Chemists, Saddlers’and Storekeepeers.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCO ikm


Boots and Shoes.
FASHION,
FIT, and
FINISH!
JUDGE + FOR + YOURSELVES.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
The Finest Sand Sewn
Boots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
ţ
ť
ŧ
The Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Go.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER*
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «&c..
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
O’ Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather, '©ft
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
Business Announcements.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
60S, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MAUFACTURERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
—AND
CA.BI3XTET MAKERS.
Importers of
Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets, Floor-
Cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains, Overmantles,
Pictures, and Electroplated Ware, Java Kapok, in
751 b. hales, at 7|-d. per lb. (free from seed); Caffs
Tables, Iron Stands, Marble Tops, from 30s. to 505.;
Chinese Cane Lounges and Chairs, Green and White
Balcony Blinds, Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter
Coolers, Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General Drapery,
Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frillings, Furnishing
Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers, Furnaces, Mangles,'
Earthenware, Glass and China Ware.
MWMm •fcfiWT’
At prices so low, that, when the old and
well-known superiority of the Goods is
considered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Tree. Patterns upon Application.
+
WRITE FOR THB
ILLUSTRATE® CATALOGUE
With Price List.
Communicate freely, and you will be promptly answered*
Telegraph Address : LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER & SONS,
General Importers and House Furnishers,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1850.
ROOKTEI Y and O 0.,
SAW MILLERS,
timber # ( Steam ioiners,
TOWUSVILLB,
T ARGEST Stock of Orkgan Pine and Colonial Timbbbe,
- L * Sashes, Doors, &c., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders promptly despatched
F. C. NICHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HA YMAREZET.
Steam Works ;
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c„, Hade to Order.
T> OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
it; have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 A gkeoirgkb stbeet,
(BETWEEN BATHURST AND LIVERPOOL STREETS.)
WINES, SPIRITS, and BEERS,
in and out of bond.
AT LOWEST RATES.
HIBBI.E & COMPANY,
—SIGN WRITERS-
AND
ART DECORATORS,
96 Castlereag’h. Street,
&w One Door Erom King Street.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report bt Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst ;
“ I have tested a sample of the * Magic Meal ’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, aftei a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tms
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon“ J
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, a®
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags —71b. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. 6d.; 561 b., 18s-
6d. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
31 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Read ! Read ! 1
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shil linS
Per post, Is. 6d. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents ;
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-stiee .
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launces on.
THE ROYAL COLONIAL INSTITUTE-
RAKING IN THE COLONIALS.—OUR FUTURE
MONARCH.—NEVER HEARD OF PARLES —
THE WRONG “PARTY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Victoria, by the grace of God, of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen
Defender of the Faith, Empress of India, to all to
whom these presents shall come, Greeting—”
Is only the preamble of Her Majesty’s Royal
Charter of Incorporation of the Royal Colonial
Institute, which, with a plentiful sprinkling of
“And Whereas,” and “Now Know Ye,” grants
to H.R.H. Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, K.G.,
and William Drogo Montagu, Duke of Manches-
ter, K.P., and others the right “to promote the
increase and diffusion of knowledge respecting as
well Our Colonies, Dependencies, and Possessions,,
as Our Indian Empire, and the preservation of a
permanent union between the, Mother Country
and the various parts of the British Empire.”
And H.R.H. and William Drogo have been
actively engaged in this harmless occupation from
that time forth even up to the present day.
And one of the mainstays and principal props
of their simple little scheme is to rake into the
fold every colonial visitor who ventures into this
“our Empire” either to take up his modest in-
heritance, to float a company, negotiate a loan, or
form a ducal syndicate for the more successful
grabbing of the people’s land at the Antipodes.
Thus it came about that a perfectly harmless
and inoffensive Sydney man who went “home”
the other day with an upright heart and two suits
of new clothes, has returned in a wrecked and dis-
mantled condition to the bosom of his family. He
went from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell among—
old colonial friends, who told him, out of their in-
finite desire for the preservation of the integrity,
&c., that the very first and quite the proper thing
for him to do was to be made a F.R.C.I.
And one proposed and another seconded him,
and the whole lustrous intelligence of the Council
decided to accept him at the upset price of two
guineas, and his name was forthwith enshrined
with that of H.R.H. and William Drogo, and the
revered Brassey, and Graham Berry, and Alfred
Bennett, and about 4000 other loyal Christian
gentlemen who are ready at any hour of the day
or night to do all that a gentleman may for the
increase and diffusion of knowledge, and for the
preservation of the aforementioned integrity.
And having paid his two guineas he Whs asked,
as is the custom, if he would read a paper on Aus-
tralia in the presence of all the greatness to
which he had been allied, and, remember-
ing that one of the prominent objects of
the institution Was “for holding discussions
upon colonial and Indian subjects generally,”
he said he would, and with infinite pleasure—
because a horrible suspicion had taken posses-
sion of him to the eifect that the Institute
knew next door to nothing about the colonies out-
side vice-regal reports, and the correspondence of
Premiers and prospective K.O.M.G.’s, and the
ultra-loyal twaddle of the Conservative Press.
And in the green gum-leaf of his innocence he
went off to Northumberland Avenue to see the
chief engineer, and to find out when he might be
expected to satisfy the yearnings of the 4000
F.R.O.I.’s by unfolding his little Australian
budget, but H.R.H. and many lords with him
were in possession of the official, and when at last
he gained an audience it was after this fashion :—
Sorry to have detained you, but I have been
with H.R.H., you know, and some members of
the Council. Of course you recognised our future
monarch, the King of England, and, shall we say,
of Australia ? ”
“ Well, no, I think not. You see we have
Parkes out there, and it’s a comparatively small
country for two such potentates to swing around
together in. ”
“ H’m, yes, perhaps so. I never heard of
Parkes, but I dare say you are quite right. How
do you like England after such an absence ?”
“ Not at all. I miss the sunshine, and I am
saddened by the sights of your wonderful city.”
“Saddened! Why? Have you been to Ken-
sington? Have you seen the new Imperial Insti-
tute, the Albert Memorial, the Wild West, West-
minster Abbey, the Aquarium, the Alhambra,
the
“Yes, the most of what is said to be worth
seeing, including that best of all London shows,
Punch and Judy. But wherever I go I see poverty
and wretchedness, rags and starvation, cheek by
jowl with an extent of wealth and frippery that is
simply appalling. The gaunt wolves that infest
your streets in the likeness of men and women,
and the skin-drawn images of children in your
gutters, and begging at the doors of the carriages
in your fashionable thoroughfares, obliterate all
pleasanter sights and sounds and enforce compari-
sons which are the reverse of favourable to the
country. Have you yet fixed a date for the read-
ing of the paper you wrote to me about ?”
“ Not yet, but I will advise you in due course by
post.'’
“ Am I under any restrictions with'regard to
choice of subject or method of dealing with it ?”
“Oh, dear no! The subject will, of course, be
Australian, and any information you can give us
will be warmly welcomed by the Institute.”
“ Very good. Then I propose to enlist the sym-
pathy of the members with regard to the advis-
ableness of allowing the colonies to choose their own
governors, pointing out, by the way, that, taking
salaries, sustenance, house-rent, staffs of ornamen-
tal officials, and incidental expenses from A to Z
into consideration, the colonies are at the present
time paying a sum of money which may fitly be
represented by x, but which probably means some-
thing over £150,000 per annum, for the privilege
of being governed by a succession of necessitous
titled persons whose sole interest in the matter
is the regularity with which the payments are
made. And this for a population of under
5,000,000 people, while America which chooses its
own President—
“ But the abuses, my dear sir. The abuses of
that form of government!”
“Quite so. That observation was a foregone
necessity for you. But what about ours ? Gould
you manage to ask Parkes for a little information
under that head ? Excuse me, though, I had for-
gotten for the moment that you do not know him.
That, however, is a matter of small moment. Just
write and ask him. He is easily approached,
very affable and chock-full of material that would
be of service to you. Abuses, sir ? Why, Aus-
tralia fairly swarms with abuses of Imperial
parentage and sturdy Conservative growth.”
“ But really ”
_ “Pardon me for one moment. In addition to this
little matter referred to I also desire to call the
attention of the Institute to the rapid spread of
Democracy in the colonies— a fact which I fear is
somewhat injudiciously kept in the background ■
to the triple annexation of New Guinea ; the
determination of the colonies to exclude the
Chinese, all treaties to the contrary notwithstand-
ing ; to the iniquitous Naval Defence Bill, and
sundry other trifles of similar import, which ”
“ But, my dear sir, you go too far. And you
surely do not suppose you can be allowed to come
here and ventilate such questions as these in
defiance of our rule which says that ‘no paper
shall be read or any discussion be permitted to
take place tending to give to the Institute a party
character. ”
“ I understand, of course, that I do not belong to
the right * party,’ but I may remind you of your
assurance _ that no restrictions were imposed on
either choice of subject or method of dialing with
it !”
“ Well, you see, having allowed yourself to be
elected a Fellow of the Institute, I naturally con-
cluded that you were in sympathy with its aims
and objects. You are an Englishman ?”
“By the accident of birth, yes.' In all else an
Australian, pure and simple. Whatever sym-
pathy I may have had with the Institute was
founded on the impression that aud.i alteram partem
would at least be the guiding principle of its pro-
ceedings in the effort to secure information.”
“But most of our leading men are prominent
members of the Imperial Institute, and all are im-
bued with a firm faith in the necessity for Imperial
Federation.”
“ Precisely. And a wide gulf therefore yawns
between us. A gulf which is rapidly widening,
and one which Imperial Federation will never
bridge. Allow me to thank you for the courtesy
which would have provided a titled and fashion-
able audience to listen to my Australian opinions
had they been moulded in the orthodox groove,
and to wish you good morning. ”
And now the miserable man who tows these four
large capital letter’s along in the wake of an honest
name exhausts his ingenuity in the vain attempt to
explain to people who don’t believe a word of the
statement that he never for a moment wavered in
his allegiance to the National Cause of Australia,
admitting the while that the dinners at the Metro-
pole are exceptionally good, and charitably con-
necting that fact with the post-prandial utterances
of some of the most eloquent Australians on the
pet theory of cementing the bonds which bind
them to the “ dear old Mother Country.”
Lord Rosebery has entertained an angel
unawares. When he visited Australia to help
along the Imperial Federation idiocy he left a £25
cheque at Sydney University as a graduate’s prize
for an essay on ‘ ‘ The Future of the Australian
Colonies.” The prize essay, by David G-. Fergu-
son, which is published in this month’s Centen-
nial Magazine, is a gentle war-cry of Australian
independence. It is very rough on Rosebery to
have paid a quarter of a “century” for half-a-
dozen small pages of straight Republican talk,
when he could have got any quantity of it for six-
pence in The Bulletin, with Hop.’s diagrams
thrown in.
Sydney Taiwhanga, a Maori member of
the N.Z. Parliament, has got a brand-new griev-
ance before which the failure of the Pakeha
Government to keep the provisions of the Treaty
of Waitangi pales into insignificance. When
Te Kooti, the pardoned.murderer, visited Auck-
land some months ago he was honoured by the
civic authorities, shown over the factories, and
presented with various trifles as souvenirs of his
visit. The outraged Taiwhanga drew his toga
close about him and remarked: “Ehoa ingoa !
Friends of the Pakeha race, you are warming
in your bosom the man who murdered European
women and children ; nay, worse than that, you
bear to him presents of canned-beef and butter.
Here am I, Taiwhanga, chief of the Ngapuhi ; I
have learnt your language, I have married a white
woman ” (she’s a terror, by the way), “ and I have
done my best for both races. Who gives me
butter! Where is the man who brings to me
presents of canned-beef! ” An unsympathetic
bystander reminded Taiwhanga that Virtue was
its own reward, but the irate chieftain interjected
fiercely, “ Oh ! Kapai Virtue ! Kapai Virtue !
Ugh! Ugh! What the good Virtue when
Kah ore the meat ? ”
The Marquis of Normanby, who, long ere
he “ governed ” South Australia and New Zealand
was Ambassador to France, used to tell a good
story of that era of his life. He had once to inter-
view President Louis Napoleon on important
matters of state, and half Europe was hold-
ing its breath and expecting momentous events
to spring from the conference. Normanby, on
proceeding to the Tuilleries, was asked by the
aide-de-camp to wait for a few minutes. Some
time passed, and the President not appearing, the
Marquis became impatient. He heard stifled
laughter in the next room, and cautiously raising
the hangings that covered the door, he saw Mrs.
Howard, Lady Stanley, the Viseomtess Pauline
de Contades, two or three other ladies, the “ Shook
of Gampridge,” and the Prince-President himself
playing at blind-man’s-buff, the Louis taking the
Sart of the blind man. Without a word Lord
lOrmanby went forward on tip-toe, the others
most discreetly keeping silence, and tapped the
presidential hand. “ Oh, I’ve caught you this
time ; it’s Pauline !” exclaimed Louis, and drag-
ging off the handkerchief, stood confronted by the
Ambassador of the United Kingdom. There was
general _ laughter, and then the plenipotentiary
joined in the game. Not a word of politics was
breathed during that interview, but it lasted a
couple of hours, and the knowing ones of the
Bourse thought it of such vast importance that the
French Funds that evening dropped one per cent.
A Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Do you want to hear a story .
With a nobler praise than “glory,”
Of a man who loved the right like heaven and
loathed the wrong like hell ?
Then, that story let me tell you
Once again, though it as well you
Know as I —the splendid story of the man they
call Parnell!
By the wayside of the nations,
Lashed with whips and execrations,
Helpless, hopeless, bleeding, dying, she, the
Maiden Nation, lay ;
And the burthen of dishonour
Weighed so grievously upon her
That her very children hid their eyes and stole in
shame away.
And there as she was lying
Helpless, hopeless, bleeding, dying,
All her high-born foes came round her, fleering,
jeering, as they said :
“ What is freedom fought and won for?
She is dead ! She’s down and done for! ”
And her weeping children shuddered as they
crouched and whispered : “ Dead! ”
Then suddenly up-starting,
All that throng before him parting,
See, a man with firm step breaking through that
central knot that gives;
And, as by some dear lost sister,
He knelt down, and softly kissed her,
And he raised his pale, proud face, and cried;
“ She is not dead. She lives !
“ O she lives, I say, and I here,
I am come to fight and die here
For the love my heart has for her like a slow con-
suming fire;
For the love of her low lying,
For the hatred deep, undying
Of the robber lords who struck and stabbed and
trod her in the mire ! ”
Then upon that cry bewildering,
Some of them, her hapless children —
In their hearts there leaped up hope like light
when night gives birth to day ;
And, as mocks and threats defied him,
One by one they came beside him,
Till they stood, a ring of heroes, sombre, desperate,
at bay!
And the battle that they fought there,
And the bitter truth they taught there
To the blinded Sister-Nation suffering grievously
alway,
All the wrong and rapine past hers,
Of her robber lords and masters—
Is not this the larger hope of all as night gives
birth to day ?
For the lords and liars are quaking
At the Peoples’ stern awaking
From their slumber of the ages ; and the Peoples
slowly rise,
And with hands locked tight together,
One in heart and soul for ever,
Watch the sun of Light and Liberty leap up into
the skies !
That’s the story, that’s the story
With a nobler praise than “ glory,”
Of the Man who loved the right like heaven and
loathed the wrong like hell,
And with calm, proud exultation
Bade her stand at last a nation,
Ireland, Ireland that is one name with the name
of Charles Parnell !
FRANCIS ADAMS.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
EUREK
ELECTRIC
BELT.
h
rlv
-Cv
\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE EOR ALL.
DISEASES OE THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in factany disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Life Preservation,'
Dr. J. D. LLEWIELLYN,
SPECIALIST,
TO LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE.
THIS Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. 6d. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Booksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
rjl 0 SUFFERERS.
Consult personally or by Letter
Dr. ANDERSON
(LATE COWAN AND ANDERSON.)
—SPECIALISTS ON —
Chronic Nervous Debility,
SKIN CONTAGIONS,
And all Diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs.
Constiltation Free.
Absolute Secrecy Observed in all Cases.
N.B. —Medicines forwarded, securely packed, to
all parts of the Colonies.
Note :
DR. ANDERSON,
165 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
f The Public are requested to notice the
wctllulOH ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. -A-
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Kg*"’ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERV O U S
DEBILITY
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self
addressed Id. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Herb RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Oil A
&
&
to
PATENT
PILLS
ft
3.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E'-ery
sufferer is earnestly flivited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders tipon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion With the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are FACTS tes ifled
continually by membe s of all classes of “J,
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest, sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beechams’s Magic
Cough
Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Bromhial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Bf eath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c tllc * P s
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and -ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbeciiam s Couou
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.b.—Pull directions are given with each box.
Eucalyptl Oil
Colemane&sohs
M
THE TREE OF LIFE.
NRE
Victory Ointment*
The only pure Encalypte In tlicWorlrt
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs- also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Bucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world
famed Bucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
peop’e. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamomdra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every
where. Beware of Imitations.
JUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Nek
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rule,
are worth its weight in gold. Send your ful
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
]f CORE & {|OGG
THE EMINENT
sipeci-M-ists,
On all Diseases erf the Ganito-UHnary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt.8UL.TATlON3 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
QPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition — Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS, subscription (payable strictly
in ad van e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will bo on Sale every Friday a<
he Office. George Street, Launceston, or from th;
Runners in the street
Business Announcements.
URIBACILAS
HI*€SVEREO.
OTUDY ECONOMY
O and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . SUlilil v A N ' s.
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between'
Liverpool Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
HARRIS’S Missir g Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late or R. M.
Riley’s Private De* ective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBER
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF » ROMISE,
and all t- inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
B arris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B H. having established agenc’es in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" For F arcing a Picture Heat and Well.**
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
« Stork, 31)9 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c carefully stretched and mounted. Re gi ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
i pecial ai tendon paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
2J
«AMUPA«TUR£R9
» IMPORTERS Of
HATS CAPS I
438 CEO RcT ST
3YDNEY %
Opposite LassetCera
$
\sp
Branch :
67 8 GEORGE STREE T,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aiiken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GfoRGESTREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AIITHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCH'S
m
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
■ . • 1
/VtfCH
1NC
p /
PO
>5
K
MANUFACTURED BY
MAN
K
CtiANNOk JMarbovrS*
Sold hs all »toC*t4 », S/°'**<•/> fro
&
Business Announcements.,
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
' Wholesale Agents ;
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
A 1
SYDNEY.
SK FOR KUPPER’S ELBERFBLD
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
WALTER IeiOIF’IE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received, and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. T . __
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
01. STEP HEN soil
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE YATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
5 EH
0OW
M 11
a
BOWDENS
Kks
Horn
T99
BOWDEKT’S hotel,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St ), Sydney.
JOHN C 850« |>j:\ Proprietor.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.
EXCELSIOR HOTEL,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
SECOND BRICK HOTEL BUILDING erec-
ted in above. Town, situated corner of Gill
and Church Streets,
W. M. Gough - Proprietor.
WEStERKT ECOTESL,
AYarrnamtoool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony. .
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. BS" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
Livery aurt Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor,


MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only ,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SON S’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
%
; .1 ••
«V. ,
T> rittenberg & oo„
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
THREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
'J- Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &0., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
£ 20 FUCEBOARD BTCGIES £20
BUST I V THE WORTH
for £'o.
t
The Largest Lost eh-
Works in Australia.
No. 45—' Turnout Seat—£3s.
COPE Sc NEUMAN
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
IMPORTER OF
SPIRITS, x
f
WIIJE S, x SPIRITS, x IB IE IE IR, S, x IE TO.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPE C IA 1.1 TIES: “
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hbnnessy’s, Kartell's and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
I'he Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.8..L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
soiolesale anfl jingle Bottle Departments, anfl
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ RBFRESHMBHT ROOM & LAYATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OPPICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDKT33Y,
Now Supply the GENERAL PUBLIC as Well as the Trade.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE NEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney,
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000*
Wool lBBB-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rPHE greatest oare bestowed on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
(rroirii; x Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool h'eu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Salks op Sheep Skins, Marsueml
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regulabw.
KSIT” Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Si GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
Genuine Swedish made
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. A. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT POE AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. %ST. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
IHSrSIIPIEOT TZHTIE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
MELBOURNE
Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston-Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall,
ţ
THE
Wolselay Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
AGENTS;
T, S. aEDDES dz, CO-,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
A. MARSHALL &
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Workers,
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with ItRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
rw -XS.
EDBBEE COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting', &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian RuUTaer Works,
270 GEOEGE STEBBT, SYDNEY.
WALTHAM
Sr ?s
de
fS »
Tlie Best Timekeepers in the World.!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRICES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
~ Bbe A m , KKI0 | AN . Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout ; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable co get out of order.
fitted with “ Logan ’ s Patent . Bre S uet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence m watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
of 6elebrated S ™’ the P—* for same being tlie exclusive pro^
of v&SS ° an be obtamed m Gold and Silver Cases ’ e * ther Ell & lish Hall marked or of a guaranteed standard
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Watches, the “No. 1 Size ” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
are TuT 31 } ts i? Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
W™t!l w^if°f NDS Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
0
a
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Bulimngs, Bond Street, Sydney.
