

Aak
'OUT
rrocer for
Pry’s Malted Cocoa.
1 An
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bbistox, London and Sydney. „ T .
contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale o* rortw.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES
rpvtn Best Timekeepers in the World!
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
L he very best materials throughout j they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
able to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. ~ , , , . , „ ~ ■
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the mterchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
anv part of the world where Waltham WTatches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., TJ.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of. a guaranteed standard
of value U.S. Mint assay. . . , , , , a , ,
Waltham Chronographs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish. _ .
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No, 1 Size ” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. „ , w , Q ~
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the I nited Kingdom.
Waltham Wat«hes. Dust-proof, Water-proof. _ „ , , , . ..
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Lnequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
ptfyM As s
CHRONOGRAPH
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltnam Bulimugs, Bona Street, syOney
O PRlziCTioPoinds (£2); THIRD PRIZE, One Pound I* 1 )' » » : «itS5 .tateme‘nt that
30th -■**"* i;EVFfi BK ° lHKlt * sri,XfcY -
r~t t 1-t'. r JJ’A J
x .ever jirotliers, “ finuli grlit So3)P” Mlanuf^ctiurers,
ITER the following PRIZES to the succesrful competitors who compile the most English Soap, ”^2
' PRIZE, Two Pounds (£2); THIRD PRIZE, One Pound (£1). In addition attached, and with children’s competition a written statement that
BTJEROUCrHES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
K
jfV.ll
f»r£iilaltes for th-e Graime,
Lawn. Tennis, Cricket & Foottoa.il
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
KOI.LICK SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODM IVII EELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus: —
#
TJSE
liebig COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
WILLIAM S’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST,
-{ :
Bread, Tea Calces, Pastry, &c.,
AKE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH _
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
51?
g?s
m
18a
mm
*
o
37
O
Wi
o
V
9o&\
ISIR ROGER
to
O
r
N
□ IXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AKD INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
jfh consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bo ltig
hears the**- I&rnature thus—
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS’ Sauce, and see Ndme-sm Wrapper, Label, Rattle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester, Croat and
Biaeberell , London. fr~c,, (ire. ; and by Gracers and Oilmen throughout the World.
ftUC
Xcu)lopßro s
HIGHLY;■ NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBIAINEOInTSBEOEOJINS Oft PAtKETS THROUGHOUTTtiE COIQNY-
WILLIAM ™ CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
‘CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Eaymarket,
(The Originator of ( heap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist, 'iheold veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up bat he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
The £3 Package, “ €an’l B Bat” (registered)
■i®" Sinofeer’s Companion! TSi
containing the following:
lib. Williams’, Jib. b ocbs
lib. Imported Dark Victor}'
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobadco
50 No. 1 H s Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 ( igarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Yesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cisrar holder,in Morocco
• leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Alb. Long- Cut, American
fSf” Delivered f'ree at Rediern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can he left out.and others of equal value sub
stituted. Cro«s out what you don’t want and state wha
you require in its p ! ace. All can be a' commodated. 5
per cent, saved ! 60 per cent saved ! Note the address
»a<■ K .SIMMONS,'
"Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
T> RITTEXBERG & CO.
* ■"• IMPORTERS,
81 Clareiif t St., Wynjanl Square.
Furniture : , Mirrors, Oleographs, ' and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
Florida water,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Rose" on “Golden
Lyre," with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MAMET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending: Year ending Year ending
Oct., 1885. Oct., lsS6. Oct, 1887.
Subscribed-Capital .. £180,425 .. £350,000 .. £431,125
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 01,030 .. 120,000 .. 206,685
Deposits Received .. 03,581 .. 261,000 ,, 301,3d6
Advances Made .. .. 123,248 . 247,840 307,828
Total income . , .. 200,106 .. 451,085 .. 707,090
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months,
Special Terms for longer periods.
Year ending
Oct., 1SSS.
.. £580,000
.. 251,015
1,123,949
025,826
... 2,048,951
5 per cent.
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH.
To persons who desire to put by
small sums of uncertain amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers, Terms Liberal.
a
. i.j k:j ;
' « J '
SilO'tWMK'
I
PREMIER
Building' Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
5 25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these , Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1886, £26 Is, 9d., towards which sum they had con
tributed only £l4 Qs., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
4 !!-
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
=: v:
■ •;
«a
PSHj
• -.-';
the FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
—CORNER OF
King and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete wjth every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OF ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, sumptuoxid/f furnished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City,
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Cold and. SHower Batlia.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Cohen - • • Manager,


The Bulletin
Tol. IC—No. 495.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 10, 1889.
Pi-ioe, 6 I
SLAUGHTER IN THE
SOUDAN.
Another Important Battle.
1500 Soadaaese Killed.
‘Another Glorious Victory !"-Daily Paper. “The ships of the Australian Squadron are to be given native names." Cable.
JOHN BULL (to aboriginal of almost any country): “ALTHOUGH IN THE INTERESTS OF CHRISTIANITY I AM COMPELLED TO EXTERMINATE YOU, IT WILL BE
A COMFORT TO YOU IN YOUR DYING MOMENTS TO REFLECT THAT I SHALL COMFER UPON YOU IMMORTALITY YOUR BEATIFUL
NATIVE NAME WILL PERHAPS BE PAINTED UPON THE STERN OF ONE OF THE WARSHIPS OF THE MOST CIVILISED AND ENLIGHTENED
NATION OF THE WORLD!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 2i Pitt street, Sydney, Neav South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to ha addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to ha addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
f Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag UOGO words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or N ctcspapcr-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct (oTiib Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in (he hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY. AUGUST 10, 1889.
Assembly v. Council.
The chief unsolved problem of Australian
Governments is that Avhich concerns the
composition and constitution of the Upper
House of Assembly. While the basis upon
which each popular Assembly stands is identi-
cal, the status of the Upper House differs
in each province. And further, Avhile public
satisfaction everywhere greets the composi-
tion of the popular branch of the legislature,
the L T pper House is the subject of constant
criticism and the target of more or less
revolutionary reform in each of the Aus-
tralias. New South Wales, finding the
nominee system a failure under present con-
ditions, desires a Legislative Council built
on Victorian elective lines; Avhile Victorian
Radicals, on the other hand, are accustomed
to argue that the elective principle as applied
to the Council, entails peculiar e\ r ils and
dangers from which nomination is exempt.
This doubt and difficulty has been inseparable
from Australian Legislative Councils from
the very start. Wentworth himself advo-
cated an hereditary peerage, a nominee and
then an elective system, and so doubtful
Avas the question deemed, when the Ncav
South Wales Constitution Act was drafted,
that the nominations of the first members of
the Council Avere for the term of five years
only, it being thought that the nominee
principle could be tried during that period,
and at its close if advisable, changed by
the adoption of any other system, special
provision for such change being incorporated
in the Bill. The result of this experiment
in constitution-founding, however, Avas not
declared until more than tAvelve months after
the assigned quinquennial, Avhen the com-
mittee of which Wentworth Avas the moving
spirit, brought in its report, roundly assert-
ing that nomineeism Avas a ghastly failure.
Ever since that time Ncav South Wales has
been periodically stirred by an agitation
favouring an elective Upper House. Recently
it has suited Sir Henry Parkes to revive the
movement against nominee legislation, but
a reform of the Constitution in this direction
seems still remote, for there is a lack of
popular purpose and enthusiasm in the
matter. Men see clearly the absurdity and
wrong of permitting an assembly of sexa-
genarians—appointed for undiscoverable
reasons to a position they can neither honour
nor dignify —to override the clearly-ex-
pressed will of the people ; but there is an
ever-present dread that the substitution of
election for appointment might entail still
greater evils and disasters. The agitation is
half-hearted and the agitators only half in
earnest. They know what they desire to
Abolish, but don’t clearly recognise what
would advantageously fill the vacancy
As The Bulletin has constantly urged, a
second Chamber is a Averse than worthless
encumbrance. It is a fifth Avheel to the
State coach, and its running entails an ex-
treme friction militating against progress.
Hie second Chamber is feebly advocated on
the well-worn plea that it “ acts as a check
upon hasty legislation.” How far this state-
ment is justified by fact the New South
Wales Treason-Felony Bill—passed Avith less
deliberation and more haste by the Council
than by the Assembly —and the Criminal Law
Amendment Act of 1883 may testify. In
these, as in numberless other cases, the excite-
ment of the Assembly has been seconded by
the hysteria of the Council. The nominee
members seem even less able than elected
members to rise superior to the madness
of the moment. Whenever the promised
deliberate calmness of the Council is desired,
the members of that body are found to be in
as high a state of perturbation and excite-
ment as the members of the Assembly. The
nominees manage to remain insensible and
unconscious of any ad\ T ance of solid thought
permeating the community, but they are
strongly susceptible to any epidemic of rash-
ness and folly. And, Avhile thus assisting in
enacting measures inspired by mania, the
Council is invariably ready to block any sub-
stantial effort to record in legislation the
steady growth of enduring popular sentiment.
For ten years past a majority of Nerv South
Wales electors have favoured payment of
members, but the measures to effect that re-
form, passed in the LoAver House, have, time
after time, been slaughtered in the Council.
Other progressive measures have shared the
same fate, and are certain to do so as long as
the Council has the poAver to oppose senile
obstinacy to popular movement. At the
present time the constituencies Avould return
an overwhelming majority of members
pledged to A r ote .for a tax on the prairie
value of land, but Avhat chance Avould there
be of obtaining the Council’s consent to so
just an impost I The Garrans of the Upper
House would fire it out as unceremoniously
as they did when Sir Patrick Jennings pre-
sented them with a Land Tax Bill in 1886.
Any reform seeking the equitable readjust-
ment of taxation or to enlarge the operation
of Democratic principle, Avill have a rough re-
ception and murderous treatment in the
Council so long as the present form of the
Constitution is maintained. To the unicame-
ral system it is objected that one House
could not safely be trusted Avith the whole
function of legislation. It is assumed that
because the Assembly has legislated incau-
tiously in the past a similar carelessness in
the future Avould be certain to lead to dis-
astrous results. Even so the community
Avould be in no Avorse case than at present,
for, as Ave haA r e shown, the Council has
utterly failed to check rash legislation in
the past. But the objection contains an
unjustifiable assumption. There is no rea-
son to believe that, having the sole respon-
sibility of legislation, the Assembly Avould
act Avith the incautiousness sometimes dis-
played when that responsibility is divided.
A new caution might Avell be expected to
arise out of new circumstances.
Serious as are the losses and inconveniences
resulting from the operation of a nominee
Council, there are yet strong reasons for
holding that the elective basis for that
Chamber threatened by Sir Henry Parkes
Avould entail still Averse consequences. For
if the Council Avere composed of members
elected by a franchise as Avide as that pro-
vided for the Assembly, then .there would
be two co-ordinate Houses equally repre-
sentative of the people. Such a state of
things Avould be a logical absurdity produc-
tive of wrangling, deadlocks and confusion
that might Avell tempt electors to use the
Shakesperian malediction and exclaim —“A
plague on both your Houses 1” InNeiv South
Wales under the present system the fact of
nomination is a restraining influence, slight
though that influence may be, preventing
members from carrying their crassness to the
extremes, which might otherivise be reached.
Not only is there a remembrance of the fact
that Sir Henry Parkes gave the Council
three-fourths of its strength—“ they are
my creatures,” he has said —but there is
also the dread of further nominations being
suddenly made to swamp the Council
if that expedient should be necessary.
But if the Council stood upon the broad
foundation of a popular vote its members
' could say to the Lower House, “ Our
votes have a sanction equal to your own,
for we have been appointed to our seats
by the A r ote of the people. And our posi-
tion is that Avhich you of the Assembly have
created by means of an act originating in
your own Chamber.” This clashing of elec-
tive legislative bodies had its strongest Aus-
tralian illustration in Victoria, Avhere, in the
days Avhen Graham Berry was a Radical, the
historic deadlock occurred, which threw the
Avhole country into a state of prolonged and
extreme confusion. Had the Council then
stood upon the narroAv ground of nomination,
or had there been any expedient such as the
SA\ r amping possible under the Ncav South
Wales system, harmony could have been re-
stored in a comparatively brief space, and
the will of the majority of the Avhole people
Avould have been enacted. Such a deadlock
having been pro\ T ed possible when the Council
is elected by the comparatively narrow Vic-
torian franchise, it becomes difficult to
imagine where the conflict of Chambers
might be expected to end when manhood
suffrage supported both Council and As-
sembly. Any argument used in support of
such a change in the Constitution would be
equally strong in favour of the abolition of
the Council. For, if the popular voice
is to elect all legislators—if all, as to
their appointment, are to stand upon the
same footing—why should notallbe appointed
to the same House, and the second chamber
be dispensed with 1 But, on the other hand,
if the Council’s constituencies are to differ
from the Assembly’s in the qualification of
electors, if, in fact, a ‘ ‘ faggot vote ” is to
be endowed in the former case with the
election of councillors, there would then be
a gross infraction of the principle of man-
hood suffrage. The Council produced out of
such origin would be conservative, arrogant,
intolerant of progressive legislation, and
careful only of the rights of the faggots com-
prising their constituents.
# * *
In none of the Australias can the posi-
tion of the Upper House be said to be per-
manently settled. The consideration as to
what the ultimate basis shall be, is no-
where on our continent numbered among
Hie “burning questions” of politics, but it
is nevertheless a problem which many in-
tellects are considering. And in each colony,
so far as popular thought is exercised, the
object is to subtract from the poiver of work-
ing mischief now enjoyed by the various
Councils. Sir Henry Parkes, has the
honour of the most recent pronouncement
on the subject, and as this is a broad issue
Avhere party prejudice and popular passion
have but small scope, it was to be ex-
pected that he would blunder egregiously.
His object was to make the Council power-
less, or, at least, less powerful than it is at pre-
sent. Therefore, he proposed to make it elec-
tive, and, consequently, more poiverful. That
this proposal was promptly ivithdrawn is not
to be taken as evidence of his change of mind
on the subject. “The time was inopportune,”
the press ridiculed the idea of legislation in
that direction, or rather on that subject,
while the question of politics, Protection or
Freetrade, is still unsettled. But even Avhile
taking back his declaration of Avar against
the L pper House, he Avas careful to prophesy
that he Avould outlive the nominee Council.
He retains his former intention, and merely
aAvaits a better opportunity. For reasons
already stated avc hope that opportunity may
never come. In this matter, as in most
other troubles, the shortest Avay out of the
difficulty is the best. And the most direct Avay
in this difficulty Avill not be attained by
changing the constitution of the Council,
but by limiting its power of obstruction.
There are many means to this end. Of
these probably the most effectual in prac-
tice would be the definition of bounds
beyond which the power of Legislative
Councils might not extend. If, for instance,
it Avere enacted that a measure passed in
two successive Parliaments through the
Assembly should become larv upon the
second passage, nominee obstinacy would
be reft of its power of effectual rebellion
against the popular Avill, Avhile, on the other
hand, efficient provision against incautious
legislation Avould be secured. A general
election would have to take place before the
second passage through the Assembly of the
Bill in dispute, and the constituencies Avould
then the opportunity of recording their
opinion and judgment. The election Avould
thus be an appeal from the Council to the
people, and the decision of the constituencies
Avould sustain or reverse the verdict of either
House. If the Assembly possessed such a
right of obtaining what Avould amount to a
final decision on the course taken by the
Council, the authority responsible for the
creation of the latter legislative body
would be of small consequence. Limit
the powers and the right of appointing the
men to exercise them is less and less Avorthy
of possession. By this means also the
gradual abolition of the second chamber
Avould be effected without anything in the
nature of friction, and in such as manner as to
educate the people to a fervent appreciation of
the paramount advantages of the unicameral
Constitution. The rightful supremacy of
the popular Assembly being thus enacted,
the utter uselessness of any sort of a Legis-
lative Council would be gradually demon-
strated and proved by repeated illustration.
Under all the circumstances of Australian
politics, and in view of the fact that avc
have here a pervading leaven of exotic,
though generally passive, conservatism—the
conservatism which accepts the principles of
Democracy to the fullest extent in theory
yet Aveakly hesitates to give them free scope
and effect in practice—under these circum-
stances the best means to the desired end
Avould be to degrade the Councils until
they Avere seen to be unworthy of a place in
our Constitutions. And the first and longest
step in this process Avould be the Avhittling
arvay of Hie functions and powers of the
counsellors by preventing them, in the
manner Ave have suggested, from opposing
the A T erdict of the ballot-boxes.
A Revolutionary Bill.
Who Avill come forth now and say that you cannot
gather figs from thistles or grapes from thorns ?
Who is there noAV courageous enough to stand
upon the absurd position that a silk purse is not
producible from a soav’s ear? After years of
desolate iteration of deranged classicalities ; after
half a lifetime of shameless and unrepentant
Graeco-Irish posturing, Daniel O’Connor has
done a useful thing Avith absolutely no frill about
it. Hitherto he has gone about the earth remorse-
lessly exuding impracticability, and lending a
phosphorescent lustre to preposterousness, and
making the lover of mankind shed tears of blood
to look upon and listen to him. He has honestly
striven for, and invariably secured, the scorn
mixed audiences by introducing Ajax and
Thucydides and Jove into the affairs of N.S.
Wales; he has given people Belshazzar and Mars
and Plato when Land Acts and Licensing Bills
were what they wanted to hear about. He has
gone around as an oratorical Autolycus peddling
electroplated tokens of remembered greatness as
current coin, and vending fragmentary odds and
ends of the mighty dead to vociferous hod-
carriers and coal-humpers He has planted the
standard of spread-eagleism in many suburbs,
and borne the banner of bathos into the Legisla-
ture. He has demoralised debating clubs and
afflicted the literature of the bush with ponderous
phrases that rumble hollowly to fruitless termi-
nals, till citizens have sunk their knees into the
earth and prayed for death to come early and
often. That men have not gone home with souls
inflamed from his utterances and broken out into
a saturnalia of irresponsible butchery is a marvel.
It does not take much of Hyperion or Socrates
to unhinge the mind in a new country, and the
fact that thousands of us have listened to that
sort of thing from him for hours together without
attempting to chop our families into impalpable
shreds, speaks volumes for the robustness of the
Australian spirit. We have borne our cross—a
Victoria one, by the way—with calm fortitude,
and now has come our exceeding great reward.
* # #
The figure that so long sat on an Olympus of
bunkum, clothed in dazzling clouds of oracular
and vaporous rot, has come down among us and
gone to work, so to speak. Daniel O’Connor has
done one thing which should bring absolution for
an inconsequential and blathering past. In his
capacity as Postmaster-General he has taken a
titanic grip of a matter which had eluded all his
predecessors, and dragged it before the bar of
public judgment. This is the way of it as set
forth by those immediately concerned ;—We, the
people of New South Wales, have built ourselves a
magnificent Post-office, a building worthy of any
metropolis in the world. It cost us an enormous
sum of money, and one side of it is ornamented
with carvings in stone, the like of which do not
exist on any other part of this globe. Foreign
critics, who come here to sneer at and belittle us,
have said that they would cause an insurrection or
an epidemic anywhere else, but that is envy and
spite. The other side is graced with a big Wal-
tham watch, and down the front an august care-
taker, attired in a misfitting red coat, patrols
vigilantly. This is all the stranger, or, indeed, the
citizen, knows about it, for, unless he goes up in
a balloon, he cannot get a fair idea of what the
front itself is like. Directly facing this front is a
narrow lane, in which he may stand with his back
against a corrugated-iron fence, and try to look
perpendicularly up the face of the structure, but
without satisfactory results. The land beyond
this belongs to certain wealthy holders, and for
years the Government have been trying to make
terms with them for enough of it to provide a
decent open square for public use —for our use —as
an approach to the Post-office front. But these
owners have been obdurate and unapproachable.
They have received every proposition made regard-
ing a resumption of their land with coldness and
pre-occupation, and changed the subject as soon as
possible. So the Post-office has stood for years in
a place where no one could see the only part of it
worth seeing, and, as a consequence, has brought
into further prominence the Waltham watch in
George-street, and the blind gropings of pre-his-
toric art in Pitt-street, while a triumphant chaos
of cheap buildings has filled all the prospect
between.
* * *
Biit the other day Mr. O’Connor introduced a
Bill into the Assembly, the provisions of which, if
it be affirmed, will give the Government power to
resume 100 feet of frontage land to be used as an
approach, on payment to the owners of the present
value of the land, and any expense or loss which
their dispossession may entail. But that is not
all. The Bill contains another provision which
separates, as wide as the poles, the act of resump-
tion it seeks to legalise from any other act of
resumption which has been undertaken under
existing laws—a provision which at once lifts it
out of the insignificance of a mere occasional Bill,
and gives it national importance. It asks the
sanction of Parliament to a resumption of 75 feet
further than the 100 needed for the Post-office
improvement, this 75 feet to be purchased from
the present owners on similar terms to the other,
and sold again hg the Government at such a price
as the projected improvement will cause it to bring.
A Bill to Euchre Landowners this; a Bill to
secure to the people, in one case at least, the
increase in value given to certain land by the ex-
penditure of their own money. It is the first
measure of the kind that has ever been introduced
into an Australian Parliament, and its reception
was such as to make landlordism shiver. It
passed the second reading like a cyclone, and
the speeches that were made, especially that
of Mr. Traill, showed how the intelligence
of the country is yearning for a little honesty.
The gentleman referred to pointed out the urgent
necessity of affirming the principle that value
should go to those who create it, instead of to
those who don’t, and held that, if it was a fair
thing for the Government to take to itself the
value given by its expenditure to the sites in ques-
tion, it had a perfect right to take all values
similarly created in all cases. And to this not a
dissenting voice was raised. It is a long time since
such determination and unanimity were shown in
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly. And the
acceptance and endorsement of the principle of
the Bill by the Press generally has been no less
emphatic and striking.
* # *
The Bill will not become law ; that is pretty sure.
The double-chinned hosts of the Legislative Coun-
cil will probably see in it a dangerous attack upon
the sacred right of robbing the public with which
landlordism has been so long vested, and cast it
forth indignantly. It would ill-become the legis-
lative hall, in whose lumber-room, or somewhere,
is deposited a bust of one of the family of owners
against whom this Bill is levelled, to pass it. But
if it is thrown out, another Bill, not directed
against the outrageous Holt claims, but embracing
them, must be introduced. The attack upon the
Treasury designed by the holders of the Post-office
lands is too alfresco in its nature to be allowed to
eventuate, but there is no reason why the hands of
the Holt family should be held back from the
public purse by law, while other hands openly help
themselves from it. The outlay of the State will
give an increase of, say, 20 percent., although that
is probably far under the truth, to the seventy-five
feet of frontage which it is proposed to resume.
Without such outlay that increase would not take
place, and it is therefore a result of it, a result
towards which every taxpayer in N.S. Wales will
have contributed his due portion. Assuming that
these frontages were left undisturbed in the pos-
session of their present owners, these latter could,
without the expenditure of a single soldo on thei
own part, rake in an enormous annual increase
of wealth. This is so palpably unjust that one
wonders why laws permitting it to be done are
still in existence, and feels no surprise at the


Burglar Morrison is to be hanged at nine
o'clock on August 20 th, in time for the first edition
of the Sydney evening papers. One of these
already has three columns of type ready for the
occasion. It was prepared for Buttner’s execution,
but a miserable Executive utterly devoid of
journalistic instincts and sympathies fooled the
Archimedean lever by letting the prisoner go.
tempest of repeal which has swept through the
Legislative Assembly.
# * *
Certainly the people are entitled to receive every
fenny of the new value given to land in the neigh-
bourhood of the Post-office by their own expendi-
tiire and now that the matter has been brought to
this'stage they will have it by some means. The
amendment, proposed by Mr. Dibbs, to resume
two additional feet of land, on which to build a
jjjgh wall excluding the landlords in question from
the Post-office and its grounds, would prevent the
creation of the new value, and fill the souls of
the expectant landowners with malignity, no
doubt, but it would not meet the demands of equity.
The creation of the new value should be allowed
to go on in a natural way, and that value should
be taken in a natural way either by yearly taxa-
tion covering it, or, as Mr. O’Connor proposes,
by “collaring” the land for what it is now worth
•uid selling it for what it will be worth after the
improvement is effected. It is a pity, though,
that the idea of again parting with the laud re-
sumed was not replaced by that of leasing it, sub-
ject to periodical revaluation. This is what a
private individual would do. The scheme pro-
posed, if carried out, will secure to the Govern-
ment the increment of its outlay in this particular
matter. But the purchasers will, a hundred years
hence—if private property in land still obtains —
have gained hugely by other increments. That is
also provisional upon the absence of a general law,
such as Mr. Traill suggested, and such as will
probably soon be introduced, to take all such in-
crements to the State. The danger that legisla-
tion in this direction will not be proceeded with is
so slight that Mr. O’Connor’s Bill is good enough
for the present as it is. If it is heaved overboard
we anticipate some wholesome fun in the near
future, for the temper of the elective House shows
that it has made its mind up on the subject, and
will go in for something more sweeping. And, if
it is carried through, the gain received by the
people will whet their appetites for more from the
same dish, even as the blood of a turbaned and
chutnee-fed rajah stimulates one of Mr. Inglis’s
tigers to further exertions.
There is something else to be said, though. We
fiave not had anything like a full statement of
exactly how the resumed land is to be disposed
of or what guarantee the public are to have that
nobody is going to make a particularly good thing
out of the frontage lots after all. This aspect of
the matter was touched during the debate, but not
insisted upon. It must not be forgotten that
jobbery flourishes in N.S. Wales. Over the whole
breadth of a territory kissed into fruitfulness by
the unclouded sun of a refulgent hemisphere, big
swindles have been worked. From the craggy
foreshores lapped by the tepid waves of a bay
which mocks the blue of overarching heaven, to
the remote and mortgaged interior where beauty
dies and colour is only to be found in the lan-
guage of rabbit-trappers, jobs have been perpe-
trated. The multitudinous and all-embracing job
rears its proud head in high places, or blushes
unseen among modest beginners. The job, in fact,
is one of the country’s most stable institutions,
and quite a number of politicians are suspected of
being on it. It is always being discovered in un-
expected places—age does not stale nor custom
wither its infinite variety. No one will ever
know, in this world at least, the amount of
wealth which lias been stolen from the people
by means of the perennial and recurrent job.
There may be danger that some opening
for this watchful villainy will be found to
exist under the proposed Bill. Nothing about
it wants closer examination than the provisions to
be made for the future disposal of the frontages.
This should be easily enough dealt with, and any
possibility of underhand work prevented. It is
not likely that by any manipulation which would
enable favoured individuals or syndicates to get
advantage from the blocks in question, such a
wrong would be done the community as by letting
all the increased value of the frontage go to the
present owners. But even that must be closely
guarded against.
# * #
Therefore the ban is lifted from Daniel O’Con-
nor, and the deep mutterings of a young nation
may be turned into applause. The Bulletin,
which has regarded his past labours in the way of
popularising Ganymede and Xerxes, and his
efforts to inoculate current colonial politics with
precarious messages from Athens and Rome, much
as Nature regards a vacuum, is with him in this.
It is probable that he has taken hold of a bigger
thing than he reckoned upon, and that results un-
dreamed of will follow it. But he has taken hold
firmly all the same, and in calling the country to
his help has not paralysed it with any unquenchable
outburst of Pagan knowledge, or abashed his co-
mates with too much ancient information on the
half shell.
“Our Masters—the Machines!”
The mills of God grind slowly, but they grind
small. The mills of man are more expeditious in
the execution of their work of destruction. The
civilization of the nineteenth century culminates
in a soulless engine whose fuel is humanity. This
is the age of machinery ; our very battles are
fought by combinations of steel-springs and iron
cog-wheels. Happiness is created and misery manu-
factured by insensate aggregations of cranks and
fly-wheels. By the aid of machinery whole popu-
lations are thrown out of employment, production
is controlled, and the many are subjugated by and
for the benefit of the few. Each fresh invention is
a new scourge given into the hands of Capital
wherewith to flog Labour to the shambles. An
Edison discovers a new application of the electric
light! Unthinking people hail it with acclaim —
“What an age we live in. Oh! the blessings of
applied science !” “Blessings,” indeed! the electric
light has given us three working days in place
of one, and ships are loaded by night as well
as by sunlight by its aid. The workman has
simply to accommodate himself to the new condi-
tions or yield up his life to the Moloch of machinery
and the Juggernaut of applied science. Alphonse
Karr, in a very different sense from Longfellow,
describes in a graphic sketch the christening of
the crane—when, before the huge machine can
become consecrated to the fortune-making needs
°f Capital, a workman must be sacrificed. It is
the first day of its employment, the wealthy owner
is there with his workmen, he breaks a bottle of
wine on one of the great wheels, he christens it
with some pet family name, the crane is set in
motion, the enormous cog-wheels revolve, a work-
man is entangled in the intricate machinery, an
attempt is made to save him, it is futile ; when
the ponderous engine is stopped the workman is
only a piece of unrecognisable flesh, pounded and
ground out of all recognition between the massive
wheels—the crane has been christened ; it has re-
ceived its baptism of blood ; henceforth it is char-
tered to destroy—and does its work with
remorseless faithfulness. The age of ma-
chinery is an age in which machines are
heroes ; men are but slaves and ministers
to the iron and steel monsters they have
made. It’s the story of Frankenstein’s creature
with a modern application. We, in this age, have
raised a ghost we cannot lay ; we have conjured
up a genius that pursues us. The evolutionist,
Samuel Butler, in his enthralling book, “ Ere-
whon,” devotes a chapter to the machines in
which he predicts the day when machines will
reach such a stage in their development that they
will acquire almost consciousness and the power of
reproduction of their mechanical properties in new
types and appalling combinations —man being a
mere serf and body-servant to the metal levia-
thans of an engine-ideal age. Of course, man
revolts and, taking Time by the forelock, pre-
vents the final catastrophe. Amongst the “ Ere-
whonians ” henceforth no mechanical contrivance
was allowed more complicated than a wheel-
barrow. As machines are evolved and perfected
man becomes more and more divorced from the
soil. He congregates in cities. He forgets that
he is a producer. Machines continue to develope,
food becomes dearer and dearer and manufactured
goods cheaper and cheaper—in course of time we
can buy quite easily everything we can’t eat, but
nobody knows how to grow a leek. Our brains
even grow to be supererogations replaced by
engines of one sort and another —a man named
Babbage invented a calculating machine, and
Edison has recently perfected another machine
which will discover stars not visible by means of a
telescope. The other day in Melbourne occurred
something, a plain account of which reads almost
like a satirical parable on our nineteenth-
century progress and industrial civilization. This
is the story : Two men, a labourer and a commis-
sion agent —both of them on the sunny-side of
life’s broadway—drank together until they became
drowsy and heavy and began to have a mental ap-
preciation of some spot “which afforded warm
shelter.” Unfortunately, they sought the “warm
shelter ” of a piece of modern mechanism, a lift—
a mere frame without sides or top, fitted in a
groove which works in upright beams. The men,
somnolent with alcohol, pulled down this lift —
which is usually kept about 20 feet from the ground
-—extended themselves upon it, with their heads
propped up against the wall, and slept the sleep
of jovial wassailers. Now, the lift had a peculiarity
—when it was brought into a stationary position
it began to ascend with an almost imperceptible
motion at the rate of about from three to four feet
an hour. The fate of the labourer and the com-
mission agent is a certainty—unless they awaken
in time to prevent a very awful tragedy. The
men were overcome with the fumes of strong
drink; besides, were they not safe in the
care of oneof man’s most recent inventions—the lilt ?
Slowly, slowly, the lift ascended ; they were still
asleep. By and bye, the embrasure of a window is
reached and the heads slip, slip, gently down—
the hair brushes against the glass! Lip, still im-
perceptibly ascends the lift—elevating these two
men, as all modern machines elevate men, from
the soil —very softly, like the upward motion of a
relentless mechanic fate, taking two minutes
to rise a little over an inch. The embrasure
of the kitchen window ends in an arch
When the butcher called with the meat at 7 o’clock
the following morning, he saw that the lift was
not in its usual position. On looking closer, he
saw what looked like two men asleep upon it—it
was their projecting heads which had fallen in the
embrasure of the kitchen window. When he
attempted to lower the lift he found it jammed. .
. . When the lift was at last brought down,
both labourer and commission agent were found
to be quite dead. One man appeared as if he had
been strangled ; the other was disfigured and not
to be recognised ; the wooden upright in which the
lift worked was split, and crushed by the impact
caused by the obstruction. They had fallen vic-
tims to the Moloch of applied science. Typical of
their generation, they perished by the upward—
the alleged upward—tendency of the age which
puts itself astride a steam-engine, and goes head-
long to the devil. They sought “warm shelter”
from a modern machine, and got in return only
“ cold obstruction’s apathy. ” They went up, up
from Nature, up from the soil, and were strangled,
crushed to death by the elevated instinct of the
age. There is a volume of analogy in this inci-
dent ; it shows admirably the difference between
the present and the past. Our forefathers went
down into the valley of Death, we are raised up in
the elevator of Death —it’s a different mode, per-
haps, but, with all our science, we get there all the
s ime.
Trial by Judge v. Trial by Jury.
A CORRESPONDENT, writing to a daily the
other day in regard to the case of James Morri-
son, now condemned to die, made use of the fol-
lowing retrograde language:—
Your article—(an article in the S.M. Herald) —on jury-
men suggests the question, “Do we want juries at all ?”
Theoretically it is pleasant to think one is judged by his
compeers, and trial by jury, when it was won, was a grand
triumph of liberty ; for at that time to trust those in
authority frequently meant to surrender one’s freedom.
Now such utterances as the foregoing would be
unworthy Yjf notice were they the opinions of only
one or two, but the unthinking are liable to be
entrapped by the specious argumentation which
implies that the present age is peculiarly endowed
beyond all other ages, and that man enjoys a
greater measure of freedom now than he has ever
done in the past. It may interest the correspon-
dent to learn that trial by jury was an attribute of
one of the freest periods in English history, that
we owe it to an age when a man had the right
upon taking a wife to demand a share in the
common property and a section of land upon
which he could build his house. And if it was
found desirable in such a period to safeguard the
right of trial by one’s peers, how much more so in
an age of capitalistic oppression and industrial
bondage like our own ? But let the correspondent
resume :
It certainly does seems to me that, as a question of
practical politics at the present day, trial by jury is a
mistake. In the first place it is unfair to the jurymen.
Why should they be dragged away from their proper
occupations, with the consequent cost to them direct and
indirect, because one of their neighbours has done wrong,
or two of their neighbours have quarrelled ?
The writer quoted signs himself “Ernest Braby.”
His name is probably on the electoral-roll. If it
be, it should instantly be erased, for by the above
utterance Mr. “Ernest Braby” shows himself
to be a man utterly unqualified to exercise the
electoral right. If the social state of the com-
munity in which he lives is none of his business,
he certainly should have no vote, for how can they
be expected to intelligently exercise the privilege
of self-government who have no concern as to the
manner in which the community wishes itself to
be governed ? Dionysius of Syracuse, or William
111. of Germany, or any other full-blooded, healthy
tyrant would evidently bo just the thing for Mr.
Braby— who could then go about his “ proper
occupation,” without any “consequent loss” to
himself either direct or indirect. He continues
thus; —
In the second place, it cannot tend to the interests of
justice to take twelve men altogether unaccustomed to
the surroundings of a court of justice, to decide matters
sometimes of life and death. In such cases jurymen are
doubtless prone to act in accordance with their feelings
and opinions ; and, however impartial they may desire to
be, they cannot have the experience necessary for their
important position.
Very well—is the judge not there to supply with
his experience of legal cases and criminal trials
what the jury may lack in the mere technique of
“their important position?” Mr. Braby falls
into a grave error when he speaks of the
jurymen as being “ altogether unaccustomed
to the surroundings of a court of justice.” He
should have said “court of law.” As to being
“accustomed” or otherwise to mere legal pro-
cedure—and that is evidently of what Mr. Braby
is thinking—let him consider the case of the police-
man who calls the cases and keeps order in the
court. This policeman is “accustomed” to the
surroundings of a court of law ; but who would
care to be tried by a jury of policemen ? The
Herald’s correspondent has a mistaken notion
also of “ justice.” He seems to think, in a blind
sort of way, that justice is disassociated absolutely
from mercy, that “justice” must of necessity
prove its divine origin by being finally adminis-
tered by the hangman. He says it does not ‘ 1 tend
to the interests of justice ” for a jury “altogether
unaccustomed to the surroundings of a court of
justice to decide matters sometimes of life and
death.” It is because the jury is called upon “to
decide matters sometimes of life and death ” that
the “interests of justice ” are in the highest sense
subserved. “ Justice !” What does he mean by
justice ? Does he mean a cold abstraction, a
pallid ghost which is supposed to dwell in a
chilly building of stone ; does he imply an un-
substantial ogre by this “ justice,” which is called
only into a sort of spectral life with the putting on
of the judge’s wig at the beginning of the criminal
sessions ? Is the employment of juries of value to
the best interests of Humanity ? If so, then, in
the name of maligned “Justice,” let us continue
to employ juries ! Again, the Herald’s corres-
pondent thinks that a jury “in such cases”- —cases
“sometimes of life and death”—“are doubtless
prone to act in accordance with their feelings and
opinions. ” Are they, indeed ? And how other-
wise should they act ? How in the name of
common sense is the judge prone to act ? Mark !
—he continues—he tells us why the jury are
“prone to act in accordance with their feelings
and opinions,” because, “however impartial they
may desire to be, they cannot have the experience
necessary for their important position.” Mr.
Braby is not afraid of the jury being too severe.
Oh! no. His phrase about “their feelings and
opinions” is merely a euphemism for the jury-
man’s natural leaning to mercy, simply because he
is human. His experience has not made him
cold, callous, impenetrable to the soft and tender
emotions we look for in all Iranian beings. But
the “ experience” has made the Judge impervious
and frigid. Just as the juryman’s human feelings
incapacitate him for the strict application of un-
swerving justice; so the Judge’s “experience”
and callousness, his habit of taking up abstract
positions and regarding himself as a simple instru-
ment of fate, too often incapacitate him for the
exercise of the Divine attribute of mercy. Here
is the bane, and here is the antidote. The jury
act the part of an ameliorator of the severity of
the Judge. The Herald’s correspondent thus
concludes ;
The men best qualified to decide are. surely the Judges,
who, from their life-long experience, have been fitted for
such duties, and who, in their exalted position, dare not
allow justice to miscarry.
Dare they not ? We have read of even so great a
man as Lord Chancellor Bacon selling justice to
the highest bidder. There was once one Judge
Jeffreys who, in his “exalted position,” did such
bitter business that his name will stink in the
nostrils of every English-speaking race for ever.
The Herald’s correspondent wants to abolish the
jury and to retain the Judge. In other words, he
wants to bolster up his absolute tyrant with the
Statute-book, and to call him, instead of a tyrant, a
Supreme Court Judge. In ordinary justice, such a
stickler for and such a frenzied champion of “jus-
tice” as the Herald’s correspondent might have
put an elective judge against the abolition of juries,
so as not to hand absolute power over to the
judges for ever. We, however, who think more
of Humanity than we do of an abstract fetich
called “Justice” or “Law” or “ Criminal Law
Amendment Act ” or “ The Dignity of the
Supreme Court ” or by whatsoever shibboleth the
fetich may be known, demand not the election of
judges by the people as an offset to the abolition
of juries. Oh !no ! We will retain the juries and
we will yet elect the judges notwithstanding,
simply because we are not accustomed, like the
Herald’s correspondent, to - ci’ablike —travel
backwards.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Ecclesiastical Statesman.
The bachelor Bishop of Queensland is “an
ecclesiastical statesman.” That’s the new phrase
manufactured to describe such muscular members
of the Church-militant as this right-reverend celi-
bate. Muscular Christian he is, and no mistake. He
goes straight for all opposition to his wishes- like a
bull at a gate. Against the will of “ his people ”
he lately went on a begging expedition to the land
of Bibles, bayonets, and freetrade in opium and
other marketable commodities. While at home he
“ observed many tokens of England’s interest in
the colonies, but that good people were greatly
grieved at the unconstitutional and almost dis-
loyal stand taken up by Queensland against the
appointment,” &c., .of Balfour’s Blake. He
came back to his beloved people in due course to
find, if the brutal truth must be told, that his pre-
cious flock hadn’t missed him much. But it is
better to be boss of the Brisbane Synod than
thirty-second in order of precedence at a
Lambeth Conference. And boss of the Angli-
can communion in Queensland he is, not only
in the inner spiritual secrets of the temple, but in
the outward and visible workings also. No
sooner had he returned with his spacious hat full
of the shekels he had begged for, than he an-
nounced his intention of building the tallest
cathedral in the torrid North. But as such a
cathedral can’t be built in a hurry, and he must be
doing something, he directed his attention to the
local manufacture of a hierarchy. Up to date he
has only turned out one specimen of espiscopal
workmanship, to wit, the Bishop of Toowoomba,
but seeing he has accomplished that much without
the slightest aid from Her Gracious or the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury—without even the sanction
of his own synod —he must be considered to have
done pretty well. He is at present, in direct
antagonism to the wishes of the same synod, en-
gaged in drawing up the plan and specification of
another little bishop for Rockhampton. But, by a
sadly-ironical fate, while he seems to have
an infinite faculty for making bishops, deans,
canons, &c., he utterly fails as an artificer
of the plain variety of parson. To his appeal to
the parents of Queensland to “ give the best and
noblest of their children to the service of the
Church,” there is no response, or, if any, only a
contemptuous negative that “it ain’t good
enough. ” It is all very well to be able to create
coadjutor bishops, bishops’ commissaries, and
bishops in parts where it is mighty hot, but if
Most Rev. Webber’s powers are not equal to the
production of the ordinary rusty-coated, rank-and-
file, cushion-welting parson, the Anglican army of
the North must inevitably develope a top-heavi-
ness which will cause the up-standing integrity of
the body spiritual to wobble.
-♦
The Sydney public are sick unto death of having
forced upon them the vapid, inconsequential
cackle of Pastor Jefferis. This much-advertised
ecclesiastic, who must be held to owe nineteen-
twentieths of his purely artificial importance to
printer’s ink —and the circumstance that lie chances
to be the high priest of a variety of religion pro-
fessed by the proprietors of Sydney’s leading
newspaper, has oracularly delivered himself on
almost every subject under Heaven, and the
miserable local public have been compelled to cast
their eyes over a column of solid print nearly every
time; yet all the while what “ Garden Honey ”
happens to be saying isn’t noticed by the papers.
Here is a hunk of J effeeis’ latest—on the Chinese
question ;
They in Australia, he contended, were not wont to look
as cordially as they ought upon the claims which the great
Empire of China had upon their sympathy and help. He
believed it absolutely imperative upon them to try by all
the means in their power to Christianise that great nation,
which was one of the greatest of the populating powers in
the world. For 25 year’s past he had held the opinion,
which late occurrences had only tended to strengthen,
that the northern portions of Australia, on account of the
climate, could never be settled upon by Europeans or
their immediate descendants, and he argued that, in the
name of humanity and of God, they had no right to
exclude those who were able to enter in and dwell on the
land, provided they became amenable to our laws.
A man who talks like this is, of course, the deadly
enemy of every white man who works for a living.
The democratic doctrine on the Chinese question
need not here be again recited, but part of it is
that the Chinese must go, and that, in the words
of W. H. Traill, there is not a square foot of
Australia in which a white man cannot work, and
be healthy, too, if he keep away from the brandy-
bottle. Neither in the name of humanity nor of
God shall we ever be wheedled into re-admitting
the leper. The Chinaman is not coming to Jef-
feris. Let Jefferis go to China —and stay there.
The splendid post of Chief Librarian at Mel-
bourne Public Library (feBoo a year) is open. Dr.
Bride finds he must give it up through ill-health.
He has only held the post a few years, and is a
young man. Bride, who is a thorough scholar,
got the Public Library billet through his ability as
Librarian of the local University. Yet his classic
tastes were somewhat too strong for a general
library. Marcus Clarke was a good man there
as second librarian. There ought to be at the
Library one like him, a litterateur, as well as a
scholiast. Bride’s competitors for the appoint-
ment were W. H. Archer and David Blair.
The best man for the billet, far and away, would
now be James Smith, of the Argus, formerly
Parliamentary Librarian.
♦
Louis Chemis has just been sentenced to death at
Wellington (N.Z.) for the “Kaiwarra murder.”
The deed was one of ferocious brutality and
fiendish cunning. Hawkins, the victim, was
found one morning dead with two shots in his
body and a number of ugly stabs, but no weapon
or the slightest clue was left on the spot by the
man who had done him to death. The only
person upon whom suspicion fastened was the
prisoner, Chemis, an Italian, who, it was said,
owed Hawkins a long-standing grudge over some
legal dispute. Chemis was immediately arrested,
Ids house searched, and a stiletto and gun found,
but the minutest inspection proved the stiletto to
be rusty and covered with verdigris, and only one
barrel of the gun had been recently used. The
shot found in the body was compared with that
ordinarily used by Chemis, and proved not to be
of the kind expected, while prisoner’s cloth-
ing bore not the slightest trace of blood
or marks of a struggle. Going over the
ground very carefully the detectives found
several pieces of paper —mere scraps—that were
lying about, and in Hawkins’ wounds they
found other pieces ; at Chemis’s house torn pieces
of paper were also found, and after patiently
piecing together and washing, microscopical ex-
amination elicited the apparently convincing
proof that the paper-wadding used by the murderer
for his gun had been torn from a copy of the Wel-
lington Post (how those Blundells do advertise
their paper even at the expense of another man’s
circulation !) in the possession of Chemis. This
link completed a not very strong chain of evi-
dence upon which Chemis was convicted of
murder, and now awaits the death-penalty. Pro-
bably Chemis is guilty and probably he is inno-
cent. The motive ascribed for the crime was a
petty one, and it is a reasonable assumption that
Hawkins had other enemies of a like description
who have not, up to the present, been ferreted out.
Chemis will likely be strung up at an early date,
but surely the American system, as exemplefied in
the Preller-Maxwell case, is worth following.
It is better to fully try a man first and hang him
afterwards than to Buttnerise him.
Premier Gillies, of Victoria, has a big surplus,
a million and a-half, and the country party raises
its back over the style in which he proposes to
knock it down. Roads and bridges be ! says
Dunky. He is going to hand over £90,000 for the
completion of Melbourne Public Library, and over
£90,000 for propping up the tumble-down Univer-
sity. Sir Salmon Wilson chucked away £40,000
there, building the useless Wilson Hall, a monu-
ment of pride and folly, while the University itself
is falling to pieces like a rotten tombstone.
Gillies talked a parcel of trash in his Budget
Speech, about the University being for the benefit
of the Working Man. One in a thousand may
squeeze a boy in there, but in reality the taxpayers’
money goes for the benefit of the Rich. The so-
called Working Man’s College is to get a com-
paratively small slice out of the surplus. This is
almost entirely a middle-class institution. But
thecountry meipbers will slaughter Gillies’ idea
of pouring the surplus on bloated Melbourne, the
Wen, as Cobbett called London. All the money
is to go to the plate-glass window. Never mind
about the back premises. What’s the hurry over
spending this million and a-half ? Why not apply
it to Irrigation ; Surely that is more immediately
pressing than the Public Library, University, and
Leopold College, as Mr. Ormond persisted in call-
ing it in his will. The college is leopoldy all over,
the Leopold will never be washed out of it.


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND W
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W, M MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which. he ''ill print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street),
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 7, 1889.
Mv Dear Moorabinda,—
A paper war is now waging in the complaisant columns
of the Sydney Press on the “ Women’s College” question—
the most hysterical diatribes emanating from the pro.
party of course. The higher education of women is a
noble cause to get inky over, I suppose, and yet I’m not in*
tcrested. For I have met the degree’d person and I know
her to be a fraud, as far as being ambitious of carving her
own unaided fortunes is concerned. One whom I recall
bad a list of letters after her longer than a mare’s tail, and
she, governessing on a Victorian squattage, eloped with
I he son and heir, a;tat 19, while Minerva had almost seen
as many moons as her classical prototype. Another, who
had fought a good fight with the dons, procured a teacher-
ship in a school and was dismissed within the year under
circumstances remotely connected with the principal’s
brother-in-law—a retired and much-married colonel with
dyed hair. Advocates of a learned woman hint that the
abstruse female views men with disgust and doesn’t wear
herself out in frantic flights after a wedding-ring and its
attendant horrors—but that is all nonsense. As with the
recently-emancipated Brazalian female slaves, whose first
use of their freedom was to each squeeze themselves into
a pair of corsets, so it is everywhere. Emanicipate a
woman from the “ thrall ” of domesticity and you will
find her still amongst the foremost on the matrimonial
stock-exchange. That’s my ipse dixit.
Meanwhile, though a few strident-voiced ladies advocate
i« hazy English the abolition of everything sentimentally
feminine, and go about in large goloshes and short
skirts—there yet remains a section who worship bonnets
and babies in the old-fashioned way. Especially bonnets.
At a certain church there is a Sunday set apart called
“ bonnet Sunday,” when every Christian worshipper “in
the know” comes out in something paralysing, while the
“ old man ” foots the bill. The ancient person who pro-
pounded the “ widdle,” “ Is it comely for a woman to pray
uncovered?” ought to be regarded as the milliner's
patron saint!
Sydney Exhibition building was hardly vast enough on
31st ult. to hold all the people who attended the annual
ball in aid of the Tempo Refuge. The affair was a very
successful one. The floor had not too much life in it, of
course—that floor never has—but the band and the cater-
ing’ were really excellent. Some of the frocks looked new,
also, and the smell of camphor and the insidious odor < f
moth-paralyzer ” were faint ii the land. Art gowi s
(which one hardly sees in Melbourne now) were in the
majority, a well-known society miss, who gold-washes h( r
top knot rather extensively, wearing a well-draped white
silk in this style. AVhite predominated. A pretty gown
was of amber satin, with sleeves from shoulder and caught
at the wrist with pretty effect of yellow spangled gauze.
Carrie Swain, who had her hubby—Frank Gardiner—along,
wore blue moire with the front broidered in pearls and
-Union pink ; and the large lad} wore black gauze and a
big green sash. Au rente the “Pickled Youth” twirled
with positive infantile freshness ; a girl who was dressed
in the sombre hues of a pound of butter had a ton of hair
on the top of her cranium, sixteen shades lighter than the
rest; and one happy married wight sat sadly grasping his
w ife's bouquet for the whole of the evening.
S.R.O. and enthusiasm at 90 degrees heralded the
debut of “Martha” at Sydney Opera House on the 3rd
inst. The d.c. was crammed, though there were no low
dresses - the reduced prices inducing the circle to emulate
those worthy people below who don’t take off their clothes
to visit the theatres. As to the stage toilettes, I’m afraid
Queen Anne —rather a proper monarch in her w r ay—would
have been rather surprised at the amount of personal
charm below the collar-bone displayed by her lady of
honour in the first act, and here the query presents itself;
“ Why should an artiste who is pex-suaded with difficulty
to abbreviate her skirts, be impartial about how much of
her emerges at the other end ?” The similar idea about
knock-knees at once occurs, of course.
People are remarking what prodigious lion-hunters a
certain Australian society couple are. Let any “pros.”—
male or female—high-kicker, warbler-reciter, actor, but
touch our shores and they swoop down on the disti .
guished visitors and hear them to their lair. Lions, < t
course, are very nice, hut to take the whole family (o your
unquestioning heart isn’t always successful. < inly the
other evening they appeared in public—in Melbourne,
you know—with a recent feminine importation whose
antics did them little credit; and two of their dearest
“prodigies ?” lately left for “ home ” without even alluding
to the heavy sum the stage-struck host had advanced them ■
A “Ladies' Exchange and General Agency” has re-
cently been started in Sydney, having for its objects the
obtaining of victims for the hoarding-house nobility—or
discovering furnished houses for the stranger within our
gates, or instantly producing high-class governesses,
housemaids, cooks, and so on, with tearfully-enthusiastic
credentials, who will he delivered post-free and packed in
straw to any address in Australia; while, lastly, there
is au emporium where the lady patron who has a foun-
dered bonnet or a derelict pair of goloshes cau receive in
return an asthmatic poodle with fits, or anything else that
offers. The “ L.E. and 6.A.” is said to fill the usual long-
felt want, and truly if it adheres to its prospectus there is
no more sorrow or worry left anywhere ?
This is a veracious anecdotelet, with a blush somewhere
concealed in it, about a bashful young man from the
interior, who is at present putting up at a Sydney board-
ing-house, in a terrace where all the houses are as similar
as twins. He went out one evening to a Band of Hope
chavoo, with ginger-ale interludes, and when he returned
home he went in next door—do you understand ?—and,
mounting the stairs, reached what he imagined to be his
chamber, Haul! v had he rounded the door than a
partially-robed vision, in curl-papers, darted forward
and began to inform him that he was a
nasty mean thing to keep her up to this hour;
and then a shrill shriek interrupted the vision’s eloquence,
she fell on to the hell-knob and squealed “Police!”
Hereupon a crowd of people in strange garments and
armed with dumb-bells, pokers, and other things, rushed
into the room, and that bashful youth from the interior
would gladly have welcomed death. In a piping tenor he
implored them to delay the sacrifice until they told him if
this was room No. 200 in No. 1000? And then, of course,
things were made temporarily plain. To avoid all possi-
bility of the escape of a blood-thirsty burglar, though,
two of the strongest men escorted him with an iron-grip
to his proper address when, of course, his identity was
promptly proved.
As to the “baby cult” that is said to be demoralis-
ing our greatest poets, I also protest against the hordes of
wonderful children who render life a misery to a person
unpossessed of the privileges of Herod. An eminent Lon-
don authority stated that “instead of trying to force a
child’s gift or talent, it should be kept back and all-round
development aimed at.” Is this done ? If Johnnie can
strum, Johnnie’s pieces are the feature of the soiree; if
Jane can sing a note, Jane’s squeal rises on the breeze
whenever two or more are gathered together. We have
infant prima donnas, violinists, reciters, skaters—hut in
all onr suffering we only smile painfully on the “ prodigy,”
poor little thing. We keep all our animosity for the
“parents and guardians.”
The vice-regal ball at Melbourne Government House, on
the 25th ult., was a great success though the night was
pouring wet—and cold as a pump-handle. Lady Robinson
wore a handsome gown of topaz brocade and satin draped
with jewelled net, diamond ornaments. The colour most
favoured was white, and everybody, even the debutantes,
of whom there were many—wore a train.
I hear that Baritone Santley has a golden opinion of
Miss Frances Saville’s vocalization. He adv ises her to go
to England, as in his opinion her voice is superior to
Madame Melba’s ! I hope she won’t act on this advice.
We cannot quite afford to lose Miss Saville.
A bevy of Sydney’s fairest bachelors are giving a dance
at Need’s rooms on the 9th inst. Mrs. Delohery will re-
ceive on behalf of the hosts, and the affair promises to be
highly successful.
On the afternoon of 3rd inst. Lady Carington distri-
buted the prizes due to Woollahra branch of the St.
John’s Ambulance, at Government House. On the 30th
ult. their vice-regalities entertained a large party at
dinner.
I read that Sara Bernhardt, the great comedienne,
whom all critics are agreed cannot play a “ real lady ”—au
inability noticeable in most Australian actresses—sleeps
in a curious bed. It is almost 15 feet across, and “ when
Sara is indisposed and receives her friends in her room
she looks like a little golden-headed bird in a great sea of
white satin.”
Apropos of dancing, the new one-card programmes are
v ery convenient and should be univ ersally adopted. The
divided cards are always splitting, and, df course, the side
one loses is always that with one’s partner’s hieroglyphics
on it!
It is said that an unsophisticated from Way Back was
taken by her sorrowing Sydney friends to hear “ the great
baritone ” one evening. She listened with a puzzled ex-
pression, and at the conclusion remarked emphatically :
“ Well, I like his voice, but I never thought he’d sing
such songs as those, and why hasn’t Mr. Moody come w ith
him ?’
Writing about the Melbourne ball, a local sassiety
scribe cheerlessly remarks: “Notwithstanding the cold,
wet night, the vice-regal residence presented a bright
and cheerful appearance from the exterior.” Poor fellow ’?
couldn’t penetrate any further, I suppose. But how cold
he must have got.
Fastidious people will rejoice and make merry on learning
that the art of eating oranges with ease and grace is taught
at high-toned scholastic establishments. And really it's
not superfluous. Many’s the young lady who would be (as
Mrs. Moody, in “Bachelors,” says) “an engaged girl this
blessed minute” if she only hadn’t been observed “suck-
ing” an orange with the peel on and “blowing out” the
pips! for the average girl “sucking” oranges isn’t a
pleasing sight. There is orange on her nose, her cheeks,
her chin ; even her bang and the fixed glare of her eye
over the top of the skin is not winning. Certainly orang .
eating is a science. Study the stalls of a theatre if you
don’t think so.
Speaking of dances, 1 hear of a very smart retort—not
exactly courteous--made at a recent Sydney dance to an
ungracious young woman. Dancing was not mentioned
in the invitation, and one guest came without gloves. He
grieved over his deficiency to his partner, adding “I hope
you won’t mind.” “ I do mind, very much, sir,” said she,
acidly. “Pray do not!” came the retort— * I can wash
my hands afterwards, you know !”
I w onder what the scribes in the Woman’s column of
the S.M.H. imagine their readers to be? In a page on
“ Heroes and Heroines ” the writer, after having adv anced
(in face of the proverb about cows afar off having long horns)
the impossible theory that authors limn their heroines
from those “ near and dear to them,” concludes:—“This
does not, however, necessarily imply that the women who
write novels make their male relatives and acquaintances
pose for the principal characters.” No, I should think it
didn’t, too. Fancy the pale literary young bride drawing
her bald, worried old man as Adolphus in the “Tired
Heart”—or the weeping sentimentalist immortalizing her
fat beef-steak-and-onions papa as the heroic hero of her
three-volume novel !
Since the lavish introduction of the limelight, which
Handsome George loves so well, the make-up of the pro-
fessional visage has become a matter of such overwhelm-
ing importance that it is worth knowing what trouble
actresses really lake to beautify themselves so that we
can better appreciate effects. Yet it would take a smart
person to discover how actresses make up. Most
object to professional secrets being made public, while one
less conservative though highly popular was pleased to
tell me, with an adorable smile, that she used grease-
paint, and “if she had a wrinkle she would let me know
at once !” Which struck me as being rather superfluous
until I remembered that the marks of time on her
snowy brow are national calamities. But where was
I ? In the theatrical make-up there is only one
god, and grease-paint and pearl-powder is his prophet.
The artiste washes her face in hot water and soap to make
the paint work belter. Then follows a covering of cream.
Upon this conies the carmine flush, which is the undoing
of so many high-collared denizens of the d.c., rubbed care-
fully on with the fingers and shaded to the edge. Then,
with a leather stump touched with brown and black
grease-paint, she draws a thin line on either lid and
touches the eyelashes. Then touches of carmine are put
on the lips and inside the cars, pearl-powder is passed over
the entire masterpiece, and the fresco is accomplished !
After which come the bouquets and the love-letters, and,
as a moral sticks out here at least half-a-foot, I need do no
more than call attention to it.
I see that Captain Le Patourel, who was aide-de-camp
to the Marquis of Normanby when that pleasant old gentle,
man held sway in Victoria, has landed a wealthy heiress in
a Miss Blanche Eckley. The dear Captain, familiarly
known as " fat,” was to he “ turned off ” at St. George's
Hanover Square, early this month, and I know of one
Melbourne girl, at least, who would like to tear some-
body’s eyes out. Talking of which reminds me that more
than one girl is ready to tear her own eyes out, all on
account of a certain gay Lothario w ho shone with the light
reflected from a relative of his during the Exhibition
period. They loved not wisely, according to mysterious
rumours.
Some of the drapery “hands” sent out to the great
Paris show have just returned, bringing the latest fashions
with them. Bodices for the coming season will be cut
very Frenchwise, long from shoulder to bust, and cor-
respondingly short from bust to waist. It will be amusing
to note how some exceedingly well-developed figures will
suddenly “ drop” under the dressmaker’s instructions.
As for hats, you may expect to see them very little deeper
than soup-plates, and anything in the way of a large hat
will run on mushroom lines. Good news this for
theatre-goers. By the mail just to hand I hear of
bonnets consisting wholly and solely of a four-
looped bow placed flat on the crown of the head,
a style which is rather suggestive of neuralgia, and
can hardly be adopted by women with close-cropped
hair. Talking of hair, of course you know that the new
bronze-colour is quite the rage at home. The particular
dye is not yet obtainable in Sydney or Melbourne, for
your Sappho has been making anxious enquiries without
success. The old invisible nets—only much more invisible
than ever—are coming into vogue again, so, if you see a
woman with her front fringe undisturbed by a high wind
you may amuse yourself by looking for the ensnaring net.
While on the subject of bodices I forgot to mention that
high shoulder puffs, cut in the sleeve, are certain to be
common on the Block this summer.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mr. W. B. CHRISTIE,
Editor of the Wentworth Advocate (N.S.W.)
(See page 8).
“Ludwig Yonhinkelsteinhauseiibloser, of
Cincinnati, has the longest name in the United
States.” But that is a mere nothing beside
Leopoldine Y onschvvillensaufengermansausage-
schwedischturnipstein. We made that all up our-
selves.
If you would understand exactly how the
Upper House of N.S.W. was constituted while
learning the power with which its founder wished
to endow it, you may save yourself much turning
over of dusty volumes by the purchase of Thu
Bulletin’s “ History of Botany Bay,” profusely
illustrated by that paper’s artists, L. Hopkins
and Phil May. The cheapest shilling’s worth ever
published. Colonial history in brief.
A certain fashionable Sydney square is
having a boom in bolting boarders. Two young
“gents.” “skipped by the light of the moon”
from the locality with their trunks the other night
(by the aid of a clothes-line) in the presence of a
policeman, who did not think it worth his while
to let the unfortunate landlady know ; while an
alleged foreign prince, in debt for a month’s hash
and clear-starching, having got away with £lOO or
so borrowed money and a mortgage on several
ladies’hearts, was afterwards discovered to be an
ex-hospital warder.
The following pregnant words are ex-
tracted from “ Looking Backwards, ” a Socialistic
novel, by Edward Bellamy :
“A man who can produce twice as much as another
with the same effort, instead of being rewarded for doing
so, ought to be punished if lie does not do so.”
Exactly. The effort in the case of the blunderer
is the same as in that of the expert, his waste of
tissue probably greater; why, then, should he
receive as pay for his effort, less of the sustenance
necessary for the repair of that waste, than does
the man who performs more work easily, and,
therefore, with a smaller need for recuperative
return ?
The Crown Prosecutor in Wellington
(N.Z.), who is suing Mr, Jellicoe—a brother
barrister —for £5OOO damages for libel, is H. D.
Bell, a partner of the firm of Bell, Gully, and
Izard, popularly known as “Gall, Belly and
Gizzard.” He is a son of Sir F. D. Bell, theN.Z.
Agent-General, and the family has a large interest
in the colony. Father, Agent-General; son
Harry, Crown Prosecutor at Wellington ; son
Ernest, Harry’s partner; son Arthur, Engineer
for Defences and Public Works ; son Alfred, a
large, station-owner in Canterbury. Jellicoe is
comparatively a nevv-ehum, having been specially
imported from England to conduct the prosecution
of Waring Taylor, in which he was successful.
He has since then made himself obnoxious to the
Judges and Crown Prosecutors by the happy
knack he has of persuading juries that Ids clients
are injured innocents, and “many a burglar lie’s
restored to his friends and his relations.” About
three years ago Bell, in a fit of irritation caused
by a successful though somewhat unscrupulous de-
fence of a client by Jellicoe, applied to him in
open court a most opprobions ephithet, and since
then there has been war between them. Bell is
well up in libel-law, and successfully defended the
Wellington Evening Press (Wakefield’s paper) in
au action brought by Vogel some three years ago.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Koval “Pepita.”
Her Majesty’s “Confusion.”
Opera House ... “Martha.”
Criterion “Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
Waxworks “Jo-Jo.”
Cyclorama “Rattle of Gettysburg.”
Metropolitan Skating Rink.. Ultimo.
Elite Skating Rink Redfern.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Silver King.”
Princess’ “ The Grasshopper.”
Opera House Silbon-Stirks.
Alexandra “ East Lynne.”
St. George s Hall “Skipped by Moonlight.”
Victoria Hall Combination Minstrels.
Cyclorama “ Waterloo.”
“Pepita,” at the Royal, subtracts much
from the sum of human ignorance by its revela-
tions of life in the Canary Islands. Pepita and
her foster-sister, Inez, are nieces of an uncle who is
a general by profession, but a miller in moments
of relaxation from business. Both girls are mar-
ried and addicted to deserting their husbands and
having a good time in various other capacities at
the bidding of their uncle, whose main object in
life is studiously concealed from everybody except
a rival general. • The latter keeps the island
in a condition of chaos trying to find a
queen for the throne, which is already occu-
pied by a bad case of bilious fever in the
shape of a prince, who does nothing but
compromise another man’s wife in the good old
princely fashion familiar to the student of English
history and the manners and customs of the
aristocracy of the United Kingdom. The two
deserted husbands in search of their wives plunge
what glimmer of intelligence the audience may
yet possess into still deeper perplexity, until there
is nothing much left to hold on by except some
real live donkeys from Coogee. The husband of
Inez, who has in the meantime gone out of the
hotel business and become proprietor of a tin
ice-cream ranch, suddenly developed into a
victorious bullfighter, which qualifies him as
king, and the entire population of the island
sing the Canary version of “ God Save the
Queen ” with as much unctuous patriotism as
there is in an Argus report of a loyal banquet
when Gillies is on the job. Nelly Stewart and
Fanny Liddiard are Pepita and Inez. Helen
Kinnaird made a first appearance as Katarina, a
part in which she lias only time to bluff her hus-
band artistically and show what she could do if
she had the chance. General Bombardos would
be less like Sergeant Meryll with the help of some
string to tie up his tremolo stop, and keep it from
getting loose and interfering with the plot. The
palace scene is an incentive to emigration to the
Canaries, and the dresses right through gorgeous
enough for competition with anything this side of
the milky-whey.
s{v
A matinee on Tuesday last, at the Sydney
Royal, but slightly “ benefited ” Mr. James
Allison, owing to the weather. The compliment
was tendered him by the proprietors, Miss Elsa
Shenvin, and the members of the Brough-Bouci-
eault Company ; _ the English Opera Company
were billed, but did not appear, the names of the
principals having been used without their oer-
mission. The practice of making such announce-
ments is becoming common and a check of this
sort may possibly relieve professionals from the
strain of unremnnerated afternoon work, super-
imposed on already arduous duties.
* * *
The gentle “James” was chief robber to
a greater extent in the evening at Her Majesty’s,
when, in the presence of Gov. Carington, ac-
companied by three other nobles, an “olio” was
gone through by Frank Hawthorne (son of Mr.
W. J. Wilson), Slade Murray, Frank Clark, and
Miss Laura Wiseman ; while in the second course
the piece tie resistance was “ Confusion.”
vk Si i 4a
Uu Saturday night, at Sydney Opera
House, “ Martha,” whom we have not met since
the Turners were in Australia, reappeared before
an audience that filled the house to overflowing
and showed a disposition to encore everything and
everybody. Martha was played by Miss Lilian
Tree, who sang like a nightingale. Judging by the
way the audience hung on. her every note and
gesture —while, at the termination of every num-
ber, gluttonously and inconsiderately asking for
more—“the airy, fairy Lilian ” has got hold of the
Sydney public where the tree of old gripped
Absalom—by the long and curly locks. The Nancy
of Miss Flcra Graupner, if not the next part in
importance, was, owing to the bright and cheery
way in which the little woman—who fairly revelled
in her work—warbled and cavorted around, appar-
ently next in public favour. The Lionel of
Mr. Bracy was a fine and even performance,
imbued with a vigour and mellowness for which
some of his later efforts had scarcely pre-
pared us. The vocalization of Signor Bnzzi
—we had almost written “Mister”—was truly
excellent; his natural humour, mingled with the
unintentional fun exuding from his quaintly-
spoken sentences, almost crowded out Mr.
■b»lm Eorde, the company's comedian, whose Sir
Tristan Muckleford savoured of, rusticity and was
disappointing, albeit the part is an attenuated
one.
By the way, “The Spinning Song,” rap-
turously received, cau ed us to enquire within as
to why this obsolete household implement is so
popular with all the composers from Gounod to
Sullivan ? Why don’t some of the moderns give
the homely and popular sewing-machine a show?
Incongruous says someone. Nonsense ! A
“Singer” could never be out of place on the
operatic stage.
* * *
We predict for “Martha” a lung run.
Such a demonstrative appreciation of tin old
favourite has been seldom witnessed, particularly


in tho dress-circle, where, owing to the prevailing
popular prices, there was the smallest display of
spinal knots and the greatest of enthusiasm on
record. However, the management deserve suc-
cess for throwing open to an honest expression of
genuine delight the former resort of undemonstra-
tive and glassy-eyed petrifaction.
** * *
The “ Guv’nor ” arrived at Her Majesty’s
the other evening just tco late to hear Slade
Murray, an alleged comic vocalist, sing in charac-
ter “ Good, old Mary Ann.” This rather annoyed
nrt . we feel sure “Charlie” would have highly
appreciated that worthy’s reference to “Tummy’s”
affection for females of the Mary Hann sort.
On the opening night of “Martha, ’ at
Sydney Opera House, Conductor Harrison, making
a rather long stay “round the corner” between
the third and fourth acts, the orchestra and the
front rows of the stalls, incited by Willimoff, _ re-
ceived him most rapturously when he did arrive.
The applause was then taken up in good faith by
the rest of the house, and thus received by the
flattered conductor, and duly chronicled by the
daily Press, but for all that it was a sort of “ hope-
we’ve-not-kept-you-waiting-conductor ” ovation.
* -* * #
As we passed by Frank Clark’s show at
Sydney Waxworks, the other day, the trunkless
young lady in the window smiled graciously ; but
we passed on, merely wondering who had tickled
her.
*% * *
The air in the neighbourhood of the Elite
Rink is, as ever, nightly vocal with the whirr of
“ball-bearing roller skates,” the light laugh of
the erect and the reverberating bump on which
i* grafted the curse of the fallen.
* * -*- *
At Sydney Metropolitan Rink “ biz.” con-
tinues lively, "for the cold and wet, killing to other
shows, simply makes the skate industry howl like
an Injun on the war-path ; the girls and boys
crowd in out of the wet to warm themselves.
** * *
The Cyclorama, under new management,
still proceeds to annex the shekels of the Sydney
public from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m., and the silvery
voice of the lecturer still floats serenely above the
horrid din of battle, the clash of arms, and the
roar of cannon.
*
All the Sydney shows, beginning with the
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion, the Coogee and Bondi
Aquaria Concerts in the afternoon, and finishing
up with the “sacred and classicals” in the even-
ing at the Criterion, Alhambra and Haymarket,
were well patronised, in spite of the uncertain
weather.
#* * *
Sydney’s favourite pianist, M. Henry
Kowalski, whose deserving efforts to cater for the
public have so far been excessively unfortunate,
and whose hand shave never been slack in performing
for the benefit of the needy, takes a “ ben.” at the
Criterion on the afternoon of Saturday, Ang. 10th
when a gigantic programme will be gone through
hy the “ entire musical and dramatic ” profession
of Sydney.
“Betsy ” has been exercising her pleasing
influence' over holy minds at the Adelaide
Royal with most satisfactory results. G. W.
Anson scores heavily as Mr. Birkett, Baltic
Browne plays Betsy in her own inimitable way,
while Titheradge and Lucia Harwood shine as
Captain and Mrs. M‘Manus. ‘‘ The Shaughrann ”
is next announced, with Boucicault the younger
as the rollicking Conn. Rickards opens with his
company at Garner’s, Jinkinsmanaging. A couple
of Midgets have arrived by the Cuzco and show
shortly.
** # #
The Finkelstein has been and gone and
done it in Brisbane. Before paying her “usual
holiday visit to her happy home, the Holy Land,”
she had registered a vow last year to “visit
Queensland and see for herself if it was so irre-
ligious a place as people had told her,' and now
she has stumped it all over the land, even from
Cnoktown to Goondiwindi, and all the people
rolled up like one man and a boy to hear her ex-
pound the Book, crying aloud with unanimous
voice, “ Go it, Lydia Mamreoff Yon Fonk ; that’s
the way to draw the shekels out of the stiff-necked
Gentiles!” And behold there is as much joy as
it can hold in the heart of the much-travelled
Sinythe. The fair Jerusalemite, accompanied by
Rabbi R. S. Smythe, will re-visit their old home
and haunt, the Y.M. C.A. Hall on 26th inst. The
i loqnent lady gave her 23rd lecture in Brisbane
at the large Opera House last Saturday.
*- -*■ *
Miss Lily Dumpier still weeps for her
little Willie at the Alexandra, where “East
Lynne ” is considered to be more pathetic than a
funeral on a wet day. The Silbons arc also a
source of wealth at the Opera House, although in
the hour of prosperity one of those muscular
brethren has fallen foul of Mr. Jimmy MacMahon
and reduced his elegant proportions to a mana-
gerial jelly. An eye-witness of this little mis-
understanding says that the MacMahon, after
making sixteen distinct revolutions in the air,
finally caught the kerbstone of Parliament Place
with the back of his head. MacMahon is “the only
artist in the world who has accomplished this
difficult and wonderful feat,” and it was his
intention at time of writing to take crimi-
nal proceedings in consequence. Last Saturday
they had something described as a “ Military
Command Night,” at the Opera House, the
audience consisting mostly of men in buckram.
Between acts the military forces in the galleries
spat upon their gallant comrades in the stalls,
while the gaudy warriors of the pircle swanked to
and from the refreshment-bar with all the pomp
and circumstance of grim-visaged war. The
central figure in this glittering pageant was
Governor Wobinson, faked up with some blue
ribbon across his chest, and looking exactly like
an Oddfellow. Wobinson is not exactly a soldier,
but he is very musical. If the Russians came
Wobinson would join the band and fight, for Aus-
tralia with a good big wind instrument.
%* * *
“ Silver King,” a great moral drama point-
ing out
“That men may rise on stepping stones
Of their dead selves to higher things,”
has been resurrected with customary splendour at
Melbourne Royal. After nearly seven years’ ex-
perience of Wilfrid Denver it is scarcely necessary
to point out that the dead self on which he planted
his repentant feet, was a stone-broke boozer, whose
wife and family were reduced to searching for him
in skittle-alleys, and saying father, dear father,
come home. If he had staggered, when his wife
wanted him to, instead of reeling off to shoot a
cleaner and more sober man, his dead self
must eventually have perished in a damp cellar
with his cold, blue lips glued to a gin-bottle.
But, owing to a third person shooting the other
man ere the bloated Wilfrid got a show, circum-
stances compelled him to become a Silver King, in
which capacity he was frequently annoyed by a
long, bony hand stretching out from the clouds,
and seizing his fatty degenerated heart, until he
found out that he never was a murderer at all, but
merely a conscience-stricken sniveller whose riches
and reformation were the outcome of the mortal
funk lie fell into upon discovering a corpse under
a table. To be strictly accurate, it was upon the
dead self of the other fellow that Wilfrid stepped
from a skittle-alley to a silver-mine, but this hard
fact makes no difference to the dramatic strength
and literary finish of “ Silver King. ’ A number
of stage accidents and hitches marred the solemnity
of thisinorallessononSaturdaynight. The shooting
of Geoffrey Ware by our old friend Spider, had to
be accomplished with a blunt knife, after Spider
had given up the revolver as a bad job. Conse-
quently, Denver's dazed conviction that he had
stabbed the deceased gentleman with a bullet, was
almost as absurd as the detective's remark that the
bullet which couldn’t be found in the wound made
by a blunt knife, exactly fitted the revolver that
missed fire. But when due allowance is made for
this and other first-night difficulties, it is still
evident that Air. Alfred Bucklaw lacks glitter in
‘ ‘ star ” parts. His manly voice begins to get mono-
tonous, andhis very earnestness has a tendency tobe-
come wearisome. Life seems too serious a matter
with this nice young man. The well-appointed Air.
Sass appears to great natural advantage as
“ Spider,” and Royce plays the aged Jaikes for all
that faithful retainer is worth. Alias Clara Cowper
is a better Mrs. Denver than any of her predeces-
sors in Melbourne, but the remainder of the
company, without exception, suffer by comparison
with memories of the past. Eroma spectacular point
of view, however, Alias Edith Blande is a slap-up
representative of the Spider’s bride.
PHOTO. BY TUTTLE & CO., HUNTERS BUILDINGS.
MISS FANNY LIDDIARD.
The Cogills and John Gourlay are putting
in a fortnight at StftGeorge’s Hall with “ Skipped
by the Light of the Moon,” the other halls remain
where they were, and the “Marble Man” also
remains where he was, owing to the irreverent
conduct of certain Hebrew gentlemen, who have
served the fossil with a summons. Unless the
Cow Flat individual gets six months for contempt
of court or is remanded until next sessions, he will
probably get back to Sydney without delay. His
reception fee has been reduced to a shilling, and
they reckon him dear at that.
*
“Grasshopper,” at the Princess’, appears
to be raging with more idiotic fury than was ex-
pected, perhaps because it is the nearest approach
to comic opera which Smellbourne has on tap. An
attempt to throttle Dismal Jimmy with a life-
belt, has been added to the inhuman interest of
this production, and the uncouth object of the
Grasshopper’s affection, kicks his legs worse than
formerly, but, otherwise, there is no reason why
this show should not immediately be cast into a
burning, fiery furnace, and reduced to a pillar of
salt, the same as Daniel was.
.T. H. Clyndes has suddenly retired from
the Triumvirate’s new company. This is to be
deplored because Clyndes is an actor of some
pretensions, whereas several of the recent importa-
tions—the third end of the shipment have no
pretensions to do anything except stand around.
A lot of the firm’s “new blood” is diluted with
water to an awful degree.
%
The fair divorcee , Miss Marie Tempest,
after duly birth-rate, has taken her
place again at the head of Mr. H. J. Leslie’s com-
pany, and is playing the name-part in Collier’s
new opera, “ Doris. ’ Air. Leslie (who had to pay
£5OOO and costs) was Marie’s co-respondent, and
would probably take his leading lady to wife if he
hadn’t one already. Meantime, Airs. Leslie looks
calmly on and says what’s the odds so long as
they’re happy !
** * *
Miss Janet Achurch and Mr. Charringtou,
engaged by Mr. Garner for Australia, have ob-
tained an extension of time to remain in London,
through Miss Achureh’s great success in Mr.
Archer’s version of “ Ibsen’s Nord, or the Doll's
House.” This will be a remarkable novelty for
Australia. Miss Achurch's popularity has so
bounded up that perhaps she is sorry sin l signed
with Mr. Garner. However, she is not likely to
imitate Mrs. Langtry’s breach of her agreement
with'W. G. and M. some years ago.
The Philadelphian Press states that
Pauline Hall’s real name is Spintle-hausen-
Sehaefor.
From a Victorian paper :
X\T ANTED—ITWO 1 TWO PLOUGHMEN, for Kingston ;
' V must he web-footed, constitutions like horses.
Apply Jons’ , Elmore.
The totalizator returned a profit of £5OO
odd at the recent meeting of the Townsville Turf
Club. This money, and more, would otherwise
have gone to buy diamonds for ex-fish-hawkers.
Fifteen hundred Arabs were killed and
only fifty Britishers, but the former were unfairly
handicapped, for their conquerors, through the
forethought of General Grenfell, were fortified
before wading in with Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
On Saturday night last about 300 “ lovers
ofgood cheer ” sat down toatastefully-arrangedand
daintily-served upbanquetat the new Central Coffee
Palace in Clarence-street, Sydney, to whose spacious
portals Barrack-street seems a mere avenue of ap-
proach. The Mayor was in the chair, and the Hon.
W. H. Pigott, the Postmaster-General, with
others orated. The building is, in height, six
stories, and contains 180 single and many double
bedrooms, while its billiard-room, cafe bar, dining-
saloon, &c., are beautifully decorated, and tele-
phones, telegraph-wires, the electric light,
hydraulic lifts, and so on, are laid on like hot
and cold water all over the premises with a lavish-
ness that will inevitably command custom.
One of the newly-elected members for the
Mnrrumbidgee in the N.S.W. Legislative Assem-
by, Mr. D. Copland, is a Wagga storekeeper, who,
profiting by his lately-gained Parliamentary ex-
perience, thus describes the stock of his rivals ;
The goods they offer you are the residuum of Sydney
auction-room sweepings, and old stocks that- are mouldy
with the leprosy of time. The public’s often eclipsed by
the glamour of a sequestrated estate, invariably the relic
of aNtook that has been peacocked. Let ns emphasize
the fact that our goods are immeasurably cheaper than
those offered, by tbese noisy chcivloAcuis , who, shvidctny
like birds of prey , fill the air with their noise and clamour.
During the recent debate in the N.Z.
Legislature on the Representation Bill, which was
stonewalled by the Opposition, Sir Harry Atkinson
placed mattresses and pillows in the waiting-rooms
for the benefit of his supporters and himself while
the struggle continued. A N.Z. poet, who is
supposed to be still at _ large, dashed off the
following lines on the subject.
Sir Harry on a mattress lies,
Stonewalling foes to beat;
But we prefer to see him when
He lies upon his feet!
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,— Assuming that
the Hon. Mr. Hoskins, who belongs to the
N.S.W. Legislative Council and objects to pay-
ment of members of Parliament, is the Mr. James
Hoskins who once was N.S.W. Minister for Land
—[Same man.— Ed. B.]—it will interest people to
know that that gentleman, when he ran for the
Northern goldfields as plain Jimmy Hoskins, in
the fifties—“ Slippery Charlie’s ” time, I believe—
did not object to members being paid, for he ac-
cepted money collected for him by the diggers,
and amongst it was two pounds contributed by
the writer of this, who had faith in members of
Parliament at that time.—“ N.N.,” Wattle Elat,
N SAY.
At Poverty Point.
Top. Bulletin sincerely hopes that Jimmy Allison’s
“bon.” will amount to as much as his costs in “My
Partner,” recently played at the N.S.W. Equity Court.
A new comedy-drama called “The Old Home,” by
Robert Buchanan, has been produced at the London
Vaudeville. A returned Australian, who gets an aristo-
cratic husband for his pretty daughter by paying off
heavy incumbrances on an estate, is the motif. Drama-
tists are beginning to realise the value of the wealthy
Australian ass in “ Hingland.”
The story that Di Mu ska died in absolute penury in
Munich, is flatly contradicted in the American Musician
by the prima donna’s first husband, Joseph Kder, father
of the daughter who “cared and tendered the dying
singer like a princess,” and who, instead of suiciding, as
was asserted, placed over her mother's ashes in the
crematory, at Gotha, the following inscription -
“ The sound of the sweet voice is stilled ;
The Nightingale becomes ashes"
“The petrified man” has been “attached” in Mel-
bourne on a Sydney judgment. Has the sordid bailiff no
reverence for the dead ?
Boulanger’s loss of popularity in France may he par-
tially put down to the Parisian Buffalo Bill boom.
A late London paper says that Mr. Fred. Leslie is suffer-
ing from blood-poisoning and Miss Nellie Barren from (be
gout.
In lecturing on “Our Cousin Hamlet,” “Horatio” Parker
is ostentating too much over the relationship.
There promises to be a boom in the freak-market. A
petrified woman has just been unearthed at Winnipeg,
Canada. Scientists may yet arrange a match between this
interesting female andonr Marble Man.
Miss Leonora Brabam was to have a benefit mat!nee at
the Savoy Theatre, London, some time in June. A lot of
big people had promised to assist, and the inference is
that little Leonora has not been enjoying a rosy time.
An operatic club of amateurs lately ran “lolanthe ” for
nine nights in Auckland to splendid houses, ranging from
£B5 to £l2O. And yet not long since a really first-class
coined}' company, good enough for anything, was fairly
starved out of N.Z.
At a certain southern theatre a lessee is “ on the tear,”
under the impression that the employes have been letting
people in to see the show without paying. They were
offered the privilege of giving monetary guarantees for
future honesty, or —the sack. Some of them had been
years in the service, and kicked against the suspicion ; a
meeting was held and they chose the latter. There is
much present trouble and a promise of more to follow.
The “Royal” family—W. G. and M.
A little touch of human nature deeply moved a big
audience in ’Frisco, on the occasion of a benefit tendered
by Modjeska to our old friend the much-tried Jeffreys
Lewis. In returning thanks, Miss Lewis said she could
not attribute the presence of so big an audience to her
own merits, but solely to those of Modjeska, “without
whose presence,” she added, “ there would be no audience
in this theatre to-night.” Here she kissed the great
artist’s hand, who, quickly withdrawing it, folded her
poor sister in her arms and tenderly kissed her. This may
or may not have been rehearsed, but anyhow it “ fetched ”
them.
At a well-known London music-hall there was a stage
wait. The manager came forward and asked the audience
to pardon the delay ; meanwhile the band would play, lie
said. This same band was a notoriously bad one, and one
of the lads in front bawled out, “’Eaven’s sake. Mr.
’Arwood, don’t let the band play, we’ll be good.”
Katie Putnam and a dramatic Co. will shortly appear in
Sydney under Frank Clark’s management.
The younger Borani, having fractured one of his wrists
Sam Keenan jumped in to help the elder brother. The
acrobatic teats of Borani broke Sam up, scraped the hack
of his head hare, sprained his right hip, and now he w alks
about smelling of liniment.
The suggestion recently thrown out. by Tub Bulletin re
Australian actors trying the (’ape has borne fruit. A com-
pany leaves Melbourne shortly for the land of the Boer.
Handsome George Rignold was awfully savage the ot her
night when a gallery boy called him “ Jo-Jo.”
The other night some of the attendants at the Wax-
works were “ mashing” some young girl visitors. Jo-Jo
thereupon became jealous, and it was next to impossible
to pacify him. Jo-Jo likes to do all the mashing himself
and will brook no rivals.
Buckley and Holly, who have lately been travelling in
the Newcastle (N.S.W.) district, returned to Sydney last
week and report terrible weather and poor business in con-
sequence.
Bland Holt has done, and is doing, a very big business in
New castle, the houses being packed every night.
Walter Keen, the Australian comic singer, lias been laid
up in a Californian hospital, but is now travelling.
Pantomime is to be produced at Her Majesty’s Tlieat re
at Xmas time.
Three young men were trying to make out the meaning
of the letters “ G.R.” on the (lately demolished) old vicar-
age in Macquarie-street. After various guesses one of
them said he was sure it was George Rignold.
Mr. R. A. F. Murray, the Victorian Government geolo
gist, “hardly knows what to think of the Marble Man"
Kowalski’s matinee has been postponed until the loth
inst. on account of the third having been the first night m
“ Pepita” and “Martha.”
Mrs. .1. C. Williamson will return to Sydney from smi
Francisco per Zealandia.
Fred. Gunther left Sydney last week for Adelaide to
manage the Royal Midgets for Hiscocks.
The Taylor-Carrington Company did fair business m
Western Victoria lately, but the weather has been awful.
They left Melbourne for Gippsland last Saturday.
Whitburn the comedian, w r ho is a native of Melbourne,
was arguing with a Sydney man as to the respect iv
merits of Melbourne and Sydney. At length Whitburn's
patience being exhausted, he said, “Look at your har-
bour, indeed —look at bur moon !”
Horace Bent, once annoyed at the “toffy” ways of a
certain actor, one day walked up to him in a chib and
enquired, “Say! are you a special creation ?” (Fond and
continued laughter.)
A grand matinee performance will take place in Her
Majesty’s Theatre, kindly granted for the occasion by Mr.
George' Rignold, this (Saturday) afternoon, “in aid of flu-
sick poor of Sydney.” May they have a bumper !
An American impresario, Morrissey, famous for having
induced Emma Abbott to sing “ Nearer My God to Tbee ”
in the middle of “ Traviata,” now- proposes to embellish
with trimmingsFlotow’s “Martha”at N.Y. Grand Opera
An innovation in the fair scene will be a Graeco-Roman
wrestling-match between the famous heavy-weights,
Muldoon and Miller, together with a large number of the
members of the New York Athletic Club, who will put the
heavy stone and execute the double trapeze. “ Martha ”
is running at Sydney Opera House, and- —"hut Larry
Foley’s interest is in a rival establishment.
Katie Putnam did fairly in Sandhurst and Ballarat.
“Harbour Lights” is to he the next’ production at
Melbourne Royal.
George Leitch is resting in Melbourne.
St. Maur, Maggie Knight, and company have been play-
ing Melbourne suburbs with indifferent results.
A scratch company under the management of Russell
Crawfurd is playing “ Hans the Boatman” in Western
Victoria.
The pros, at Poverty Point in Melbourne are daily on
the increase.
Fred. Leslie, we read, “intends settling in New- York
permanently.” Capitalists have offered to build him a
theatre to be christened in his honour. Frederick, when
in Sydney, likewise said he would settle here. He pro-
mised to settle in Melbourne, too. It all reminds one of
poor old Billy Hoskins, who used to say at every benefit,
no matter where : “ Ah, 1 love this place. I hope to leave
my bones here when I die.”
The dramatic critic (?) of the Adelaide Lantern has got
a good hold of a word he feels loath to part with. From
one notice:—“Mr. Herbert Flemming created well in the
role of Joseph Surface. Miss Nellie Mortyne, as Lady
Sneerwell, created favourably. Miss Lucy Harwood
created Christina Haggerstone in an able and effective
manner. If she creates as favourably in the number of
plays yet to be produced, she will achieve a pronounced
success.”
Another glorious victory ! One thousand
five hundred ivggers battned in the Soudan by the
‘ ‘ clever ” General Grenfell at a cost of only fit)
British lives. Water-melons and sherbet, spears
and flint-looks, against beef and beer, magazine
rifles, field-artillery, and machine-guns.


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Horsfoirt’s Acid Phosphate.
A TONIC AND FOOD
for the over-worked brain and muscles.
, Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Prankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
The Splitter’s Song.*
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I. —MORNING.
Out from the hut at break of day,
And up the lulls in the dawning grey,
With the young wind blowing,
From tlie blue east Hewing ;
Red udth the white sun's ray.
Lone and clear as a hermit’s dream,
l iider midnight’s and ’mid slumber’s stream,
I p rises the mount ’gainst the sunrise shower,
Vast as a kingdom, fair as a flower,
O'er it doth the foam of foliage ream
In vivid softness serene,
Pearly-purple, and pink, and green,
Clear in their mingling tinges,
Up away to the crest that fringes
Skies studded with cloud crags’ sheen.
ll. Day.
Like beasts frayed from their lurking shaw,
As ripples fleet ’neath a furious flaw,
The echoes re-echo, flying
Down from the maul’s hot-plying;
Clatter the axes, “ seeths ” the saw.
Buddy, and white the chips outspring,
Like money sown by a pageant king ;
Yields the free wood from the driven wedges
With its white sap-edges,
And heart, in the sunshine glistening.
The ice-clear azure floods down,
Wl icre the mighty tree-tops are overthrown,
As on through the endless day we labour •
The sun for our nearest neighbour
Up o’er the mountain lone.
And so intensely it doth illume,
That it shuts by-times to gloom ;
In the stony spaces thrilling ;
From the dead leaves distilling
A hot and harsh perfume.
lll.— Night.
Give over; all the valleys in sight
Fill, fill with the rising tide of night.
While the sunset with gold-dust bridges
The black deep ravined ridges.
Whose mighty muscles curve in its light.
In our weary climb, while night dyes deep
Down the broken and stony steep,
How our jaded bodies are shaken
By each step, in half-blindness taken ;
The depths of one’s soul lie all asleep.
Open the door of the dismal hut;
Goneness, silence, and darkness are shut
in it, as a tidal pool, until returning
Night drowns the land—no embers burning—
We are too weary our food to cut.
Body and soul with every blow
Wasted for ever, and, who will know
Where past this mountained night of toiling,
I led life in its thousand veins is boiling,
Chips scattered about the mountain brow.
SYDNEY JEPHCOTT.
Tintaldra, Victoria, February 1889.
[The Bulletin in publishing this poem is fully alive to
its gorgeous mysticism.]
The Happy (Australian) Shepherd Swain
Without Trimming’s.
He’ll shift his sheep just far enough
To ’scape all prying eyes,
Then at his pipe he’ll calmly puff
As on the grass he lies.
And all the clay his thoughts will stray
On aspirations vain
And flit from rum to far Cathay,
And back to rum again.
A ml, as he muses o’er the fun,
His cheque will bring to him,
■ he sheep are rambling off the run
“ Beyond its purple rim.”
7hen, when his dream of bliss is o’er,
He wakens with a shock,
And “ sools ” his dog around a score
Of “ crawlers ” from his flock.
Then as the sunlight fades away
He strikes the beaten track,
Two thousand sheep had trod that day
But only half go back.
All undisturbed he reaches home
And seeks his well-earned rest—
Why should he moan o’er sheep that roam f
lie does his level best.
And all in vain the managah
Howls forth his wicked swears
And cries, “ you dog I’ll damage yer,”
The shepherd only glares ;
For sheep may come and sheep may go,
His cheque goes on for ever,
And well he knows that rum will show
The profit of endeavour.
H.H.C.
N.S. Wales.
Burnsby Horns considers that the paying
"nt sj w ~ 1 P
” * Ymv "„ v ™ iam en won c lower their
utYm winch Mr. Horns
\ t AIL iaiov i ti, a f )py da y ” "hen
wn u ’ th T ef0 i re ’n me T ber ~ lSa
sinn nairily worth talking about; Bnrnsby, every
time lm pouched it, felt Compelled to say, with
l 00 , b 9 ., ab How s that for family pride, my
“ llca •
In Sydney Banco Court last week Salo-
mens, Q.C., ex-Chief Justice, rose and said that
+ k ’ ’n : xi , j
there was an intolerable smell in the court, and
tlmf tin Imnnri Hm ™ ’ •
that he hoped the .bench would cause an mninry
• \\T- • t i i xi
into the matter. Windeyer, senior Judge of the
com fhoF ~ - n jli x-x
5 'Vnmisfb ImaffiiintinTi
o j , -1 U. j 1 ’ icieupqn Mr.
m n t frP f ll " H< ? nors bas
SS aTa'St ISA “ujhSS, SI go
to another room on account of the evil.’’ The pub-
lie have smelt an evil odor at the N.S. W. Supreme
Court for many a day. The stink from that
Mount Rennie trial is still ascending to Heaven.
A new paper in Melbourne is the Trades
and Labour Journal. It lacks ginger. With-
out more of that condiment it will infallibly go to
the limbo of dead dogs.
A certain hangman, when tolling his vic-
tim to “ hurry up,” was met with the unanswer-
able rebuff : “ What’s your hurry ? They
can’t go on without us !”
The sensational book of the year —no, not
a novel—is H. H. Johnston’s “History of a Slave,”
described by the Hawk as the m st gruesome,
flesh-freezing volume ever printed.
“He had nothing to ait but a drink of
water, yer Wurship, an’ he towld me he was deaf
and dumb, so I tuk him in charge, yer Aimer. ”
Deposition of a Melbourne policeman.
A Gippsland editor “lias had the index
finger of his right hand so seriously injured in the
cogs of a printing-machine that he will be in-
cipacitated for some time.” Incapacitated?
Pooh ! Why we could always work a scissors with
oar left hand.
From “ An Autumn Dream,” by Ainelie
Rives :
Tiie naked hills lie wanton to the breeze,
The fields are made, the groves unfrocked;
Bare are the shivering limbs of shameless trees ;
What wonder is it that the corn is shocked !”
A new Sydney penny publication, the
Sunday Story-Teller, is before us. Irreproach-
able in its garb, nicely printed and carefully
e lited, it may have a future before it, should its
management recognise the necessity of giving
s imeone else a show. At present the writing is
all by one indefatigable hand, and all in the same
viin.
Somebody is grumbling now because the
Australian-invented Brennan torpedo, for which
the British Government paid £llO,OOO, has been
knocked out by an American invention which can
HE COULD SHIFT.
FIRST PASSENGER: “AM I IN A FIRST CLASS CARRIAGE?”
SECOND DITTO: “YAAS, BUT YOU CAN-AW-CHANGE AT THE NEXT
STATION.”
be utilised at any depth. They might as well
growl because the sausage-machine has been
superseded by the very loveliest armour-plated
compensation-balance steel-pointed store teeth.
We read that the estate of a Sydney
draper realised £255 3s. 9d., out of which law costs
and payments to witnesses swallowed up £233
Os. 9d., £1 7s. 6d. went in court fees, £5 Os. fid. in
miscellaneous expenses, and £l5 15s. in remunera-
tion to assignees, leaving for the creditors — nil.
Every penny swallowed up! How beautifully
they struck a balance !
We are now told that our statement that
the Liberator, a weekly paper addicted to strong
language, had been wound up, was not wholly
correct. The Liberator will continue to be
“wound up ” in the sense that an eight-day clock
is “wound up,” as usual once a week, and in
future only the strong hand of Saint Joseph Symes
will be on the crank, as the Liberator Co. has
been “ wound up”—in the sense in which a cada-
ver is enveloped in a winding-sheet—being dead
as a company and buried as a corporation. De
mortals nil nisi honurn.
At Brisbane, Principal Rainy, in reply to
the toast (and water, of course) of his health,
thus gave away the “ home ” clergy ; “ All I can
say when I return is to relate exactly what has
happened, and so far as Brisbane is concerned,
that I was received at the railway-station by
many friends, driven off to very comfortable
quarters, had a picnic to the Bay, and met with
every kindness on ail hands ; and if this will not
induce young men who have lent their talents to
the Church to come to the colonies, I do not know
what will.” Large collections at the door might—
we say might—be an additional inducement.
During the past six years, and under the
present proprietorship of a certain Melbourne
“ comic ” paper, the “ casualties ” among the staff
have been as follows : —One journal's! blew out
his brains ; another was killed by a tram; afore-
man of compositors (who had, however, just left
the employ) committed felo de se; a head machinist
died of consumption; his successor was drowned
in a boating fatality in the noisome Yarra; a
clerk in the business-department died of typhoid,
another, sometime publisher, fell dead while run-
ning to catch a train. But how many people has
that comic paper tortured to death outside its own
office ? This is a secret that none can know until
the sea shall give up its dead.
Last week a fervent political orator im-
plored electors to “ rise in their might and strike
the keynote of the coming dawn of a brighter
page in the country’s history.” This was good,
but it doesn’t get ahead of the prophecy of another
Sydney orator who had reason to hope that “the
coming prospects would be better than the sombre
futurities of the past.” And both phrases sink to
the level of the commonplace when compared with
the brilliant metaphor of Sydney’s pulpit-ringer
ivho pointed to the “ great ship of the Church
which holds its towering head among the stars,
sohd e fo,indil?^ re n a f d S g ro f s ,? r Vf st r T d in the
t a the c d Iren of to Veen d °,ri Se H
mat the children of light try to keep well ahead
of the children of this generation,
“Was the wool homogeneous or hetero-
geneous ?” was the staggerer that the defendant’s
counsel fired across the court. “ They was cross-
breds,” said the witness apologetically, and with
the clear consciousness that the question slopped
over both sides of the answer. “I insist upon
an answer” said the witness-worrier, “was the
wooU then the judge chipped in. “You
surely can t expect this witness to answer that,
ihe question is incomprehensible tome.” “But
I do expect him to tell me, your Honor, and if he
can’t, the gentlemen of the jury will know how
much his evidence is worth. If he does not know
the difference between homogeneous and hetero-
geneous, I shall ask them to discard his evidence
entirely.’ And as he said so an irreverent scoffer
in court sniggered his derision, and then asserting
himself in his wrath the Erskine of his day con-
tinued, I know what knowledge is required in
this case, for I know as much as any man in
England and more than any man in Australia
about sheeps’ hair.” Verdict for plaintiff for the
full amount with costs oil the higher scale.
W e have great pleasure in drawing atten-
tion to the advt. of Clement’s Tonic, in another
column. This preparation is gaining great popu-
larity on account of its medicinal virtues. It is a
discovery worth advertising.
Mr. W. B. Christie, editor of the Went-
worth (N.S. W.) Advocate, writes to The Bul-
letin. Excising a few preliminaries not pertinent
to the present issue his epistle reads thus
The Editor Bulletin'. —Sir, — l enclose my photo. — it is
the only one 1 have till another artist comes this way—
but the moths appear to have been at the photo, in some-
thing- the same way as the magistrates have been at the
original. _ Now I ask you to look at that picture, and say
conscientiously if a person possessing a countenance like
that could be guilty of the atrocious conduct attributed to
him ? Between October and January last 1 was prosecuted
fourteen times-three times for criminal libel and five
tunes under the Vagrant Act—fined in various sums
amounting to about i*£o—committed for trial twice-
arrested under warrant once- -in gaol once—elected at the
head of the poll as an alderman once-tried before a jury
of my fellow-countrymen once—and acquitted at then-
hands without a stain on my character once. All in the
short space of four months.' And now, lately, in the short
space of three days, 1 was led out of the Police-court by a
policeman once—shoved out by three policemen once-
carned out by three policemen once—and didn’t apologise
once. I only mention these as instances of the vicissitudes
of journalism in the back-country. Under separate cover
I send you printed copy of correspondence on the whole
matter.—Yours faithfully, W. B. Christie. P.S.—Mv only
offence throughout was that I accused a magistrate who
is also a stock-agent, of corruptly administering justice.
After carefully inspecting Mr. Christie’s phiz, we
have come to several conclusions. One of them is
that very likely diplomacy isn’t his strongest
point, and another is to the effect that if we
wanted a light-weight man full of fight, gristle
and we cl cit one© proceed to nicilve overtures
to the bristly original* with the square jaw
‘tight ” lips and bull-mastiff nose. We’d not offend
Mr. Christie for anything under four-and-sixpence
if we lived in the same town or within a day’s
ride thereof. ■ ' J
Personal Items.
The Shah is to have the Order of the Bath.
He is said to want it badly.
Edison has experimented with 1200 differ-
ent kinds of bamboo alone in making carbons for
his lamps.
Prince Neddy of Wales, it appears, after
all doesn’t wear stays. He only wears whalebone
in his coat.
“ Joe ” Thompson’s spread to the English
“sports” at the Cafe Royal (London) is said to
have eaten up £5OO.
Habitues of N.S. W. Supreme Court say
that all the wit left the bench when old Peter
Faucett took his pension.
At the recent Carnot procession through
1 ranee the President kissed a number of fish-wives
who came to welcome him.
Agnostic Joseph Symes proclaims that he
is “ not dead.” When Jos. does die he will find it
no joke. Ask Bishop Higgins.
“Gossip, of Australia,” is said by an Ameri-
can paper to be in New York unable to raise
enough money to get back home.
An old journalist, W. H. Byer, has just
died in Brisbane, aged 58. He started the Satur-
day Journal in Sydney 32 years ago.
Forty-four bagpipers welcomed the newly-
married Portlands at their Ayrshire estate. The
bitter Scotch have never forgotten Flodden.
i It is stated that the Rev. Handly Carr
Glynn Maule has refused the bishopric of Sydney.
Hand-car Mule ? For this relief much thanks.
Queen Victoria would not have the Shah
at Balmoral. The “colour line” again. She
never objected to the Browns, but doesn’t like the
blacks.
On the anniversary of Waterloo Queen
Victoria sent a basket of roses to the Earl of
Albemarle, one of the few surviving officers who
took part in the battle.
An extradition warrant has been granted
for the arrest of a well-known Sydney speculator
who is now believed to be at Singapore, though
people aren’t quite certain.
Tom Bracken’s verses in Zealandia, about
“ Our Pet Kangaroo,” are said to have cost the
author a snug billet—that of Sergeant-at-Arms in
the N.Z. House of Representatives.
It is said that by the slipperiness of a certain
solicitor, who has gone where the woodbine
twineth, a popular Sydney Q. C. has lost £lO,OOO,
nearly all the savings of a lifetime.
Mr. Webb, the newspaper man whom
Premier Parkes unsuccessfully prosecuted for
criminal libel, lately disposed of his paper, the
Campbelltown Herald and Picton Argus.
There is a whole heap of meaning in the
fa'-t that, all over Australia, when a barmaid
doesn't know the name of a worshipper at her
shrine she always calls him “ Mister Chirnside.”
G. W. Taylor, “who made a colossal
pile out of the Melbourne land boom, is now living
in London in great style. When stocking his
wine-cellar his champagne bill alone amounted to
£800.”
One of the largest shareholders in Mount
Morgan has insured his life for £2o,ooo—involving
a yearly premium of £l7OO. That of Mr. G. R.
Bibbs is the next highest premium paid in Aus-
tralia.
J. Howlett-Ross says he will, in his second
edition of his book, ‘ ‘ The Laureate of the Centaurs, ”
have a pretty little romance to tell about the
reason of Adam Lindsey Gordon’s exile to
Australia.
From London comes the story that a cer-
tain notorious plunger has been trying to inveigle
a well-known, good-natured young Australian into
assisting him to start a gambling-den on the same
lines as the defunct Field Club.
The wife of Alexander Sullivan, now
arrested for the murder of Dr. Cronin, is at pre-
sent doing Paris Exhibition” for a syndicate of
700 American newspapers. At the age of 18 years
she earned £5OO yearly as a press-writer.
In the Victorian Assembly, last week, un-
happy Jock Nimrao asserted that the laws of
digestion were as divine as the laws of the Bible.
Without doubt. Anyhow, an actual pain in the
stomach is worse than a problematical Sheol.
The Marchioness of Stafford has just
written a book on her Australian visit, entitled,
How I Spent my Twentieth Year,” and amongst
other pearls of wisdom says: “Lord Carington
has a staff of very happy, very lazy, and very
pleasant young gentlemen. ”
Sir Henry Parkes’ Postmaster-General
asserts that Mr. Attorney-General Simpson is the
“heir-apparent to the Chief Justiceship of N.S.
Wales. But, then, Chief Justioe Darley is strong
and takes care of himself. It is quite possible he
may be 0. J. at eighty if he chooses.
Mr. Prank Darbishire, who is sueing for a
divorce from “ Miss Agnes Hewitt,” with £lO,OOO
damages against the naughty other fellow, must
be the same Darbishire who stroked the Oxford
University crew when they made such an exhibi-
tion of the Harvard boys, twenty years ago.
Dr. W. R. Cortis, of Sydney, is a bad
politician but, like all the Cortises, he is a man
of rare pluck by flood and field. He gallantly
jumped off a steamer into the Beautiful Harbour
one dark, stormy night last week, in pretty
nearly all his clothes, and saved a drunken man.
J. Henniker, M.P., has blossomed into a
vice-president of the British Bi-Metallic League.
Henmker’s knowledge of bi-metallism, and,” in-
deed, of everything else from post-cards to
cuneiform inscriptions, fit him admirably for the
post. Real solid merit always scores in the long run.
In the transaction of official business Lord
Palmerston wasted neither time nor paper. The
following instructions were once given by him to
a Foreign O ffice clerk for answering a letter :
fell him (1) we’ll see ; (2) to use blacker ink ;
(3) to round his letters ; and (4) that there’s no h
m exorbitant.”
Graham Berry and Saul Samuel will have
their “ counterfeits ” handed down to posterity in
the “ commanded ” picture of the Jubilee celebra-
tion at Westminster. This glory—for such is the
gloiy of Saints Michael and George—is, something
which the Collingwood grocer and Sydney wool-
scourer little dreamt of 30 years ago.
( A party of Melbourne tourists visiting
Sandhurst lately had the pleasure of inspecting


The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
t)G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
LA.KT33 AGENTS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed list Businesses for Sale issued Daily
All Lists posted Free on application.
the little old house occupied by Lord Salisbury,
now English Premier, when he visited Bendigo in
1854. Millais also came out ipid tried his hand at
digging. He has a better fist for painting. Simon
Eraser, of Melbourne and Echuca, gave him
£2OOO for a “mug.”
When Lahouchere was candidate for a
constituency that did not return him some years
ago he was told that his Liberalism was under
suspicion. His reply was, “I am prepared to
hang the last Lord on the last lamp-post! W ill
that do ? ” This satisfied his questioners but was a
little too “ steep ” for the majority.
On view at Messrs. Sotheby’s (London) is
the original copy of Tennyson’s “ Dedication to
the Queen.” At the end is appended a note to
the publisher My dear Moxon,— I send you
the three last stanzas of the Dedication. Ought
not all the ‘ yous ’ and the ‘ yours,’ and the 1 hers ’
to be in capitals?— A. Tennyson.” Queen with
a big “Q” and “God” with a small “g,” m
fact.
The English P.M.G. has decided to in-
troduce a three-penny post card in connection with
the Australian mail service. The stamp will be
“a full figure portrait of Her Majesty as she
appeared in the robes which she wore on Jubilee
day.” “No fear!” When the pictures of Mrs.
Great Britain and Ireland are produced as she
really “appears,” the bottom will be knocked
right out of the Imperialistic craze.
Here is a newspaper-clipping to hand by
last ’Frisco mail ; —
Possibly tub Result of Good Style is Dress. — We ara
pleased to note, savs the Chicago Mail, that Lord -
has got the job of Governor of ■ The noble Lord
is chiefly remembered in this country by the fact that
while in Chicago with the Brownson party he bought a
suit of underclothing and had them charged to William
Brownson.
Darcy, the Mount Morgan millionaire,
whose wife “ knocked ” all the Brisbane people
out of time by appearing in the ladies’ gallery on
the opening of Queensland Parliament in a Pans
dress of ruby hues, took the rooms in London
which Boulanger now occupies. He and his
family have now definitely gone “home” to
spend in England the money they have made, and
are making, in Australia. ’Twas ever thus—and
so ’twill ever be—till Australia comes along with
a big, not to say thumping, Absentee Land Tax.
A Mr. F. Fenton has just put in his
claim for a reward from the Victorian Govern-
ment on the ground that he discovered the Ben-
digo goldfields-a fact which he made no fuss
about until his circumstances changed for the
wuss. Mr. Fenton, however, doesn’t seem to
have much chance of getting that reward, and his
case reminds one of the application made by Mr.
Lockhart-Morton, some two years ago, for a cash
recognition of his ancient services to Victoria in
inventing the swing-gate for sheep. People were
cruel enough to say that swing-gates were used in
Europe before Mr. Morton bad his being.
During the last Maori war Colonel, (then
Major) M‘Donnell, when in command on the
West Coast, was fired at by an outpost of the
enemy from an unexpected quarter. This incident
M‘Donnell considered of sufficient importance to
report to Colonel Haultain, then Minister of De-
fence. After hearing the facts, Haultain adjusted
his eyeglass and said ; “Haw —aw are you quite
shaw —Majaw —that it wasn’t —haw blank cart-
widges they fired ? ” “ Don’t know, sir,” was the
quick reply—“ I never was under blank cartridge
fire in my life.” Colonel Haultain, it may be ex-
plained, was never, or hardly ever, under any
other.
Editor O’Kane relates in a recent issue of
the Northern Miner how, taking a stroll the
other Sunday evening, he happened upon a couple
of fellows engaged in a fight. The true journalistic
instinct awaking in his breast, as he says, ihady
whipped out his note-book with a view to chronic-
ling the battle in detail in the Miner I his
practically ended the fight, Paddy kept blathering
out threats against Tommy and anyone who
backed him. Tommy was advised to fight no
more with the drunken brute. So after advising
Paddy to get up or we would wallop him ourselves
we shut our note-book and resumed our pious
meditations homeward.”
The first Speaker of the Victorian As-
sembly, Sir Francis Murphy, still takes his strolls
along St. Kilda-road, where Judges Williams,
a’Beckett, and Hodges also take their constitu-
tionals. Murphy is brimful of racy reminiscences
about O’Shanassy, Fawkner, Haines, Money
Miller, Nicholson, Heales, Don, Wilson Gray,
Dick Ireland, Dr. Evans, and all the past
celebrities; he was much riled when Stawell and
Sir J. F. Palmer got the knighthoods before him ;
but he is living everybody out. Lady Murphy
used to be the gayest star of the Government
House balls, and all those festivities. Ihe sons
loom big in Queensland Jumbuckdom.
“Billy” Pattison, the Mount Morgan
millionaire and Queensland Treasurer, is a small
fat man, and with a general resemblance to a
peg-top. He has a clean-shaved face, with side-
whiskers and a curved nose, on which (not ex-
clusively on the nose) are written in legible char-
acters shrewdness and decision. He is a friend to
his friends and a foe to his foes, and, if you have
been either, you won’t forget it. He spent a
frightful amount of labour over getting ready his
budget, and, though there was a glacial west wind
blowing at the time, took off his coat to it. He
administers his department with vigour, arid
doesn’t like the Deluge in his Mackay rum. He
can be child-like and bland when he wants to.
John Stevenson, the Queensland M.L.A.
who recently purchased in Scotland the property
of the local laird in whose estate John himself had
once been a bare-legged laddie, is back again in
Brisbane. He is a tall, big-boned, energetic Scot,
who tried his hands at most things, from puddling
gold to running a whisky-saloon, before he struck
oil and a rich wife. All the .tops of the best hills
in hilly Brisbane have been jumped by the local
big wigs, who sit up in big stone-houses in the
middle of the spacious gardens and watch the
16-perch fellows swarming and sweltering down in
the gullies, where a flood cleans them out every
two or three years. And John is one of these big
bugs.
America has sustained great loss by the
death, at the early age of 36, of Allen Thorndike
Rice, of the North American Review. He was
a man of independent fortune, educated m Eng-
land. Twelve years ago he took over the Review,
and made it the great power it is to-day, equalling
the Nineteenth Century in the hands of
Knowles. Rice and Knowles worked on the same
lines. Rice’s contributors simply consisted of ail
,the leading men in America—General bherman,
Ingersoll, Boucicault—everybody. The literary
coteries have sighed over the wrench given by
Rice to the magazine, erstwhile devoted to men
like Longfellow, Emerson, Hawthorne, Motley,
Prescott, Whittier, and Bryant. Unfortunately
those men don’t seem to have left successors, and
Rice boomed the Review by handing it over to
the practical men.
Dr. Webber, the burly and be-gaitered
big-wig who is perennially signing cadging letters
to the Queensland papers under the child-like and
bland cognomen of ‘ W.T.T., Brisbane,” is one of
the smartest business-men and big-show Barnums
in this vast continent. He is a small man, squarely
built, sporting the regulation episcopal tile and a
big brown beard and moustache, which are said to
be thicker than the New Guinea scrub round
Mount Thingumbob. He goes one better on the
foxes who have holes, or the birds of the air that
have nests, for he has one of the most comfortable
and well-situated houses in Brisbane, and a
brewery is at the gates. He is a hopeless bachelor,
and he prefers bachelor parsons. Like Caesar, too,
he doesn’t like them lean, and his resident curates
are all of the prhce-ox order, and drive round (as
the Apostles did) in swagger dog-carts with diminu-
tive grooms.
The will of old Toni Monahan, of Erindale,
—bedad —has been proved in Melbourne at nearly
one million sterling, as regards the Victorian
estate alone. He also owned largo properties in
N. S. Wales. He left to his wife his house and
grounds, furniture aid fixings, and £BOO a-year,
W 5
ť
B
i*
I c
I
-
HE BREATHED ON HIM.
Scene 1.- Suburban public-house. Mr. De Jones dismounts and asks Mr. Boozer
to hold his Scene 2.-De Jones returns and finds the horse lying down
exhausted in the gutter and Boozer, wonder-stricken, gazing at it with eyes and
mouth wide open.
DE JONES: "WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY LETTING THE HORSE GO DOWN
LIKE THAT?”
MR. BOOZER: “PLEASE, SIR, I COULDN'T HELP IT. HE FELL DOWN
HISSELF.”
DE JONES: “IT’S A LIE! YOU BREATHED ON HIM.”
but the lady pre-deceased him. He bequeathed
£40,000 t > be invested for the children of his
daughter, Elizabeth Keogh. These two fortunate
young gentlemen are located on a very tine station
property, “Warrena, near Coonamble, N.SA\.
The residue of his estate is devised to his
daughter Theresa, wife of .1. A. \\ all ace, M.L.C.
(Vic ), but she is dead, and her share belongs to
her children. The whole of the old man’s estate
goes, therefore, to grandchildren. “Old Tom”
apparently understood the lawyers; his will pro-
vided that should any legatee go to law with the
executors, he or she shall forfeit, for the benefit ot
Melbourne hospital, all interest in the will.
The three Queensland Sugar Commis-
sioners were a queer lot. “ Willy urn Heneree ”
the delectable Groom, is medium-sized, inclined to
a paunch, clean-shaved lip and chin with exiguous
black whiskers, pince-nez glasses, a saponaceous
amble, and a more than saponaceous smile, tow-
ley is a small, swarthy man, with a small, thick
black moustache, and “sugar-planter writ ail
over him from his square-toed boots to his drab
slouch-hat. His sugar speech made his reputation
at a single bound, and his parliamentary future is
secure. King is a tall, narrow-shouldered, stoop-
ing, fossiliferous creature, with a family likeness
to the late-lamented Rip Van W inkle. He walks
at a run, with his left eye in the gutter, and he
salutes no man by the way. He was bpeaker
before Groom’s day, and one of the few Queens-
land M.L.A.s who were Protectionists by convic-
tion from the start. His father was an iiisn
land-agent, who got some holes bored m lain one
night from behind a stone-wall in County Cork or
somewhere, and was never the same any more
and naturally enough King’s views of the Irish
question are not as happy and whole-souled as
Michael Davitt’s and William O’Brien s.
C. E. Greene thus concludes an article on
“ Australian Writers ” in a recent number of the
Universal Review :
All I have tried to do is to show with tolerable accuracy
to what rank in literature the Australian colonies have so
far been able to attain, and to this end I have considered
the leading representatives of belles-lettres in that pai tot
the Southern Hemisphere, omitting perforce many lessei
writers including most of those who have been assembled
together bv Mr.' Douglas B. W. Sladen in a large and
imposing volume, and labelled “ Australian Poets. Many
of the “ poets,” until unearthed by Mr. Sladen, weie
content with the obscurity of manuscript, in which
retirement their fellow-colonists would willingly have let
them rest. But Mr. Sladen, whose poetic standard is by
no means unattainable high, feeling an unshared admira-
tion for tlies 2 very inglorious Miltons, has presented them
to the British public as typical Australian wnteis. He
himself is one of the most conspicuous of the balds, and
gives us such lines as the following : •
MadameV’
On the contrary, she often inspires him with profound
and original reflections, such at the following flow
hard it sometimes is to swim when shipwrecked and
al °Also I have omitted to notice “The Mystery of a Han-
som Cab,” the success of which m London was, ind is, a
mystery to Melbourne readers. Madame Midas, bythe
same author, will he admired by those who like the Han-
som Cab.”
The Alta (San Francisco) newspaper has
had a big row with the Bohemian Club about the
removal of their reporter from the table at a
banquet because of his unsuitable attire.
Anything that Dingman s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Australian Star says : ‘ ‘ We respect
and venerate the throne.” That’s not bad for the
Australian National party.
The N.Z. Representation Bill, about
which there has been an eighty-hour-stonewalling,
means a reduction in the number of representa-
tives. Here’s a caution to Parkes.
Edmund Yates, in proposing the Queen’s
health lately, told the story from Boswell, finish-
ing up with Johnson’s “It was not for me to
bandy compliments with my Sovereign. ’
At the Financial Reform Association s
meeting in the Freetrade Hall, Manchester, Henry
George boldly declared that “England is not a
Freetrade country, although it has started on the
road to Freetrade.”
When John Bright’s son, W. L. Bright,
M.P., goes back to England he means to ask in
Parliament “Why Admiral Fairfax allowed one
of the Orlando’s men to play the bagpipes at an
Orange soiree in Auckland lately. ”
Duncan Gillies proposes to admit the cheap
class of women’s dress goods free into \ iotoria.
This will not benefit the working men’s wives, but
the Calico Jimmies, who will undoubtedly add the
remitted duty to their annual profits.
Earl Kintore took the chair at Parkin’s
first lecture in Adelaide, instead of sitting in a
front feat and applauding with his vice-regal
umbrella. This seems to indicate that Kintore
is a reckless, inexperienced Tory, and we fear that
his beautiful legs are the most brainy part of him.
“ A Chinaman clad in garments made
from a Union Jack has excited great admiration
in Chinkiang. Evidently Ids masher suit was
part of the spoil during the recent riots. But
they needn’t make a fuss of it. Every Honkong
Chinaman has come to Australia dressed m the
Union Jack.
The Auckland “loyalists ” have been pro-
testing against the personal appeal of the Irish
delegates to'N.Z. for support. Several movers of
amendments, and those who attempted to speak
up for “Home Rule,” were, of course, “ promptly
ejected,” i.c., they were kicked, cuffed, and thrown
out in pieces.
Knutsford admits that in the recent ap-
pointments of colonial Governors he has been
guided by the decided preference shown by the
colonies for rank, wealth, and social qualifications
over mere administrative ability ! Thus are the
brimstone and castor-oil days of infancy super-
seded by the sugar-coated pill.
That odious word “ colony” ought to be
rooted out in talking of Australia. The Imperialist
party seem to roll it under their tongue as a sweet
morsel, always so eager to drag in the word
Colony, so proud of their leading strings and
swaddling bands. The word Province would be
more dignified, if we hesitated to say Nation.
An Elizabeth-street (Melb.) pawnbroker,
had a very curious thing for sale in his window
lately. It was an original ticket of admission to
Westminster Abbey, to see the “Coronation of
Her Sacred Majesty Queen Victoria. Sacred
Majesty is the expression. Why do they drop it .
Will it be Sacred Majesty on the card at the next
Coronation ? The card is a large faded green one.
The advantages of Freetrade were inad-
vertently pointed out by a Melbourne exporter of
fruit, who told an Argus reporter last week that
“ if New South Wales put on a duty it would be
a death-blow to Victorian fruit-growing. that
is to say, if the two colonies competed on even
terms N.S.W. would soon knock Victoria out of
the market, but meanwhile Protection is fattening
on Freetrade.
Sir Thomas Esmonde, the Irish delegate,
was escorted from Tungamah to Burramine (Vic.)
by 50 horsemen, and the limited population of the
latter township planked down more than £2OO as
the result of one open-air meeting. Coincident
with this Mr. Deasy gathered £lOO odd at \v yche-
proof, another little-known district in that colony,
which, according to the Argus, has no sympathy
with the Home Rule movement. Hard cash can t
lie.
Sydney School of Arts Debating Club have
affirmed, with the utmost self-denial —“That man-
hood suffrage should be abolished, and an educa-
tional qualification adopted instead. ’ I his
debating club has hitherto been considered a
democratic institution, but the reputation, built
up by years of spouting, is shattered at one blow.
Had they substituted the word “intellectual tor
“ educational,” little fault could have been found,
for education without intelligence is less discerning
than intelligence without education.
If the Parnell party are not Conservatives
at heart they are most assuredly trimmers and
expedientists, for they invariably vote with the
Tories on all questions that do not immediately
affect Home Rule. Witness the Bradlaugh affair,
the Affirmation Bill, and now the Royal allow-
ances, in which they help to swell the Tory
maioritv The only true Democrats are the
Socialists —Burns, Hyndman, Champion, William
Morris. The only Irish politician who has so far
shown himself possessed of a truly broad, all-
embracing democracy is the one-armed Michael
Davitt.


AN OBLIGATO.
1. This is Mr. Ebony Mutebridge,
no end of an amateur on the
violin, on which account he
* n . demand at
Musical evenings. He is
here seen on his way to one
such.
2.—On his .arrival ho is cordially welcomed by the
hostess who asks him to “ do something ” im-
mediately.
3. —“ Well, then,” he said to Miss Howler,
“Perhaps you wouldn’t mind sing-
ing this song. It is ‘ The Angel’s
Lemonade,’ by Braggart, and has a
charming violin obligato— ‘to be
played in an adjoining room.’ ”
4.— Miss Howler complied while
Mr. Mutebridge went in
search of an “ adjoining
room,” which he found
just across the entry,
5. It was, indeed, a remarkable adjoin-
ing room, in which someone had
temporarily stowed away a baby
but which circuiiibtance was not
at first noticed by Mr. Mute-
bridge, as he began his introduc-
tion.
6.—Meanwhile, the song in
the drawing-room be-
gan. “\\ hat sounds
are these,” inquired
Miss Howler, “ that
reach mine ears % ”
7. What sounds, indeed! Mr. Mute-
bridge, after playing a note or
two, discovered “sounds” very
like the wail of an infant addicted
to “wind.”
B.—Obviously, the first thing to be done, if the obligato
was to be heard at all, was to quiet the darling.
Mr. M. tried cajolery at first—which only made
matters worse.
mXvVav I must
away!” continued
Miss Howler.
ia ~ s f
d j'7'a
which caused him 1 to *1 VwVr
Bosjesman. ‘ ~ *
!*• —'Tiis-t as llio last strains
«>f the song came from
the drawing-room, a
nurse appeared,
i; noted the child, and
gave Mr. Mutebridge
a “pieceof her mind.”
12,-Thc great amateur returned to the drawing-room in a cold
perspiration. “ Bravo!” “ Beautiful!” “ Lovely!” “ Never
heard you do it so well !” And the hypocrite pocketed their
applause without giving any credit to the blessed infant who
had furnished the only “obligato” that they had heard from
the adjoining room,


■iliilj.
wm
| ; |n
'%lll
!MJsS till
I jj
i.fljtf Ol'l*
> P' JJTt J U ||\T
I jl t , TtJ «HjL JJ l i •'
1M jJI
iiiiiii!^
■flimiiii
A
bhii ■ ; i i
“ The Prince of Wales, who owes £900,000, has just had £36,000 added to his annual income, in order that he may provide
for his children,”


“HOG’S HEAD" BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
P. 15. WHEELER & CO.,
205 Clarence Street,
s ~sr X) nsr :e izr.
DEPOSIT and DISCOUNT
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade).
Deposits received
3 Years
12 Months
0 Months
3 Months
and Interest allowed as follows
lO per cent.
9 per cent.
... ... 8 per cent.
6 per cent.
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
TT AVE ’^ UST Opened a Magnificent Lot of HXTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Pennell, linn Raniseh BlntW* (Vii*** ,
11 Also of the wonderful Victor P»«o. and E at e y OrganJ' No such “orvffi m
Society
It is cabled that the new Governor of
"V ictoria, the Earl of Hopetoun. has appointed as
his private secretary, Mr. Wellington Wallington,
who recently left the services of Lord Carington
for the secretaryship of Melbourne Club. When
Hopetoun visits Sydney the folks there will think
he is plagiarising Carington’s perorations.
* * *
The Earl of Hopetoun, it is announced,
intends to “keep great state” at Government
House, Melbourne. Thirty retainers of the family
are corning out to clear the way for this fortunate
inheritor of unearned increments, and when he
arrives the very air of his head-quarters will be
heavy with the odour of roast fatted calf and sage-
and-onion stuffing. For every two-and-sixpence
spent by the Lochs the coming man will spend a
sovereign, and if he doesn’t draw closer those
silken bonds &c., it won’t be for want of feeding
up the C.M.G.s. Nothing encourages Imperial
f ederation more than the patriotic influence of
vice-regal gooseberry.
* * »
Mr. John Thomas Plush, valet to Sir
Thomas Merino, of Tallowfat House, Toorak,
write* us from MelbourneIt have afforded
the gents of the livery purfession much gratifica-
tion to notice that My Lord llopetown is bringing
hout no less than Thirty (30) Futmen and bother
gentlemen’s gentlemen from the hupper suckles.
Also a dew proportion of ladis mades. There is
a great requirement for mades in this place. The
Melbourne Society of Livery Gents is makin’
grate pupperations to receive the comrades of
Lord ’Opetown’s soot in a appropriate manner.
We shall ’old a banquit at Scot’s, Menzy’s, or
some of them plaices. The day has long gone by
when Charles Dickins could rite his himpudent
haccount of Mr. John Smauker’s Swarry in Pick-
wick, consistin’ of a bialed leg of mutting. At
the saim time some of hus feals a little hagrieved,
becos it his hunderstood that Lord ’Opetown
brings the thutty gentlemen and ladies becos
of the hindependent condick of Sir ’Enery
Lock’s gentlemen in livery, who left his empli
on Cup Day, becos they was required to do
the demeanin’ jooty of dustin’ chinar, a biz-
ness only fit for mades. ’Owever hour sassiety
will look harfter its rites. Wot a sensation those
new Gents of ’Opetown’s will maik on the Collins-
street blok ! My word ! All the pritty gals and
harnesses will be forlin’ in luv with them ! Ah,
there s no style like the good old Lending ! ”
* # #
And this comes from M‘Gillicuddy, Mel-
bourne : —“ I howp ye’ll be jcuttin’ nane o’ yer
stupid gawks over this excellent young mon,
Loord Howptoon, His Excellawncy. Eh mon,
but it’s the braw Givvinor we’ve got. The kurruk
is in rawptoores, Rentoul, M‘Eachran, Muck-
bain, Bawlfour, and all those fallows are doin’ the
Hielan Reel. Pruneipal Rainy tells ’em that
Howptoon keeps a splendid table, and aw tell
ye the meenisters are the boys that know. Skawtch
w husky’s at a pramium in the market, and
Eirish is nowhere. They’ve appinted me on the
Commytee for the Bawnquet. Nimmo is rubbin’
up his Robby Burruns recitawtions. The Scrat-
tin’-posts on the Sawndridge Railway Pier will
everyone have its Scotchman when Howptoon
arrives. The dommed Eirish have been crawin’
over us and joompin’ on us too long in this kintra.
I’ve sent hame for a ton of thustle-seed to plant
the hail o’ Victoria in honor of this joyfu’
occasion.—
Miss Norman lias been rather strictly
brought up by the series of partners of the bed
and board of Sir Wylie Norman, of whom the
third is the present funereal-hued Lady N. Miss
Norman doesn’t dance round-dances at all because
Lady N. (and she) don’t think it is quite delicate
and refined, you know, to go floating about salu-
brious apartments without much on and in the
arms of a profane male creature. Lady Norman,
however, makes it up by singing, and as she has a
broad smile and a capacious vocal apparatus, and
Mr. Seymour Dicker does her accompaniments in
a dim religious monotone, she plays the mischief
with the peaceful cats outside in the shrubbery
when she rises to oblige the company with a song.
* * »
“Her Excellency” Lady has an
edge on divorcees, like Her Gracious and the late
lamented John Brown, and the other day at a
public reception sent one of her flunkies across
the Government House lawn to tell a divorcee
that “ Lady was not at home.” This out-
rageous insult and piece of snobbish prudery was
peculiarly uncalled for, as the divorcee in question
had never had a word said against her moral
character, and at the present moment even Mis.
Guelph has had to receive women who have got a
divorce through the adultery and brutality of their
husbands.
* * *
Social distinction ( overheard at a Sydney
reception).—First Lady : “ There—there —do you
see that lady in the brown dress ? ” Second Lady :
“ Well, who is she ?” First Lady; “Don’t you
know ? Why that is the wife of the gentleman
who bought the Marble Man ! ”
* # #
The Australian cruisers are to receive
aboriginal names : Boomanoomana, Yarrangobilly,
Croagingolong, Woolloomooloo, Queanbeyan, Tum-
berumba, Murrumgundi, Wcllomombi, Yarrama-
long, we believe. Just think of being asked for a
round dance by the navigating lieutenant of the
Woolloomooloo !
* # #
A man was conducted into Melbourne City
Court last week on the charge of intending to de-
sert his wife. He had never deserted the good
lady, nor had he commenced to desert her on this
occasion, in fact, the prisoner passed the eve of his
arrest in the sacred bosom of his family. But
something in the eye of this unfortunate man con-
vinced his Maria that he might possibly skip if he
was driven to it, and so she had him “ jugged ” to
make sure. It was not until he said “ Why, your
worships might be arrested for intending to desert
your wives ” that the Bench perceived how
dangerous is lovely woman to the man who
guarantees her keep.
* * *
Phyllis Broughton, who recently “dragged
off” breach-of-promise damages against a viscount,
says prayers in the Savoy Chapel every morning.
The Savoy sanctuary is right among the theatres,
WAGES AND PATRIOTISM.
MRS. LENNOX HILL: “WHAT, WANT YOUR WAGES RAISED, BRIDGET?
I AM PAYING YOU VERY WELL NOW, I THINK !”
BRIDGET: “YIS, MUM; BUT WE’RE GOING TO DOUBLE OUR CONTHRIBU-
TIONS TO THE CAUSE OF OULD OIRELAND, MUM!”
and if Phyllis attends a stage supper or any pro*
fessional gathering where they don’t go home till
morning, she just waits until the bells ring and
then trips off to the little church around the
corner.
# # #
A lady contributor of the Melbourne
Standard lately expressed her contempt for some
mean man she encountered by stating that it
would have given her pleasure to have “spat on
him.”
* * *
Land sales have sliced off some of the
grounds of Hugh Glass’s former mansion at Flem-
ington, near Melbourne. Roaming round there
one finds whole romances exude in the mind. When
Glass broke, many years ago, he was as “near as
a toucher ” to smashing the Colonial Bank which
backed him. Therefore did Adam Burnes, the
popular manager, come to grief. There was a run
on the bank continued by candlelight, when big
John O’Shanassy jumped on the counter and
harangued the frightened depositors, -pointing out
that the other banks were shunting the money
back just as fast it was paid into them. After
Burnes came Greenlaw, known as “ Verra Mas-
sive ” from an unguarded expression he dropped,
in the Scotch language, that the new bank front
would be “ verra massive. ” Greenlaw is there still.
Beads of sweat stand on his brow whenever the
half-yearly meeting comes round, for he is a
strangely nervous and thin-skinned man, literally
speaking. The romance of wool and squatting
has yet to be written. Such old-time legal lights
as Degraves v. the Union Bank would furnish a
bookful. Wentworth opened the door to a sight
of trouble when he got the N.S.W. Legislature to
pass the Act authorising banks to give liens on wool
and stations. The Clarkes, Robertsons, Tysons,
Desaillys, Armitages, Manifolds, Wares, Bells,
Austins, Wilsons, Moffatts, Fishers, and all those
have yet to be raked up for history. Amid the
Melbourne banks, the Colonial, National, and Com-
mercial had the worst storms.
# * #
SOUR CRAPES.
Miss Virgo ; just turned fifty—makes boasting
matrons stare,
When she cries, “ I can’t bear children,” with the
accent on the “bear.”
How much more clear her meaning if she gave a
wistful sigh,
And said, “ I can’t bear children,” with the accent
on the “/”!
-—Hawk.
A certain N.S.W. Church of England
parson is a smart business-man. Twelve inser-
tions of a bazaar advt. in the local paper had to be
paid for, and the amount was tendered less the
customary allowance of 25 per cent, on thirteen
insertions. The printer objected ; the parson was
firm. The bazaar and its glories had faded away
into fond memories a month before, but the Church
came home in a canter. “Insert the advertise-
ment once more, then, if you please, Mr. , and
deduct the 25 in the usual way.” So do the chil-
dren of light score off the children of this world
every time when the muck-rake gathers the dross,
and the pool is to be had for the scooping.
# # *
The Earl of Hopetoun, the new Governor
of Victoria, has been entertaining the Shah at
Hopetoun House. The Queen would not hear of
the Shah going to Balmoral on account of the
clearing up after the dirty Persian having to be
done at her expense. The Shah is not an inviting
visitor on hygienic grounds, and the newspapers
compliment Earl Hopetoun on the self-sacrifice he
has shown. Self-sacrifice be biowed ! The Earl
has doubtless met “distinguished colonial visitors ”
in Hingland and is simply undergoing a little pre-
paration for his Victorian social duties.
* * *
An English exchange says :—•
Only the other day we heard that a firm of shippers had
exported to Brisbane a new hearse built on the good semi-
Lord Mayor’s coach lines, with all the accompaniment of
feathers, too, and what not. The good folk of Brisbane,
if they cannot be buried in the graves of their fathers,
will, at any rate, be bulled in the way of their fathers.
There is now considerable excitement in Brisbane
moribund circles as to who is to have first shot at
that hearse,
* * *
Lady Lawyer: “I demand the discharge
of my client, your Honor.” Counsel for Plaintiff :
“May I ask upon what grounds?” Lady
Lawyer : “ Well—because.”—Muekan.
* * #
(i Dr. Henry Gibbons describes a kiss as
“the anatomical juxtaposition of two orbicularis
oris muscles in a state of contraction.”
* * #
At the Lying-In Hospital, Melbourne, the
Ladies’ Committee admit reporters. The lady
who usually takes the chair has a little auctioneer’s
hammer in her hand to rap on the table and call
her colleagues to order when they get chattering.
Some of them do plain knitting, with diamond
rings on their fingers. Among the committee are
Bishopess Goe, Lady Clarke, Lady Nicholson,
Mrs. Manly, Mrs. Dr. Shields, Mrs. Thornley,
and everyone that is good form. No common
people allowed. The male satraps, such as Seore-
tary Gibson, Architect Purchas, and Collector
Grantham, come crawling in on their hands and
knees over the carpet, figuratively speaking. One
day “Demos,” ot the local Herald, was sent
up to “do ” the report. At next meeting
the chairwoman asked a new reporter, “Who
was that man they sent up last time?” The
answer was ‘ ‘ Demos. ” The chairwoman re-
plied : “I think he ought to be called Demon.”
They have some nice ticklish business, as may be
imagined, delicate inquiries, a little Mrs. Grun-
dization. A distinction is drawn between the
wicked servant-girls who have been deceived by
the butcher or baker and other women. The
wicked ones are not allowed to see their friends.
Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven. The ladies
are desperately fond of flagellating their young
doctors. Sawbones gets Ins hand in there on the
common china of humanity and womankind ere he
is allowed to tackle the porcelain. This, in fact,
is the whole explanation of the hospital—a place
where the poor are experimented upon for the
benefit of the rich. So that it’s a mercy, my dear,
that some of them do make a mistake with the
butcher or the baker.
* * *
Memo, for the baldheaded man. Two
mechanics were overheard having the most sen-
sible conversation on baldness ever listened to.
They were talking of some advertisement of a
balsam for the hair, and one of them said to the
other, “ Balsam be bio wed ! Do you suppose the
Prince of Wales and the Duke of Cambridge would
be both as bald as bell-handles if money could
save ’em ?”
* * #
Spurgeon lately offered up a prayer for the
conversion of the Prince of Wales in his Taber-
nacle, at the conclusion of which there were loud
responses of “Amen.”
A little pamphlet entitled “ Woman’s
Work,” by “Jenny Wren,” has been sent us.
We should like to punish every misogynist by
compelling him to read it.
* * *
At a largely-attended Sydney meeting in
aid of the Home of Hope for friendless and fallen
women £3O was contributed to the funds of the
society. Conscience-money is evidently not a
popular form of public charity. It is gratifying,
however, to note that the year’s receipts of the
Victorian Racing Club were £72,719.
* * *
A most determined attempt is being made
to burke inquiry in a big Sydney embezzlement-
case.
* * «
A well-advertised Sydney clergyman and
a certain Adelaide accountant jointly hold a bill
of sale over a Millicent (S.A.) farmer for the sum
of £3363. The security given is stated as
107 horses, 2500 sheep, 70 cattle (increase and progeny),
waggon, 2 drays, buggy, chaffcutter, horseworks, mower,
3 ploughs, set harrows, roller, corn-crusher, harness,
household furniture, piano (Scwechten), and sundries, on
sections specified, Hundred Mt. Muirhead, and F.A.P. (in
addition to bill of sale to ).
* *
The new Victorian Budget proposes to
abolish the duty on safety matches, with a view
to discouraging the unsesthetic Australian custom
of striking ’em only on the pants.
* * #
If Mr. Wilson succeeds in getting the plans
for his new Bijou Theatre passed by the Mel-
bourne Board of Health, he will have to look for
other tenants than Brough and Boucicault, who
have decided to lease a snug little corner of Russell
and Bourke-streets, Melbourne. Relations be-
tween Wilson and B. and B. were painfully
strained when the fiery element reduced their feud
to ashes.
* # *
She was a tolerably unwashed female of
some three score years and ten. She crawled into
Melbourne City Court, charged with “ dossing ”
on doorsteps and similar offences. “ Where would
you like to be sent ?” enquired Magistrate Call.
She fixed him with a devotional stare, and said,
“To a convent.” They didn’t take her to a con-
vent, however. >
“ Oh, Howptoon is a bonnie Scot,
And all the kurruk will jine,
Muckbain and Bawlfour ar.d the lot
To sing psawlm 99.”
The worshippers sighed as the preacher
Implored that the Board would convert,
To the simple ways of the Teacher
The racketty, boisterous “Bert.”
The men closed one eye at the notion,
But the women closed both of ’em, when
They chorussed, with loyal emotion,
Quite a characteristic “ A-men.”
O, pious and powerful preacher !
It’s easy and proper for you
To spurn the delights of the creature^
Your chances of fun are so few.
On your palate old zest faintly lingers,
And your oats were all sown long ago,
And you’ve gout in the once shapely fingers,
And ditto in either big toe.
If your pulses could beat with the vigour
They thumped with some twenty years since,
Would it soften the edge of that rigour
The parson now feels towards the prince ?
And if “ Tummy ” and you could change places,
And you held his hand in the game,
Don’t you think you would run in his traces
And flourish your trumps just the same ?
Stuck up in a buggy by a jibbing horse,
a fair Yankee maiden undertook to solve the diffi-
culty when all the efforts of her driver had failed.
She jumped out of the buggy, “ grabbed a good
fistfull of fine sand, opened the jaws of the horse,
and threw it in. ” There, now! And it was
nearly an hour before the man got the buggy back
to where she stood waiting for it.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 94 per cent.
12 Months per cent.
G Months 74 per cent.
3 Months 54 per cent.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Co.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
OF PORE SOD LIVER OIL
ANE hitpophosphstes
Almost as Palatable as Millc.
go disgwised that it caw Ibe taken,
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
cannot be tolerated 5 and by the com-
bination of the' oil with the hypopho?-
phltea is much more efficacious.
Ecmarkattle as a flesh producer
Persons gain rapidly ■while taking if.
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged hj
Physicians to be the Finest and Best prepa-
ration in the world for the relief and cure of
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA,
GENERAL DEBILITY, WASTING
diseases, EMACIATiON,
COLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children. Sold by all Chemists.
ROBERTSON’S WFIIS K Y. cso °
GIVEN AWAY IN THE CO LON IKS
as follows:
1G of £3 each, 23 £2, ami 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, A.XjZj'P
&c CO,, limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
We read that there has been “a rush to
Parkes for gold.” What does it mean?
“ Amongst this brawny assemblage,” says
a Melbourne weekly : “ Slavin is first to strike the
eye.” Well yes —it’s a way he’s got.
Rev. Alexander Wilson, Vicar of Totten-
ham, Eng., recently made a demand for his tithes
upon a Catholic convent founded by Rev. I ather
Bayly, and when payment, was refused seized the
watch and chain of his brother priest to satisfy
the claim.
Again
YOUNG gentleman, limited means, wishes to re-
ceive Tenders for extraction 6 teeth. S.A.,
Ashfiekl.
Why not try Larry Foley ?
Medical man to sick mother-in-law ; “My
dear Madam, your pulse is rapid and your tongue
is very foul.” Wicked son-in-law; “It’s always
that way doctor, well or ill.” Same doctor to nice
little woman whose husband is graduating to get
’em again : “He is suffering from ah -over-applica-
tion to—ah—business.” Nice little woman : “Yes,
that must be it doctor, for he can’t even go to the
theatre without making five or six appointments
to see some one outside during the evening.”
Grant Allen writes ;
All that is distinctively human is man—the field, the
ship, the mine, the work-shop; all that is truly woman is
merely reproductive—the home, the nursery, the school-
room.
Whereupon an irate lady :
Mr. Grant Allen neither tills the soil, nor builds houses,
nor navigates, nor manufactures ; therefore, Mr. Grant
Allen is hot distinctively human, has no part in “ the
things that produce and beget ability,” and cannot con-
tribute anything to “ the gains of civilization.”
The “if ” of the
future—lmperial Federa-
tion.
A new comet has
been discovered. It is
to be annexed by the
Salisbury Government on
behalf of Great Britain.
English examiner to
class of small boys;—
“ What was the charac-
ter of George IV ? ”
“Please, sir, I know.
Please, sir, he was given
to immortality and vice.”
“ Right to a ‘ t ’ -my little
man, go up top.”
One day last week
Mr. Ellery, the Victorian
Government astronomer,
received a solemn intima-
tion from his N.S.W.
contemporary, Mr. H. C.
Russell, that a comet had
been observed wagging
its tail in the firmament
at 12 hours 35 minutes.
Thereupon the excited
Ellery gave one of his
assistants instructions to
discover the meteoric
visitor or die in the at-
tempt and the assistant,
after glueing his frenzied
eye to the thin end of
a telescope for several
hours, duly arrived at a
scientific conviction that
the comet was there,
although circumstances of
a hazy nature prevented
him from obtaining its
spectrum. So they an-
nounced the arrival of
the comet to several
astounded editors of
morning newspapers, who
popped in paragraphs
and perspired profusely.
And the ordinary hum-
drum citizens of Mel-
bourne, ignorant of the
Heavens and all that
therein is, were real glad
to find that the comet
they had been examining
with their naked eyes for
a fortnight previous, had
at last revealed itself to
the official vision by a
proper scientific process.
Nevertheless, public faith
in Government astro-
nomy is severely shaken.
The N.S.W. Auditor-General has recently
stated that there is a charge against the Sydney
War Office of £lOB 10s. for “bonuses, overcoats’
and lunches to dead men and others not entitled,”
in connection with the Soudan Contingent. Pro-
bably wooden overcoats are charged for, but who
consumed the dead’s luncheon is beyond our ken.
A London paper says “ The Queen is in
the habit of keeping rooms which have been occu-
pied by deceased relatives locked up. The apart-
ments at Claremont in which the Princess Char-
lotte died more than 70 years ago are rigorously
closed and nobody is allowed to use them.” The
Duchess of Kent’s rooms at Frogmore are also
shut up, and John Brown’s rooms at Windsor.
A new magazine, entitled Zealandia, after
its place of publication, is before us. It is of the
patent-medicine-almanao brand, and contains a
lengthy slab of a serial story, “The Brand of
Cain,” calculated to make that gentleman howl
from his sleeping-place down among the old red
sandstone. The publication, however, has its re-
deeming features in “ Our Pet Kangaroo,” a poem
by Thomas Bracken, and a weird story by W. P.
Reeves.
‘ ‘ The strongest passion in the human
breast is the passion for getting orders to the
theatre.” — Douglas Jereold.
Cootamundra, N.S.W., claims possession
of two full-grown dogs and a pup for every human
in the township, and more coming.
There fire 3 breweries, 28 pubs., and a
cordial factory in Wagga, N.S.W., which has a
population of 4000, including infants,
A license was issued at Chicago, June 11th,
to the “ American Execution Company, ” capital
25,000d015., whose avowed object is to take m
hand all executions in the States. This is no
choke but genuine noose from America. Here’s a
wrinkle for our esteemed friends, Messrs. Nosey
Bob, of Sydney, and Jones, of Victoria. Let
them float themselves into a limited liability com-
pany. We could indicate a judge, who, as he
knows the ropes better than anyone else, would
make a “ capital ” managing director.
Melbourne Evening Standard, which re-
cently started its Tory career with the alleged in-
tention of being “clean and wholesome’ quite
different to the ’Erald, in fact—is now doing its
feeble best to adopt a penny “ orful ” style. In
the middle of a report on the lift-accident at the
Palace Hotel, this wholesome organ set up such
lines as “ Mangled Corpses,” and “ A Most Hor-
rible Sight ” in big capitals, while the ordinary
shamrock hotel
rtieKfiTfyitt Proprietor
V
A BUSH INDUSTRY.
CAJOLERY.
CONSPIRACY.
TREACHERY.
EXPLANATORY.
MONETARY.
SATISFACTORY.
1.—'Ye wearie Wayfarer arrives at “pub.” 2.—“You steal his horse,” says Mr Lambdown next day. 3.—The deed
is done. 4. —Mr. Lambdown: “ Give the blackfellow ten bob and he’ll go look for it." 5.The result. 6. Finale.
type fairly reeked with gore. Coming so soon
after “ A Day with the Queen” and “A Gover-
nor’s Reminiscences,” this is a melancholy falling
away from gentility, and we fear that the
Standard is anxiously waiting for an opportunity
to trot out that good old “ sickening thud,” not
to mention “ convulsive jerkings of the lower
limbs. ”
Editor Bulletin. — Sir, —A few words of
Yolaplik may interest some of your readers and
help to draw attention anew to the world’s-speech.
The English for the words is given below : —■
1. Lafdbh. —One of the first things a child learns.
2. Libatcd u jelated.— The great N.S.W. question
of the day. 3. Hitatimnivatimflolatimfiutatim.—
“In the season of the year.” 4. Nef as Nok. —One
of Schiller’s comedies. Key to same. —1. Lafab. —
Alphabet: the 1 and a having changed places, and
f for ph. 2. —“Freetrade or Protection.” Lit:
trade of liberty or trade of protection. Jel (pro-
nounced “ shale ”) ; protection, from shell, germ
seh ale. 3.-—Time of heat, of snow, of flower, of
fruit. 4. —“Nephew as Uncle.” Nok (pro-
nounced nerk); letter n put first to avoid the word
commencing with a vowel. P.S. —I sent you to
day the “Year-book of those having diplomas.”
It may be interesting, as showing the spread over
Europe and elsewhere of the world’s-speech (Vola-
piik). —A. W. Bateman.
There is nothing sadder in journalism than
the Friday and Saturday issue of the two rival
Melbourne evening papers. Twenty per cent, of
the matter is a drivelling glorification of the
various Jackies and Charlies and Billies who play
football. The agony begins on Friday with true
and particular details of what'the various Jackies,
&c. think about their chances of bladder-kicking
the’following afternoon. The dreadful possibility
of a Sowth (not South, your true footballer always
says Sowth) Melbourne man not being able to play
in consequence of having a bad toe-nail is set forth
in half a column of English, even more broken
than the toe-nail. The fate of Australia is alleged
to be depending on Dickey Somebody’s swollen
ankle, and Bill Buster’s broken collar-bone pro-
vides the text for a long sermon from
a brilliant young creature, who will presently go
loafing around the city saying, “You oughter see
the ’Eeald accownt of wot I sez to the rerporter
when he arst me wos we agoin to do ’em to-
morrer. There’ll be a regler run on the ’Erald to
see wot I sez.” Truly pathetic are these published
histories of wot Billy sez to the ’Eeald myrmidon
who takes his utterances down in shorthand. We
quote from last Friday’s issue of Melbourne’s
nastiest evening paper: —“‘And you are fairly
satisfied that you will win’’ was asked of one of
Carlton’s warmest supporters and barrackers. He
made answer by putting a host of ironical^ ques-
tions, such as ‘We will what ?’ ‘ What next V and
‘ Can a duck swim ?’ ” Yards of this brainless
stuff are devoured by a hungry rising generation,
and next day the rising generation pays a shilling
a head to see whether Billy wos right wen he
sez wot he did to the ’Erald. And as the
shades of evening fall the rival football horgans
engage in a deadly struggle for supremacy in that
field of literature where injured carcases be
strewn. At present, the Standard is witching
the world with a horrible diagram, showing the
exact positions occupied by 40 footballers when
they were not engaged in pushing one another
over, and threatening to break the umpire’s
jore. Soon the Herald will burst forth with
portraits of the leading footballers’ mothers, and
so the excitement will be kept up until football
drops into disrepute and is condemned by the
medical faculty as a fruitful source of expectora-
tion at street-corners.
Speaking of “ Australian Writers ” in the
Universal Review, C. E. Greene says that Adam
Lindsey Gordon is the bard first in the affec-
tions of every Australian. He considers him
pre-eminently the poet of the horse, and he selects
as typical poems of Gordon’s, “From the Wreck,”
“How We Beat the Favourite,” “The Sick
Stock-Rider,” and “The Rhyme of Joyous
Guard.” Gordon’s “How We Beat the Favourite ”
is compared with Browning’s “How We Carried
the News from Ghent to Aix,” with verdict in
favour of the Australian. Brunton Stephens is
placed next in the list. In Mr. Greene’s opinion
“he is a far greater master of his art than
Gordon was,” and he is supposed in his
lighter pieces to remind Cockneys of Cal-
verley. Of “Convict Once,” the critic says:
“The conception of this does not strike one
as original, and the plot is disagreeable, but the
versification is liquid, flowing, and at times mag-
nificent.” Mr. Greene thinks Kendall “ very in-
ferior to Gordon and Brunton Stephens, ’’ and that
“ his vision was narrowed rather than improved
bv an entirely colonial education.” Alluding to
ifeudulF, failings, the writer remarks ; “ The sad
circumstances of Kendall s life—the jar between
the ideal and the real (for the spirit truly was
willing, but the flesh was weak ’)—rose to the dig-
nity of tragedy through his keen perception of the
situation.” Mr. Green quotes the following lines,
as, in his opinion, the strongest Kendall ever
wrote, “though their force is rather that of
realism than of poetry ” :
Long ago, it may be remembered, The Bulletin,
in indicating “That Street,” as Kendall’s master-
piece, remarked that it was perhaps the most
powerful and awful picture of the horrors of drink
in the English language. “Among the prose-
writers,” say Mr. Greene, “Mrs. CampbellPraed,
Marcus Clarke, Rolf Boldrewood, and ‘A. o.’ or
Ada Cambridge, are the most distinguished. He
considers the first-mentioned as being a sensa-
tionalist fond of presenting “ highly-spiced baits
for jaded literary palates,” and her local colouring
as being “ laid on with too lavish a brush.”
Marcus Clarke is described as a “man of one
book,” which “lives, and will live, from the force
of its own vitality.” “ Through the most horrible
scenes of convict life one reads on and on unable
to escape from the spell of its dreadful interest.”
The critic selects “Les Miserables,” by Victor
Hugo, as the only book with which it can be com-
pared, “though it is in no sense an imitation of
that great work.” To show the versatility of
Marcus Clarke, Mr. Greene quotes a poetical
translation of his from the German of Heme en-
titled “The Sphinx Riddle.” Rolf Boldrewood
(Mr. T. A. Browne, of N.S. Wales), and “A.C.”
(Ada Cambridge) receive high praise, and the
article concludes with a passing tribute to Judge
Manning’s “ Pakeha Maori’’—which is not,
strictly speaking, an Australian book.
According to Mel-
bourne Herald’s report
of a recent social fixture,
“Mr. Kelly lo ked ele-
gant in a gown of green
cloth, vest of soft crimson
silk, and dark-green hat
with touches of red.”
We suppose Mrs. K.
wore the what-you-may-
callems.
Henry Blackburn
declares that in the future
nearly every book and
newspaper will be illus-
trated ; to his steno-
graphic and literary skill
the qualified reporter
must add the accom-
plishment of drawing.
What a ghastly prospect!
For every twenty men
who can learn to write
decently there is not one
who could be turned into
a passable artist. Heaven
defend the co-respondent
in divorce against the
reporter at 30s. a week
who not only writes about
him, but draws him too,
in time for the “ suck-in-
edeeshun !”
A telegram has been
received by the Gilberton
Gold, Silver, and Gem
Mining Syndicate from
their representative at
Georgetown, Queensland,
advising the discovery of
a splendid lode in the
Light of Asia mineral
lease. The lode is 4ft.
thick in the drive, but
the hanging-wall has not
yet been reached. In
another property of the
Gilberton Syndicate,
called the Homeward
Bound, the reef has
widened to 4ft. 6in., gold
showing visibly in the
stone. Through the cour-
tesy of the manager of
one of the local banks, a
careful assay was made of
unpicked stone now ex-
posed in face, which
yielded 13oz. of gold,
and, what was unsus-
pected before, 1470 z. of
silver to the ton. By
certified returns from the
gold warden, 87 tons from
this claim were crushed
fdr a yield of 4390 z. gold.
An up-country C.P.S. recently received
the following list of “ dorgs ” to be registered
1 grai cattle dorg, 1 slait cangoru, fie-maile, 1 blak
cangoru, made.
I only hear the brutal curse
Of landlord clamouring for his pay ;
And yonder is the pauper’s hearse
That comes to take a child away.
Apart, and with the half-grey head
Of sudden age, again I see
The father writing by the dead,
To earn the undertaker’s fee.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.4f>.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OP
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD and Miss KATE BISHOP,
in the Sparkling Comedy,
CJ O DXT 3F* XT’ S-'l O 3XT.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs). Brough and Boneicault.
General Manager . .. \[i- jfa\ ne.
THE REIGNING ATTRACTION.
JT oaeph’s Sweetheart,
BY
Robert Buchanan, Author of Sophia, &c.,
interpreted by the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
TO - EW OPERA HOUSE,
Kino and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager , Mr. John Solomon.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
Mr H. T. HARRI S O X.
ANOTHER IN DOUBTED SUCCESS!
Plotow’s Favourite Opera,
MAETHA.
J’reduced under the personal direction of
MR. HENRY BRACY.
POPULAR 0 PRICES:
Dress C role, 3s. : Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stal's
2s. ; Pit, Is.
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
JOE DAVIS ... ... Business Manager.
OYCLORAMA
W (Opposite Redfern Railway Station.)
GETTYSBURG!
The Largest Picture ever Painted !
The Greatest Exhibition on Earth !
A Revelation in Art. An Education in Warfare.
Admission, 25.; Children, Is.
Open Daily from 10 i.m. to 10 p.m. Sundays, 3to 10 p.m.
Explanatory Lectures at frequent intervals.
AT THE AUSTRALIAN WAXWORKS,
SSS Gkorgk-Strekt, Sydney,
Opprwite St. Andrew's Cathedral,
M is. FRANK M. CLARK S
Latest Sensation,
Engaged by him during his recent tour round the
world from P. T. Barnum.
J o-Jo,
THE RUSSIAN DOG-FACED BOY.
A Human with a Canine Head.
The Regal Ruler of Recreative Research. The
August Autocrat of Mankind’s Marvels.
JO-JO HOLDS RECEPTIONS DAILY
from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
In conjunction with JO-JO many other Famous
Freaks and Novelties will be exhibited, including
ÜBINI’S PERFORMING FLEAS,
From the Crystal Palace, London.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Amusements.
HEA T R E
ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman
btage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
The Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
IX
PEPITA
Every
Evening
Every
Evening
Admission— 55., 35,, Is, Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
jyjETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfern Rail way Station,
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. ft*
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a m.-Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion 1 REE; Skates, Gd.
2 .30 to 5 p.m —Admission : Ladies, Gd., Skates,
Gd.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Gd.
<.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is.; Skates, Gd.
L OOK OU T
FOR
E’Txtu.re Novelties.
floorage free.
Pi rmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
LITE
SKATING
RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies,
Admission - . . One Shilling.
Boiler-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
bkates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets-
Gentlemen, 405.; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
tor all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 15s. •
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
• i j ’ , the J best , 111 th e world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
bearing, 15s extra; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
it* u at 20s - Per pair : wholesale, 17s. Cd.
Jt.te Rmk ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; patrons carried ‘ free.
Red fern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
-TUESDAY EVENING, 13tii AUGUST—
Grand Floral Carnival and Complimentary
Benefit tendered K. A. Skinner. y
Miscellaneous.
burglary.
T ipL? r £ ish - Australian and New Zealand
Limited** 1116 ’ and Accident Insurance Co.,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
ISSI ES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary,
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
G
Burglars Beware!
B. MODINI undertakes to say that the
i • enterprising Burglar will hesitate in
ins Burgling if people will only supply themselves
with his ALARM GUNS, which can be fixed m
ft ny position in gardens or elsewhere.
He has also Revolvers of all the leading makers
of America, England and the Continent.
Guns and Ammunition of the Best description.
WALTEE HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent, • *
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order;;
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices - .
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock <rf all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. AH communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to-WALTER HOPE, Bonnvritr*'
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mks-
• chants, have always on hand laresi
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butte®;
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any' quantity sold in trucks at Alburxr
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
“ What is Home without a Picture?’’
BEEUASCOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker, i
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY *
(near Central Coffee Palace). I
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design,.
3=EeELc3. ! Read ! ReadL!]
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay, j
By Arthur Oayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well- j
known Artists, i
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY. f
Price - One SHUling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland). !
Sole Agents :
Victoria! A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-Street. *
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.. \
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
Jrient gquare Slue,
Extract of Soap,
Ifinegar, Blacking,
&c., &c., &c,
Steam Works and Brewery ■
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
D
Shipping.
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND^
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Oovernments)
wdl be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Steamers.
Commander.
§2 §
5
►J rs
<
"Valetta ~ 14919 R. F. Briscoe
Victoria .. |6268 G. F. Cates
Eailaarat .. 4748 E. Ashdown
Parramatta 14771 R. G. Murray
Rosetta .. 3525 G. W. Brady
Massilia ~. 14918 C. Fraser
Aug. 17 Aug. 23 Ag. 26
Aug. 31 Sep. 6 Sep 9
Sep. 14 Sep. 20 Sep 23
Sep. 28 Oct. 4 Oct. 7
Oct. 12 Oct. 18 Oct 21
Oct. 26 Nov. 1 Nov. 4
* Not calling at Colombo.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
'will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
'Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
OOMPAGNIE DESjMESSAGERIES MARI-
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA. ’
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers’
meet tnrougn passengers tor
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, anil accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
™ N - B :,7 Passensrers ’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
tor freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Maequarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
N ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
-MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIREf IT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York
via Southampton. ' ’
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars
apply to ’ I
FREDK. BETZ & CO,, Agrnts,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
°f. Second-hand
NEW SPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
ana bulk. ior full particulars apply to the
Printer. Bulletin Office.
Furniture, &c,
JyJ" EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
r<T-.T'> T -v-r SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
'Ui-
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms new designs, covered to order, ii
any mater al.
P m°n 1 3 by K ' LTPP SOHX,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
TO*ie™ el !!'? ted Makers at WHOLESALE
tK 1C Eh. Newton & Lamb.
B
AGrATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
■REDBOOM SUlTEsT”complete,
ntj. oods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAM B,
o-nnti™ J ’''}™l ture w arehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen
BEDROOM SUITES. -
SHILLINGS
TTTj j i j-jo.—Tiie Economic
Bedroom Smte, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
i V !t V'?: °- Wel on 1 ’ I Dr f ssin & Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LANB,
O Connell and Spring Streets.
B*s*?OM SU ITES , fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table
W!th Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
_ NEWTON & LAMB,
O Connell and Spring
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. (Id.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPER OR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS
G x 8, 8 x 8, 9 x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
ť
Austrian bent
wood
E U RN i T IT R E.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
-with pulleys and eord, (5 x 8, (is. Gd' • 8 x 8
io’ ; in ?V 0s - “-5 10 x8 > 10 «- 6d.; 12 xB, 12s. Gd.’;
12 x 10, 155., -Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
t
MERIC AN PATENT
SHUT UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging space.
Vkrt Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEW T O N an d LA M E
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
ţ
T AWN and PARK SEATS, Git. long. Rustic
1 J Cast-iron Standards, 14s. Gd. each. Newton
and Lamb.
d 4 ARDEN SEATS, XUs. Verandah Chairs,
Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
U ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
J -V) 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
Gd., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates”
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
EWT () N AND LAM IL
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
Sydney E. News’ constituents must be
thoroughly sick of “ Rome and Science.” Alfred
should give the ixior old Pope a rest. Mr. Pecci
can t help the fact that the Protectionists
have successfully established an evening paper in
Sydney.
T° a good grip of the methods in
vogue for the manufacture of history it is neces-
sary to first become acquainted with the story of
the men who began it. It is told without frills
and illustrated in The Bulletin’s “ History of
Botany Bay,” sent anywhere for Is. and postage,
as per advt. appearing on this page.
An exciting demonstration of faith was
witnessed in a Williamstown( Vic.) Church one Sun-
day morning a short time back. The parson, who
gives way to scientific research in his weaker
moments, chanced to hint that perhaps Adam was
not the first animal that rushed tumultuously
across the face of creation, looking for congenial
society, whereupon a fine old antique with a facia]
expression like unto that of a preserved Pharoah,
sprang up suddenly, and his eyebrows bristled,
and his ears stood out, and he jigged his limbs
with every expression of intense emotion, and cried
aloud, saying he wasn’t going to have the good old
belief kicked over in that manner, and insisting
that Adam was first to land. He said he wasn’t
going to countenance any theology that overlooked
the fact that that great and good man was first to
breast the tape, and he wanted his money back off
the plate. Several outraged deacons and things
if re mtnided bito the debate, and looked red at
the objector, which fossil is an “aged and res-
pected resident ” of Williamstown, and ordered
him to withdraw his face to make room for im-
provements, and the ladies began to “shh” oats,
and the spiritual administrator stretched a large,
fat hand over the tumult in a soothing and
impressive way; but the aged and respected
resident loomed with greater ferocity, and steamed
at the nose, and maintained with increased vigour
that the parson should not be paid cash to upset
the Prophets and jump on Genesis. At this point
the church officials closed round the aged and re-
spected resident and broke him off short at the
root and towed him out of the sanctuary, whilst
he clamoured all the way out and down the path
for due respect for Adam, and the Serpent and
Hades and Moses, and the old religion without
revision or modern improvements, and demanded
back the threepence he gave to the heathen mission
and his share of the stained-glass window.
When the aged and respected resident reached his
relatives he had to be revived with hot fomentations
and the church of his childhood will know him no
more.


OUR WINTER SALE IS NOW IN FULL SWING:
HORDERN am COMPANY'S SALES
KT
Are Always et Success
LADIES DELIGHTED at the PRICE of our DOUBLE-WIDTH DRESS MATERIALS.
They could hardly believe that such Value was obtainable.
O-oocLs Opening ;Hhrer3 3Da-;y
ALL AT RIDICULOUS PRICES.
Call ami See our
BOYS’ KNIOKER SUITS (Lined throughout), only Is. lid,
HORDERN and COMPANY
€B6,
The Popular Drapers of Sunny New South Wales,
__ 490 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
(Next Royal Arcade, opposite Central Markets).
The V.A.T.C. has a Grand National meet-
ing at Caulfield on August 17th, when the five
races on the programme will be worth £I7OU odd.
The Steeplechase is a £lOOO stake.
A pedestrian is bringing a libel-action
against a certain Sydney sporting paper which
erroneously credited him with having been dis-
qualified for “cronk” running. There are so
many genuine “stiff ” cases, that a newspaper has
no need to make a false accusation.
News that Ringmaster had run third for
the Liverpool Cup was cabled over the other day
as though the circumstance possessed real sporting
interest. There are three Liverpool Cups run
during the season, this Summer Cup being only
second in importance, yet the Aeg US publishes a
half-column account of the doings of the three
horses placed in this comparatively small event.
It is a farce.
Captain Barry, a three-score-years-and-ten
chicken who occasionally lectured upon Victoria
in the early “forties,” had a boxing benefit in
Melbourne the other day. Proceedings wound up
with a catch-weight encounter between the Captain
and another rooster of 62, and the young un was
ultimately reduced to holding himself up by a
post while the Captain gave him what-for on
his venerable boko.
Redleap's sensational performance in the
VR C Grand National Hurdle, lias set some
people thinking that he may be good goods for the
Melbourne Cup, with Gst. lOlbs. on Ins then five-
year-old back. There is no quality about Ked-
ieap, however, nor does the horse look like staying
two’miles in first-class company. As far as
appearances go be doesn t compare with the
Yeoman, who followed up Ins victory m the big
hurdle race by running third for last Melbourne
Cup.
Gigantic George Bonnor had scarcely
stretched his noble proportions in Melbourne
before he was interviewed on the burning topics
of horse-racing and Joe Thompson, m the old
country.” Bonnor concluded that Joe J. was
doing remarkably well, because he was drinking
champagne the last time he saw him, so the news
that our leviathan of the Ring was already a few
thousands “out ” shocked and surprised the Giant.
But as regards English racehorses he was cocksure
of his facts, “I have not found at home, “ says
Bonnor “a Malua, a Commotion, a Grand
Flaneur, a Carbine, or horses of their stamp.
Bonner, it behoves to point out, had never seen
Carbine in his life, so he evidently took the colt s
stamp for granted. Sufficient that it is the
Australian stamp, and that Bonner is the hand-
some, impetuous, honest apostle or Australian
“blow.” He walks around England and the
Continent of Europe, and—taking himself as a
comprehensive type of tilings Australian may be
almost excused for crying out: \ nave seen
nothing that can beat George Bonnor,
We read in a London paper that “ Lady
Maria Spearman and “Madame Midas occasion-
ally fill their pretty house in Roland Gardens with
smart people,
A recent Gallic visitor to Samoa, on return-
ing to France, told one of the Rothschilds that
what struck him most about the islands was the
absence of Jews and pigs. “Let rs go there to-
gether, dear boy,” exclaimed Roth sc nil cl 5 wg shell L
make a fortune. 5 ’
The rank growth of pony racing within the
Melbourne Suburban radius is a matter with
which the Y.R.C. should wrestle forthwith, it
that august body is honestly desirous of improving
the breed of blood horses and of keeping the iurt
pretty clean and sweet. From a sportsmans
point of view pony races—said ponies being horses
of arrested development —are no more worthy ot
encouragement than would be regattas for oars-
men under five feet in height. And to the outside
public these petty meetings, where blood and hair
flies on the slightest provocation, are a real
abomination. The two railway lines starting from
Prince’s Bridge terminus are extensively used now
by a class of “race.goers” with whom it is not ht
for decent women to travel, and unless the t om-
missioners run specials for the ‘ 4 scum of the
course” and keep them out of the ordinary trams
the nobility and gentry of the Toorak district will
soon have their high-class morals undermined.
Seriously, however, ordinary mortals who see a
pony-race train discharge its freight begin to think
that something ought to be done, doncherknow.
Deaf Forty Years.
o
The description of a simp's remedy, by winch
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent FREE to anyone who applies to
J, H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
£lOO to Nothing!
CHICAGO CIGAR STORE,
348 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
Each Subscriber on our sa. Consultations select-
in" a Placed Horse or Man will bo entitled to
select a Double Melbourne and Caulfield Cur,
for which events we will lay £IW to Nothmyl
Our Dividends arc the Largest in Sydney.
ss.
HANDICAP
... £5 11 0
3 13 G
ss. CAEHINGTON
F. Martineer
T. Bishop
Our Consultations are carried on in a most legiti-
mate manner, and we feel sure by so doing we
shall gain the public patronage.
Books Open on Hurdle and Steeple at Itandirirk ;
YE ('. a,N. Handle and Steeple, Derby and < up;
’ and all the forthcoming events.
Now Open : Consultations on MooreSeld Races.
We have the Finest Stock of
Imported Havannah Cigars and Tobacco.
Note the Address:
LEW BRITTON,
34.0 G-eorge St., S-ydiaoy
(Few Doors from G.P.0.)
Port Jackson Hlotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
John Walker Proprietor.
Under entirely New IVlanagemen Only
Rest of Liquors Supplied.
.JOH3XT
440 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents. Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
On-eased or oiled', Camas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets. Baker's Cart Covers, Horse Hugs, Nose Bags,
Oiled Loin Cloths, Cab Aprons. Send to or call at
JOHN BUCKHAM,
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Soap
Best* Cheapest
Bar None!!
‘ A.d,airx Bede’s ”
CONSULTATIONS:
One-tenth of “Adam Bede's” Commission will he handed to the Proprietors of The Bulletin to be publicly
devoted to various charitable objects. The following is the list of events Now Open.
HAIsTDICAP,
Bun at Randwick, 24th August, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at TEN (10s.) SHILLINGS EACH. t3T°
Two Tickets for 20s. Every £1 invested has a chance of drawing Six Separate Prizes.
60 EXT R A CASH PRIZES 1— 60
4,000
4,000
4,000 at 10s. each, lla'Vkesbury Handicap.
•10,000 at 10s. each, Metropolitan Stakes.
20,000 at 10s. each, Caulfield Cit.
ALSO OPEN
Melbourne Cur,
( 50,000 at £1 each.
20,000 at 10s. each.
I 4,000 at 10s. each.
■ containin''- full particulars' of the division of prizes and method of drawing willingly sent on applica-
tors of the Press are always invited to all drawings. The rapid increase of Adam Hede s business
Programmes
tion. The member*. ~ . ■ . ,
is uiTof of the honest manner in which his Consultations are conducted. . , , ~ ,
is pi : -oi oi “iV. ” must Register their letters to ensure safe delivery, and must enclose two addressed
nd result, and add Is. exchange to cheques.
All Subscribers
((
Addukss—
ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. ABBOTT,
Post Office Chambers. SYDNEY.
The name s of the Drawers of Horses trill
of the ticket, until after the race
mi ini account irhalcrcr lie divulged by “ Adam Bede,” except to the holder
s have been run. ®3gr J THE ONLY FAIR WAY OF DRAWING.
ť
DAWS ours
Pole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00„
(Opposite G.P.0.)
10S riTT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
H
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA,


Medical.
'TIRED NATURE’S KIND RESTORER. 1 *
IS A
SPECIFIC
FOR ALL DISEASES OF
DEBILITY.
If you only knew and properly understood tire duties
which'the blood lias to perform, and the absoluie
necessity for it to have a definite chemical composi-
tion, and knew that the supply of mineral constituents
from Australian food is totally inadequate to keep
the blood sufficiently strong in oxidising power, on
which process health depends, you would know
that it is imperatively necessary to supply the blood
with its es ential mineral elements for the formation
of healthy tissue, muscle, bone, &c., which unfor-
tunately are not obtainable from the natural food in
these colonies. To supply these elements CLEMENTS’
TONIC is offered and is the only rational restorative
prepared in Australia. It positively cures all diseases
arising from poorness of blood or debility, such as
Neuralgia, Nervousness, Weakness, Languor, Tooth-
ache, Loss of Appetite, Vigor and Energy, which are
only symptoms of a debilitated system. It supplies
the vital stream with the chemical food necessary to
ensure a proper exercise of the natural processes of
life, it strengthens the digestive organs, imparts
vitality and animation, ensures regular and natural
sleep, increases nerve force and fortifies the system
against disease. Medical men who know its chemical
composition and therapeutical value have recom-
mended it far and wide; they recommend it on
account of its sterling value and know that it can be
depended on to DO GOOD and CURE DISEASE.
They know its definite composition and that it has a
SPECIFIC ACTION on diseased organisms, therefore
they prescribe it and extol its virtues as a scientific
antidote for all disea-es arising from debility and
nervous weakness. Sold everywhere, but mind you
pet the genuine article, bearing the name of
F. M. CLEMENTS, NEWTOWN, SYDNEY.
Debility from over I rain work CURED.
Kangaroo Valley, N.S.W., April 3, ’B9.
Dear Sir,' —I have very much pleasure in b aring witness
to the great value of Clements’ Tonic in cases of
LASSITUDE, NERVOUSNESS AND CONSTITUTIONAL
DEBILITY GENERALLY. For more than 12 months I
was a martyr to extreme lassitude, loss of appetite, sleep-
lessness, and their concomitant train of physical troubles,
so much so that I feared I should have to abandon my
profession as a journalist, writing being particularly
irksome and laborious to me. I tried several advertised
tonics (?) with little or no good result, and began to think
my case beyond the power of medicine to cure. However,
seeing- your Tonic advertised in some of my Exchanges,
I concluded to try it as a “dernier resort;” and I am
pleased to say the result was most satisfactory. After
taking one bottle I found my appetite much improved; I
could sleep morfi soundly, and felt refreshed next morn-
ing. I continued the medicine, taking in all six iarge
bottles, and gradually all my distressing symptoms dis-
appeared. I now feel myself stronger than ever, and as
near perfect health as a man who has to bear the strain of
constant literary work can expect to be. I can confidently
recommend C ements’ Tonic to all persons suffering
from loss of nerve force through sickness or mental over-
work, and am most happy to support my testimony with
my signature.—And remain, dear Sir, Yours faithfully,
P. JEFFERSON WALLACE, “
Editor and Proprietor “ Kangaroo Valley Pioneer.”
General Debilitation.
75 King Street, Sydney, March 19, ’B9.
Dear Sir,—Kindly send me two more bottles of
Clements’ Tonic and permit me to express my thanks
and gratitude at the results obtained by taking two large
bottles. I had had a great amount of business worrv to
contend against, which, together with the long hours I had
stuck to it, completely undermined my constitution, and
made me feel very tired, weak and ill, my nerves being
(piite shattered. I was so nervous that the accidental
slamming of a door would cause me to start violently, my
heart would beat very rapidly, and I would break out in a
profuse perspiration, afterwards having a sensation of
extreme weakness, lasting for some hours ; my sleep at
night was disturbed ; I awoke in the morning with head-
ache and aching limbs, and quite unrefreshed. I had no
appetite, no strength, and no inclination to work, and was
completely run out. 1 waspersuaded bv vour advertise-
ments to try Clements’ Tonic, and am a different man
ever since ; it gave me new health and strength, increased
my appetite, and made me relish my food ; 1 increased in
flesh, I lost all nervous feelings, and now feel stronger
than ever, and am glad to bear test monv to the value of
your wonderful remedy. Yours, &c., W. D. BRAHAM.
Nervous Debility.
Castlereagh St., Sydney, Feb. 1, ’B9.
Dear Sir,— For some time past I have been in the
hands of the doctors, and I can truthfully assert that I
obtained not the slightest benefit. I heard of Clements’
Tonic, and have taken three bottles, with such marked
good results as to cause me to write and congratulate you
on the very excellent virtues of your remedy.
It has completely cured me of all my disorders, and 1 feel
myself an entirely different man. A friend of mine to
whom I gave a bottle, half of which he has taken, savs he
feels wonderfully better in his general health, and, with
myself, begs to cordially thank you for giving the public
Ore benefit of your skill in manufacturing such a splendid
Tonic. Ido not wish my name used in print, but hope
you are very prosperous in the sale of your medicine as
you justly deserve.—Yours faithfully, !.
Debility and Indigestion.
Richmond, October 5, 1888.
Dear Sir,— lt is with feelings of great pleasure that I
pen these few lines. I have been a sufferer from GENERAL
DEBILITY and INDIGESTION for the last five years, and
have tried almost every known remedy without the
slightest benefit. I had given up all hope, of being cured,
when by good luck I saw your Tonic advertised in the
Windsor Gazette. I determined to try it, and after the
third dose the change was remarkable. I took three
bottles, and now feel like a new man altogether.
WILLIAM JAMES MARKES.
Weakness and Debility
Parramatta, Sept. 10, 1888.
Sir,— Four years ago I caught a severe cold which
settled in my head and chest and caused an incessant
cough and copious discharge of phlegm ; this brought on
great weakness and debility ; after considerable attention
and doctor’s treatment the cough was relieved and finally
cured, but the debility remained and seemed to defy the
skill of the medical men and the power of medicine. I
had no appetite, and could scarcely eat a single particle of
food, and was almost reduced to a skeleton, having
entirely wasted away. I had taken pints of cod-liver oil,
malt extracts and other medicines without relief, when I
was recommended to take Clements’ Tonic. I pro-
cured a bottle, and am thankful to say that I immediately
began to improve; I could eat better, and relish and
digest what I did eat; I gained flesh every day, and my
strength rapidly returned, and, after six week’s treatment
with your Tonic, I felt a new woman altogether. Yours, &c,
MARY KELLETT
Neuralgia and Nervous Debility.
Newcastle, N.S.W., Deo. 15, 1888.
Dear Sir,—For the last seven years I have been a victim
to the most excruciating agony from neuralgia, and also
suffered from extreme nervousness. I tried hundreds of
so-called specifics, but without avail, and, being a com-
mercial traveller, am particulary liable to colds from ex-
posure to draughts, &c.; a slight one even always fled to
my facial nerves, and caused acute neuralgic pains, pre-
venting sleep and causing excessive sympathetic headache.
I saw your Tonic advertised, procured a bottle and, in
two days, the pain was completely cured, a consummation
1 had never expected, and am deeply thankful for same.
This was four months ago and from then till now I have
never had the slightest twinge of the excruciating torture
1 used to have. You may make what use of this you
like—Yours gratefully, HENRY A. CRANE.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial In vestment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
t When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hockings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BEIDGE & 0 0,,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tcdlow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, d;c.
ATJCTIOIsrEEES.
G-HA-IKT SALESM3GKT.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every, case he. undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing hut an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and tto 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
D/ CTu
To Yo xt nxr gj- ]ME£i]xr.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
rPHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or sexual Debility, A’o Medicines will be required, as by
sdf elymg the directions £ iven > the patient can Cure Him-
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, Nc. It is the result of much study and lom>-
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
ana contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
!? r fV,./ rom . the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Rack, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers. '
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
Fletcher "ill GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
E COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
Wll send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. F etcher s treatment is both simple and effective
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
postage fonvarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
“ CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
~ . . ~ Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
:VW-.„
I
F o
*npk^
/££.
111
j :
ILECrRtC PHOnKNO. Ct- 8 OBIDCt-ST„_s»ONEY.
T*lo Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... “... ~ “pPorurKTOu.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence*
Now Perfected, the NewNaSand No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JUST L AITIOITTG-
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM, 4 CO.
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
1© x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Blacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. J3r Indents Executed Favourable Terms ’ INHbliUl
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ultikc RO°W|
CONS
Mb" 1 rrHH
DP. RICHARDS v
mim
Mil
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over I ORTA YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more uti.
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation. Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
ba c hfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though jou be perfectly well its general inform -
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUEEICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will he found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies'
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
S Y D U E T.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION PREE.
MATRIMONY— American.


Sporting.
ŧ
Square & Compass
CLUB.
561| GEORGE STREET,
ONLY.
mm MONSTER Cm
gg, Consultations vOi
ON
The Great Metropolitan Stakes,
Run on THURSDAY, September 24, 1880.
5000 SUBSCRIBERS at ss. EACH.
For 5s
I FIRST HORSE
’ SECOND HORSE ...
\ THIRD HORSE
£5OO'V ,
£250 V
£125 j
For 5s
STARTERS £175. NON-STARTERS £2OO.
ALSO OPEN ON
CAULFIELD CUP.
5000 at ss. Each.
Melbourne Cup. 10,000 at ss. Each,
Address —•
Square & Compass Club,
Care of M. Pal m,
56U GEORGE STREET 561 J
SYDNEY.
TATTERS ALLS”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racss through- i
out the year.
See Evening News “ Brevities ” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “Tattersall, ” care if G o.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
JACK THOMPSON,
Member of I l alter sail’s (Sydney), and Victorian
Club (Melbourne),
Desires to warn the public of Australia that he
has NO connection with any advertised or o h r
consultation pr unoted by a person using the
name of “J. Thompson.” Previors warnings
have been given, but the swindle ii still beii g
carried on successfully.
Books Open on Forthcoming’ Events.
Country communications dealt with promptly.
N.B. —Jack Thompson’s ONLY Addresses are-
-220 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
TATTERS ALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention this Paper.]
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES I £lO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments from £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application' by
The Intercolonial Investment Ho., Limilel,
05 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHBOEDEE!
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
BROWNS
SATIN
TRA’V—^
BOSTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—for—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Arasterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every hottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing,
gold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
S 3 & 2-3 b CIiAREINCi: STREET, SYDaXTBY.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
SMIES, M0H5, H,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and V/aggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
id
i
° NLy H
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
cr. ps by F. W. Saywell, of 6
Park-btreet, it will
ARREST
i
the sale of all the inferior, worth- i
less and impure brands now on
the n arket. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be bought) every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
me who does, am obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retad from
F + W + Saywsll & Co M
6 Park Street,
SYDNEY.
\
Photographic
Vitws Portraits
=5jas
jt
I B
«
•SLfyr
t
> 1 V
%
%
\
lOtyGlriES
k/c-r./'/ . -
V
ciTiiA
<
2^
u
Q
to
Ld
81
a
£
o
'dzC^)
ST
M
,_ 7
m
XjICHTNBR & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE:
9 ELIZABETH STREET.
m SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE Ta
—OF—
LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
CAMERAS,
M
CHEAP AMATEUR O^TTFITS.
BEALE <Sc CO.'S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
■"t. v
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
482, 484, & 488 George Street,
SYZD-CsTIE'V'.
REVOLUTIONISING
THE FIAKTO TH4ADB.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
THERE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
I Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desiiahle
change certainly no firm has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds ot
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch ot
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted tor
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the xiroduction of the staunchest pianoforte of
modern times— the iron-framed “ Hapsburg. The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable expeits ot
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “Inimitable Hapsburg,”yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
"•real that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument possesses to the same degree such rich,
full clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and iniperviousness to climatic influences hai e
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The genius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument-the inimitable “ Hapsburg”— and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant hack blocks, and homes in the
city are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a ° large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
lurne undertaking; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages—
-Ist.—The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverberated
by abounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in cheap
Pianos.
2nd. —Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd. —The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th. —All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
sth.—They are all seven Octaves.
(3th.— I They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th.—They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by _ vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
Bth. —The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
9tfi. —They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10 ;h. —Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
11th.—The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12 h.—No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing oases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from oui
own travellers everywhere.


Mr. F. R. RAYNER is not authorised to
canvass or collect on behalf of The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Limited.
tj R. RAYNER is requested to com-
municate with Manager of The Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Limited, without delay.
Everybody should use
Paibkt Holler Flour.
Pemell’s latest best Ssow-wuitb
lb is the greatest success of the
Miscellaneous.
M
K
a
o
R
o
,N
T
/Scents .
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3Barrack Street.
Y3cN
“They fit perfectly, and are
far superior- to- all the other
Corsets I have tried.”
(‘Signed) Marie Rose.
™ Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split, in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of w orthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
_ Corset stamped “VANPatent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. lid,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
|£EEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADDLE
Company, Limited.
Factory and Office : 227 Castlereagh-sL, Sydney.
(Late 245.)
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
The Company is now prepared to manufacture all
kinds of Saddles.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,. Sydney,
August 0, 1881).
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
[Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Repairs, Fencing, &c., Post and
Telegraph Office, Booligal
Additions, &c., Bailiff’s Cottage,
Domain
Bridge, Murrumbidgee River, at
Narrandera
Bridge, Apsley River, Fitzroy-
street, Walcha -
Erection of Dispensary, Hospital
for Insane,- Parramatta
Additions Gaol, West Kempsey
(fresh tenders)
Additions Gaol, Wollongong
Hand Punt, Uriarra Ferry, Mur-
rumbidgee River
Supply and Erection of Fencing at
Prospect
Construction of Dwarf Wall and
Iron Railing, Centennial Park
Erection of Dormitory, Training
Ship Vernon
Bridge, Lagoon, Porter’s Garden
Road Kiama to Shellharbour
Bridge, Mandagery Creek, Road
Murga to Parkes
Bridge, Mullet Creek, Road
Appin to Kiama
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Brewarrina (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Wilcannia, Darling River,
Ironwork. Cont. No. 1 (time
extended)
Bridge, Darling River, at Wilcan-
nia (erection). —Cont. No. 2.
(Time extended)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle
Additions Wingham Post and
Telegraph Office (fresh tenders)
Erection of Lockup at Jugiong
Bridge, Eight-mile Creek, Road
Armidale to Grafton
Bridge, Billabong Creek, Road
Yathong Railway Station to
Nowrame
Additions, Post and Telegraph
Office, Casino
Fencing, &c., Police Buildings,
Young
Drainage Works, Bathurst Gaol
Purchase of Old Iron, Fitzroy
Dock (deposit of £2O required
with tender)
Bridee, Musk Gully Creek,-Road
Hillgrove Station to Grafton
Fridge, Mummulgum Creek, Road
Casino to Tabulum
Supply and Erection of Cargo
Shed, fro,, East Side Circulai
Quay
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 50)
W ednesday,
August 14,
at 11 o’clock,
Wednesday,
August 28,
it 11 o’clock.
W ednesday,
Nov. 0,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
ows
'■EMBROCATION
ft
Itiil
|/—i o-~-
jf - vSOLD |
I\EVERY x WHERE'i
m
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
■
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
U3I Chvroncc Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACIIRINfA
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO !
MELACHRINO |
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO j
M. Melachrlno & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Envoi c ;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
& rowu.
14 Itarrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette . .; 85/- per 1000 ; 0/- per 100.
~ No. 8 ~ 00/- ~ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Medical.
33H. SIMCXrE'Za;, X.T.S.YN..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of DOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GrEOBGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
I TREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
PAEONSKI, showing sufferers h r w they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Yitality,
&c., &c., without consulting- a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 715(1, Sydney.
PULVERMACHEE’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
EOR THE n UK OK
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from 'Three-
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
ImpaTed Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <& SHIPHAM,
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 Greorg-e Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collixs-stijekt West, Mkxbouknk.
ri'HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
I Sydney Branches:
04 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank Las Agents in a 1! the piincipal cities
throughout Lhe United States of America and
Canada, and can otter special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Hammoquette Reclining Qhaib
COMFORT FOR THE WEARY; THE INVALIDS FRIEND;
And a Het-ven. or Rest For All.
HIGHLY FtECOMMEIKTUED
—BY THE—
MEDIC A L PllO EE S SlO N.
x
Especially Suitable for Consumptive Patients.
Comfort, •Convenience k Curability
Is ilie DcsWcraluui
x
Patentee:
n. :o.
6 ZBOBUDGKE STREET, SYIDUnTIE
m
'W'rm
■>
•4
i
ik
Melbourne:
PETRE FARRELL k CO.,
231 COLLINS STUEET.
'
J
Brisbane:
. F. Powell, Stanley Street,
I)i:ISI3ANE SOUTH.
CORRESPONDENCE
“S.L.A/’r A woman doesn't always exercise a
■refining influence. We once saw a woman roosting in a
tree for two hours waiting for her husband to get sober.
There wasn’t a stick within reach, and the only stones
available were boulders that weighed two hundred
apiece. The rage of that man was something awful
. ...“Wll.ian ” (Deep Creek); It would be a
crime to delay for one instant the publication of your
letter and poem
“ Dear Sir, —Being a subscriber to Tim Bi lletin' and 1
see you have always a space left for poietry. I was ad-
vised by a jentleman who knows my qualifications to send
you some poiems now and again and if you choose to
acept them I shall feel it a pleasure to do so they will
eather be of a moral or political nature to suit your paper.
I forward you one coiled the bush home but I don't wish
to put myself up for a firs class poiet although I can give
a skit now and again
“ yours Respectifuly.
We presume this is the natural school of poetry—utterly
apart from Milton, Tennyson, Shakespeare & Co.
How ever, there's nothing absolutely new under the sun,
and we perceive that you have humbly endeavoured to
draw inspiration from Parkes, on whose style yours is
modelled. We advise you to write something longer and
not quite so sudden, and send it to the Centennial
M agazine. Mr. Ernest Blackwell is the editor, and he will
be delighted to receive a worthy companion-piece to Sir
Henry’s doggie-loggie-froggie poem. Please address us
every week, and write your name big on the envelope in red
ink. Then we ll know at once what to do w ith your verses
“ W.E.J ” : The rhythm of “ In Memoriam” much mixed-
Why is your copy so uneven ?....’* E.J.8.”: Why does not
your friend consult a decent medical man? There are
plenty whose names are on the Medical Kegister “ One
in Distress": Kindly call .. “Thomas Brindle": Con-
stant popping will wear away a stone. The result of
the unceasing efforts may seem out of proportion to the
labour expended, yet the seed is being sown, and the
harvest, some day, will be glorious. Anyhow, there is no
finality to reform. As for your abolition of present
mediums of exchange, that would altogether fail to wipe
out usury. For that, the only remedy is equality of
economic condition ; that can only be obtained by equit-
able distribution, which is unfortunately a long way off..
“Jay”: Glad to hear from you ...“ W. Esgue”: Many
thanks....“ J. Weavers”: The information you require
as to admittance to the N.S.W. Bar is fully given _ in
two articles entitled “The Bar as a Profession in N. S.
Wales,” recently- published in The Bulletin .... “ L.A.” ;
He must have been legitimate, because before 1835 mar-
riace with a defunct wife’s sister was as legal in England
as anywhere else. In that year, however, the Duke of
Beaufort who had married his dead wife’s sister, was
seized with doubts as to the validity of the marriage, and
employed the most celebrated lawyer of his time, Lord
Lyndhurst, to make an alteration in the marriage custom
for his especial benefit. The law passed at that time and
still in force decreed that all such unions contracted up to
1835 should be made valid and all subsequent marriages
illegal “Proletariat”: Not much difference ...“A
Victim”: The moral is; be careful what you sign....
“ H W F.” : Very funny-, but too “steep.”....“ R. G.
Watson”: Nothing if not brutal. ...* C-cil P.”: Is it
ori<dnal 9 “£40,000 in the funds" ;a vcnj English....
“JA L ” : Such things always welcome “ Jerry :M e
are sick of the dead bushman. Wattle-bAmn should mean
s«ven years’ hard labour.... “ Dan Gorman' : Lots of rocm
in Sydney for curiosities. Of which sex is your educated
do»?. .“R. Bedford” : First-class stories, with a distinc-
tively Australian colouring, always acceptable. Adam s
Fall ” more suitable for Saint Symes Tales of the
Land Boom”: Too long, and not snappy.... KM. G.
de G.": Can’t tell you unless we see them Shgo :
Thanks, but we gave it years ago in a slightly different
form “An Australian ”:It is very difficult to ascertain
exactly what he did say.... “ Walter Munro ” : The state-
ment that the spirit of the thousand people settled round
Mildura “is one of contentment with the present and
hope for the future,” is wholly denied. It is, on the con-
t raw asserted that the people are discontented and that
the workers employed by the Chaffey- Brothers are in very-
poor positions indeed-positions in which it would be
utterly undesirable that workmen in general should
occupy “Geo. Roberts” (Qakfield, Fic.); Thanks. In
a recent issue we had an article on Mr Kirton’s resolu-
tion “E W. Herbert ”: So far as is known the lady is
ain.de.'' She appeared in the first production of “ Jack
Sheppard.” She is not related to the lady and gentleman
you mention, nor is Mr. Lyndall, whose brother, whom he
had not seen for eleven years till his arrival in Sydney, is
employed in a large wholesale house there .....
“ E AM”' If the certainty- of the labourer to keep in
constant employment is increased by Protection, then
Protection will assuredly raise wages by lessening the
competition for leave to tod and increasing the demand
for toilers “Egg Flip”: Me are enquiring.... Victor
Pacha”: What was your sketch about? Me forget
“ Fossickin''- Pat”: Looks improbable—a splendid libel,
anvhow “W. B. Giles”: Will ascertain and let you
know ’ “ One of them ” (Coff’s Harbour); Do something
fnr vnii next week ...“Adam Smith”: A very mild
sample indeed of clerical slang-whanging.-[Many letters
held over.]
Gillies is the name of the Melbourne City
watch-house keeper. He is in favor of the closure.
In the daily papers “ Modeller” advertises
“ for a lady model for sculptors. ’ W e can recom-
mend Queen Victoria as the most successful model
for sculptors that we know.
Thee gs of the now-extinct New Zealand
moa measured lOin. in length and Tin. in width.
A dozen of these eggs would materially affect the
result of any election to-day.
Judge Gillies, who “ went up at Auck-
land (N.Z.) the other day to have his own case
tried by a court that never makes any judicial
blunders, was a clever member of a clever family.
His father, “Old John,” was one of the first
“beaks” in Otago. The future Judge’s eldest
brother was a lawyer, and it was not until his
death that Thomas Bannatyne (the Judge) thought
of trying his hand at the law. He had been farm-
ing and was over 40 then. He was soon called to
the Bar and became, not only a successful prac-
titioner, but a popular politician. Moving to
Auckland he administered the coup de [/race to the
Irish party, who for 20 years bad ruled the roast
in provincial politics. Despite rioting and roll-
stuffing, Gillies defeated “ ould John \V illiamson ”
for the SupSrintendency. Vogel was then in the
zenith of his power; he regarded Gillies as an
appreciable figure in contemporary politics, but
feared that his cautious Scotch nature would prove
hostile to the brilliant Hebraic big borrowing
scheme. The anti-Vogel party had its eyes turned
on the clever Scot, but he accepted a judgeship
that Vogel offered him, and so passed out of a
sphere of great possibilities.
Hadden Chambers. —The Argus office.
A “ Copper” King—The Chief of Police.
A man was fined at Sale (Vic.) the othe r
day for stealing gas. Another plagiarising parson.
“ Primrosy ” story of Lord Rosebery from
a London paper. The young peer, strolling in
Windsor Park, met the carriage of “ Her
Gracious,” who, pulling up, talked gushingly to
him of the fine weather, whereupon the sucking
courtier : “ Madame, it is always Queen’s weather
where you are.”
“A BUSH HOME.
“ At a lonely place on a far distant shore
Two sisters of highhernia doth dwell.
One is a luaid the other a wife blessed with a family of four
And the piHde of their heart is to instruct them well
“ At that neighbour house of a Sunday night.
I have listened to the prayers those children have s did
Wioh recalled me of my youth with pleasure and delight
Before they went to aunt to l>e put to bed
“ The two oldest being a boy and a girl named david and
ann
The vie with eaeh other to see who is best
'Those youthfnll children try all thy can
Before their aunt has got them undressed
“ Her dear little pet is called edmond John
She takes him up in her arms when he dos weep
Says a few loveing words and puts his night dress on
Then he blesses himself and goesto sleep
“ The youngest is cis<y and called the baby
And under her fond mother care
She calls her a dear little lady
While she offers up for her family a silent prayer
“ Those youthfull child' en instructed in truth
A blessing to their parent i must be in there youth
While they 11 ill never forget what they were taught
At the side of their kind aunt and fond mothers knee.
“ Around the worald where ever T roaim
1 will always think of those children tone
And speak with credit what the ladys have shown
In their qu te and peaceful! catholic hoaim.
"WM-"


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Cuarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - - £500,000.
Sydney Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
9.
Melbourne Offices ;
253 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices: ... Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 5 per cent.
Six „ ... 6 „
Twelve „ ... 7 „
And a Bonus declared- to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, lh per cent.
BY ORDER OP THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
£he Anglo-(Australian (investment,.
finance & sand Company, Ltd.
Capital Paid-up .. ... £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 60,000
Head OSice:
2i Hunter Street, Sydne7.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vice-Chairman: P. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Ofllce .. 31 Lombard Street, E.C.
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
fpHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
Important railway stations.
Deposits received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY. LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act , 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits :—3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W, Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORB-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING.
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
Directors:
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Barden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
culorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T, D. Merton,' who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Ounningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLER’S CAFE,
ISO, 162, 164 Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler’s Gafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J. F. Gunsler, 160, 162, and 164 Pitt-
street.
J. F. Gunsler General Manager.
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Seller illour and ©rain Stored,
cseJO ofcJ 7
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED —
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
Leonard Gwykt,
General Business Sc Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite G.P.O).
—Nothing but Straightforward Business Done.—
No Sale No Charge.
G-WYU.
Misc ollaneous.
The British and Xew South Wales Investment
anti Financial €«., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 246 PITT STREET.
BILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
EPPS’
GRATEFUL--COMFORTING
UM6RILLAS
KK-eOVEREa
qtudy economy
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts .
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Hotels.
tfr
Bourhe S 1
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EVE&T FEW MINUTES
IJaiii
f
PALACE
HOTEL
.
J.A.WILSON
PROPRiETOP
GYf.CLARE
MANAGER
The PALACE HOTEL, EOUEII STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three :S3Cx«.rxca.:r-eca. agnificexxt Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
e&T Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to-be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
TWO PASSERTGEB OTIS LIFTS.
M
Ladies' Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms*
m
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single BedLroom, 2s. 6H. per KTiglit.
( Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton, of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
Dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the _sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hole at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kieminster to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. ICIIjMIMSTESI, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
T.ONG’B IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.-
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. Eirst-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First C lass Sample Booms-
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
lipbkial Hotel,
TOW NSVILLE.
thomas Wallace,
Proprietor.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success I J All Chronic Diseases
of Modern Times. \ COI,SULT t are Curable.
JVTft. H. E- KUGELMANK,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drags or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPT.] .
Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it-was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medica I
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and. after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists'
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable.. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down my
bed, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I saw your advertisement and decided to consult you,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature ofmy
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse ; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected I would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
I can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
themselves of your treatment, and not delay as I did until
I was given up to die. —I remain, ever thankfully yours
PRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALT. CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Cure
not being Effected.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD k CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. F E DEL RE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.j 2to 4 and 7 till 9p, m.
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S YD NE "ST.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturersof allk'nds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
ik. Trial Solicited.
F. C. NICHOLAS & Go.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
736 G-eorge Street, 738
HAYMABKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.


Write for plans £lO Building sites, Berth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Ssow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
High Art Photography. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
Boots and Shoes.
ft
FASHION,
PTT, and
FINISH I
JUDGE + FOR + '^URSELVES.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
The Finest Hand Sewn
Boots and Shoes
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
ţ
ťt
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
The Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
376 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR SALE.—Second-hand Quad -Demy
• Polder, by Harried ; Cheap. Apply The
Bulletin office.
Business Announcements.
FISH I FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company,
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ABE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 801 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to she kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for 2s. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Order for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works —
Kensington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manages.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE C 0„
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT A COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Meatsfoot Oils.
—The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
MUSICAL.
TDATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
- 1 - Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN 'MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
I
: y~
i
inf
m
I
i IT
Pilflli®
Hfi
mtm
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. John Sutherland. M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church
Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
n
Reserve Capital Account , .... £250,000
Reserve Fund .... ... .... 61431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities . .. .... 311,431 10 10
—o —
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices
N.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
Victoria : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O :
7\ per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
JT . S 3. 3E" 3 . Cowell.
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Manager.
HILL, CLARK & 00.,
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK & STATIO3T AG-E3STTS,
HAYING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers. ’
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however desire it
we are prepared to ’ ’
SHIP UNTDEE LIBEBAL CASH -A.ID'VA.IISrOZE]
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides. Tallow Leather Oviin
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homebush and Coloration Yardt. ’
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Biaoktowx and
Dob iso for both Sheer and Cattle.
All Consignments .receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all furth- r
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. Branch Office at 35U880
The Ghost.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down the street as I was drifting with the city’s
human tide,
Came a ghost, and for a moment walked in silence
by my side—
Now, my heart was hard and bitter, and a bitter
spirit he,
So l felt no great aversion to his ghostly company.
Said the Shade: “ At finer feelings let your lip in
scorn be curled—
‘Self and Pelf,’ my friend, remember, that’s the
motto for the world. ”
And he said ; “If you’d be happy, you must clip
your fancy’s wings—
Stretch your conscience at the edges to the size of
earthly things;
Never fight another’s battle, for a friend can never
know
When he’ll gladly fly for succour to the bosom of
the foe.
At the power of truth and friendship let your lip
in scorn be curled—
‘ Self and Pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the motto
of the world.
“ Where Society is mighty, always truckle to her
rule;
Never send an ‘i’ undotted to the teacher of a
school;
Only fight a wrong, or falsehood, when the crowd
is at your back.
And till charity repays you, shut the purse, and
let her pa -k;
At the fools who would do other let your lip in
scorn be curled —
‘ Self and Pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the motto
of the world.
‘‘ N’er assail the shaky ladders Fame has from
her niches hung,
Lest unfriendly heels above you grind your fingers
from the rung ;
Or the fools who idle under, envious of your
renflwn,
Heedless of the pain you suffer, do their worst to
shake you down,
At the praise of men, or censure, let your lip in
scorn be curled—
‘ Self and Pelf, ’ my friend, remember, is the motto
of the world.
“ Flowing founts of inspiration leave their sources
parched and dry.
Scalding tears of indignation sear the hearts that
beat too high;
Chilly waters thrown upon it drown the fire that’s
in the bard ;
And the sneering of the critic hurts his heart
till it grows hard.
At the fame your Muse may offer, let your lip in
scorn be curled—
‘ Self and Pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the motto
of the world.”
“ Shun the fields of love, where lightly, to a low
and mocking tune —
Strong and useful lives are ruined ; and the broken
hearts are strewn.
Not a farthing is the value of the honest love you
hold ;
Call it lust, and make it serve you ! Set your heart
on nought but gold.
At the bliss of ‘ purer passions ’ let your lip in
scorn be curled—
‘ Self and Pelf,’ my friend, remember, is the motto
of the world.
Then he ceased and looked intently in my face,
and nearer drew;
But a sudden deep repugnance to his presence
thrilled me through;
Then I saw his heart was cruel, by the dark for-
bidding scowl;
Then I felt his breath was poison, by the shudd’ring
of my soul;
Then I guessed his purpose evil, by his lip in
sneering curled,
And I knew he slandered mankind, by my know-
ledge of the world.
But he vanished as a purer, brighter presence
gained my side—
“ Heed him not! There’s truth and friendship in
this wond’rous world,” she cried,
“And of those who cleave to virtue, in their
climbing for renown,
Only they who faint, or falter, from the height are
shaken down.
At a cynic’s baneful teaching let your lip in scorn
be curled !
* Brotherhood and Love and Honour! ’ that’s the
motto for the world ! ”
Henry Lawson.
Sydney, July 18, 1889.
M. De Bavay, a scientist of some calibre
engaged on the staff of a big Melbourne brewery,
has startled the teetotal pollywogs and cold-water
soakers by asserting that he has discovered typhoid
bacteria in Yan Yean water, and insinuating that
beer is the only drink for an intelligent man, its
constituents being fatal to all germs of a virulent
character. This led to a newspaper discussion, in
which it was asserted that beer, like milk, is
admirably adapted for the attraction and propaga-
tion of fever bacteria. Let’s go across to the
corner and take some microbes :—
Cabinet Organs—The daily press.
Old King Coal is a cruel old soul.
One Chestnut died in Melbourne recently.
We thought chestnuts immortal.
Light sovereigns are to be suppressed in
England. “ Tummy ” and Co. are safe.
A Melbourne insolvent has deposed that
he lost £5BO overboard whilst sea-sick. The
Bankruptcy Court can’t extract half as much from
him.
Hanlan tells everyone that his rowing days
are over. We knew that long ago. He can’t row
now, he only “kids.”
A Yankee tanner, named Salomon, sug-
gests that “ fines should be imposed for the killing
of any kangaroo whose skin weighs less than five-
sixths of a pound.” The wisdom of a Salomon
would be required to detect a five-sixth kangaroo
from a tenner.
The local industry of rabbit-production in
N.S.W. seems to have been a paying one. In one
holding, the rent of which was £9B ss. 4d., £1330
of rabbit-extermination subsidy was paid, and in
another case, where the rent was £685, the subsidy
amounted to £12,292.
We see by advertisement that a Sydney
evangelist is about to discourse on “ The Gambling
Fiend : What he is doing in Sydney ? ” We can
answer that question in once. He is laying
devilish short prices, and scooping the pools every
time, and when he takes to laying the odds in
“ thripnies ” the churches can shut up shop.
Mr. Michael Maher, of the Exchange
Hotel, Wagga, N.S.W., who died last week, was
the first recipient of Tom Castro’s determination
to go “ home ” and look after a little property that
was in the family. Tom also promised to send out
a peal of bells for the church to which Maher be-
longed. They haven’t turned up yet.
Extract from the “General Orders,”
N.S.W., May 11, 1801 :
“Whereas, William Knight and James Warwick have,
hy regular form, been outlawed, and are supposed to
associate and commit violent acts of depredation in con-
junction with the natives on the public, the Governor is
pleased to offer a reward of THIRTY GALLONS OP
SPIRITS to any person who shall lodge the bodies of the
said William Knight and James Warwick in gaol or deliver
them to the nearest magistrate.”
The larrikins and roughs of Balmain, a
Sydney suburb, are divided into four sections or
“ pushes,” known respectively as “ The War-
wick,” “ The Dock,” “The Black and Red”—a
cock-fighting set—and “The Liver” (so-called
because the members are connected with the
abattoirs.) Each adopts a peculiarity of dress,
employs its own solicitor, and has established a
fund to pay the fines, &c., of brethren who get
“ lumbered.”
A well known writer—a very bad writer—
in mentioning the name of a certain lady in an
article, said she was ‘ ‘ renowned for her gracious-
ness and charity. ” For ‘ ‘ charity, ” the compositor
read “ chastity.” The author, on seeing a proof,
recognised at once that there was an error ; but,
unable to remember the word he had used in place
of “chastity,” marked the proof with what is
called a ‘ ‘ query ”?—to refer the printer to his
MS. When the article appeared, the writer—who
had intended to pay a pretty compliment to the
lady—was surprised to read that she was “re-
nowned for her graciousness and chastity {?).”
Verdict for plaintiff £2500 with costs on the higher
scale. Three counsel were certified for.
Editor Bulletin.—Sir, —While reading
“ The Luckless Loafer ” in your paper I was re-
minded of the frequency with which I am asked
by the blacks up here for money for opium. lam
a shearer, and while travelling in the Isisford dis-
trict I called at three different station-stores, at
all of which they sell opium to the blacks —hence
their always bailing up the whites for “ tickpen’ ”
or “ ohillin for to buy ’emopim.” The Chinese
gardeners also sell opium to the blacks, and in
many eases grog also. Yet while such things go
unpunished it is not safe for a bushman to come
to town and get one drink too much or speak
louder than usual, or he is “ booked ” by the local
police.—Yours, J.R.F. Isisford, Q., July, 14, ’B9
His Honor the N.S. Wales Chief Justice,
in _ sentencing a prisoner at Sydney Central
Criminal Court the other day, made the following
remarks:
“You are a dangerous man. You stole away a man’s
wife and his goods. The law does not permit me to punish
you for destroying your fellow-laborer’s home and
happiness, and I can only sentence you for the larceny
of the goods.”
The prisoner pleaded that he did not take the
goods. “No,” said his Honor, sharply j “ you
did not, but you instigated the woman in taking
them, and you had both the man’s wife and his
goods. You are sentenced to four years’ im-
prisonment.” The prisoner asked if he might be
allowed to petition. The answer came sharply
and sternly “No!” It is curious and likewise
amusing, to note in the foregoing the out-cropping
of the British respect for “Propputty.” The
law did not permit of the punishment of a man
for destroying another man’s “home and happi-
ness.” It provided and permitted only punish-
ment for the “larceny of his goods.” This is
really delicious! But mark, ye would-be abstracters
of other men’s wives, take heed and provide a
complete trousseau for the fair elopee, lest her
husband, powerless to avenge himself for the loss
of his wife, prosecutes you for the larceny of her
wearing apparel. See, also, that the receipts for
the millinery-purchases bear your own name, and
take care that your Christian name and surname
be written in indelible ink all over the dresses and
etceteras, which your charmer intends to wear en
voyage. If there are any children it will be necessary
to provide them also with complete out+)ts, and if
you abstract the husband as well," you had
better have him measured for a suit of clothes
at the tailor’s sacred to your own impecuniosity.
“ Oh ! that mine enemy would elope with my wife
in the new spring bonnet I bought her, and thus
render himself liable to incarceration in gaol for
common larceny !” will now be the anathema of
the man who yearns for a special vengeance, and
traps will be laid for the destroyer of domestic
peace as they are laid for the office-boy whose
honesty is an unknown quantity. If ever we
elope, the lady shall take an affidavit before a
duly-qualified J.P. that every stitch she has on is
our private property before we cross the road to
hire the cab which is to take us to the railway-
station and Paradise. After all, what splendid
opportunities our antediluvian parents had for
conducting these little romantic episodes !
The joys of childhood pass and fly
Illusions of a later day ;
The hopes of manhood fade and die
And fondest fancies steal away.
In childhood’s days in milk we drowned
The yearning baby’s bitter cry,
Till in the draught were microbes found,
And then we laid the bottle by.
In early youth on lemonade
We quenched our overpowering thirst,
But in our “ turn ” the gases stayed
And brought on our initial “ burst.”
And then we drank from crystal springs
XJntil we found the water crammed
Us with the germs of greater things,
And then we let the springs be dammed.
Then tea we tried, but its effect
Soon taught us from the cup to swerve —
We gave Bohea the cut direct—
Your journalist must have a nerve.
To pubs, we gaily then did pass
And quenched our thirst with little fear,
Till, gassing on it through the glass,
We saw that death was in the beer.
And now, cut off from other “booze” —
To what sad straits are poets come !
Tis only left for them to choose
To die of thirst, or Queensland rum.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
1-1
Ki
%
%
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTH
%\j \//
v-
A
<vrs
m
-1
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
nowards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Bains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves* what we represent: them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Die welly n,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
' - —IN ■
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
V .r. may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Svjqnston <£■ Elizabeth Sts ),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Oases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a_Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
+ inn f The Public are requested to notice the
WdU.LJ.UIi ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the litbel affixed to each box containing the
l-S' j- Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
gw>.v ask for
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Srt Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,'
H. A. 1F105313,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
iST - Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Jf ERV O U S DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain-
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, -which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
■unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF'
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
‘‘l have tested a sample of the ‘Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony 7 and Aasenio and have
to report, after a most careful examination, that I have
Been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
Handbills enclosed in each bag.
„ H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:—“ I
nna it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
rue same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 35.; 141 b. ss. 6d. ; 561 b., 18s.
od.; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A, H. PHILLIPS,
& HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to Ke worth a Guinea
ox for bilious
anur nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be ackriowledged to He
CH A
&
&
PATENT
w
PILLS
9*
&
$
m
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or Irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
he found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tesiified
continually by members' of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in genera], Asthma, Bronchial
Affecfons, Hoarseness', Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and • ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecham’s Cough
Pills a trial a: d the "most violent Cough will in a
short time be lemoved.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens,Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. Ijd. and 2s. fid. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Eucalypte. Oils
Victory Ointments.
The only pure Eucalypte in the World.
AW ARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the ' hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, ■ ciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, t ancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucaiypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the b-st preparation
before the public for young Chiidien and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory—Co >tamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot —227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware op Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full, address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
»1
CORE & rjOGG
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases Of the Gen Ito-Uri nary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Syuvey Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in a'ivan ,, e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
*2O BUGKBOAED BUGGIES £2O
No. 45— Turnout Seat —£85.
COr> E cSc NEWMAN,
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
BUST I* THE WORTH
Tor £2O
The largest Coach-
Worhs iu Australia.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, S 3 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE ,or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
8.8. H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries, with caution, expedi' ion and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address: 53 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY-
“ For Framing a Picture Neat and Well.”
• ——x : x— —
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-St., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Beat and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gi’ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
rsj.
u
-
«AHUP«TuR£R» Q
4 IWORTERS or
- i — tdbkM —:
HATS CAPS&
r— '
4 ia CEORCE ST
3YDNEY 3
tfpoosi te JLatsetCers
9/
&
c-
or
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
fl)
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
fiUCH
INC
fA
*/
PO
manufactured ev A
Sfj 'JjM£S CHANHOh cXatbovrS* \
Ct/ all S'Aocjt'Xjd 4 S/oreA**/>e/ , o
Business Announcements.
K:
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY. :
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London^
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale. Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“ BUGLE! ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc--
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will he given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Poster and Sons,
SK FOR KUPPER’S ELBERFELD
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia),
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
SYDNEY,
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage *
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
BOWDEN
Hom
BOWDEW’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hotter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C. bo«»es Proprietor.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bonrke-st.,East, Melbmfrne.
This well-known Sporting Bouse is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.
WE STiHS ZEUST HOTEL,
Warm amtoool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made 4or the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. US’ Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water. Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
pp“ livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 3#s. to 21s.
m PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
X
KT Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather. 'Sfc
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Xjoxrdlon. Pashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
t
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED. *
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
WIUES, X SPIRITS, x IB IE IE IR, S 7 X ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Rob’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Martbll’s and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
|ST° The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Rrands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
T'Tlpili'salp anti Single Bottle Departments. - anti 284 Ipenrge-st., Sydney.
SESD FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAYATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
r) x (
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlingliurst Road.
MEAD OFFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
KTES-W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
wallaciTbrothers.
WOOL. WOOL.
THE HEW ZEALAND
Loan & Mercantile
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Bridge St., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool Season* 1888^89*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
rriHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation’ and the
■A Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether from large or small clips.
Growers Advised and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
pr Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL Ss GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Genuine Swedish made
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. -A.. PALSTEDT,
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
IST* TTTSIPIEOT TTTIE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
in
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG ...
STAWELL
ECHUCA
BEECH WORTH ...
HAMILTON
W ARRN AMBOOL
GALE
MARYBOROUGH
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Mcorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aesehimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opp. Golden Age Hotel.
Complexion
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin; is
most cooling and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints— White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Cherni ts and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “ The Bulletin’s ” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIX. MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents:
Victorian * A. BENJAMIN, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
Tasmanian FITZGERALD BROS., George-street, Launceston.
Queensland J- H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.
