

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
I
Best Timekeepers in tlie World.
Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
against the COMBINED MAKERS OF THE WORLD.
The AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES are constructed upon the soundest principle of horolugical art
and of the very best materials throughout ; they are adapted to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
EVER A" WALTHAM WATCH is fitted with “ Logan's ” Patent Breguet Hair-Spring, hardened and tempered in form.
This prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other
watches in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s” Celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive
property of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in any part
of the world where Waltham Watches are sold as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., IT.S.A.
WALTHAM CHRONOGRAPHS, infallible for accuracy of timing, register 1-oth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
WALTHAM PRESENTATION WATCHES, Unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
WALTHAM RAILWAY WATCHES are used upon the New South Wales Government Railways and all other Colonial,
Lines, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
WALTHAM WATCHES. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
WALTHAM NON-MAGNI TTC WATCHES.- Proof against Magnetic and Electrical influences. The latest discovery
in Horolugical Science. Awarded GOLD MEDAL, Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9 -■ •
WALTHAM WATCHES are Sold by all Watchmakers and Jewellers throughout the World.
o
AMERICAN
Messrs.
WALTHAM WATuH COMPANY,
\ ' \
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA, I
ROBERT BEEBTOM % and O 0.,
WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STHEET, SYDNEY.
mjELE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE. SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
POLICIES issued under the Oxr Miociifiesi Tosa-tine nud 3VSZo>:r"fciaaa,:K*3r -23 ■57-a,cISYSTEMS.
BONUS YEAR. Books will be closed on 31st December, 1839, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
3E'eca.er£vt©c3. Squatters
- AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CHR/CTmL-A-IR. QTJYYYT., SYDNEY.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
klim A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, C loppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finisher, 3, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittkrb,, Art & Mediaeval Mbtad Workers
KOMI* SKATES (any make) with K.SSASS or T rOODEN WWBKt#.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices— ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Bo at Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Firo Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and, Stanmore Road, Petersham.
See your Dress as others see it,
iy- v
v. y
m
\A \ +
7)
i
2Js
/J
UL
V
“ This is 'Something awful. I declare I
shall never again attempt to drape a dress
without Eastway Bros.’ Uhkss Form.”
I
V VI
■ U 1 tSu
,r.v
'V,
I.
;-W(
■-Jasj
“Now that is perfectly splendid. Think oj
being able to drape one’s own dress, and not
have to stand and wear one’s self out before a
mirror, as was the case before we.purchased
this East way Bros.’ Dress Form.”
EASTWAY BROS.,
.
CET Ouk \ '
/-vj
r*
r^:
v v i" /m&
.1
JS*
pj
Wo.sdo?ys-
am
, f /y.Z
i\‘V -U-.
i'WA«
MM
vim.
rumm
v
L & S (fe>
IV/
i-W
MB - - ■• M nMMWK
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
—IMPORT—
HIG H-G L -A. S S X IST'ID X IST . Bb^OHI3STA
Pteas I ■
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d,. and 2s. per lb
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to
The Bulletin
[Saturday, December 7, 1889.


m
LU|
UJ
’v
Ills
vaoi
*
*
C 3
O
X
5?
r 4
[SIR ROPE
%
as
0
■ll3
/
OIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being intend need into (lie
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will /certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL TOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
QUID
OSTON
SOT 1
y XfiDIES’
pl-lILGRENj
fß& ( tiiS* CSJ j
TR U NKSI&-C fi Cl
, KAmoSTMiuto ar «
/7. jrfffwmi C> j
boston
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
PBila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
I’ar is, 1878 Amsterd'm 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking 1 is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used bv
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not sod the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers,
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgs.
T> R I T T K N B E R G & CO.
8 IMPORTERS,
«. 81 Wareuce St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture. Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinsok’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
la Unequalled for its .Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers (ind of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Uoso” on “Golien
Lyre,” with Address la full.
T. LAWLESS, Junk.,
37 MAMET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fru.it
M erchant.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BT TAKING —
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia,
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
SUPERIOR to all OTHERS!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c,, accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents; Messrs, ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
o
ò
Jfr 9/ imitations Uf^THE}WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE:. which r are calculated. to deceit* (he Public, Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see (hat the i Label .onicverv bottle
[heart their Signature 'thus—*
Os
UiifhottEmMJu oJf'Jhti original WOR CESTERSHIRM.
'SAUCE'is genuine,
{Ask for:LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name?on Wrapper, Label, Bottle ante
Stopper, r IVholesale 'and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ;i Creese,'- and
Blackwell, London, i &re,,6re:; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World. '
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2fi MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
»»
HIGHLY .NUTRITIVE'
WAV BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS Oil PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COIONV,
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechereM
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that oan possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Holt' at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkr to make her
Visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
IVSlx's. ISIJCXjj!MINTS“X"JtiJS3Ft, Clareiatioii Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
el sheoedeb
LIVERY, BAIT, LET OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Hofaes find Vehicles of every description |for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle*
men's Hacks.
JOHnsr BUCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Bugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or fall at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House in the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A ST ECI A LIT Y.
THOMAS MCREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Vrirair Diseases of Both Seres a SprriaJi///.
Consultations (Iratis. Charges very Moderate.
A TlitAb SOLICITED.
A SPKKDY CCRK C CAKANTKKI).
ò
JUiio_£*i s£J „*
BA&IWSIf DEY AX3&
BJ ■
Beware of tin* many so-railed Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public'and trade upon our Imputation. This is the original and Celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six .Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
x* 3S 3&E o nvr squeezers, &c..
&LG.
ILv£cXjea-n Bros. Sz ZEBlg'g', ZELtd.
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■tap


The Bulletin
Vol, 10—No. 512.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER <7, 1889.
Price, 6<L
v,si ± , 'LM i
THE SYDNEY DAILY TELEGRAPH'S “BEAL LEADED” OF THE OPPOSITION.
EDITOR WARD: “ STEADY, NOW, BARTON. AND I’LL MAKE YOU A BIGGER MAN TITAN OLD DIBBS, OR BUST SOMETHING.”


Wotice to iLgesits.
With the SPECIAL CHRISTMAS NUMBER
of
“THE BULLETIN”
(To he Published on 19th December)
Will he given Gratis a Magnificent and Artistic
Supplement, entitled
"ON THE MASH”
(An Australian Idyll),
By LIVINGSTON HOPKINS.
PRINTED IN SIX COLOURS.
mHE Chiustmas Issue will be more than
-I- Double the Usual Size, and will contain
Original Contributions from the pens of some of
the leading litterateurs of Australasia :
Victor J. Daley,
E. Dyson,
E. Fisher,
“The Banjo,”
“ E. Lowe,”
W. H. Trail,
F. J. Broomfield.
Jas. Marsh,
Arthur Gay 11,
Henry Lawson,
anti Others,
And will be profusely Illustrated by
L. HOPKINS, PHIL MAY,
-a, E. ASHTON, S. ATKINSON,
H. Egersdorfer, J. H. Hunt,
And other hiyh-class Artists.
This really absolutely Original and Interesting
Number will be published at the usual price,
viz.,
-SIXPENCiESI-
Tho literary matter will, like the illustrations,
be absolutely original; it will comprise the most
fascinating collection of prose and verse ever sub-
mitted in a single issue of any paper beneath the
Southern Cross.
Judging from the experience of former occasions,
on which it has been impossible to satisfy the enor-
mous demand for The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number, it is imperative on Agents to send in
their orders for extra numbers without delay.
Owing to the great expense incurred in the pro-
duction of this superb Christmas Number, it will
be IMPOSSIBLE TO ALLOW RETURNS.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South "Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to he addressed to AVilliam Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefidly read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications null be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, icith lohom vie do not wish
to interfere.
■ SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1889.
America Liberata.
From the line of the St. Lawrence and the
great lakes to where the commingled waters
of two oceans lave the rocks of Cape Horn
there breathes not now one man who is sup-
posed, by the vice of a constitution, to assent
to the lie that, by Divine ordinance or poli-
tical necessity, they owe obedience to an
individual or members of some particular
family. “ Slaves cannot breathe in Eng-
land,” sang Cowper, at a time when scarcely
a man in Great Britain had even a concep-
tion of Freedom in its political sense. In
that sense the peoples of the Americas
can to-day with more propriety echo the
boast. That is to say, the peoples within
the boundaries we have indicated. Where on
the English maps, the customary tint of blood
appropriately indicates the dominions of the
British Sovereign, men still owe the duty of
bowing the head and bating the breath when
a Wettin-Guelph is mentioned. In the
Southern Continent there is, indeed, yet one
exception—a tiny smirch on the map of free-
dom. In Guiana there are “ subjects ”—vas-
sals of the Queen of Great Britain and the
King of the Netherlands. “ Slaves can-
not breathe in England !” Empty boast,
Monarchs cannot breathe in America ! The
atmosphere of liberty distills over the new
world from a dozen Republics and suffocates
Sovereigns. Dom Pedro 11., harmless man,
has had the Imperial crown blown oft his
head by a blast of that Divine air, but if a string
of names could have fastened the diadem
on his head the crown would still encircle
his brows. If Pierre 11. de Alcantara-
Jean-Charles-Leopold-Salvador - Bibiano-
Francois - Xavier - de-Paula - Leocadio-
Miciiael-Gabriel-Raphael Gonzague were
not enough to smite common people with
a sense of the. abject docility which they
owe to the individual thus embellished, then
Court-christenings—among other sacred in-
stitutions—are blighted by the growing and
sacrilegious spirit of democracy. If it
sufficeth not to name a prince after two
kings, Jesus Christ, the canonised founder
of the Jesuit Order, and two archangels, it is
difficult to conceive what can be done in that
direction. But, after all, this plan of giving
superb titles was proved ineffectual ages ago.
The Roman Emperors not merely had the
name of the Saviour (Salvador), the Son of
God, tacked on to their cognomen. They
were styled God, Deus, and even that
didn’t prevent their being generally mur-
dered by a harlot or a pander.
* * *
Dom Pedro, however, is understood to
have been a decent sort of man. Unlike
most monarchs, whose characteristic it is to
be as meddlesome and as mischievous as
monkeys, he troubled his subjects but little
with any antics, lived latterly for the most
part in Europe, and personally did more
good than harm. The insurgents of Brazil
seem to have revolted less against the man
than against the preposterous institution of
which he was the representative among them.
It was the inherent viciousness of hereditary
monarchy which cost Dom Pedro his throne.
The Brazilians could have put up with him
as long as he was likely to last. But
they couldn’t stand the prospect of seeing his
daughter Isabelle - Christine - Leopoldine-
Auguste-Michaele - Gabrielle-Raphaelle-
Gonzagues coming to the throne, with Field-
Marshal Louis-Phillipe-Marie-Ferdinand-
Gaston-d’Orleans to boot. Spain and Portu-
gal are now the only countries in the world
on whose stomach a Bourbon can stay, and
even in Spain there are periodical spasms
indicative of an inclination to throw them up.
The little incident in Brazil consequently
will be regarded with some natural un-
easiness in the Peninsula, and,will scarcely
be contemplated with composure by-monarchs
in general. When Canning spoke of “call-
ing into existence a new world to redress the
balance of the old,” he could have no idea of
the particularly telling application which
might be given to his phrase within half a
century. It was a Bourbon —imbecile race—
which gave modern democracy its first fair
start. Louis XYI. paid forfeit with his head
for the sublime stupidity which prompted
him to get the better in his quarrel with
England by helping the American colonists to
wrest their independence from George 111.
Since that start was given, democracy has
kept ahead all the time. In Europe it has
not had the same chances as in America. A
conspiracy of monarchs was worked up to
crush the first French Republic and restore
the Bourbons. It took a quarter of a cen-
tury of bloody Avar to effect the restoration,
but it was done. But after a taste of free-
dom, even although followed by a dose of
despotism under a great man, France could
not endure the Bourbon flavor.
# #
The ground gained by democracy since its
first essay in Europe was made, may be
measured by the conviction which every
reasonable man must feel that although
there may arise a monarchical conspiracy for
the restoration of Dom Pedro and family
there will be no mustering of mercenaries in
England, Prussia, Austria, and Russia to
accomplish it, as happened on the first occa-
sion. There are sixty millions of Repub-
licans in the United States. There are
many millions in the fourteen republics
which environ Brazil. The Monroe doctrine
as first formulated applies only to North
America. But the essence of it is diffusive.
The representatives of sixteen republics are
to-day collected, in the United States to dis-
cuss matters of common interest. It is an
awkward conjuncture for any European
despot who might feel disposed to emulate
in Brazil the attempt made by Napoleon in
Mexico. Possibly Dom Pedro may feel
but slender inclination to invoke inter-
position to reinstate him in his Imperial
dignity. He has evinced; —amidst other
testimonies of a degree of sense superior to
his station—a decided appreciation of the
enjoyments derivable from a course of exis-
tence in which the obligations of ruling have
no part. The new managers of Brazilian
affairs seem to have recognised this tendency
of his mind. They have, according to
cabled advices, presented him with a lump
sum of over half a million sterling, and have
promised him £BO,OOO a year. This, it must
be admitted, is a handsome bonus and
pension, and cannot fail to operate in some
degree as an inducement to keep quiet. Inas-
much also as the civil list is to be continued
to the members of the ex-imperial family,
son-in-law Bourbon may perhaps likewise
feel it worth while to abstain from intrigues.
But considering that he is a Bourbon, no
calculation founded upon a common-sense
basis can safely be ventured with regard to
him. He may break out and occasion the
withholding of his poor old father-in-law’s
little pension, imposing upon that amiable
old gentleman the mortifying necessity of
starving upon the pittance derivable from the
interest of his £580,000.
Meanwhile the Brazilians appear content
with liberty and not fretful at the loss of the
glories of a Court. Dom Pedro seems to
have succeeded in educating his people up to
their destiny. His repeated and protracted
absences taught them that they could get
along tolerably well without him, and per-
haps inculcated a distinct appreciation of
the probability that they could manage even
better if his promising heiress and her
Bourbon spouse would also be so obliging as
to visit Europe—and stay there. The lesson
derivable from this revolution is not without
significance for Australians. It has always
been a possible game on the cards that in the
event of anything happening to make Great
Britain an uncomfortable domicile for the
Sovereign, the Court might be transferred
to one of the colonial dependencies of the
Empire. In view of the unpleasant proximity
of the Republican United States, Canada
would not be much esteemed as a place of
retreat. Still less is it likely to be so re-
garded after the unpleasant instance of the
influence of example just furnished by
Brazil. Australia might be fixed upon.
But, alas, thought is rapidly diffused nowa-
days. Australia shares the vice of all
colonies. Congeries of people, brought
together in a region remote from the
seducing influences of a Court, have a
grievous tendency to affect to discover that
Royalty is a costly, a demoralising, and a
very useless toy. Parkes would, no doubt,
like to be a Duke, if only for domestic
reasons, and John Davies would exert|all his
vast influence in favour of Royalty if an
Earldom and a garter were likely to reward
his exertions. But taken as a whole it is
exceedingly problematical whether the people
of Australia could be depended on to provide
Albert-Edward with an income and a supply
of professional beauties for his platonic adora-
tion. Certainly there is always a chance
that certain gilded Australian circles might
emulate the French noblesse of the time of
Louis XY., in the aspirations of that
haughty caste. It will be recollected that
when the degenerate successor of the Grand
Monarch bestowed his particular attentions
upon Mdme. Dubarry, a woman of the
middle class, the nobility complained bitterly
of the indignity. It had been, they proudly
urged, for generations the privilege of their
order to supply the King with mistresses.
But there would always be the risk that the
mere common people, without having the
elevation of soul which would prompt them
to contest this lofty privilege, might object
to the whole circus. As Sir Hercules
Robinson has plainly stated that the mani-
fest destiny of the South African colonies is
to become a Republic, we know not what
resource in the way of a Kingdom would
remain, except India or Lord Howe Island.
And Lord Howe Island might be considered
somewhat circumscribed. The dignity of
the Throne would not merely cover it all
but would stick out, leagues around, over the
Pacific ocean.
.It is comforting to know that -Dom Pedro
“ took it fighting,” refused to abdicate, and
declared that he would only yield to force.
There must have been some force employed :
perhaps some desperado levelled a pea-
shooter at his head, or drove him from his
throne and palace at the point of a syringe.
Anyway, he was shipped off, f.0.b., within
an hour of announcing his heroic re-
solve. Some fighting is reported to
have occurred in the capital. But only
the Minister of Finance among the pro-
minent adherents of monarchy, was hurt.
The insurgents may have wounded his feel-
ings by giving Dom Pedro that £580,000
without proper vouchers from the Department
of Audit. One thing at least is clear. His
Imperial Highness the Comte d’Eu —alias
Louis Phillippe, &c., d’Orleans —who is
Marshal of the Empire and Commander-in-
Chief of the army, did not manage to draw
the sabre of his sire at the critical moment.
Brazil is a corkscrew the poorer, and nothing
lias remained for Dom Pedro but; to observe
with a candour which does him infinite
credit, that he is “ hopeful ” that the country
will prosper under the new form of Govern-
ment. It is difficult for a mere outsider to
conceive why it shouldn’t. The United
States have managed to rub along reasonably
well without a Dom Pedro, and the Homan
Republic prospered passably, whereas the
Roman Empire, after a flash in the pan,
smashed up everything. Half a million
down and eighty thousand a year for Dom
Pedro’s life won’t sink the new Republic.
Probably there may come a reaction in
favour of monarchy, in which case bloodshed
and. devastation will doubtless ensue. But
when once a people has breathed the atmc s-
phero of Liberty and tasted the sweets of
Republican equality, they never fail to
hanker for them again, and in the end they
“ use no other.”
The Emancipation. of. Debtors.
The notice of intention given by Mr. W. H.
Traill to introduce aßillinto theN.S.W. Legisla-
tive Assembly for “ maintaining the people of
that colony in possession of their homes ” has been
dubbed by the Sydney Daily Telegraph an
“ astonisher. ” This does not necessarily commit
the D.T. to oppose the Bill when it is actually in*
traduced; it merely indicates that to the D.T.
mind of the present time, harried with fiscal per-
plexities and almost delirious with the fancy that
an Australian Dominion is near, any proposal to
really better the condition of the people at large,
immediately and on practical and domestic lines,
has the nature of a bolt out of the blue. It is
sudden, unexpected, and its first effect is to
astonish. It is quite possible that when things
have had time to settle the D.T. will approve of
the Bill.
# # #
Whether it does so or not, however, the merits
of Mr. Traill’s proposal will be the same. To
persons not exclusively occupied with the politics
of party or schemes for covering the land with im-
palpable glory there appears to be nothing extra-
ordinary about the proposal. It simply comes as
an effort to obtain one more instalment of a long-
deferred human right—the right of a man,
unconvicted of crime, to live a free citizen in a free
State, and with the surroundings that civilisation
approves. Mr. Traill did not begin the on-
ward march to this goal. The march began
when civilisation first emerged from barbar-
ism. It has been kept up ever since, slowly
and under difficulties, but steadily. All the
world did not move at any stage as one body.
Some countries look many steps forward ; others
went back or stood still : but the motion, taking
the race all round, was forward. The Law of the
Twelve Tables gave to the creditor absolute rights
over the person and property of the debtor. The
creditor could then seize the debtor bodily, carry
him away, and by physical compulsion reduce
him to the condition of a slave. He could sell
this slave like a beast of burden, and no doubt
sold him when the transaction gave a profit.
Where are those Twelve Tables now ? Early
Roman law tried to perpetuate them, monarchical
rule in France tried to perpetuate them, but as
Tables their time is past. Some Zebehr in the
sands of the Dark Continent, some Dacoit in the
jungles of Upper India, may still breathe their
spirit, but the modern sense of human freedom,
human right has shattered them, broken them in
pieces,
* * *
This was the first step. The debtor was now
free from the personal thrall of his creditor. Per-
sonal vengeance, rapacity, tyranny were, when the
individual endeavoured to urge them physically,
made unlawful. The State saw that it had a pro-
perty in the individual which it ivas not at liberty
to sacrifice, on any monetary consideration, to a
private person. Whatever a debtor’s debts, it
owned the man. The State, seeing only thus far
then, provided debtors’ prisons, debtors’ quarters,
marshalseas, within the confines of which the man
who owed money he could not pay was safe from
persecution both physical and legal. But soon it
saw further. Confinement in a debtors’ prison
was often confinement for life, and it became clear
that if a man should not become a bond slave to
another man because of inability to pay a debt,
neither should he, on similar cause, become a bond
slave to the State.
# # *
Now was the time for another step. Insolvency
legislation marks progress here. A man unable to
pay his debts can, under this legislation, obtain
aquittance by showing that the inability is not
fraudulently pretended. There are some exceptions
to this, as where prejudice against a particular
profession operates, or where justice is sacrificed
to placate the greed of the minions of Law ; but
the wiping out of these exceptions is a matter of
the near future, and their presence now but
emphasises the humanity of the principle which the
State has adopted towards debtors in general.
We thus see that through a long period of time the
debtor has been in process of emancipation, and
that to-day his physical liberty, his human freedom,
are secured to him by law, if only his representa-
tions of monetary embarrassment be free from
crime. If Mr. Traill’s proposed Bill came as
the next immediate step after this insolvency
legislation,, there would be no justification for any
competent critic to refer to it as an “astonisher,”
for it moves in exactly the same direction as
enactments dealing with debtors have been moving
these several centuries. But the interval between
insolvency legislation and the present has been
literally filled with enactments which make Mr.
Traill’s proposal little more than an obvious
corollary to preceding statutes. By a law already
in being the life-assurance policy of a man can be
protected from his creditors. By an existing
law a wife’s separate estate can be protected
from the creditors of her husband. A settlement
on a wife can be similarly protected, Now, Mr.
Traill’s proposal means no more than that a
man’s homestead may be protected in similar
circumstances and under similar conditions. Is
not the sequence historically natural and rigidly
logical ?
* * *
Nor does Mr. Traill’s proposal end progress
in this direction. Where his Bill breaks off others
will begin. Not only will creditors be denied the
power of enslaving a man, of imprisoning him, of
despoiling him of his house and home, of his
goods and chattels, and of casting him and his
family penniless vagabonds on the world, but they
will be denied the use of any legal weapon
where it is shown that credit was not giver
in accordance with a man’s ability to repay,
but in accordance with the power the creditor


assumes he can exercise to force him to pay.
Drawing thus the venomous fangs on which the
creditor now relies will not make the way to debt
any easier for the debtor. It will, on the con-
trary, make it harder. More money changes
hands weekly in sporting circles than in several
of the industrial circles taken together, but in the
former the defaulters are few, while in the latter
they are many. In the former the creditor studies
the reputation and resources of his customer,
knowing that he cannot call upon the law to
crush urn if he fail in his engagements ; and in
the latter the customer weighs senous.y the con-
(I it ions of the credit, being lully aware that it lie
fail that field of enterprise will be closed against
him. To this or a similar understanding com-
meroial and industrial intercourse must eventually
come, and every effort which takes a prop of law
, i „ +i,L
from under creditors makes tor that consum-
matron.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Ecclesiasticism plus Insight.
The Honorable and at one-time Reverend F. F*
Beentnall, of Queensland, was, according to a re-
port in his own paper, the Brisbane Telegraph,
both autobiographic and didactic in presence of
his guests in the local Wesleyan Church about a
fortnight ago. Many of the guests were in the
chrysalis state, being merely reverends, and
naturally they deferred to one who had passed
beyond their sphere and soared on variegated
butterfly-wings to the political pinnacle repre-
sented by a seat in the local Legislative Council.
Mr. Beentnall reminded them that he had been
three years a minister of the Gospel—just like
one of themselves. He hastened to add that
he was not ashamed of that —a statement
which must have been gratifying to, among
others, his old employer. Then he became
didactic, on the ground of possessing superior
insight. “ Through his secular experience as a
layman,” the report makes him say, “ he had been
able to get an insight into the habits and types of
life that he never could have done while a minister,
and as very few of the ministers present would be
able to do. ” This has a wise, much-travelled air
about it. So far, the only evidence of “insight ”
which his guests had was that, instead of inviting
them to breakfast at his bouse, which seems to
have been expected, he had tables laid in the
schoolroom adjoining the church, where the but-
tered rolls and coffee were despatched amid the
surroundings of a restaurant instead of amid those
of a home/ There is a hint here. Why may not
a Primate or other dignitary desirous of playing
the host clear away the v prayer-books after
service and order some caterer to break-
fast his guests in their pews? But the serious
“ insight ” takes effect here. The tendencies of
the ago, he explained, “ were somewhat backward,
and went in two directions very strongly. They
xyere socialistic and atheistic, and they would have
to recognise that fact whether they liked it or not.
But if there was one thing to be regretted more
than another just now, it was that the enormous
power and force of trades-unionism was rapidly
getting into the hands of professed socialists and
atheists, when it ought to be kept in the hands of
the Church of Cheist.” Mark here that he does
not say the power of trades-unionism is bad. On
the contrary, he leaves it to be inferred that it is
good. He merely complains that socialists and
atheists instead of the Church wield it. But the
point is—Who discovered and built up this power ?
Alost certainly it was not the Church. The
Chifrch stood by for centuries, preaching submis-
sion and contentment. The power grew despite
her. As certainly, on the other hand, atheism,
and especially socialism, have developed it.
Therefore, theirs it is. Mr. Beentnall exhorts
his Church to lay hold of it. That is, the Church
idled when she ought to have sown or tended, and
now that the harvest is ripe this ex-eoclesiastio
with “insight” exhorts her to seize the yellow
grain. The last state here is worse than the first.
Then the Church was a sluggard, a foe to social
thrift; now she would be a marauder, a robber.
But there is uo use iu following Mr. Brentnall’s
“insight” further. The harvest will go to the
workers by a law more enduring than ecclesias-
ticism, however aided by “insight”—and more
enduring than socialism or atheism, foi’, though
these latter have borne the heat of many suns,
the seed was there before them.
At the Sydney sittings of the N.S.W. Criminal
Court, before C 1 fief I) ah lev, a man named Fu lleg ar
was, last week, acquitted on a charge of perjury.
Then his Honor told two of the defendant’s wit-
nesses that, had the verdict been the other way, he
would have committed them for perjury. Here
The Bulletin rises to ask if such an observation
comes within the province of a judge ? How
much is it short of branding the witnesses as
perjurers, although a jury had believed them ?
Yet at the very trial the same judge laid it down
that everything untrue, though sworn to, was not
necessarily perjury, as the parties might believe
what they were swearing to be true. When next
such an uncalled-for observation is made by a
judge wo hope to see it instantly resented by the
foreman of the jury.
-♦>
And here you are again. Judge Windeyer, in
sentencing to ten years’ penal servitude Hugh
Hiddilstox, convicted of forging to defraud the
New South Wales Registrar-General's depart-
ment, said :
Another of your assistants, Rarer, was tried before me
and escaped conviction, though the evidence was of the
strongest kind, and of his guilt in the case tried before
me I have not the slightest doubt. The conclusion to
which I have come as to his guilt is confirmed by the
conclusion which the Chief Justice authorised me to
state he came to as to his guilt in the case t ried before
him yesterday.
Now what right has a judge thus to review the ver-
dict of a jury, which verdict is final and absolute ?
And further, what right had a judge, who knew
full well that other .charges were pending against
Rapku, to prejudice the man’s trial on those
further charges by publicly pronouncing that
Rarer was unquestionably guilty of offences of
which the Jury, the People, had acquitted him !
This system of Trial by Judge is one of the most
noxious and offensive and undemocratic institu-
tions of New South Wales. What effect are the
judge’s comments likely to have in the ordinary
course of human nature upon such persons as may
be engaged in the capacity of jurymen on Rafek’s
next trial ? How long is Parliament going to
stand this sort of thing? Either let Judge
Wixdevkh be officially abolished or let trial by
jury be abolished with a view'to the powers
exercised for the last few hundreds of years by
the People being vested in the gentleman whose
dignified conduct of the Mount Rennie trial has
earned for him the undying admiration of all who
dislike daylight investigations. It is a sheer
mockery for the People to try a man and have
their verdict snarled at by a couple of their ser-
vants hired for no other earthly purpose than to
expound the law, record the verdict, and pass the
sentence if required,
♦
Extract from the Evening Standard’s descrip-
ticm of the flogging of six prisoners at Pentridge :
Lewis cou1(1 s t a „d the strain after the first few
v>ioys, and his head dropped on one side and his face grew
white. Still the doctor made no sign. Eventually opera-
tions were suspended at the 16th stroke, and the prisoner
was given a drink of water, whilst ammonia was held to
Ws nostrils, and water dashed over his head. These
ora ! fclve ? nought him back to life, and orders were
given to Jones to proceed with the remaining four
strokes. The man’s yells were agonising in the extreme.
Frqin the above the world will see that we of Aus-
tralia are fighting hard to put down crime by
means calculated to improve the moral tone of the
community and especially to unfamiliaris’e it with
brutality and cold-blooded violence. We record
our progress upon bloody backs and quivering
human flesh. Victoria is so moral a community
that it (in the name of God) bolts and bars its
Public Library, Art Galleries and Museums on the
Sabbath — and in the name of the same God flogs
men alive on week days to raise the tastes and
manners of the young. But then there never lived
a parson who, as a parson, never could see a joke.
The Bulletin has received several letters asking
for information regarding the state of the Johan-
nesburg labour market. To meet these we reprint
the following extract from a circular issued by the
chairman of the Johannesburg Building Trade
Association :
As certain contractors in this town have cabled to
England for mechanics, and in case their cable reports do
not give any details of the state of the building trade,
kindly allow me through your columns to warn mechanics
in England,that there is no demand for mechanics here.
Scores of good tradesman are walking about in search of
employment. Several employers here are trying to
bring down wages and make men work nine and ten hours
a day, whereas we are now working eight. I feel sure
that this action will bring about a strike. The men in
the iron trades are already on strike on the time question.
The journey from England to this place would cost £3O,
at the cheapest. The journey after landing at Natal is
153 miles per rail, and about 240 miles by coach, tool-
chests and heavy luggage are forwarded by mule and ox
wagons, the trip by the former ten to fifteen days, the
latter eighteen to thirty days. Rent here is very high—
three or four-roomed cottages, £9 to £l6 per month,
depending on locality. Single (unfurnished) rooms, £3 10s.
to £5 per month ; board and lodging, 355. to 455. per
week, exclusive of washing. Current prices for the week :
Butter, ss. per lb. ; preserved milk, Is. 6d. per lb. ; jams,
Is. 6d. per lb. ; beef, lOd. to Is, per lb. ; mutton, Is. per
lb. ; sugar (brown), 7d., (white), 9d. per lb. Vegetables
are very scarce: cabbages, 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. each ; potatoes,
£4 to £5 per 170 lb. ; bread, Is. per lb. ; eggs, ss. per
dozen. By the foregoing list of prices, people will see that
out of 225. 6d. a day (high average wage) for joiners,
masons, &0., and deducting lost time through wet weather
and other causes, working men are not over-paid. Wages
for painters average from 13s. to 16s. a day. White
labourers have no chance in South Africa. The blacks
work for 15s. to 20s. per week in Johannesburg and for
less in Cape Colony and Natal, and they generally sleep
in unfinished portions of new buildings. Blacks are
principally engaged in and about the mines, having white
men as overseers, so miners in England should be cautious,
and not place too much reliance in newspaper accounts of
the chances out here for skilled men. At present the
fields are over-stocked with miners, principally Cornish-
men and Australians, Miners’ wages range from £4 to
£5 10s. per week, engine-drivers £3 10s. to £6 per week,
blacksmiths and fitters £4 to £6 per week. At most
mines the hours of labour are twelve hours a day. The
above will give some idea of this place, and caution people
against leaving steady employment to come out to this
trap.
The Revision Committee of the Birming-
ham Board of Guardians, five in number, recently
made a special inspection of that institution,
which lasted three days. This is the refreshment
bill-of-fare provided solely for them during that
period:—“7lb. of salmon, three brace of grouse,
B£lb. of turbot, two leverets, two chickens, lob-
sters, shrimps, 15 ox-tails, 1741 b. of salt beef, 271 b.
of beef and lamb, of Gorgonzola cheese, and
a large quantity of cream, tea, sugar, lunch bis-
cuits, sauces, &c.” Good, old, gluttonous high-
waymen.
Mrs. Emily Crawford sends to tli'e New
York Tribune the following interesting impres-
sions of John Burns, the Socialist :
Three or four years ago I accidentally saw Burns, of
whom little was then known, and asked him to come to
see me. He came with his wife, a delicate little woman,
to whom he seemed attached, and who had ears to hear
only what he said. I found him interesting-, sincere, and
unsophisticated, and saw that he was going to be a force
for good or evil in the world. At first sight he startles,
but the impression which his darkness of complexion
causes wears off. He is a West of Scotland Celt. In
former times he would have been known as Burns Dhu.
His beard, which extends high on the cheeks and advances
on the cheek-bones, and his eyebrows, which are beetling
and broad and nearly meet, are of that deep black that
one finds in coal. His complexion matches. The eyes
are light hazel, shot with green, as bright as a feline’s in
the dark, but more canine than feline in expression. I
saw a likeness to Robert Burns, the poet, and ascertained
that John Burns is descended from one of Robert’s uncles
—an Ayrshire man. Burns laughs heartily and openly,
and shows a set of gleaming, evenly-set teeth, which
add to the startling strangeness of his physiognomy.
His mother, who is still alive and whom he reverences
and loves, is a woman of great mind and exceptional
firmness of character. She emigrated with him from
Scotland when she was a young widow and he a small
boy. She bound him to a blacksmith, and he afterwards
improved on his early training and became a mechanical
engineer. He was inured to hardship. In the capacity
of a mechanical engineer, his mother being infirm and
needing some comforts, and he himself wanting to save a
little money to have time to think, he accepted employ-
ment on the Congo River to repair engines of disabled
steamers which had broken down there and on the west
coast of Africa. He was bound to stay at least a whole
year, and stayed two years, keeping in health, but suffer-
ing fearfully from the heat of the forge and that of the
climate. His companions had not probably his vitality,
and none of them could repair the wear and tear of work-
ing in a smithy ten hours a day and sleeping in a bunga-
low which had not time to cool at night, but kept hot as
an oven. Burns was an abstainer, which he is not
sure was to his advantage when so much was taken out of
him in work and his stomach unable, without the help of
alcohol, to assimilate meat. Ho could not think how he
outlived the strain on his constitution. He used to drink
gallons of water daily, which he gave out in perspiration. . .
1 pressed him to partake of the dishes I had ordered tor
him. At last lie told me that his mother had all his life
exhorted him to keep the body in subjection, and that lie
never well understood her wisdom until he saw how
French Republicans were debased through their love of
good eating, and how the workmen in the House of Com-
mons had grown to dread being cut off from the sort of
fellowship to which they were admitted with the rich, lie-
cause if they were 1 hey should have no more delightful
dinners. He was drilling himself to hgindifferent to food.
When riding from the railway to my place on the top of
an omnibus amid orchards laden with apples—which fell
in quantities on the road he wondered how any French-
man should, if he had money enough to buy a roll of
bread and a cup of milk, he at a loss for food, with such
a glut of apples. Burns, among other things, said that
he fancied he would he hanged some day, and that if he
did as much by swinging for the labour cause as John
Brown did for the cause of negro emancipation, he should
not mind. His mother was always exhorting him to gain
in self-mastery, to keep down selfishness) and not to
shrink from any sacrifice that might serve as a means for
bringing about the reign of justice upon earth.
A Fortunate Family.
The fact that the seventh Earl of Hope-
toun is now “ governing ” Victoria affords another
instance of the truth of the proverb that to those
who have much much shall be given. He was
born in 1860 and consequently is now 29 ; is a
Lord-in-Waiting, possesses 42,507 acres of land
and a rental of £42,830 per annum, which may or
may not be encumbered. All we know bearing
upon that question is that the Earl is now getting
a good living as a “colonial” Viceroy, that his
family have been accus omed to monopolise the
good things of the British nation and have held
over 70 appointments in the Public Service and
drawn over a million of public money.
* * *
The only distinguished member of this
family was John Hope, the fourth Earl, a general
who did some good service under Sir Ralph Aber-
crombie. He was wounded at the landing of the
Holder and at the battle of Alexandria. He
accompanied the British forces to the Peninsula,
and on the death of Sir John Moore commanded
at Corunna, for his services in which engagement
he was invested with the order of the Bath. He
afterwards distinguished himself under Welling-
ton, and was made a peer by the title of Baron
Niddry. A romantic story is connected with this
peer’s name, one Hatfield having personated the
Hon. Alex. Hope, the fourth Earl’s brother, and
forged his name, in order to dazzle Alary, the
Beaut} 7 of Buttermere; the discovery of the offence
resulted in the execution of Hatfield at Carlisle.
# # *
In Burke’s “Romance of the Peerage
there is not much stated to tiie advantage of the
Hopetouns. The first distinguished ancestor of
the present peer was merely a servant of Magdalen
of France, tire queen of James V. of Scotland;
and for several generations the family _ were
small traders, and only reached the dignity of
merchants after many vicissitudes. One son of
Hope, an Edinburgh merchant, was a lawyer and
a leading Presbyterian in the days of Charles I.
He was knighted and became Sir Thomas Hope
of Oaighall, Lord Advocate of Scotland. His
eldest son was the ancestor of Sir John Hope,
Bart., of Pinkie, and his sixth son, James, was
ancestor of the Earl of Hopetoun. He founded
the family by a successful marriage, through
which he secured rich lead-mines in Lanarkshire
(everything, you see, comes from the land) that
enabled him to purchase large estates in the
Lothians. They also permitted him and his
descendants to enlarge his villa and to buy out
the ancient but decayed families in his neighbour-
hood until the Earl at length inhabited a splendid
palace which overlooked vast and beautiful plea-
sure-grounds and parks. The rich Earl, however,
though he succeeded in purchasing the estates
of most of his neighbours, could not secure an
ancient oastle-like mansion which lay on the
borders of his park, inhabited by a scion of one of
the oldest families of the county—Dundas, of
Menora. Dundas represented the Earl of Forth,
and, though poor and isolated, refused his wealthy
neighbour’s every offer to yield up his inheritance.
The two men were connected by marriage, and
Lord Hopetoun made use of this connection to
importune the poor but proud old man to accept
tempting bribes; that failing, he threatened a
law-suit, but all in vain.
Hopetoun at last determined to force his
neighbour by inducing him to live more expen-
sively, which would soon involve him in debt and
thus' necessitate the sale of his property. He
invited him frequently to Hopetoun House and
offered to visit him in return. The old man,
nothing loth, accepted the invitations and dined
merrily, but showed no disposition to invite his
lordship. However, he could not refuse to re-
ceive Lord Hopetoun when one day, with a
large and fashionable party, he invaded the old
tower, as a sort of ancient surprise party, and an
invitation was given to his lordship and fifteen
guests to remain to dinner. They were ushered
into the vaulted hall of the Tower, where a long-
table was spread and covered with a profusion of
substantial pewter dishes and plates burnished
like silver, and a number of old-fashioned long-
necked bottles, indicative of rare and aged wines.
Hopetoun flattered himself on the success of his
scheme, and already imagined himself the possessor
of the coveted domain, thinking that a few such
dinners would suffice to ruin the old laird.
Grace was said, and two decent serving-men
removed the covers, when a goodly array of her-
rings and potatoes stood revealed to the expectant
guests, and when the corks were drawn Dundas
himself poured out a bumper of excellent home-
made whisky, and invited his guests to pledge him
in the same wholesome liquor. Common politeness
made the guests partake of the homely cheer, and
when the potent liquor began to do its work in
removing the restraints of formality, the old laird
drank to the Earl’s health and to their better
acquaintance, adding with a chuckle, ‘.‘lt won’t
do my lord, it won’t do. But whenever either
you or your friends will honour my poor hall of
Stanghill Tower with your presence, I promise
you such good and wholesome fare as that now
put before you, the best and fattest herrings of
the Forth with the mealiest potatoes, and the
strongest whisky, and to my poor fare I trust that
your worship and your honour’s friends will do
ample justice.”
* * *
It, may bo taken for granted that the
crafty and unscrupulous Earl never dined again at
Stanghill Tower. In truth old Dundas died soon
afterwards. When on his death-bed, the laird
said to his eldest son, “Though I could not find
it in my heart to part with the Hall, yet it would
be foolish to struggle for ever against our rich and
powerful neighbour, for he will sooner or later
, have our little property, and I therefore advise
you to make the best bargain you can with him.”
Accordingly, soon after his father’s death the heir
made a highly advantageous exchange and thus
Stanghill Tower was added to the Hopetoun
pleasure-grounds and the estate of Aithrey (from
which Governor Hopetoun derives his title as
Viscount) was made over in exchange to Mr.
Dundas. Thus the solitary tower, a conspicuous
■object in the great lord’s park, was once the
residence of a far older family than that of its
present owner.
# * *
Strange to say, from i-uc Dundases of
Menora descended the celebrated Sir Ralph Aber-
crombie and his two sons, Lords Abercrombie, and
Dumfermline, as well as Sir David Dundas, Bart.,
physician to George 111. For with Sir Ralph
Abercromby was associated the most distinguished
of the Hopetoun race and these two descendants
of old and unloving neighbors fought shoulder to
shoulder in many campaigns.
A London ’bus-driver, whose working
hours were 11.2 weekly, was lifted off his perch to
die in the road, the other day.
The Chairman of Broken Hill Block li
Company says that they have a lode “ which will
shortly astonish and paralyse the mining com-
munity throughout the world.”
A correspondent writes to The Bulletin
warning Southern butchers from accepting work
in the North without full enquiry. He Says that
one Queensland butchering company is employing
men to work GO hours per week for 255., and in
some cases even lower wages are paid.
Dear Bulletin, —Would it interest you
to know that in a local stabbing case lately, a
witness —a white youth of about 16 years—when
asked if he knew what an dath meant at first re-
plied “No,” and then innocently said that it was
blowing out a lighted match—and was sworn thus.
If it isn't possible for a Chinese to become white,
it is now plain that a white may become Chinese
in at least some things. —Yours, &c., Stickles,
Georgetown. [This is a good “steep” yarn.
Ed. B.]
The old, water-logged, jaw-worn, beer-
scented, rat-ravaged hunk of Scripture, so long
a feature of the Melbourne City Court as to be
almost historical, has at length given place to a
new sixpenny Bible, and the business of the Court
is no longer delayed by the fastidious witness who
wants a clean spot to kiss on. They have now
only to get rid of the odour of decayed rats and
cockroaches that lingers about the old place, and
this Court will lose favour entirely as a pleasure
resort for Chinamen.
London Puck recently printed a complaint
as to the plagiarism indulged in by certain
“ colonial ” newspapers. In the same issue ap-
peared (unacknowledged) “ Jane, a Warning to
Women ” —a column of original verse stolen from
The Bulletin, which is and never has been in any
way beholden to Puck. One recently-established
and apparently prosperous London weekly is, we
notice, being almost exclusively run on Bulletin
matter. Illustrated Bits forme an exception to
the general English rule : the latest issue to hand
contains a couple of columns of acknowledged
matter clipped from The Bulletin —“a journal
frank and outspoken as it is bright and well
illustrated.”
We have before us a pamphlet published
in Sydney in 1867, wherein the author, ‘'A
Colonist,” solemnly says :
It appears to us no time can be more meet than the
present, boldly to look these subjects in the face. Eng-
land is at peace with the world. We are on the best of
relations with England. Prince Alfred, Duke of Edin-
burgh, is about to visit us.
We propose to discuss whether it would not be wise and
practicable to form a Confederation of the Australian
Colonies, and to offer the Crown to Prince Alfred, Duke
of Edinburgh, as King of Australia.
We firmly believe, if he could be induced to accept the
throne, absenteeism would be checked ; a society would
be formed that would refine our population, give an im-
petus to our trade, and encourage labour; that all future
contingencies would be avoided ; and that Britain would
always render us an affectionate assistance in our enter-
prises, as connected with her Koyal House, and governed
by her favourite Prince.
The ambition and object of those who set foot on our
soil is to make as much as they can out of our country,
that they may return and enjoy ease in Europe.
Do not our Coopers and our Donaldsons, our Marshs and
our Wentworths, settle in England, where they may attain
the rank and station their wealth can command^
It was but a few months ago we read of the death of a
lamented fellow-colonist, who died in London, whose will
was proved for £lOO,OOO. Numerous similar instances
can be cited. It is the rule, and not the exception, that
our rich men retire to Britain. !
How is it possible we can derive those benefits our
enormous natural productions should secure us? When
the slightest check occurs in our pastoral or mineral re-
sources, our accumulations are being spent away from us;
we are short of capital; trade is paralysed ; and labour
lacks work.
Were a Court established, with a Prince of the House of
Brunswick as its head, not only should we retain our
wealthy localised families, but many of the junior mem-
bers of the English nobility would come over ; absentee-
ism would be diminished ; an impulse would be given to
trade which only the circulation of gathered wealth can
supply ; houses, and furniture, and luxuries would be re-
quired ; literature, art, and science would flourish under
the patronage of riches and refinement.
Would Britain assent to our separation from her?
Under the circumstances proposed we think she would.
It could not but be gratifying to her that these colonies—
the most important of her offspring—should desire a
Prince from a family she loves so dearly. That she should
he proud of the opportunity of establishing offshoots in
her Antipodes, who, adopting her religion, her laws, and
her Constitution, would permanently plant her fame in
the Southern hemisphere.
Besides, Britain cannot but be subject to deep anxiety
concerning her far-off colonies.
Objection may be advanced that a King will involve us
in expense. The objection is illusory. The colonies now
support five Governors with considerable emoluments,
besides attendant costs. There are five Legislative
Assemblies.
It may be questionable taste to refer to the charges of
these establishments, but it is necessary to name the fiscal
view of the subject and to suggest the comparison.
Our King need not be surrounded with “ the pomp and
circumstance ” of warlike monarchs.
The glory of his crown will he justice and peace. No
war-warmed battalions will attend him. A simple body-
guard, and the affections of a prosperous people, will be
his defence and his strength.
We can come to no other conclusion than that if we are
to retain our wealth and our wealthy citizens, if labour,
trade, and commerce, are to advance we must have a
Court. That one Government is the corner stone of our
prosperity, or the colonies n|ay be perpetually troubled
by different tariffs, smuggling, border disputes, and the
various evils that lead to war. That a Court and a
Government are only possible by offering our States as a
kingdom to Prince Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh.
To consolidate these colonies on a permanent basis is a
worthy object for the noblest minds. Free religion, free
thought, and public opinion are our birthright. A stable
and an enduring Government is all we require. Every-
thing Providence can afford ns is ours. The corn, the
wine, and the oil are ours. He has given us the sheep
and the cattle on a thousand hills. He has given us the
silver and the gold. Corn and cotton, timber and iron
are ours. It seems God has exhausted his bounty upon
us, and set us apart, that we may share his gifts un-
molested. Let us not lose these transcendent advantages
by political mistakes.
Let us shun the possibility of war. Let us unite while
we can. Let us adopt one Sovereign and one Constitution
while we can.
No such favourable opportunity may again present
itself.
It is now said to be likely that the Duke of Edin-
burgh, moved by the Sultan fiasco and his grow-
ing unpopularity with the public and the other
members of the Royal family, will agree to the
wish of his aged and childless uncle, the Duke of
Coburg-Gotha, and be formally recognired as
his heir. This would involve hi* permanent
residence in Germany—as lie would be required to
share the duties as heir-apparent, and would save
John Bull £6OOO a year, his salary as Admiral, in
addition to the £37,000 drawn by himself and
wife, unless one of the usual public swindles were
perpetrated. .For the Act which gave the Duke
tins allowance provides that should he succeed to
any principality abroad, the Sovereign may, with
■ the consent of Parliament, revoke the allowance.
Now that the “ favourable opportunity ” of ap-
pointing Alfred as King has gone, we can t do
better than offer the Australian Crown to Bur-
dett Smith or M. H. Davies.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, December 4, 1889.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
As sands on the sea-shore were the guests who rushed
the baronial residence on 29th ult., to taste again the
delight of spraining Lady Carington’s wrist after the long
vice-regal retirement. A very heterogeneous crowd it
was, too. One lady, who evidently cooked somewhere,
wore a short dark merino skirt and bodice, a battered
straw hat, rusty gloves, and a questionable parachute,
grasped firmly by the middle and clasped close to her
ample bosom ; while another duchess came in lavender,
made in the shirred, tied-back style of ’81 —-a large blue
sash suspended round her waist by a cord—bright-blue
gloves, and a straw hat trimmed at right angles with wash-
ing-blue feathers. But everybody wasn’t a scarecrow. Lady
Carington, who received on the verandah and was sup-
ported by the Baron in a very take-round-the-plate-dear-
brethren long skirted black coat, wore a Parisian-looking
get-up in shot-blue-grey silk with floral design in pink and
gold—the sleeves trimmed with ruffles from shoulder to
elbow—and the Directoire front of china-blue crepe de
chine. Her bonnet was a dodgy little arrangement in gold
lace with electric-blue bows and strings and a cluster
of blush roses and forgetmenots under the brim in front;
a cream-lace parasol completed the pretty toilette. There
was just a little improver, and, indeed, that very “ die-
hard ” article was largely represented, as also were Direc-
toire frills and Empire sashes. Miss Walenn wore a nice
blue and white pongee, with white vest and cuffs and
white straw hat, and a very elegant gown was of cream
*;!!; and twine-lace, a combination affected by Jennie Lee,
who wore cream mousseliu ornate with twine-lace and a
black straw toque trimmed with lilies of the valley and
green velvet. As the day was fine several of the guests
look to the garden, where a spasmodic band discoursed
melody at intervals, but the majority were holding a free
fight in the ballroom where, somebody assured me, tea
and ices were available; as, however, I hadn’t any
knuckle-dusters with me, I cannot vouch for the truth of
the statement. Then the maelstrom round the visitors’
book in the lobby where flocks of excited females wrote
lists of addresses in the vain, false hope of future ball in-
vitations amid a chorus of satirical whispers from the
impatient ones behind, almost made your Sappho think
.she had arrived somewhere where she trusts she never
will.
They want at least half-a-dozen visitors’ hooks at
«•«—"* »•»»■ »■ - «* ••
sv*ribc your address and the addresses of your party, but
, hose of indolent friends who don’t want to face the ordeal
and yet wish to keep in the swim—so the ceremony lasts
-eme time. I hear that one lady who regularly gets cards
, - , , „
for the vice-regal shavoo generally sends her lady help
° , 6 . . J.,
to write her name down as a visitor, and when the help
1
doesn t go she gets a friend to do it. Thus is another
, I, ... . ■ , ,
torch applied to the obliging social martyr.
11 a J
Show me the place above, below, where such a stream
“ r people flow, and crush and squeeze for all they know,
.s Sydney when some gaudy show is oped by card admis-
-ion. The talented and gifted pros., with long, lank hair
:md tragic hose, whose curtain rises to disclose two
. unins and a Chow. Let them charge no admission-fee,
with light refreshment, also free, and nightly crowded
fronts they’d see—so different from now ! The principally
■aid admission for the opening of Sydney Centennial Hall
27th inst. resulted in a perfect Crush. When I achieved
my exit somebody asked me what 1 thought of the dresses
and I enquired faintly what they thought of a bald head
picked ou. with grey worn over a large check? for that
was what bound my horizon, except that as in a glass
darkly Ladv Carington appeared garbed in alborescent
pongee with a white bonnet fastened with electric-blue
strings, her husband in the cinnamon-and-nutnieg amal-
carnation of the N.S.W. Infantry, and their daughters
in white silk frocklets and white sailor hats to match
mamma. As for the programme, perhaps the loudness of
the checks on the bald-head in front spoilt the tunes for
yours ever as the gigantic chorus attacked the music in a
go-as-you-pleasc-first-man-wins-the-trophy sort of way. A
great error was the invitation to thc audience d la music-
hall to Join in the “ Old Hundredth.” Several enthusiasts
in loose gloves waded boldly into the wild high C as if the
affair had been a oamp-meeting. Thc “ Jubilee ” overture
was perhaps the most enjoyable item on the card, but the
whole thing seemed to want another week’s rehearsal,
Miss Marion Harris—a young lady whose skirts don’t
i each the ground yet declared the hall open in a faint
and frightened voice.
Mayor Harris’ ball was a great success. The vice-regal
party arrived at nine, when Lady Carington danced the
first quadrille with Admiral Lord Charles Scott—who is a
poker-backed personage, the very antithesis of jovial
Admiral Fairfax—with fierce grey whiskers and the car-
riage of a marionette. In such a largo space and in such
throng it was difficult to grasp the gowning, some of
which—always the case at civic functions—was sadly
rickwiukinn. Lady Carington wore pale-blue silk and
file with necklet and tiara of diamonds, cream kid
gloves and Watteau fan ; Miss Hamilton, lemon-
■ •olourcd silk and net; Miss Walenn, smoke-grey silk
and tulle. Miss Marion Harris (Mayoress), white silk and
lilies of the valley ; Miss Jennie Lee, white broche train and
bodice over a jupe of white beaded net— diamond necklet;
Miss Hoffnung, an exquisite gown of amber and cream-
striped silk, « fa Watteau, over a primrose-silk skirt
draped with cream-lace; a yellow plume fan and diamonds,
A Pot ts Point bride wore art-blue silk with puffed sleeve-
Ms. Miss Frances Savillo appeared in buttercup-silk
with floral stripes, scarlet poppies on her shoulder. The
prevailing colour was yellow—perhaps because it looks
west under the electric light—next to that white—a few
Mack gowns dulled the proceedings. As for the men pre-
sent, 9ii Knery shoot his mane festively, hut nevei
essayed the mazy and stood about in stained-glass atti-
tudes. G. R. Dibbs appeared like a note of in-
terrogation in the doorways; and jolly 6. W.
Anson arrived in a pair of large white gloves
with faint traces of grease-paint under his pretty little
nose. Champagne was as plentiful as bare shoulders. It
was rather a pity, though, that the band was placed
directly over the vice-regal dais, where conversation with-
out ear-trumpets was a futile effort; and another mistake
was the accommodation in the cloak-room, where two
small looking-glasses and no waiting-women reduced girls
who doubted the tautness of their back hair to the verge
of hysterics. Also, to continue in a captious spirit, the
programme wasn’t so well arranged as it might have been,
there being too many schottisches, polkas and mazurkas
for a season when the mercury is usually out borrowing a
fan.
The second last night of “ Patience,” at the Royal, saw
a crowded dress-circle. Everybody behind the floats was
disgustingly adequate, of course. Speaking of “Patience”
reminds me that Nellie Stewart went over to Melbourne
last week, where she will reside until that English engage-
ment turns up.
Like Lady Clarke’s affair, the Melbourne Spinsters’ ball
on 22nd ult., was poudiA ; indeed, over the Murray both
sexes seize on the flour-dredger on the slightest provoca-
tion and come out like industrious millers. Generally a
snowy top-knot is becoming, and the girl with tow
coloured or lobster looks welcomes it warmly, but the
gold-topped syren and the nut-brown mayde say some-
thing severe when the edict goes forth that dooms them
to conceal their advantages. Hair poudre sets off the
eyes and looks rather fetching while it’s novel, but it
doesn’t run long. It has quite died out in London—it
only just appeared in Sydney-and when Melbourne
hostesses discover that their plush cushions look as if
Bridget had mislaid her flour-barrel, poudi'c balls will
die out.
A very recent importation in baggy pants was taken for
a stroll recently where the cicada? most do congregate,
and his friend catching one, handed it to him with the
untruthful remark “our mosquito”; and the guileless
stranger seized it saying he would mail it home instantly.
Great joke, wasn’t it ? But when, weeks afterwards, the
wag, doubled up with mirth, explained the hoax, the new
arrival said in great astonishment “So you did know,
after all? Bai Jove ! Wrote home to m’ friends: ‘Fellahs
out heah call the cicada a mosquito. Beastly ignorance of
natural history in this country.”
quite a crowd of women attended the re-opening of the
N.S.W. Legislative Bear Garden on 26th ult., when the
Governor, trimmed up to the ears, read the doctored
“ speech from the throne ” with furrows in his brow.
Lady Carington was there in a pretty grey and green
gown, and Miss Hamilton sported white pongee. As to
the rest, the favourite colours were pink, white, and a
combination of eggs and spinach ; while one young lady
arrayed in terracotta cast a brick-dust glow over the pro-
ceedings.
And speaking of vice-regalities, was it because of brother
Hopetoun’s frills that the meek and lowly flunkey who
used to announce your name to Lady Carington was suc-
ceeded at her last reception by a gorgeous A.D.C. in gilded
spurs and fierce cooked hat, who, built on the birds’-eye-
view plan, had to bend double to catch the cognomen of
fc’ie nervous guest and generally got it wrong?
What a jerk Governor Hopetoun must have given the
fickle Victorians when he said:—
“ If in the course of lime Lady Hopetoun and I can in
any degree soften the feeling of regret that you feel in
losing Sir Henry and Lady Loch, we shall not feel that
we have come to Victoria in l ain.” (Cheers.)
Was it really a touch of satire, or is the young man really
ignorant of the relative value of a coronet against a mere
knighthood in the social affections of his new “ sub-
jects?” He’ll understand these things better if he is
succeeded by a Duke.
In the course of a bale of poetical, high-souled sugges-
tions to women on how to grow old gracefully, a Sydney-
daily paper scribess remarks defiantly:—
“ Wo must all grow old—women, they say, sooner than
men; but on this point lam sceptical.' Women, in my
opinion, see so much less of life than men that they retain
their frestmess longer.
Which is loyal, though not strictly logical. Australian
women age per express and leave the men nowhere.
Contrast any long-settled married couple, and if Joan
docs not generally resemble Darby’s mamma I don’t want
to be an angel. Climate is partly to blame—but only
partly. I have seen every passion in the soul’s gamut ex-
pressed in a woman’s face when another has come into a
room with the latest thing on her head, and how can
people whose whole soul is up in arms at a new bonnet or
a Fauntleroy suit, expect to keep a fresh and unmarked
face? But it’s “ shmnan nature,” as Cecil Ward says,
and there’s plenty of false hair and rice-powder to patch
ourselves up with, after ail.
And, speaking of false hair, when you do resemble
a wrinkled pippin, go to Paris. Y’ou are never too
derelict to be patched up there, for you can obtain false
eyebrows, false eyelashes (to be stuck on with special
gum) eye-pencils for shading the lids, and belladonna for
increasing the bri liancc of the pupils; rouge, paint of
every kind, paint for the lips, paint for the cheeks, paint
for the lingers and finger-nails; false hips, false thighs,
false calves, false busts that move by machinery in
imitation of the real article, false cars, false hair—even
false fingers can be obtained which screw on to a maimed
hand, and not only present a very complete effect under a
glove, but really look very creditable without. The
junction is hidden by a row of large rings or an elegant
mitten, and, provided friends do not grasp the hand too
tightly, the deception is very complete. Which explains
the improvement in the personal appearance of several of
our “leading ladies” who have just returned from the
Exposition.
1 am beginning to think that people who give large
public dances beside the Beautiful Harbour ought to cause
some of their lady gnesis to be served with a prohibition
order, or else restrict the tipples to tea and toast-water.
At a recent large hop several young women imbibed
champagne and claret-cup and so on to a Girotla extent,
and, becoming elevated, toasted the waiters in the golden
fluid, and one of them holding two cherries in her mouth
offered the same personages a bite! Whether she com
founded the professional dress-suits with those of .her
party deponent knoweth not. Moral; Never mix your
drinks, or you may mix your society.
If the so-called temperance drinks weren’t so hopelessly
washy, girls might not drink wine at all. But even Blue
Ribbonites admit the nastiness of their chosen compounds.
Indeed, one tilled woman - a titled abstainer—offered a
thousand pounds to the maker of a new and really palat-
able temperance-drink, and up to this day the prize has
not been awarded. What a happy look-out for the never-
touch-its!
At the opening of New South Wales Parliament, the
other day, several of the most lovely Lancers were
conspicuous by their absence. It seems there is a
mild rebellion among the members of this distin-
guished corps, and all on account of their clothes ! The
picturesque though sad-hued undress uniforms, with the
slouch hats ornate with roosters’ tails, were not deemed
smart enough by some for such a showy affair as the
opening of Parliament, and rather than not appear in
their very finest toggery these gallant warriors pre-
ferred to stay at home and nurse the habr And
not only that, but these irate gentlemen have
thought out a scheme by which they will be
deeply and nobly revenged upon the officers who have
ordered them to don clay-coloured coats and lay by their
twenty-flve-guinea uniforms for the moths to feed upon
until further notice. They propose—that is, if this cruelty
be still persisted in—to withdraw from the corps and pre-
sent their best uniforms to aborigines of their acquaint-
ance, conditionally on these coloured gentlemen pro-
mising to parade the streets every time the Lancers are
doing any show business. Thus the blaokfellows will be
garbed in exactly the same style as the officers of the
corps!
The other day when Sir was a passenger on one
of the harbour boats he very politely offered a lady of not
very tender years a seat beside him. Instead, however,
of being grateful, the lady, looking scornfully at him and
shaking her white curls, exclaimed: “Sit beside you!
You immoral man ! No, not if I have to stand every inch
of the way !” “ Ha, ha, ha !” laughed the old man, good-
humouredly, “ and pray what do you know about my
morals, you giddy old party ?” Whereupon the old lady,
without another word, skipped to the other end of the
boat as quick as her feet would carry her, much to the
amusement of the passengers, and more especially td that
of her would-be gallant.
Major Dane, it is said, is about to marry the daughter
of a S.M. Herald official. 1 hear also that the Rev,
Professor Horatio Gilbert Parker sails for Europe shortly.
I hear that a well-known sporting writer who recently
married the other girl, is about to be Sued by a barmaid
for breach of promise. She has twelve nice letters in
which the phraseology of the turf is beautifully blended
with the language of love.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Sullivan is going to fight Peter Jackson
for £3OOO.
“The Washerwoman of Jacker’s Flat.”
Vide the Christmas Bulletin.
You can send the Christmas Bulletin to
your friends abroad for sevenpence, including
postage.
It is plain that sculler Searle is still in an
uncertain and dangerous condition. A man down
with typhoid is never safe.
Over 20 solicitors were last week admitted
to practice by the N.S.W. Supreme Court. How
do they propose to get their living ?
No dividend from Mount Morgan this
month. Shares have been selling in Brisbane at
£6 10s.; in London, according to the cableman,
they are £lllos. This is very fine and large.
A tremendous consignment, comprising
over 200,000 books, were dispatched into the
interior of the various colonies last week through the
General Post-office, Sydney, by the representative
of Messrs. H. H. Warner & Co., of “Safe Cure ’
oelebrity.
Sydney D.T, has ukased that in future
all municipal elections in Sydney are to be fought
on a Freetrade v. Protection basis. As all the
big landlords are Freetraders and have each a
dozen votes in their pockets, they ought to have a
“ soft thing.”
We have received from Messrs. Newton
and Lamb an elaborate and profusely-illustrated
catalogue of the household effects of Mr. A.
Hoffnung, who leaves shortly for Europe. The
sale will be continued to-day (Thursday) at Larbert
Lodge, Botts Point.
Mr. Joseph Cohen writes to The Bulleti 1 *
to say that a certain paragraph in a recent issu e
cannot possibly refer to him. We have neve 1-
heard anybody say it did. The Bulletin neithe r
said nor meant Mr. Joseph Cohen—it only said a
Mr. Cohen, which is a very different thing,
Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
number, which will be a unique pictorial and
literary treat, will, when published, be mailed for
six stamps to anyone who cannot obtain it through
an agent. Orders for copies to be posted abroad
must be accompanied by postage.
Scene —A chemist’s shop in small Scotch
town. Time—the Sawbath morn. Enter Small
Boy (loq.) “ Gee’s a penn’orth o’ soap?’’
Chemist: “Na, na, laddie; ye’ll get nae soap on
the Sawbath.” Small Boy: “Whit for, no? I
seed ye sell a lassie a bawbee’s worth o’ sweeties
tlrnoo.” Chemist; “Aye, aye; bit they wis tae
sook i’ the kirk !”
In noticing the death of the late Julian
E. Tenison-W oods in a recent issue, The Bulle-
tin casually remarked that Woods’ “ History of
Australian Exploration ” was an admirable book,
and that Favenc had boiled it down and brought it
up to date appropriately. The not unnatural re-
sult is that Favenc—these literary men are so very
touchy—now arises to remonstrate about the
“ boiling down ” allegation. As a matter-of-fact,
The Bulletin paid him a well-merited compli-
ment. Woods’book is a good one and Favenc’s
is an improvement upon it. The writer on Aus-
tralian exploration who can excel the latter in
accuracy of facts and elegance of diction has not
yet been introduced to the public. That’s what
The Bulletin meant the first time, but sought to
spare Favenc’s abnormal modesty, the shock which
has now become inevitable.
From last issue of the Arizona Kicker •
A Double Hit.— Last week certain folks who want to
see us downed were chuckling because we were not in-
vited to the grand autumn soiree giv en by Mrs. Judge
Gildersleeve, of Jackass Heights. It was a social snub on
us, we’ll admit, but the aforesaid chuckling has ceased.
It broke short off day before yesterday when the Sheriff
arrived from Omaha and tapped the Judge on the shoulder
and asked him how the business of cow-stealing got
along. We’ve had the biography of the Judge in hand
for some months. He robbed a post-office in Illinois, stoic
hogs in lowa, and embezzled from a toll-bridge in Indiana.
On top of that he stole cows in Nebraska, and when his
wife made cold mutton of us we went down to the tele-
graph-office and dispatched the Sheriff to come on. We
think we are about even. It is not the policy of this
paper, as we have often stated, to deplete our population
by “ giving way ” our citizens, but no one must try any
monkey-shines with us. We are here to stay.
Always Ahead.— We take pleasure in announcing to
the public in this manner that we have established still
another enterprise in connection with the Kicker. The
New York World has its way of showing its enterprise,
and we have ours. We haven’t got fourteen Webb
presses at work, nor can we afford to send an expedition
to Africa—not yet. We have had for some time under
one roof a newspaper office, a grocery, a feed store, a
harness shop, a candy store, and a glove factory. We
have now added a butcher shop. While all these things
will be run in connection with the Kicker, and by the
same editorial staff, subscribers won’t be obliged to take
anything but the paper. We leave others to do the brag
ging, but we think we can Justly point with pride to this
mammoth aggregation of busipejs all United by one
centra’ head, nnd ill steadily improving in genuine merit-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. Good Old Working-Man.
Her Majesty's “ Rip Van Winkle.”
Criterion. “Turned Up” and “ I»
Honour Bound.”
Cyclorama... Battle of Gettysburg.
Palace Museum “The Midgets.”
Gaiety Theatre Thiodon’s Wonders.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “Hamlet.”
Princess’ “Little Lord Fauntleroy.”
Theatre Royal “ The Octoroon.”
Alexandra .... “Sultan of Mocha.”
St. George’s Hall Coghill Company.
Victoria Hall Variety Show.
Cyclorama “ Waterloo ” and Aged
Warrior.
Unutterably jolly as a life on the ocean
wave is known to be, yet life on the shores of the
Mediterranean, as displayed in ‘ ‘ Olivette ” at
Sydney Royal, goes one better and wins with a
full hand. Sad sea-dogs and others of question-
able nationality and piratical instincts dress in
anything that comes handy, get out of their depth
in love and ruin, and carry on after a fashion that
tells of the evil effects of climate upon dicipline,
and strong drink upon man’s understanding. The
greatest lady in the land sets a horrible example
by recklessly offering her love to a young man
who has no room for it, and the village beauty
fresh from the convent is compelled by a crawling
daddy to give her hand where her heart can never
be. A _ sailor captain with a game leg and top
boots—in fact, the plot remains just as it was in
the days when the Sydney officials embezzled
money to provide bouquets for Musgrove’s Opera
Co.—and then cleared out to Honolulu.
# # #
The new prima donna, Miss Clara Meri-
vale, though a lady of graceful presence and culti-
vated voice, is heavily handicapped by the memory
of the past. _ Fanny Liddiard outrages social
conventionalities with melodious grace and assur-
ance and begets a pang of regret for her absence
in that capacity from the vice-regal circle.
Edwin Kelly re-created Captain de Merimac on
the old lines, and his nephew Valentine is a pro-
mising chip of the old block. Elton mono-
polises just_ a trifle too much of the attention.
His facial display is very excellent fooling, but the
noise it provokes drowns much of the singing,
which represents better value for the money.
Constant practice has made Howard Vernon an
excellent judge of a pretty girl, and, fortunately,
few mashers can hope to compete with the artless
air of candour with which he notifies his approval.
Off the stage that sort of thing might lead to
assault and battery, and perhaps worse. This
theatre will close on Saturday evening for altera-
tions until Boxing Night.
* iff * *
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, D’Artagnan of
the Royal Guard continues to struggle manfully
with the hot weather, a burden of flesh, several
seedy noblemen, a feeble pontiff in very reduced
circumstances, and much off-coloured scenery. If
he is not altogether successful much may be for-
given him, on account of the grease that is floating
about on the chops of the English Channel and
the misfitness of the King of France’s wearing
apparel. Saturday evening introduces to us Mr.
Rip Robert McVan Wade Winkle and Miss
Louise Halbee, also of America, who bear good
credentials.
* * & #
The revived “ Squire ” at Sydney Criterion
at the time of writing, had not caught on to the
extent that such a very human and well-staged
play apparently guaranteed. This (Saturday)
evening “ Turned Up ” will be preceded by “In
Honour Bound ’’ —a bill to satisfy a theatrical
glutton.
* * * *
The Cyclorama of Gettysburg continues to
wrestle most successfully with an every-day in-
creasing number of competitors.
fit -* * *
At Solomon’s Palace Museum The Midgets,
a dainty, interesting dwarf couple, are popular.
General Mite is a brainy, natty little chap, who
can sing, dance, drive a tricycle, tip up a brandy-
and-soda, and conduct himself generally in much
better form than most dudes ten times his weight.
The “ missus ” 'not quite so talkative, in public
at ail events, is an inch the taller, and is a grace-
ful little woman, though not calculated to make a
good wife for a working man. It is to be hoped
that Ashton will succeed in frustrating a deep-laid
plot on the part of the Sydney mosquitoes to bear
them off to the wilds of Cook’s River.
* * * *
At Sydney Gaiety Thiodon unfolds his
budget of Mechanical Wonders on this Saturday
evening, after an absence of some years during
which time he has added many new models and
had the old ones lavishly greased. The Thiodon
family have been in business over a hundred years.
# * * *
At Bondi Aquarium last Saturday, after
Wyman, the best trick-skater we’ve seen here,
had done Ids act, and when the busted-balloonist,
Jackson, had refrained from,walking on large,
moist, ponderous feet between the cliffs on a
rope, Duncan Ross, a gigantic and bloodthirsty
American person redolent of strange oaths and
Tullochgorum dew, galloped furiously, brandish-
ing a serrated claymore that had taken a
bloody part in ancestral hands at Bannockburn,
Killiecrankie, and the Abbattoirs, towards one
Jennings, an acidulated and lithe Hibernian,
armed with a bobadillo that dated back to Dem-
and the relief of Clonakilty. The agile Irisher
craftily avoided the blood-thirsty onslaught of
the contumacious Caledonian-Yank, whose furious
strokes mightily resounded at intervals on his
rusty dish-covers, and prodded him in return yea
even unto seven times against three. Whereupon
the monument of gnid Scotch kail and haggis so
savagely smote the spud-impaler that his weapon—
fortunately for the son of Erin blunt as a “pitaty-
bittle”—broke in halves, and thereby afforded the
management an opportunity of billing the same
show for this Saturday, while the museums and
antiquarian depots of Sydney are ransacked for
antediluvian nien-cleavers.
* # * *
“The Octoroon”—a drama in which the
horrors of slavery are depicted by putting a deli-
cious brunette up to auction and knocking her
down for 25,000 dollars to a tarnation chunk of
iniquity with a chalked face—was revived at
Melbourne Royal on Saturday night. “The
Octoroon ” is known to everybody who knows
anything at alias one of Boucicault’s best dramas,
and if the supernumerary parts were played by real
nigs., instead of by a lot of badly-sooted scare-
crows who resemble the scrag end of a
minstrel combination, then this thrilling story of
life “down South would not seem bo much like a


Mail the Christmas Bulletin to your dis-
tant friends. The best six-pennyworth ever issued
beneath the Southern Cross. And buy no shilling
paper until you see what The Bulletin gives for
sixpence.
One of the features of The Bulletin’s
splendid Christmas number, which will be pub-
lished on 19th inst., and can thereafter be ob-
tained from all agents (or will be mailed direct
from the office for six stamps to any Australian
address) will be a pantomime in four scenes, en-
titled “ The ’Ouse that Hi Built; or, Harlequin
Fe-Fi-Federation and the Fairy Bulletin.”
The Evening News gives an extremely
nasty jar to Mr. H, Tennant Donaldson, secretary
of the N.S.W. National Protectionist Association,
by showing that a column or two of an article
which appears over his signature in the N.S.W.
Trades and Labour Advocate is “borrowed”
unacknowledged from a lecture written by Joe
Cook, the Boston saint. Read in the light of the
remorseless double-columning process, _ Mr.
Donaldson’s article reminds us of tales which we
read in books and which we afterwards see written
under other titles in the virtuous evening press.
Oeaf Forty Years.
o
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of forty teaks’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone win? applies to
J. H. MTCI-IdSj.SON’,
l*7o William Street. Melbourne.
solemn prophecy of the approaching pantomime.
Also, if the management sold some of the pure
white characters —notably a sick automaton known
as “George”—into everlasting slavery, and told
the purchaser to keep ’em chained up, it would be
a boon to Royal audiences and a big shove-along
for civilisation in general. Mr. Grattan Riggs’
performance of Pete, the whitehaired nig.
with a game leg, is a first-class character study,
none the less interesting for being outside the
plot. Mr. Sass makes a pleasing start as Salem Scud-
der, but weakens from time to time, and Mr. J. H.
Clyndes plays Jacob with plenty of broad effect.
These two actors —capable exponents of the new
and old school of melodramatic art respectively—
are always an interesting contrast. Miss Clara
Cowper infuses all her natural charm into the
Octoroon, the maiden modesty with which she
stands on a table to be sold like a bronze ornament
being almost sufficient to justify the exaggerated
figure she goes at. Her one failing is a most pre-
posterous affection for George. If George were
put up without reserve he would have to be bought
in. There are many other characters, including
Miss Aggie Kelton, who invariably fills the stage
with sweet, fresh odours of comic opera, and dis-
arms criticism with the magnetic force of attrac-
tion. Nevertheless, in the lucid intervals of her
absence the dazed observer begins to entertain dim
suspicions that Miss K. is a fascinating bit of fun.
«* * *
“ Romeo and Juliet,” at the Opera House,
awaken memories of the Essie Jenyns boom,
when the personal interest of Juliet was strong
enough to carry plain Bill Holloway and a heavy
load of other humanity right through the tragedy.
Miss Louise Jordan, as already hinted, is not a
name to conjure with. In the language of plain,
unvarnished truth, the Melbourne people, at this
present moment, won’t try to fancy her in leading
characters, and attempts to persuade them that
the lady ought to “do ” must result in unsatisfac-
tory business. All the same, Miss Jordan does
very fairly well as Juliet, and looks the character
much better than many who play it. The com-
pany, too, is an advance at several points upon
that which toiled after Essie. Mr. Miln fills the
billet of Romeo to more advantage than his pre-
decessor. Mr. J. F. Oathoart gives due import-
ance to Friar Lawrence, and Mr. H. N. Douglas
can Mercutio in good style. Of the rest, Mr.
Hodson throws off a long jaw at Juliet as though
he hadn’t got it by heart before he commenced,
and the apothecary of young Atholwood is a
masterpiece of m ake-up. Once or twice during
this week Mr. Miln will play Mercutio, leaving
the young and tender Greenaway to impersonate
Romeo, Romeo. Next Saturday they put up
“ Hamlet,” which ran four weeks last season.
Miss Lilian Tree’s return from a good old
“ recent severe indisposition ” has given a fresh
impetus to “Sultan of Mocha,” and that insane
aggregation of legs will probably last out the re-
maining three weeks of the comic opera season
at the Alexandra. On Saturday the house was
crowded with Lilian’s admirers, who fell into
paroxysms of joy over an interpolated ballad, to ,
the effect that “ Shecouldn’t say Goodßye.” The
enthusiasm prevailing in front appeared to stir up
the whole opera, and everybody concerned was
distinctly better than usual. It is a great pity
that the librettist thought he was writing “ The
Sultan of Mucker ” when he put words to Oellier’s
music.
* -* *
“Little Lord Fauntleroy” is getting to
the end of his noble tether, at Melbourne
Princess’s, and after December 13 the city will
know that precocious little lollypop no more for
the present. Next Saturday afternoon the last
matinee takes place, on which occasion every
father who wants to train up his kid in the wrong
way is expected to bring the infant along for the
sake of the new Governor and such-like institu-
tions. That same evening will witness the Jubilee
of this beautiful lesson, whereupon Olive Berkeley
and Graoie Hopkins will divide the name part
between them. So there will be only one Little
Lord Fauntleroy, and yet two Little Lord
Fauntleroys, and if they come to scratches The
Bulletin money will be invested on Olive, who
has more weight and a much longer reach than
Grade. Gracie, however, is the more nimble on
her feet.
. m * * *
The St. George’s and Victoria Halls keep
their pots boiling pretty well, while the Cyclorama
is doing a large trade in an ancient warrior,
alleged to be Jeremiah Brown, aged 98. Jerry
sits around the Cyclorama and shakes hands with
all who feel so disposed. He fought most of the
Battle of Waterloo himself. It is beautiful to
hear him tell how he remembers seeing Buonaparte
by the very sandpit where that deceased monster
is depicted in the painting. History doesn’t con-
tain enough Battle of Waterloo for Jerry’s recol-
lections, and the things he said to the Duke of
Wellington on that memorable 18th of June
couldn’t be got through in a week. There is little
doubt that Jerry was at the battle —under the
name of Bill Adams.
* f *
Mr. Alfred Dainpier has dramatised
“ Robbery under Arms,” the novelette which
made a bigger splash in London than anything
published since the days .of Hugh Conway. The
story is favourably built for stage adaptation, and
Mr. Dampier has great hopes of his play. He
reckons that “Robbery under Arms” will prove
far and away more popular than the dramatised
version of “His Natural Life” when it is produced
it Melbourne Alexandra some time after Xmas.
* I * *
Slade Murray, who is associated with
“Good Old Mary Ann” on the scroll of Fame,
takes a farewell ben. at St. George’s Hall, Mel-
bourne, on Friday.
*■ * * *
The Achurch-Charrington season at Ade-
laide Royal is, so far, a frost, notwithstanding
the fact that the management have been hurling
one piece on the top of the other with alarming
rapidity, but either the character of the plays pro-
duced, or the acting of the beautiful J anet have
failed to startle the inhabitants, and “In His
Power,” “ The Merchant of Venice,” “ Led
Astray,” &c., have come and gone without enthu-
siasm. Miss Achurch and Herbert Flemming
have done all they know, but the support has been
inferior, and a righteous public have had no com-
passion. Professor Kennedy, piloted by Joe
Brown, has been doing a shade better business at
Garner’s Rooms.
* * Kf *
R. S. Smythe, who will shortly return
from Western Australia, has accepted the manage-
ment of Mr. Charles Santley’s tour. In this con-
nection it is interesting to note that when Poole,
the great baritone’s advance agent, was on his way
out he was told by Mr. Henry Gyles Turner, the
Commercial Bank manager, a follow-passenger,
that the Much-Traveller! was the only man who
could manage the Santley tour successfully. Bu.
Poole, with his narrow English ideas, was stag
fered at Smyth e’s terms and closed with Jubilee
’rice—with what results those who read the
police-court reports are aware. How much better
it would have been to have accepted Smythe’s
“ price.” G. A. Sala used to complain that if he
had Smythe to manage for him from the com-
mencement he would have cleared £3OOO more by
his Australian tour.
* * * 5k
Miss Von Finkelstein has scored a dis-
tinct success on and off the platform in Western
Australia, both in Berth and Ereemantle. The
Governor and Lady Broome go to every lecture ;
people who the combative ‘ ‘ sets ” of the little
capital never meet are seen at the conferences of
the daughter of Zion; and one newspaper declares
that she will take more money out of the colony
than people thought was in it. The fair one with
the golden locks was advertised to return from
Albany to the Eastern colonies (as they are
always called out West) by the French mail
steamer Oceanien, on 30th November.
** * *
A certain rich Charlie Napier died at Mary-
borough, Vio., the other day. It is a question whether
the old Charlie Napier Theatre, Ballarat, where
Brooke acted, was called after him or Sir Charles
Napier, commander of the Baltic Fleet. The old-
time Ballarat play-houses were the Napier, Monte-
zuma, and Tontine; the favourite stars, Kate
O’Reilly and Kate Warde. Con Warde was the
leading man, Bob Dale, the comedian. Favourite
plays, “Jane Shore,” “Flowers of the Forest,”
“Green Bushes,” “Never too Late to Mend.”
Thatcher sang at the Tontine. One of his songs
was the “Goldfield’s Quack Doctor ” :
But he was better known at the Bendigo Sham-
rock. Charlie Thatcher was well-known in Mel-
bourne 20 years after, with his white hair and
moustache, and dreamy look, a tall, thinnish,
well-set, soldierly man. He died in the East
Indies, collecting shell-specimens. His wife was
Lydia Howard, operatic vocalist.
-»
“ A distinguished man of letters comes to
Melbourne across the wide Atlantic Ocean and
lectures to a beggarly array of empty benches,”
says the Age, “but hundreds flock to witness a
glove-contest or a horse race.” This is bosh.
Australia has only known one man pre-eminently
worth listening to as a lecturer, and he made a
fortune—with the assistance of R. S. Smythe.
That lecturer’s name was Charles Clark. Clark
was in possession of a silvery voice, a good pre-
sence, a marvellous memory—allied to industry
and literary judgment which did not allow him to
submit to the public any discourse which was not
polished to perfection. Why, we can remember
some of his sentences—which we heard but once—
after 15 years. And then Clark was a humorist
and a comedian. He and R. S. Smythe invented
each other. Send us, O Syme, another Clark
postage-paid. The corn is ripe and the Much-
Travelled has still a little sickle.
-M * *
An Australian writer from England says
that Miss Myra Kemble “ has just reached Eng-
land at the right time when hair like hers is the
rage.” She is greatly admired both on account
of her appearance and her intelligence—and her
taste in dress—by the “big”people of the profession.
Go ahead my jolly quack,
Gull the public while you can,
A thousand pound a year you sack,
Passing for a medical man.
At Poverty Point.
A New York paper describes a well-known pianist as a
“ raven-curled, low-ohinhed, alcoholic, athletic, piano-
abuser.” Great Darlinghurst !
Vesta Tilley, a Birmingham music-hall vocalist, offers
£5OO reward in the columns of the Birmingham Mail to
“ any person who can assist her to trace the originator of
a ‘ cruel and dastardly lie ’ to the effect that she has been
secretly married and is the mother of a miniature family.”
The ordinary female gets annoyed if anyone asserts that
she’s not married, but your music-hall miss looks at the
matter exactly the other way.
A muoh-bouqueted opera-singer wishes her admirers in
future to understand that some of the flowers might be
replaced by gloves.
A big feature in the Xmas pantomime at Her Majesty’s,
London, will be a Noah’s Ark procession. All the jokes
will probably belong to that period.
The Viennese Government censor considers it part of his
duty to weed out the old and ugly from the ballet.
Several ladies have appealed successfully against his
decisions.
The Melbourne Alexandra Company have been per-
forming, with much kudos and coin, at various places,
including Goulburn, on their overland pilgrimage to a
Sydney theatre, probably the Standard.
Edward Terry, one of the greatest of burlesque actors,
thinks of visiting Australia in a year or two—so writes Phil.
May from Paris.
Willie Ward, the dancer, who made such a hit in Aus-
tralia under Brough and Boucioault, is doing splendidly
in London. He is stage-manager at the Avenue Theatre.
Monologuist Snazelle, under the patronage of the Baron
and Co., will give “Music, Song and Story,” beautifully
illustrated, at Sydney Protestant Hall this (Saturday)
evening only.
CORRESPONDENCE
“T. B, Armstrong” ; You are a nice literary
critic. “ Scotty ” only used what he acknowledged as an
excerpt as the text of some smart comments. “The
Wrinkler” is an original writer, who has paid for his
experience, and who, in turn, is paid for what he writes.
The fact of the matter is that the other papers you speak
of stole the story from a Scotch paper and calmly located
the occurrence in Queensland, whereas “Scotty” clips
and acknowledges his text from the Dundee AdvbrAsee
the original source. You fall into the error of giving
credit not to the man who simply takes a text and
preaches from it, but to the thieves who steal the text
and claim it as their own. In this case one wholesale
thief has deceived the other—and also deceived you
“ S.P.” (Mid Oalder, Eng.): What is it ? Religious mania
or the jim-jams?... “Teolis Antili” : You say—“ Much
pottery of an heroic nature held over for lack of ink.” As
you are a poet we are glad to see you careful with ink..,.
“ J.P.8.” : Damper and horse. Do you mean salt-horse?
Undigestible “Republican”: Robert Bear’s, Park-
street, Sydney. Price 3d. . ,“J.R.” (N.Z.); Better, but
metre still faulty. Learn to condense “W.L.A.”:
It’s all a question of enterprise. If N.S.W. business men
are more enterprising than those of Victoria, the Vic-
torian mines and other properties will fall into the hands
of companies registered in N.S. Wales, which province
will then profit by the probate duty on the transfer of de-
ceased stock-holders’ shares. Should the Victorians be
the more enterprising people, then N.S. Wales properties
will fall into the hands of Victorian-registered companies
and the duty will go to the Victorian Government. The
thing cuts both ways.. “ Radical” (Tas.): Many thanks...
“ T.N.” (Wellington, N.Z.): Thanks for the clipping...
“J.G.C.K.”: Received with thanks . “Subscriber’'
(Adelong): Your festive doggerel might make the people
of Adelong laugh, but it would make the rest of the world
weep tears of blood “ G.H.” (Wanganui): Will con-
sider the suggestion “Duhallow” (S. Melb.) ; You
must have some queer Irishmen in Melbourne..,.
“ James Marsh ” : A good joke. Of course he’s not
“ J.M.” (Dubbo): A mean thing. We are afraid the
Dubbo aristocracy are dreadfully human “ 0. J. 0.”
(Lismore); We apologise. So many second-hand sketches
and first-class libels in sheep’s-clothing are sent to this
office that we are apt to be abnormally suspicious
“ Smith ” (Wagga) ; Only medium this time “ Truth ”
(Ounnamulla): Will at leisure carefully consider your
very startling and, to us, original theory “Chew
Gum ” (Wagga) : Thanks ...“ J.W.8.”: Rather too long
this time. ..“Wanderer” (Charters Towers): Salvation
too long. Send something snappy [Many letters held
over.]
In the- course of his candidature at Battersea,
where his election expenses are being raised by
subscription, John Burns proceeded to explain
the principles with which he had been identified
during his public life. These may be thus sum-
marised •
(1) Free education, compulsory upon all classes, with, at
least, one wholesome meal per day in all Board schools ;
(2) eight hours (or less) to be the working day in all
trades ; (3) adult suffrage—one man one vote ; (4) official
registration for parliamentary, municipal, and all other
electoral purposes ; (5) payment of members ; (6) abolition
of the House of Lords and all hereditary authority; (7)
shorter Parliaments, triennial at the outside; (8) legisla-
tive independence for Ireland, and general decentralisa-
tion of government; (9) nationalisation of the land and
mines; (10) the power of declaring war, making peace,
and concluding treaties to be subject to popular control.
After explaining these points with great clearness,
Mr. Burns said he deprecated emigration, but
held that the principle of home colonisation might
be usefully put into practice. He maintained
that the Church was strenuously endeavouring to
disestablish itself by its un-Christian attitude
towards the people. He would earnestly endeavour
to deal with the £15,000,000 per annum of ground-
rent in London, which drove the poor into the
pigstyes of the East-end. In conclusion, Mr.
Burns said that if he were returned to Parliament
he would not be member for Battersea alone ; he
would be the member for London poverty, the re-
presentative of the voiceless thousands that are
crushed by injustice and oppression. He would
light relentlessly and unceasingly against that pre-
ventible poverty which is the curse and disgrace
of our boasted civilisation.
In a recent article Grant Allen asserted
that it was necessary to keep up the English
birth-rate in view of the heavy death-rate, and the
National Reformer points out that the latter is
a consequence of the former.
The Bulletin’s Christmas Pantomime is
to be in four scenes, and is entitled “ The ’Ouse
that Hi Built, or Harlequin Fee-Fi-Federation
and the Fairy Bulletin.” It will be performed
in the Bulletin’s Christmas number by Mr.
Edmund Fisher, who furnishes an admirable
Australian antidote to the Old-Worldly flam set
before the public by the theatrical-managers.
The Balmain (Sydney) Presbyterian Church
authorities, in the prospectus of their forthcoming
church bazaar, remark :
As to the necessity for a good pipe organ it may be said
that in our times an efficient musical service is absolutely
necessary in every church which desires to attract people
to it. Even the adherents of a church are apt to drop
away if the music compares unfavourably with what they
are accustomed to in their own homes or in places of
amusement! It is not sufficient for a church to rely on
the goodness of its cause. It must use all lawful means
to render its cause pleasing, if it desires a career of aggres-
sive usefulness.
What has become of the anti-box-o’-whustles
party ?
A New Zealand M.P., who had to resign
his seat lately in order that lie might file his little
shuffle, made a strange confession to his creditors
at a meeting held to investigate his affairs. Said
lie, in answer to a creditor : —“ One of the princi-
pal reasons that induced me to come out for the
House was that I thought I would be able to fix
up some titles of their’s. (A land company of
which he was manager.) I succeeded in fixing up
sorhe, which, I believe, would not have been fixed
up if I had not been in the House.” If Mr. M.P.
had told his constituents on the hustings that this
was one of his principal reasons for seeking their
suffrages they would probably have thrown him
out on his head instead of electing him. But this
is always the way- Land-grabbing and politics go
hand in hand.
The light of the Christmas Bulletin will
in comparison with that of its envious contem-
poraries be as the radiance of the entire planetary
system as against the sparkle of a dead China-
man’s eye. If you don’t buy it at once you won’t
be able to get it at all.
Dear Bulletin, — 1 have just read your
issue of October 19th, and therein discover a
gem in the poem “The Melancholy Mummer.”
It seems to me to be worthy of Tom Hood. Please
convey my compliments to the author, and say
that it has moved me very much, perhaps not be-
cause of its intrinsic merit, as 1 perceive it, but
because it strikes the key-note of a thought which
has absorbed my mind, and on which I am
writing a story which (of course) I think will
create a sensation. —Yours truly, Fred. Maccabe.
Auckland, N.Z., November 15,1889. [The verses
referred to are from the pen of Mr. Edmund
Fisher.— Ed. B.]
The first election of members to the old
Legislative Council, held in Sydney, in 1842, had
a lively ending. One of the candidates was a
whaler, and he was badly defeated. This so in-
censed his partisans that they went off to one of
his ships and armed themselves with harpoons
and whale-lances and made an onslaught on the
successful candidates’ (Wentworth and Bland)
supporters. After a desperate fight Wentworth
and Bland’s men fled, and the whaling-gang
chased them through Surry Hills right out to
Botany, where the fugitives took to the scrub and
hid. Several of the “ free and enlightened,” who
had exercised the franchise for the first time, were
harpooned badly, but no one was killed.
The late James Campsie Dalgleish, of Gou)
burn, N.S.W., a surveyor who, not long ago, died
suddenly at a Melbourne coffee-palace of heart
disease, owned a couple of hundred thousand
pounds worth of Broken Hill Proprietary silver
shares, and on these his executors paid nearly
£9OOO probate duty to the N.S.W. Government.
Though the Proprietary mine is situated in N. S. W.
the company which owns it is not registered in
that colony but only in Victoria —the Govern-
ment of which province also exact £9OOO or £lO,OOO
probate duty. It has now been decided that the
N.S.W. Government must refund the duty paid
and the decision will, of course, bring about re-
funds in many similar cases. This is calculated
to make Treasurer MMillan feel good-humored.
John Handy, aged 23, hanged himself on
his wedding morning. What a deal of annoyance
he escaped, to be sure :
A raffle was held at a crazy, stringy-bark
homestead owned by a man named Hooligan,
away out in the tremendous weariness of a great,
aching waste-place near Booligal, the county of
Franklin, a short time back, which led to some
confusion, difficulties with the police, wild cries,
and domestic distress. When a raffle is held in
this arid locality— the exact name of which is too
long to get into The Bulletin and too stubborn
to double up—everybody concerned seizes the
opportunity to get drunk, and on the occasion
mentioned, when every other means of amusement
had been exhausted, the excited congregation
drew the fiddler out from under the table, and
the man whose hand was steadiest under the
jumping influence of rum shaved his head. The
company then took off the wandering minstrel’s
clothes, whilst he smiled insanely and concurred
in the movement in a vague and aimless way, and
proceeded to paint and decorate his person with
coal-tar and red and blue compositions used for
figuring sheep; and they dressed him in several
glue-coated ’possum-skins, and ornamented him
all over with hunks of swan’s-down, and then
turned him loose to wander in the bush, and pro-
ceeded to forget all about him in the renewed
enthusiasm consequent on the arrival of more
spirits and beer. In the darkest hour before the
dawn the house of the fiddler, whose name
was Gaffaty, was invaded by a grim and
grisly object of abhorrence that fell through
the back door and groped dumbly all
over the place, leaving a black track across
the furniture and against the wall; and by-and-by
it surged into Mrs. Gaffaty’s bed-chamber and
gibbered feebly ; and when the lone female struck
a light and saw a freak of nature hanging over the
foot of her bed she uttered a shrill scream of
matronly modesty and pained circumspection, and
jumped through a window, and ran five miles in
ghostly raiment to apprise the nearest police that
a wild man of the woods, with red and blue
freckles rampant on a black field and tufts of
white hair scattered about him, had broken into
her home with wild, unearthly roarings and was
eating up a family of thirteen, and holding oyer
the cow and the cat for breakfast. The police,
whose name was Ryan, formed himself into a
committee of investigation, and took up his
club and went out to surround the house and
read the Riot Act. He came upon the variegated
monster in the dull light of early morning—it was
sleeping in the kitchen, and Constable Ryan ad-
vanced with characteristic boldness to foreclose
upon it, when it got up suddenly, with a super-
natural howl, and hit the officer with some cooking
utensils, and the Law retired ten miles to call up
some more police force and hold a consultation,
whilst Mrs. Gaffaty ran screaming round a circle
of three leagues, and crying aloud in the wilder-
ness that her thirteen children were eaten by a
grotesque cannibal that had escaped from a
menagerie. Towards noon Constable Ryan, armed
with a consciousness of official rectitude and a
Queen Anne musket, returned, accompanied by a
large section of policemen and seven regi-
ments of civilians, all bearing arms, and
the reckless contingent surrounded the out-
house in which the wild man had ensconced
himself, and awaited events with stoical daring,
and every time the wild man got up and roared
through the cracks they fell back half-a-mile to
reconnoitre and hold councils of war. At length,
however, the contingent resolved to advance,
warily on the monster whilst he was asleep, and
chain him to a tree; and by dint of •shouldering
each other to the front they did eventually seize
the unique creature. In the _ struggle that ensued
Mr. Gaffaty wiped a lot of his tar, and red ochre,
and stuff off on to the clothes of the police force,
so that when they succeeded in tethering him toyi
fence he stood confessed, and everybody said
d n with a loud voice, and the prevailing ex
citement gave way to utter disgust as the vast
assemblage trailed wearily home. Mr. Gaffaty
had to be boiled over a slow fire and scraped with
billy-lids before he began to regain his complexion
and he is still out with a waddy' hunting tha
guests at Hooligan's raffle.
We sing no loud lament for Handy,
He’s gone to join the angelic throng ;
He might have drowned his woes in shandy,
But thought —its surcease won’t last long—
Or, better still, in potent brandy—
He knew that drunkenness is wrong,
And, so without a faint or falter,
He hanged himself at twenty-three,
His bride stood waiting at the altar—
His face from frown and wrinkle free
He wooed and won a hempen halter.
Nor breach of promise feareth he.


ò
Be on your <>uavd for Frauds'.when puroliiising.
Use Bath'o’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Artificial Teeth (high-class dentistry) at Reform
Fees. Full Set Vulcanite, £5 ; Gobi and Yuloa-
nite, £10;. Gold, £l5. Nitrous Oxide Gas daily,
10s. Gd. J. 1. Marshall, Dentist, Only address-
-410 George-street, Sydney,
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday : —First Lady: “That’s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason ?” Second Lady : “ Don’t you know? It's
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.”
Lily Davenant.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Will Jekyll writes, —So you have not met Lily
Davenant at St. Kilda ? That is really quite odd,
you know, as she would say, and it is still odder
that, now that she has found out you know me,
she hasn’t had a pretty little tale to tell you about
me. In fact it’s so odd, my dear fellow, that X
don’t believe in it. lam not, of course, a quite
disinterested critic of the fair Lily, and yet 1
really believe I can give you an accurate account
uf the matter. At any rate, I can give you a
more accurate one than she can, and in all pro-
bability lias. Well, then, seeing that the little
tale is not only pretty but amusing, here goes for
my version of it
He was a new-chum, just arrived in Brisbane
from England (via the Torres Straits) with a few
hundred pounds at his bankers’ and the expecta-
tion of enjoying a year’s holiday in Australia and
the adjacent parts thereof.
She was, technically speaking, a new-chum also
—albeit she had spent three months up at Mackay
as a governess, and two in Brisbane as heaven
knows what.
He was walking along the platform one after-
noon at the railway station, looking for a carriage
in the Sandgate train.
She was seated in a carriage in the Sandgate
train with a book on her lap.
Then came a coincidence.
As he was passing by that carriage and hap-
pened to take a look at her, she lifted her eyes off
the book and happened to take a look at him.
He smiled ; she smiled and then she turned her
eyes on to her book;] he -went down the whole
length of the train (which was nearly empty), but
couldn’t find a carriage to suit him, and so he
turned back again.
Then came another coincidence.
As he was passing by that carriag-e he happened
to steal a side glance at her, and, as she was hap-
pening to steal a side glance at him, the two side
glances met and made a look.
After that he went up the whole length of the
train, debating in his mind whether he would get
into that carriage or not. And subsequently he
decided that he would.
He was quite an average sort of young man, and
she was of the same sort, only feminine.
It is probable that he had been before this
directed in his choice of things somewhat in the
above manner, and it is probable that she had
before this directed other people in their choice of
things somewhat in the above manner.
They both had an attachment for novels, and
the fact that they both had read them occasionally
in yellow paper-backs and were not ignorant of
the wit of light Parisian journals constituted in
them a subtle and mysterious sympathy. Tenny-
son talks of star radiating light to star, and
insinuates that souls proceed in the same manner,
and I dare say he has tried it and knows.
Long before it occurred to this young man to
remark to this girl that it was very warm, he felt
sure she would not metaphorically bite his head off
for doing so.
Moreover, he imagined that it was quite possible
that they should be discussing problems of some
personal interest before they died or even got to
Sandgate. In fact :
“ I knew,” he said, smiling charmingly as they
glided out of the third or fourth station down the
line, “ I knew you were fond of the same books as
I was, the moment I saw the way you were read-
ing ‘Satanella.’ Ah,” he added, with a certain
pathos, “ poor Whyte Melville ! If he had lived
another fortnight I should have known him.”
“Is he dead?” she asked, smiling equally
charmingly, and turning her head on her neck
with a swanlike twist that, accompanied by a
guileless gaze into a male interlocutor’s eyes, was
certainly very effective.
“ He was killed out hunting.”
“ Poor fellow ! ” she said.
She was stopping with a married lady, a friend
of hers, one who came out on the same boat. He
was going to an hotel; he didn’t know which, so
as she had been to Sandgate before and could ex-
plain to him something of the lie of the places, as
she said, they arranged to meet one another next
morning at ten, and go for a little walk together
along the shore.
11.
Her name, it appeared, was Lily Davenant,
while his happened to be Seymour Young—at
least on this occasion. When we are being
idyllic we show a poor spirit if we can’t fling off
all the trammels of conventionality, and he really
thought that Lily and Seymour would have been
better.
When they went for that little walk together
along the shore, moved by the serene loveliness of
things in general, and of Miss Lily Davenant in
particular, he suggested something of the sort.
The suggestion was entertained. , )
“I think,” he confessed, “that Lily is a very
pretty name. And what a pity it is that I haven’t
a floral one to match ! Lily suits you, too, so well 1”
“ Bnt then,” she said, “ there are such a lot of
lilies—lilies of the valley, arum lilies, tiger lilies,
and all sorts of lilies !”
“ Well, and which- sort of lily will you be ?”
“ Oh ! I will be a lily of the valley, and you
shall be a flower too.”
What flower shall I be ?”
“ Sweet William !”
“ Why,” he said, “ that was a cleverer shot than
you thought. For William is my name.”
“So I noticed,” she replied, “on your bag—
William Jekyll. Not Seymour Young. Do you
know,” she added, “I’m afraid you told me a
fib ” —and he admitted it.
The sole attempt at a smart remark which this
young man ever remembers having concocted of
malice prepense, was to the effect that it was a
mistake to drink black coffee and smoke a cigar at
the same time, because the cigar spoiled the coffee
and the coffee the cigar. He is of opinion that
this remark, in some shape or another is familiar
to all his friends. It came in with wonderful
effect on this occasion.
They were sitting together in the shade under a
ledge of rock, the cloudless sunny sky and air all
about them, the rook-filtering sea at their feet.
Then he turned to her and said :
“ Has it ever struck you, Lily, that it is impos-
sible to enjoy a lovely scene and a lovely person at
the same moment—the lovely scene spoils the
lovely person, and the lovely person spoils the ”
“ I think that’s a very left-handed compliment,”
she said.
“ So I perceive,” he replied, “ but 1 intended it
just the other way on.”
“ How were you going to put it ? ”
“ I was going to say that, since I couldn’t look
at the lovely scene owing to the presence of the
lovely person, I would give it up and take to look-
ing at the lovely person altogether.”
“You quite remind me of the pension in Paris,”
she said. “ There was a young Frenchman
there who used to make up compliments in that
way.”
“ And what was the end of the compliments, if
1 might ask ”
“ There was no end ! And there was about as
much in them as there was in the young French-
man, and that was nothing, you know.”
“ I wonder,” he. said, a little absently, “ if you
have ever made that remark before ?”
“Why ?”
“Oh, only because I had made mine often
before—in one shape or another.”
“No, I had never made it before.” And that
young man felt very much afraid that she had told
him a fib, but he did not say so. Instead of that,
“This is very jolly,” he said.
“It is,” she answered with a little sigh ; “ very
jolly.”
“ And I wonder,” he thought to himself, “ if it
has any more in it than the compliments and the
young Frenchman ?”
And a fortnight later, up in his room at the
hotel, lying smoking inside his mosquito curtains
to stupefy some insects that were about, he came
to the conclusion that there was not, and the
silence was broken by the utterance in a decisive
tone of a single word of four letters. It began
with a “ D.”
ITT.
The next morning they were not to have one of
their usual walks together. In fact they had
made no arrangement to go out walking together
any more, and they both contemplated a return
(alone) to Brisbane and the world of separation.
At least he did.
It was then a pure coincidence that, about half-
THE INJUSTICE OF FAME.
“I HAVEN’T BEEN IN GAOL FOR SIX MONTHS AND YET WHATEVER IS
STOLEN ABOUT THE PLACE IS PUT DOWN TO ME.”
past three that afternoon a young lady in a
bewitchingly airy costume complete to the
daintiest parasol imaginable, sauntered away along
the beach in the direction of a certain ledge of
rock to which some ten minutes later there ap-
proached also a young man with a slouch hat and
dressed in flannels, who had fetched a compass
round to it from the opposite direction.
She was sitting under that ledge.
She was sitting back against the rock, looking
out across the sea, and lie _ had never been more
aware of the fascination which can be exercised on
an immortal soul by a pair of shoes and portion of
a pair of red silk stockings.
She was so much taken up with the sea, of
course, that she did not notice him till he stopped
directly in front of her.
“Oh!” she said, lifting her eyebrows a little,
“so it’s you ! What brought you here ?”
Beyond all question there is considerable room
for art in the arrangement of a corset, and it is
astonishing the fascination which it also can
exercise on an immortal soul.
“ Yes,” he said, “strange to relate, it’s me. It
would be more grammatical to say ‘lt’s I.’ But
what the devil is the good of grammar ?”
Her eyebrows went up a little again and so did
her lips. Her eyebrows were soft brown and deli-
cately ti’aced, and her lips were freshly red, and,
when pursed up in this way, had (what the
scientific people would call) a correlation with the
idea of osculation which this young man was not
altogether unacquainted with.
She had also a pretty little trick when she was
amused, of putting the tip of her tongue out on to
her upper lip, and this young man, happening to
think,of it at this moment, almost shut his eyes
and smiled in a peculiar manner.
“ I must say,” she'said at last, “ your language
grows choice on acquaintance. ”
“My language,” he said, “is like you. lam
going back to Brisbane by the first train to-morrow
morning,” he added.
“lam so sorry. I shall miss you much in the
afternoon.”
“You will easily replace me. There are plenty
of fools about.”
“ Ah ! but then I like nice fools, and you, Wil-
liam, are simply perfect that way.”
“ Simply perfect—simply quite too utterly per-
fect ?”
“ How long shall you stay in Brisbane?”
“ A few days. There’s nothing to see there and
nothing to do. I shall go to Sydney.”
“ Well, Pm going down to Melbourne pre-
sently. I have friends there. Perhaps we may
meet again /”
“ I am sure I hope you will enjoy yourself.
And now,” he said, “I think we may as well be
saying good-bye, as I am going down to the baths,
and this evening I shall be engaged.”
“ Good-bye,” she said.
“ Lily,” he said, “you are a demon !”
She laughed.
“ Do you think so ? ” she asked, puckering up
her face a little and looking at him with the swan-
neck move before alluded to.
“ Don’t put out your tongue,” he said, “or I
may feel inclined to shove you off this rock , down
•below. And there are sharks.”
‘ ‘ Why are you so obstinate ? ” she said.
“ No; it is you that are obstinate.”
“ Why won’t you be friends? ”
“ Because you will not let me.”
“ What do you mean ? ”
“ Who could be friends with a demon like you,
who is for ever enticing and for ever repelling ? ”
“ Enticing? I have never enticed you.”
“ You lie, and you know it.”
“It is brave of you to stand there and try and
shout a girl down by calling her a demon and a
liar. I used to have an idea that gentlemen did
not do things like that.”
“It is your own fault! you drive me mad.
Nothing will suit you but to torment me. I will
stand it no more. I will go.”
“ I don’t in the least see why you shouldn’t
stay.”
“ Great Heavens, do you think I’m made of
stone? What do you want with me? I have
offered you everything I have—name, fortune,
what you will! And you will not take me at any
price. Let me go then. You intoxicate me. Some
day I shall do you a harm.”
She laughed softly.
“ Oh, I’m not afraid,” she said, “I’ll take the
chance! ”
“Do you know,” he said in a low voice, “that
everyone believes —that everyone says that you
are - ” He paused.
She was looking at the ground, apparently
watching the end of her parasol, which she was
digging gently into the shingly earth. _
“ I don’t care,” she said, smiling slightly, “ it’s
nothing to me.”
And it seemed that she told the truth, for lie
came up to Brisbane by the first train next
morning.
* * *
That, my dear fellow, is the pretty little tale,
the amusing pretty little tale, and I am not sure
but that I will revoke that statement about her
ability to tell it with an equal accuracy to mine.
You may tell her, if you like, that I have told it
you, anil ask her how she is getting on at Mel-
bourne with the other fools. Tell her, too, that I
don’t think St. Kilda is a patch on Manly, where
I was staying last week and am returning next
Monday. You may tell her, too, that I should
be pleased to hear from her (“G.P.0., Sydney,”
will find me for a month yet), and you may tell
me, my dear fellow, what you think ab .ut her—
by the end of January !
Francis Adams.
John Burns neither drinks, smokes, nor
eats animal food. But he sings a good comic
song.
A Chinaman named She Okc was charged
at Richmond (Vic.), the other day, with furious
driving. Needs must when She Oke drives.
Card nomenclature :- —The queen of dia-
monds—Lady Loch. The knave of diamonds—
Duncan Gillies. The king of diamonds —Patter-
son. The deuce (take it!) of diamonds—Bingey
Benjy.
The temperance lecturer, F. S. Dyer, will
orate on December 11th in Sydney Centenary
Hall, on the “ Last Snarl of Bacchus” —a sort of
dpoh-an-dorrish—we suppose—when prohibition,
compensation, and confiscation will be discussed.
Dear Bulletin, —In a paragraph re
Brazilian revolution, you have made a slight
mistake. You say ; “ Thus goes the last vestige
of Royalism on the American Continent, save the
tinge in Canada. ” You forget that the colonies
of British and Dutch Guiana are still spots of
monarchical leprosy on the now almost clean con-
tinent. — Sazeeac, Beech worth.
Dear Bulletin, — I am hard up and on the
wallaby. The other evening, fagged out after my
long tramp, I entered Charters Towers. Next
day, while returning from an unsuccessful hunt
aftgr a job, I found myself opposite the School of
Arts and Library. My spirits were not high, but
brightened up a bit at the prospect of a short rest,
a cool drink of water, and a read of The Bulletin.
But, on attempting to mount the stairs, I was
knocked back by the following Subscribers
are respectfully requested to prevent boys and
non-subscribers from entering the reading-room or
using the water-hag.” I tried to swear, but my
tongue was too dry. I pulled my hat over my
eyes and left.— On the Wallaby.
Mr. H. K. Rusden has been regaling the
“Royal Society” (at Melb.) with a paper on
Parables. From this it appears that Rusden
doesn’t attach any moral significance whatever to
the democratic yarn about Dives and Lazarus, nor
does he think that Christ told it. But if he did
tell it, why, then Mr. Rusden maintains that
‘ ‘ there is nothing in the story calculated to lead
to the impression that Dives was other than
exceptionally humane.” We therefore rise up to
ask Mr, Rusden what he is giving us. How in
the name of merciful Heaven, can a very rich man
he exceptionally JMmane ? Dives, The Bulletin
takes it, was an ancient type of the Australian
K.C.M.G. fat, prosperous, and smiling. And he
eventually found himself in Shed, while poor
Lazarus (connected with a red-covered journal of
that period) was a-nestling in Abraham’s bosom.
A Northern N.S.W. cane-grower was sued
for neglecting to send his girl to school regularly.
The school is close to his mansion, but he pleaded
long distance ! ! and sickness—the child was very
delicate, &c.~— the doctor had attended her for
years. The attendance-officer was about to give
his evidence, which would have completely upset
the story of the. cultivator of canes, but an aged
J.P. suddenly left the Bench and went on his own
account into the witness-box. The attendance-
officer wanted to give his evidence first, but was
ruled out. The ancient J.P. said that the girl’s
mother had told him that Doctor Blank had told
her that a wetting would be the death of the girl.
Merely that, and the case was dismissed. The
officer protested, with the result that he was
nearly led off on his ear by the strapping sergeant
to whom the old-time J.P. had “ tippit a wee
winkey wunk.” Now for the circus part of the
story. Of course the antiquated J.P.’s evidence
was out of place (ultra vires they say here), being
merely hearsay. But observe : the girl’s mother
has been dead ten years ; and Doctor Blank left
this river (when I came on it) 11 years ago.-
Jimmie Pannikin.
Pastor Jefferis attacks Evangelist Yarley’s
lectures “to men only ” on the subject of chastity,
which, he says, stimulate the imaginations of
youth and do more harm than good. One thing
is certain ; some people may go to attend Varley’s
lectures for sinister motives, but if they go to
curse they will metaphorically remain to pray.
There is no cautious, beatific snuffle of the cul-
chawed parson order about Yarley; he talks in
good, hard-hitting, downright Saxon, and appears
to be in perfect earnest in all he has to say—and
he is taken no notice of by the daily newspapers
which kow-tow to Pastor Jefferis and make much
of his never-ceasing mealy-mouthed, meaningless,
“gentlemanly” gabble on every subject under
heaven from ice-chests in hell to Australian
Federation. Yarley’s theology doesn’t amount to
a row of pins any more than that of Pastor
Jefferis or any other man who talks dogmatically
about what at most can only be the subject of dim
and uncertain speculation ; but his physiology is
worth all the sermons ever preached in Pitt-strect
and is good enough for every young man who
doesn’t want to see himself broken up by paralysis
or the jim-jams by the time he is five-and-thirty.
Shades of the Pharoahs ! Explorer
Stanley, it was last week cabled, has christened
one of the newly-discovered sources of the Nile
“Lake Albert Edward Nyanza.” From that
Nyanza has flowed for a hundred-thousand years
a river with whose name are intermingled legends
and traditions sacred to countless millions of the
human race. In the bulrushes fringing the banks
of that great stream, Moses, prophet and lawgiver
of the centuries, calmly sucked his thumb or his
patent feeding-bottle when he was picked up by
the daughter of a line of kings whose beginning
is lost in the mists of antiquity, and whose rest-
ing-place was the immemorial Pyramids. And now
an advertising nigger-drummer, who, beingashamed
of his native Wales, calls himself a Yankee,
calmly sits down and fastens on a lake which has
kept the secret of the river’s birth from the begin-
ning of time, the name of a short, squat, bald-
headed, inglorious member of an ignoble race —a
race Which jointly or collectively never said a good
thing except accidentally and when it was in the
idiot asylum ; a race which is burled, not at the
everlasting Pyramids, but at some beastly jerry-
built modern erection faced with concrete to keep
the wind from blowing it down; a race of dull,
prosaic, stupid, heavy-jowled Germans who
wouldn’t have the sense to know and take care of
a Moses if they saw him—unless he chanced to be
a money-lender. Let us hope that either the
Jews or the alleged Christians of England will
indict Stanley for this colossal and revolting
blasphemy.


The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES.
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches, Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne —369 Collins Street.
London Bankers —Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.O.
Authorised Capital, £500,000 .
T. S. RICHARDSON, Esq., Managing Director.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage op all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
ness.
Deposits Received.
3 years
12 months
6 months
3 months
Communications to be
Managing Director.”
... 8£ per cent.
... 8 per cent.
... 7 percent.
... 6 percent,
addressed to “The
Personal Items.
Mr. Frank Rogers, Q. 0., is very ill, and
has had to cease work absolutely.
The Mahdi is again reported dead. Which
Mahdi ? Also when ? Likewise how often ?
Patti’s hair, hitherto raven-black, has
lately mysteriously changed to light auburn.
Lord Hopetoun, judging from his portraits,
did not get behind the door when ears were served
out.
The Prince of Wales’ coachman has just
pegged out, leaving £lO,OOO. Will his master
leave as much ?
John Pinney Bear, of the Tahbilk Vine-
yards, left £60,500 behind him, but he didn’t make
it all out of wine.
“Hokor” Rusden’s atheistic paper, read
at the Melbourne Royal Society, has loosed all the
fountains of local bigotry.
Lady Munro has turned up in Melbourne.
The charge this time is “ upsetting a milk-cart.”
It must have been a rum-and-milk cart.
The Tsar has increased nine inches in
girth during the last two years. Nihilism does
not affect his appetite although it restricts his
exercise.
Two foreign princelets, Henry of Batten-
berg and Prince Christian, have, at present, the
exclusive right to shoot over the Windsor Castle
preserves.
Hopetoun told a Melbourne Standard
representative that he found the Shah a charming,
well-mannered man. Good ! he will be satisfied
with Toorak society.
The young Emperor of China has declined
to see the bride selected for him by his mother.
This is generally the way of the young man who
is not Emperor of China,
George Higinbotham’s salary, earned when
an M.P., lies to his credit in the Victorian .
Treasury, but at the death of the Chief Justice
his executors can claim it.
Governor Hopetoun is described by one of
the Melbourne papers as having “ a perfect oval
face.” This is unfortunate. The most perfect
oval we know is the figure “0.”
At the inquest in London on Mr. William
Westgarth, the Anglo-Australian financier, evi-
dence was given by “a nursemaid who had been
thirty-five years in his service.”
At Harden (N.S.W.) there has been
working as a wood-splitter for a number of years
Sir Walter Elliott, baronet. He likes the life
and has no inclination to leave it.
Playfair, M.P. (N.S.W.) says he has never
known a teetotaller who wasn’t a gluttonous
gorger. Mr. Playfair’s friends are chiefly aider-
men and must bust themselves somehow
Bismarck, senr., to Count Herbert Bis-
marck (per phonograph);—“ Be moderate in work,
moderate in eating, and somewhat moderate in
drinking. That is a father’s advice to his son.”
Willoughby Andrews, known on the Vic-
torian diggings 1G years ago as “Flash Arthur,”
intends to aggravate all his former sins—Bart-
lett’s shooting included—by publishing a book of
poems, dated from gaol.
The Queen’s eyes have been opened to
the fact that Louise was ill-treating Lome, and
the Marchioness has accordingly spent her autumn
with her ma in Scotland, seldom more than fifty
miles away from hubby.
The late Mr. Thos. Reilly, recently in
business as a murderer near Wagga, wrote to the
wife of the man he slew, saying how sorry he was
“ for the injury I have done your husband.” We
admire politeness, even in a murderer.
It turns out that Jubilee Juggins Benzon
intended the complimentary references to Sir
Geo. Chetwynd in his book—for which the pub-
lishers paid him £GOO and not £2OOO as was re-
ported—to be read with “ the accent on.”
To the debit of the New Centennial Hall,
Sydney, are placed the deaths of two City Archi-
tects —M‘Beath and Sapsford. The former began
his life as a shoemaker, and only succeeded in
proving that the cobbler should stick to his last.
A newspaper having written jocularly that
Irving was much troubled by increasing stoutness,
an admirer wrote advising him to take the juice
of two lemons every morning—a recipe he
guaranteed to takeoff thirty pounds in six months.
Pastor Jefferis has just related, in a lecture,
how, while travelling in Italy, in his student days,
he found himself on the track of the Apostle
Paul. The good Pastor has got a lot off that
track lately. Paul’s track didn’t lead to £lOOO a
year.
Licensed Victuallers’ secretary Whitelocke
(N.S.W.) proposes to meet Temperance-boss G.
D. Clarke in platform combat. May we be there
to see and hear ! “ The experiences of a converted
temperance advocate ” “ should take well and give
pleasure to all. ”
Albert Victor, charged by an elephant’in
India, escaped unhurt, so it is cabled. There is
probably nothing in this incident. The story has
only been circulated for the purpose of advertising
that the sawney “Prince Collars” is a valiant
youth who hunts elephants,
Jubilee Juggins Benzon has been declared
a bankrupt. Two or three years ago he was worth
hundreds of thousands; now he is dependent on
his rich foster-sister who has carefully kept her
fortune, which is equal to what the young man
with the sugar-loaf head has wasted.
Wilhelm 11., deeming the old Prussian
Crown too large for his head, has got a new one
ornamented with 101) diamonds and weighing
three pounds; his Consort’s diadem is adorned
with eleven large pearls and 1500 diamonds. Why
didn’t William make his head bigger ?
If, as reported, the Prince of Wales has-
Bright’s disease, he’ll probably win all the large
wagers he has made that he will never live to
reign. This would be a one-sided way of betting,
but for the fact that in the event of the heir-
apparent’s winning his gains go to his children.
Colonel North, the notorious Nitrate King,
seems to be still a good way off the_ end of his
reign. At his only daughter’s “ coming of age ”
one of the Rothschilds rolled .up with a diamond
butterfly for the maiden. The Rothschilds very
seldom patronise a financial wrong Tin, and the
natural assumption is that North’s wealth is
almost as great as are the lies told about it.
The U.S. Government has decided not to
demand the release of the man who was sentenced
to a year’s imprisonment at Honolulu for calling
the King a “nigger,” while drunk. His Majesty
firmly but respectfully says, in his explanation to
the American Secretary of State: “I am aware
that I am somewhat of a brunet; but draw the
line at ‘nigger.’ Colorado Madura is about my
limit.”
Harold Wilberforce Hindmarsh Stephen,
M.P. for Monaro in the N.S.W. Assembly, is
dead. For many years he had been a journalist,
and he had written many stories good, bad, and in-
different. The grandson of a Governor (Hind-
marsh, S.A.), he was a Radical in politics.
Harold Stephen will be kindly remembered by all
who knew him.
Just fifty years ago Sir Alfred Stephen
arrived in Sydney from Van Diemen’s Land with
an appointment as Puisne Judge in his carpet-
bag. One of his first clerks—they were not called
associates then—was his son, Alfred, who after-
wards gave up law for theology, and became a
canon and incumbent of St. Paul’s, Redfern. His
next clerk was another son, Mathew Henry, now
a Supreme Court Judge. Mr. C. B. Stephen, the
//fate ILTSffiun e \
JJ \ sh®^®sti&ims
il l ? k v r 2. c J^7 t>
)oL^iS^
Jp *-r ,
»U L- - - • _*
O m e 'l
f)Oo f cie «• s>. '
Relish rr ) e
«Hb|nk ooaoV -VTO
J? O \A) &*•- tO I Vj S^2£2
|ov> Coves <*-
gel Up
T[)it> <T) 1 do {° *°
lroorr)
TEXT : A. thief in a stolen buggy drove up to Melbourne Morgue
thinking it was an hotel.
barrister —another son—was clerk after Mi.lb Si
that Sir Alfred managed to keep the emolu-
ments in the family very fairly.
The new King of Bavaria, Otto, is as mad
as the other fellow who suicided. This hereditary
“ruler over men” objects to have his haircut,
knows no one but his nurse, smokes three dozen
cigarettes a day, lighting each with a whole box
of matches ; never uses napkin or handkerchief,
never washes, drinks much champagne, and stands
for hours in corners, gesticulating violently and
soliloquising loudly. This is a fine sample of the
beauty of monarchical rule and Imperial Federa-
tion.
Mr. Ike Selby, who at latest dates was
again a professing Christian, has come to logger-
heads with Mr. Jos. Symes, the cast-iron Atheist.
Isaac once rowed in the same boat with Jos. and
said insulting things abouAhe clergy, but now, as
above indicated, he has seen the error of his ways
and is travelling on orthodoxy once more. Isaac
wants Jos. to debate with him publicly, but Jos.
says no—he never fights with waifs, strays, wind-
mills or weathercocks —he likes to meet a definite
foe, not a Will-o’-the-Wisp, a Proteus, an uncer-
tainty, a transformation-scene. '“Transformation-
scene ” is excellent.
Buller Cole Aspinall once appeared in a
suit in which he was opposed by a barrister named
Smyth—F.L., to wit—and Aspinall ruffled his
learned brother’s dignity by referring to him as
“ Mr. Smith”—who at last asked the Court to see
that his name was pronounced properly. Aspinall
apologised profusely and promised not to offend
again. Shortly afterwards he was cross-examining
a witness. Quoth he : “ Now, witness, what have
you to say to this - statement of the plaintiff?”
Witness ; “ I say, sir, that it is a perfect myth.”
Aspinall; “Stop, sir! and remember that whenever
you are in this court you must pronounce that
word my the.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Parkes goes to Gillies’ Canossa. There s
nothing petty or unaccommodating about Parkes
if ho can’t help himself.
Baron Blachford is dead. He was only
known in Australia as “ the man Rogers,” friend
of Mr. George Higinbotham.
Michael Davitt is at length inclined to
enter Parliament. Several Irish members are
prepared to resign in his favour.
Mr. Carruthers, M.P., says that in the
public service of N.S.W. 31,221 are employed,
while Victoria employs 31,408. N.S. Wales, how-
ever, paid £130,000 more wages to fewer men than
Victoria.
The London policemen subscribed for a
strikers’ band, and the Guards cheered the pro-
cession as it passed. When the French Guards
sympathised with the mob the Bastille fell—re-
marks Henry George.
Mr. Dibbs’ action in moving an amend-
ment on the N.S.W. Freetrade Treasurer’s finan-
cial statement is merely intended as a means of
seeing how many Oppositionists are willing to
declare themselves straight-out Protectionists.
Sir William Macleay is president of the
N.S.W. “ National ” Club. But you mustn’t talk
Republic to Sir William, whose Nationalistic
ideas are bounded on the north by Government
House and on the south by “ God save the
Queen. ”
France has recognised the Brazilian Re-
public. Of course it has, but Britain has as yet —
witness the last exhibition —not fully recognised
the French Republic, and will probably feel disin-
clined at first to recognise the Federated States
of Australia.
Parkes has not abandoned the idea of his
Dead-house. The money has been voted, and he
means to go on with the scheme at the very first
opportunity. Seeing this, a prominent member of
the N.S.W. Upper House intends to move that
the vote be rescinded.
Premier Parkes, G.C.M.G., looked very
uncomfortable and fidgetty in his flaring Windsor
insignia at the opening of Sydney Centennial Hall.
You can’t wear two uniforms—that of Windsor
and that of Australian Nationalism —at one time.
The colours don’t match.
Lord George Hamilton, Salisbury’s First
Lord of the Admiralty, has stated in a speech that
the influence of the Irish in Australia (who raised
£30,000 for Dillon) would, in his opinion, be dan-
gerous if they were allowed to dominate. The
same might be said of the Australians.
The assertion that Alfred Russell Wallace,
the distinguished naturalist, has avowed his con-
version to Socialism, is said to be quite correct.
Land Nationalisation, he now considers, is not
sufficient to bring about the millennium, but then
his land-confiscation scheme had always a Com-
munistic basis.
Some figures from Whittaker’s Almanac for
1889 :—“English Pauperism.” In 1884 there were
in England in the poor-houses and maintained at
public expense 774,310 paupers; in 1885, 784,155;
in 1886, 807,639 ; in 1887, 817,289 ; in 1888,825,509.
A steady increase in five years of 51,119, or a little
over 10,000 a year.
A lot of the N.S.W. State-school teachers
are aggrieved because the Public Instruction De-
partment refuse to allow them to act as local
preachers. But the department is inexorable, if
you publicly put a head on the Pope on Sunday,
Murphy, senior, won’t let you thrash his little
Mickey on Monday.
Sir William Manning (N.S.W.) says that
Federation must come, that the sooner it comes
the better, and that it must end in a Dominion
Parliament. J. Cornstalk Gumsucker Banana.
Smith says that Federation must come, and it
will end in the Australian Federal Republic and
the abolition of all Sir Williams.
The London Spectator maintains that
the question of colonial defences must precede
that of federation, and also holds that an imperial
discipline act is most desirable. Which means,
in plain Australian without trimmings, that we
should federate, but not till England has sent out
a few thousand red-coats to keep us “Loyal to
the Empire.”
Hurley, M.P., of N.S. Wales, has intro-
duced a Bill to punish wife-beaters. Details are
not given, but it is an open secret that the piece
de resistance is the cat. If a man won’t love a
woman after she has had him flogged, the case will
be hopeless. The only chance will be to lend him
money at 60 per cent, on a sliding scale of com-
mission. What you tinkee, Mittah Hurley ?
Barton supports Parkes' federation pro-
posals ; Dibbs opposes them. The Foreign-trade
D.T. is now engaged in trying to depose Gibbs
from the N.S.W. Protectionist leadership in
favour of Barton. The bona-fides of this piece of
business is considerably discounted or emphasised
(from whichever point of view one regards the
matter) by the fact that a former (private) attempt
to make Barton Premier at the expense of Dibbs
resulted in a libel action which cost the D.T. Co.
a good many thousands of fine red gold.
Mr. J. J. Spruson, of Sydney, remarks
that the local Catholic Young Men’s Association
is now the second largest body of- its kind in
N.S.W. (the Y.M.O.A. occupying first place), and
that its members have before them a good example
in Victoria, where the Catholic Young Men’s
Associations are ten times stronger than in
N. S. Wales, and are no small factor in local
politics. This, The Bulletin considers, is a
rather nasty “ give-away ” for the Catholic Young
Men’s Association, which is ostensibly a non-
political body.
Apropos of the additions made from time
to time to the list of N.S.W. honorary magis-
trates, “ Vera ’’ writes The Bulletin to say that
while intelligent men of unimpeachable character
who don’t loaf round public-houses and are never
carried home drunk are passed over, the names of
sots who can’t even curse grammatically and
whose only recommendation is that they have a
vote and spirituous influence wherewith to sup-
port the local M.P., are being added to the com-
mission of the peace. . “ Yera ” should be pinched
hard for writing stale news.
Ninian Melville, M.P. , is now N.S.W.
Chairman of Committees at £BOO a year, and the
O’Sullivan, M.P., Keystone of the Democratic
Arch, has £7OO a year between his Parliamentary
allowance and his Public Works Commissioner-
ship. The pair have worked well for and deserve
well of the people ; but The Bulletin, soured by
its experiences of men who have risen from mole-
skin to diagonal and sunk from diagonal to broad-
cloth, now views these two statesmen with satis-
faction tempered by suspicion concerning the
absolutely democratic possibilities of top hats,
and overcoats cuffed and collared with ’possum-
skin.
From the Wellington (N.Z.) Evening
Press
Protestant Anti-Home Rule.
PRAYER MEETING.—Those of the Lord’s people
who regard Mr. Dillon’s Home Rule Crusade as
fraught with peril to Protestantism in Ireland and to
the integrity of the British Empire, are invited to
meet in united prayer at Room No. 11, Exchange
Buildings (late Athenaeum), Lambton Quay, on the
15th, at 8 o’clock, the hour the Home Rule meeting
begins.
Sankey’s hymns.
What a front the man must have who calmly
labels himself as “one of the Lord’s peoplp ! ”
Dr. Creed, M.L.O. (N.S.W.), opines that
three millions of people are scarcely sufficient to
found a nation. That depends chiefly on the
people. As in Europe alone—where independence
is not easily sustained —there are many nations
whose populations are either less or but little ex-
ceeds three millions, it is evident that reason is
not on the doctor’s side. For instance —Portugal
has 41, millions ; Belgium, sh; Holland, 4 ; Den-
mark, 2; Sweden, 4§; Norway, 2 ; Switzerland,
2f ; Greece, If; Servia, 2; Roumania To this
list it is not necessary to add the populations of
the African and South American Republics to
prove the fallaciousness of the militant doctor’s
assertions.


|T" f
A LoVEf\
COMETH 'FROM
H INGLAM d
A* Mo MA»\ETH
Money
«/>
Semos home pop.
Hl<a‘pOP&»E *
is UN H APPy
At First
and
DOES MUCH
TAUKEE TO THE WATER
■' T S
H t> Sour he ßiv
o'* ' C V
%
.O' >
%
-5“
yuM *
Yu m *
E>rass> Buttons ano
Much Joy.
Mb had kiisseo
His
T RAlhf.
Kc
”PoP€» ( IE ON
•Shore.,
An o
discovered
%> A .
Nfw C hum .
ó
o
.■rA
THE MEET IMG
NEXT DAY
f My. Johnnie
Ah ■ 1 Mv-PoPi.t, No ' - THEL^DEVIUT
LOVER, MAID AND MOSQUITO.


7U lu^
y u 756- / M^ f 7 /&* -U^cuu^
" <&*' W j &*aaJUO>
/
7h~
&Ml (/^m-
SjiJLgm) ,
The new Governor and lus ■s'ifo vrera 1
naturally the cynosure of all tye«, and his
Excellency boro this inevitable ixpubio very
*****/ <*- VMf
<2e.JZ*E
/turts ** /a&.C'sk. .
• U*‘Xl£t. 7%x. <?y
<r//?aL
. Tho Countess looked cool la her.
close vrhito eaUnotte bodice end eova
ckivt. Clio .wore a email white ttrlT ‘
hat, with a wide band. She was
neatly gloved, and her email feet were
, encased m untannod shop^
Lady Hopetoua had a «omewua»
k weary look in her eyes.
LATEST IWTELUGEiCI. ,
/A MM*****-
lie w%s
•inioly clad in a Flack morning costume.
Ho wore a~doahio watch-chain of moderate
thickness, a broad malte-up white tie. and
tin tan nod hoots. His hair was carefully
parted down the middle, and his hat was »
small .straw hat, wn.it a white Hand. He
was ungloved, aod hie whole appearance ex-
ceedingly simple.
suite. IJo roooer did he catch sight of
Lord Km tore than lie stopped briskly for-
ward. and with a hearty " Well. Algie,
odd man, how are yon ?" shoos
hit old Iriond warmly 'ey fuo hand. Lord
<■ yon ask mo about my health. Well, I
Jon’t look very strong now, do I ! But I hsvo
never had anything the matter with me,
except for a Uttlo time last summer, when I
y>as laid up, but that was a thing which
, might happen to anyoao, and I am all right
now
*'Tes. I heard that it had been said I was
Coming to this country because I was delicate, but
you may deny that in the most emphatic terms
you choose. My cheat is sound as " —his lordshij*
got up and inflated his lungs in demonstration of
his words.
I hare been a working man for a great
while, and, in addition to my many duties, 1
have in the season hunted three, and some- ,
times four, times a week,
- '
/ r 'UA&t 6L AjULortO
sfiM. J auvulL, rr &. •*"•"
,Chj ci*y-
% &U**> &■ **- „
t£lt--
fruhxj- <U^ 0
' h -h s 'Z''-\
x>, 9, . o, > v*
*W<> v\*
°s\-
V
lie has a polished
bearing, and his taco shows an almost over
refined temperament. When speaking, bis
features show considerable nobility, and
yhen hd chooses he can smile very
affably. As a general thing his whole
bearing is calm, even’ to coldness*
I can see only one difficulty before me: it is S
rather serious one. It is this, I have to fill ths
gap left by the departure of my predecessor.
FACTS AND FANCIES ABOUT HOPETOUN.
(FROM THE MELBOURNE PAPERS.)


6o
INC
f Celebra
mm.
mr
/>■
SHEWED t.
SSff
PORT I
r°.
Aurora-. Ind.s
C/ r\ \ ''mws*' villi'-
jBolc 6Ufrg/wtfr,F. B.Wheeler &
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James Inglis & Co.,
4 & G Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
GRONDONA and COMPANY, Limited,
Are offering, as Liquidators,
;!J4) packages Clarets, Whiskies, Brandies,
Pianos, Wry Colours, Fuse, Cloves, and
Ceneral Merchandise.
GRONDONA & COMPANY, Limited,
64 King-street, Melbourne. [Tel. 003.
Cv\A&o jsx>t(x> ane>
Fein'S ouxc&A.
ö
OX&o the.
SeM lu&iicciii/fc
4c>V ii.g-ft.fc /xoclca
me tv o'f
F* B + WHEELER & C0 M
865 Clarence SI reel, SYDNEY.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
H
AYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of KTe-w Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Pennell, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collard, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Hopetoun’s drive through Melbourne to
the old Treasury Building—where he swore off, or
swore in, or something of that description—was a
success of numbers rather than of grovel. The
whole population was turned loose (by Govern-
ment proclamation), and there being no rival
shows provided, a good percentage of said popula-
tion loafed about the streets to see what the other
people were looking, at. When at last they saw a
very young man, with a very small head, drive by
in a blue-and-yellow “State” carriage, they
mostly said ; “ O, that’s the Governor !”—no more.
Standing among the crowd on the roadway in
front of the Town Hall, one could hear the
“delighted citizens” solemnly delivering an
opinion that it was “all a sell.” Some of
them considered that it was necessary to make a
noise when His Excellency passed. They had
been waiting two and three hours to do something,
so at the supreme moment they broke into an
apathetic jeer. The difference between jeers and
cheers, i.e., the “cheers” of newspaper reports,
is so subtle as to be barely noticeable. More-
over, there was cheering from the windows and
roofs of houses along the line of route. Women
mustered in strength at the windows and a few of
them waved handkerchiefs —for what will a woman
not wave her handkerchief at after spending three
hours in anxious expectation and casual glasses of
refreshment ? But, take it all together, Lord Hope-
toun’s reception was not a signal triumph for the
Tories. Duncan Gillies must have felt his little
heart sink within him as he heard the shrieks of
laughter which greeted Hopetoun’s outriders and
powdered wigs—the enquiries of “ What is it ?”
addressed to some monstrosities supposed to be
“ Scotch retainers ” —and, above all, the roars of
contempt aroused by the spectacle of naval and
military Mokannas in cocked hats. Young Aus-
tralia’s dislike to warlike and social flummery
seems to be equally strong all over the continent,
and is one of the most hopeful signs of the times.
H ow thankful we should feel that the new Governor
lacked brains to pull him through two attemots to
pass the military exam. !
* * #
The reporter of the religious daily, the
Melbourne D.T., a verra loyal paper which has no
director who is not an elder or a deacon, says of
the sc-oalled “triumphal entry” of Hopetoun to
Melbourne r
I am told by those who mingled freely with the crowd
that for a moment his Excellency’s reception trembled in
the balance. The imported flunkies, in their old-world
attire, roused the prejudices of the horny-handed son of
toil. He jeered ;he averred that “we did not want that
tomfoolery in a free country.” Hut the Earl and Countess,
obviously nervous, still more obviously intent cn pleasing,
triumphed, in spite of the horsehair and the flummery.
This candid admission is, of course, sandwiched
amongst much of a qualifying nature.
* * *
The remarks of Mr. Hobbs, the Radical
grocery-man in “ Little Lord Eauntleroy ” had
additional point on the night of Hopetoun’s ar-
rival. “ Once them earls begin coming over here
(New York), there’s an end to the glory of the
American Republic, and sugar will go down three
cents a pound ! ”
* # #
Judging from letters published in the
Melbourne dailies prior to Lord Hopetoun’s ar-
rival, it would seem that many old gentlemen—
mostly writing from the Toorak and St. Kilda
distr cts—couldn’t sleep for hoping that the new
Governor would be “ favourably impressed ” with
their Marvellous city. “First impressions are
lasting ” was the key-note of these communica-
tions. The old gentlemen went in dread that
Hopetoun might not bo sufficiently “struck” by
Port Melbourne in its plain, everyday state, and
their idea probably was that if he were taken right
away from the boat to Ccllins-street E. in a
balloon, he would then “see our noble city of
which we are justly proud,” &c., at “its very
best.” There is a good deal in the old gentle-
men’s remarks. For all we know His Excellency
may have taken a kind of prejudice against Mel-
bourne at the very outset of his useful career.
When the next Governor lands it will be safest to
gat the streets glazed and varnished, and if some
of the shops were sugar-coated it might make him
feel that he would like to eat his “ adopted
home.” All of which reminds one that the city
wasn’t extra specially favourably impressed with
Hopetoun. He has a certain air of being rather
more foolish than he looks.
# * *
In the Hopetoun crowd. Military man,
looking vei'y uncomfortable on rebellious steed.
Vox populi: “Whoa, Bravo! Don’t throw it,
Mick, or we’ll have to put Anwin up !”
# # *
The Victorian Parliament returned from
their reception of Hopetoun down the bay mostly
in a state of razzle-dazzle, Macßain and one or two
others looking miserably de trop. The others mostly
had a “drop de trop.” Five bottles of fizz per
man were sent down for-the luncheon, and the
remnants were few.
* * *
A N.Z. State schoolmaster tells The
Bulletin that he has discovered the most prac-
tical family of a practical nation. Our corres-
pondent was sent to a school up North, and there
being no teacher’s residence attached the chairman
of the school-committee agreed to “take him in
and do for him”—said chairman, it may bo re-
marked, having been elected to his official-
position chiefly on the ground that, being the
father of nine children, he should know more
about the wants of youth than any man who had
not nine children. Installed in his bedroom, the
teacher was surprised to find that it was unpro-
vided with washing-utensils, and brought the
omission under the notice of Mrs. Settler, who
profusely apologised, excusing herself on the plea
that “the old man usually cleaned hisself in the
kitchen.” A tin dish as a wash-basin and a
billy for a ewer were the best substitutes that
the house could afford for the orthodox delf,
and with these the pedagogue had perforce
to be content. It was an easy-going, social house-
hold ; every evening one or other of the girls would
borrow the tin dish “to wash her’ead,” and never
did she remember to return the article borrowed.
One afternoon the dominie encountered the old
lady making scones for tea —mixing the flour for
those scones in his washhand-basin! In a fort-
POTBELT’S THEOLOGY.
POTBELT (to squatteress who, lately married, has come to live on a station noted for the
economy of the boss in the matter of rations, and who being the daughter of a
bishop, deems it her duty to regenerate the blacks of the neighbourhood) ; “WHAT
'P) YOU YABBER YABBER LONG TIME GIB IT DELLY BREAD?
GIB IT DELLY BREAD ! WHAT TO YOU NOT GIB IT PELOUR
SO WE MAKE IT ? D -DELLY BREAD !”
night a fresh an-ival was squallingly introduced
to the social board. The schoolmaster liked babies
well enough, for a regular supply guaranteed the
permanency of his situation, but then the baby
was washed in h’s tin dish—and on the Saturday
evening he saw the eldest daughter mixing Sun-
day’s “duff” in that tin dish. Then on Monday
afternoon the old man (that is to say the president
of the school-board) washed his feet—in that tin
dish. The schoolmaster is now cooking for him-
self in a gum-digger’s hut.
* * #
The strike of school children in Scotland
was not lacking in pathos. They iised to walk
about the streets in sorrowful procession, behind a
banner bearing the strange device —“ Less Pars-
ing.” The sight of that banner must have given
pause to many a man who laboured under the
wrong impression that he “ Would he were a child
again.” All the trials and tribulations of our
maturity are as nothing compared with boyhood’s
page of parsing.
St. George’s Presbyterian Church. East St.
Kilda (Melb.), is a dreary and semi-aristocratic
edifice next door to' the higH-toiied and intoned
All Saints Church of England. But St. George’s
knocked the rival out in one round on Sunday
evening, 24th November. It was Sir Warming-
pan Robinson’s last Sabbath in Melbourne, and he
made it vice-regal command-night at St. G.’s. The
“Sunday service ” ad. in the preceding Saturday’s
papers intimated that His Excellency Sir W.
Robinson had announced his intent ion of being
present at the evening performance—.w&jaaau.
vice—and that the anthem would be-(not “ Unfurl
the Flag,”) “We have—waited for the Lord.”
As the “ Britannia rules the waves,” the 'kirk
hadn’t much longer to wait. It was most un-
mannerly for them to whine their impatience
before Robinson, any ho »v.
Mrs. Lacey, the wife of an employe at the
Footscray lithofracteur works, drowned herself
and her infant aged 10 months, leaving a letter
behind praying her husband to forgive her as she
had been “ driven mad : by the books.” She agreed
with a book-fiend to purchase a set of pictorial
works. The books were, sent together instead .of
singly, and the trouble of paying for them in a
lump unhinged her mind. Comment would be an
insult.
#* \ *
The Bulletin notices that Mayor Harris
didn’t say anything in his opening speech at the
Centennial Hall about the boisterous times when
John M’Elhone rooted up the Hall’s bogus found-
ations with his little penknife, and the Council
made those in the swim disgorge.
# * *
A Tasmanian parson has been committed
for trial for having given a false marriage-
certificate. It appears that he gave two certificates
—one correct and the other dated back at the
entreaty of the woman married. This parson has
struck a severe blow at existing social arrange-
ments ; but we freely forgive him. It isn’t every
clergyman who will risk gaol and write lies in
order to be merciful to a woman.
* * *
Two magnates of a certain N.S.W. mining
town the other day jointly celebrated their
respective birthdays by giving a dinner at an
hotel. The elder being of a pious turn suggested
that the proceedings should be opened with prayer.
The younger man’s eyes twinkled, but down on
their marrowbones went the guests, and afterwards
grace was sung in due form. Then the fizz flowed
and a few days afterwards the unhappy landlord
was summoned to the Police-court for having
allowed'-nmsio'on-his premises-after-hours. Alas !
How many people who begin with prayer end with
the police-court!
* * *
A Goulburn supporter of delegate Dillon
recently said —“So long as Ireland is silent
England will turn a deaf ear. ”
* * *
- -The “ stories-” entered for a certain much-
advertised “literary competition” are sorted in
the first place by a nursery-goverhess. This is an
item calculated to interest a large number of
people.
# * *
Says a New Zealand lady writer :
The likenesses in the cartoon are capital, especially
those of Mr. Roberts and Mr. Joubert, while Mr. Twu-
peny’s is rendered unmistakeable by the fact that a fox-
terrier is standing beside him.
Fine, intelligent, perspicuous creature is your lady-
writer. She sees at once that a certain man’s
strong feature is his dog, and says so.
* # *
When the Baron with Lady Carington and
three daughters stepped from their carriage on
Centennial Hall day, some irreverent person
roared out, “ Where’s the baby, Bob ? ” The fact
is that melud has been so beastly friendly with the
populace and has discounted his vice-regal glory so
considerably by carting about wounded foot-
ballers in the gubernatorial shandridan and by
publicly sympathising with Jobkins, the draper,
who has had a fire on his insured premises, that a
whole lot of the common people now think of him
as “ Bob.” But let these misguided persons make
no mistake. The Baron doesn’t think of himself as
“ Boh.” Bob isn’t enough change for the Sovereign
he represents.
* # #
One of Governor Carington’s favourite
amusements is to run quietly down the Beautiful
Harbour in a steam-launch and grill chops on the
foreshores with his own fair hands. He will be a
perfect godsend to the dyspeptic Tummy when
he gets back, inAdiat he will be able to provide
A.E. with some decent Australian victuals. By
the way, if the Baron will call round at this office
we will show him how to curl up the hoop-iron
grid in proper bush style.
* * *
The Karl of Hopetoun was very nicely dis-
tributed in his journey up Hobson’s Bay when
entering on his vice-regal jurisdiction. It took
no less than four vessels to convey the sucking
Governor from the Heads. He entered in the,
Britannia, was transferred to the Lady Loch, and,
after shedding his large, bland, clean-cut, guber-
natorial smile on the men of fat there assembled
in a desultory way, was immediately transhipped
to the Rome, hired for the occasion, where Gillies
and his cortege stood on their faces and did a long,
strong-grovel. After which he went aboard the
Commissioner, where he found another band
ready to keep up the devotion. So that the
journey up the bay was a continuous burst of
adulation.
# * *
New Governor Hopetoun, one of whose
titles, Baron Hope, by the way, is very significant,
denies that he sent out 300 suits of livery. He
says he only sent a few to give him a start, know-
ing very well he would be able to get the rest in
Melbourne. He will regret having sent out the
30 flunkeys for the same reason—there are plenty
of ’em in Smelbonrne.
# * *
Seventeen thousand pounds is the nice
little sum the Victorian Government has paid to
wipe out a few hotels in Geelong. To the horror
of the Victorian Alliance the publicans who have
been bought out are selling their stocks over the
bar at small prices, and for the last week or so
Sleepy Hollow has been full of violent drunks,
who have galvanised the town and peopled it with
strange, wild animals. In fact, Geelong has never
known such a season of horrors since the good old
days when the diggers went there to sweat down
their big cheques
* * *
A correspondent of London Hawk, writing
from the Union Club, Sydney (N.S.W.), says :
The Caringtons continue popular, but make themselves
far too cheap, and rush after everyone. The dignity of
his position is often lost sight of by his desire to be
popular. Lord Loch in Melbourne kept style, and his enter-
taining was far better arranged—no mixing up of wrong-
people. The lower classes love Carington, but the upper ten
think his Radical ideas as to equality rather lowers (sic)
than elevates (sic) the representative of the Crown, and
as at home, certain people mix with certain people, so it
ought to be in Sydney ; but at Government House here on
her ladyship’s At-home days all, no matter who, think
they have a right to go, and the Caringtons permit it.
They entertain very little. Lord Hopetoun, it is hoped,
will keep his position, and keep the “ Colonial ” in his.
Haw ! It will be perceived that Sir Henry Lcoh
is called “Lord” Loch. It is the fashion for
Englishmen to sneer at foreign titles on the score
that you can be made a Marquis abroad for a £lO
note, but it would really appear that British and
other hereditary titles are now so common as to
be a mere drug in the market. Here, for ex-
ample, is one of the choicest snobs of the Union
Club under the impression that Loch is a lord.
We have been reading the English and other
foreign papers for years and years, and every time
we take up a new paper we discover the existence
of two or three “ lords ” or “Sirs” of whom we
had never previously heard in all our life. Dear
“colonial” friends, let us all keep in our places.
“ Our place ”is Australia. Hopetoun’s place is—
Hingland.


ò
TBT
mi'T 1
ALMOST AS PALATABLE
AS MlLffi
Bo disguised that the most
delicate stomach can take it.
Remarkable as a
flesh producer.
Persons gain, rapidly
■wkilc taking it.
SCOTT’S EIULSIOIT
Is acknowledged by Physicians to be the FINEST
and BEST preparation of its class for the relief of
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA, GENERAL
DEBILITY, BASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Eatho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163.)
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
DO —KINO STREET—9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australis
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
C Months
3 Months
94 per cent.
84 per cent.
74 per cent.
5| per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
ROBERTSON’S W HISKY -
£2OO PRIZES.
GIVEN A WAV IN THK COLONIES
AS FOLLOWS :
16 of £5 each, £2, ami 70 *l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, A.XjXjT 1 Sz 0C3.,
Limiteci, CHARLOTTE PLACE
SYDNEY
We have been very ill ever since Saturday
afternoon, when we attended the farewell concert
of Mr. Charles Santley, a nice old gentleman who,
we have beard our grandfather say, was a rather
good baritone in England a quarter of a century
ago, and who, even now, is quite good enough for
Australia. The hall was packed—partly because
Governor and Lady Carington were there, partly,
perhaps, in consequence of the concert being
the first ever held in the great hall. The
programme, from a popular point of view,
was as dreary as a funeral. Its “classi-
cal contents comprised nothing which wasn’t a
hundred years old (and hardly anything which
had a recognisable air in it) save an item an-
nounced on the programme thus :
5. Berceuse • • • • Santley
Orchestra (conducted by the composer).
This charming little Lullaby, the latest composition of
Mr. Charles Santley, is dedicated to the Honourable
Judith S. - M. Carington, infant daughter of Lady Car-
ington.
(Those who deal in such grovel should observe
the conventionalities and give the name of both
parents.) When Santley sang, the £3OO audience
good-naturedly encored him, but he resolutely de-
clined it. However, when item five, as above, was
arrived at, and a repetition was demanded by the
flunkies, the great composer smilingly assented,
and ascended the conductor’s rostrum to perform
the corrobborree-antic act. The Bulletin can’t
understand why the vice-regal infant wasn’t duly
staged, pinched, and made howl on the occasion
by the ladies’ committee of the Jubilee Fund, in
order to ascertain the soothing qualities of: a
cradle-song with trimmings by 14 fiddlers and a
bassoon. Madame Christian staggered along
under the depressing influence of a load of, in the
main, dismally unpopular music*—the sort of thing
winch you always see written up as “ exquisite ” by
the soi-disant, musical-dictionary-educated critics
of the daily papers; and a very full orchestra per-
petrated, in addition to some attractive items, a
brassy atrocity by Wagner.
When one of these clays we start in the
theatrical business our great speciality will be a
notice that “his Excellency the Governor Sir
Augustus and Lady Jobson will not be present.”
Saturday afternoon’s concert was billed for 3
o’clock. Three was struck by the inexorable clock
overhead which respected not vice-royalty, and
thereafter the audience waited in a sweltering
room —it is hot in the Centennial Hall—for several
minutes, waiting the Governor. When at last he
did arrive people stood up in order that Queen
Victoria might be vicariously adored.
# * *
Which reminds us that although the united
religious services under vice-regal patronage
at the Centennial Hall on Sunday were opened
with “ God Save the Queen ’’—performed to mark
the entrance of the Governor—the proceedings
closed in a similar manner! The .Deity is very
patient.
1 * * *
The Anglo-Australian Society of Artists
have received Y.R.’s gracious permission to add
the word “ royal ”to the title of their sect. One
more proof of Her Majesty’s womanly sympathy
with every description of grovel.
Hiddilston the cricketer when convicted
of embezzlement asked for mercy on the ground
that he had a young wife. The case is a miserable
one. Six weeks before his detection and with the
full consciousness of his guilt, which had extended
over a long period, Hiddilston married an at-
tractive and respectable girl out of a good situation
which she had creditably occupied for years. And
now In' gets to gaol for ten years.
THIS AND ANOTHER DAY.
(Byron Adapted.)
There was a sound of grovelry to-day,
Victoria’s capital was lathered o’er
With oily loads of Loyalty ; each way
The streets were lined with some toy-soldier
corps ;
A dozen drums beat bumptiously ; then more
Music arose for this young beardless swell;
Fat forms were bent to earth upon the shore,
And all was “ gaudy ” as a muffin-bell.
But hush ! hark ! a deep sound doth from the
future well.
Did ye not hear it ? No, ’twas but the strain
Of the bonds binding us to forms effete !
On with the/efe of Bunkum versus Brain,
Not oft a Lord hath left his ancient seat
To dazzle southern lands and their “ elite ”
But hark ! that sound grows through this brassy
bray,
And “in the air ” its echo lingers sweet,
A forecast of the joy that greets the day
When snapt these Royal Apronstrmgs for aye !
Mayor Harris’ Ball.
The great Sydney Centennial Hall was
opened last week with much pomp and circum-
stance. We didn’t go to the official opening cere-
mony, because the weather was red-hot, and there
was bound to be a big crowd, and the speeches
were certain to be the same old tommy-rot about
the glorious empire beneath the Southern Gross ;
besides, we didn’t see how they were going to keep
Dan O’Connor from getting control of the pro-
ceedings, and talking everyone deaf, dumb, and
silly ; so we decided to keep away. From the
daily papers it appears that things turned out
much as we expected; although, for some mys-
terious reason, Dan appears to have kept his hands
right off the affair. There was another reason for
staying away, in the fact that Mayor Harris was
giving a colossal ball in the evening, and we
wanted to keep nice and fresh for the ball.
* # *
There is an impression abroad that a
Mayor’s Ball is a kind of wild-beast show, where
all the uncouth people who never go to dances or
festivities anywhere else come forth into the glare
of gaslight and disport themselves in tasteless
dresses. This impression has no doubt arisen
from the facts that the Mayor’s ball is frequently
confounded with the return ball to the Mayor,
from which, as admission means “ parting,” nearly
eighty per cent, of those who have at the invita-
tion ball'drunk the Mayor’s fizz and swallowed
his chicken gratis carefully stay, away leaving their
places to be filled by servant-girls in yellow dresses
and red stockings and their attendant grooms;
and that the “ city fathers ” and their guests are
T(fcAlV\ J
J \<Z
rmvrofsy OF
[KO'TftN'l BM
-fS
O °“r f
ONE OF THOSE THINGS WHICH SHOULD HAVE BEEN SAID
DIFFERENTLY IF AT ALL.
PRINTERS DEVIL: “GIVE US A COPY OF ‘WHITAKER’S ALMANAC,”
FOR MR. SLIMEBOSS.
BOOKSELLER; “WHO IS MR. SLIMEBOSS?”
P.D.: “OH ! HE’S THE COVE WOT MAKES UP ALL THE CABLEGRAMS
FOR OUR PAPER.”
very often men who have never had a chance to
acquire much fashionable polish, having worked
their way manfully up from small beginnings.
Nevertheless, the vast crowd at Mayor Harris’
ball,. taking them bye and large all through
the three thousand, were as well-dressed and well-
mannered a crowd as could be seen at any of the
most fashionable assemblages in Sydney. The
hall was just nicely filled, and, to enable people
to find each other in the crowd, it was all marked
off into different rendezvous, distinguished by the
names of the different suburbs. There was a great
rush for Darling Point, that being the most
fashionable suburb, and we heard one little damsel
mournfully remarking that “ Ma had sat down m
Pyrmontof all places,” and she was simply ashamed
to tell her partners so. Lord and Lady Carington
and Rupert and the Admiral arrived in time to
dance the opening quadrille, and everybody who was
anybody crowded up to that end of the room in
hopes they would be recognised by “dear Lady
Carington. ” Grovel will never die out while there
are women in the world. The music was excellent
and the floor very good, considering it was then
danced on for the first time.
# * *
After three or four dances a sort of un-
easy, restless feeling seemed to pervade a large
section of the male guests. Gluttony will never
die out while men live. They were thinking
about the champagne. It is recorded of a certain
Sydney Mayor’s ball that a guest who came up
slightly late asked a waiter for champagne. The
waiter lauglied. “ Bless yer ’art, sir,” he said, “it
was all gone in the first rush ; in fact, us waiters
’aven’t ’ad anythink o’ the sort for ourselves for
the last twenty minutes.” It was a nameless
dread of this sort of thing happening again that
kept the guests on the qui vive at the Centennial
Ball. Each man wanted to be in with the ‘ first
rush.” Then it was discovered that there were
refreshments literally everywhere—upstairs and
down, in all sorts of nooks and alcoves and^ pas-
sages were tables laden with ‘ ‘ prog ” m
every direction one ran against waiters.
The guests opened business very cautiously,
going to these innumerable side-tables just for a
snack now and again, but_ calculating to turn
themselves loose when the big supper was thrown
open. After a while a “horrid whisper fell
amongst them as they lay’’—namely, that there
was no formal sit-down supper, but that the
small, omnipresent suppers spread about were
all that was to be available. A sort of panic
arose, and for a while there was a steady rush on
the tables, but they stood the demand nobly.
Then a lot of the guests seemed to feel on their
mettle, as it were, and they decided that as long
as Mayor Harris would find champagne they would
provide throats. The assault was kept up steadily,
and steadily the phalanx of waiters kept on bring-
ing up more and more baskets full of ‘ gold-top.
At length it became obvious that John Harris was
going to outlast the best of them, and right out to
the very last that huge crowd swilled fizz —even
as they swilled it in the time of Mayor Roberts,
whose proud boast it could have been that no man
ever departed from an entertainment of his sober
who wanted to be otherwise. One slight advan-
tage which the refreshments enjoyed should be
recorded. The Baron (erstwhile Champagne
Charlie !”) takes water in his fizz. What a satire
on “life!” It’s a dreadful thing to have a liver.
# # *
By the time the ball was half through, the
floor had begun to get “warm,” and was really
splendid to dance on. Everyone danced the square
dances : there were a good many people there who
could dance no other. In one of the lancers a girl
got her train trodden on, with the result that a
good deal of her dress carried away, and Heaven
knows she had little enough to begin with. The
“ military ” men, volunteer officers and so on,
were resplendent in their scarlet. Men who sling
ink and add up accounts all the week were blazing
with epaulettes • and jingling with arms and ac-
coutrements. When ashore the sea-cook’s assist-
ant has always more brass and brass-buttons than
the captain, and the more “ amateur ” the soldier
the more fiercely he is arrayed. Isn’t it Bret
Harte who says—
“ In short, we are always sure to detect
A sham in the things folks most affect.”
So with the women kind. The bigger and fatter
and fleshier they were the more clothes they didn’t
have on. People who never get asked anywhere,
and who only emerge from their obscurity at
public balls, could be heard talking in a lofty way
about the “strange sort of people one sees at
these dances, begad.” No doubt there were all
sorts there. Learned judges and wise professors
danced vis-a-vis to the gentlemen who supplied
them with groceries during the week. Lawyers,
doctors, members of Parliament in dozens, pawn-
brokers, insolvents, barristers who get paid for not
doing their work, and barristers who have no work
to get paid for, Jews and Gentiles, all sorts and
conditions of men were there, even down to a
solitary, tired-looking Chinaman. Did we say
there was a Chinaman there? There was—a
prince or potentate of some sort in his own
country, but still a “ Ohow.” He had a white man
with him, a fieree-looking pirate, with a red beard,
who was to protect him from being “ jollied ” by
any of the young sports who might take a fancy
to do so. One young Cornstalk wanted to ask him
“You savee champagne, John ?” but the guardian
angel interfered, and a row was narrowly
averted.
* * *
As the night wore on the theatrical people
began to drop in. It is a rather painful disillusion
to see a great comedian who makes one laugh so
oonsumedly, leaning up against a wall as solemn and
stupid-looking as a boiled owl; or to see an actress,
whose pathetic business can bring tears to the eyes
of her audience, eating chicken with her fingers.
The new arrivals shed a glitter of jewellery and
gems over the proceedings. The room began to
thin a little as some of the people made for home,
but those who stayed on kept things going with un-
diminished vigour. In the hall the dancers
swung round to the dreamy strains of “Bid
me Good-bye ”; in the refreshment-room the
corks still popped as the thirst-brigade main-
tained their onslaught; a sort of free-and-easier
tone seemed to steal over the proceedings. Out-
side in the pale moonlight the cabmen, carriage-
and hangers-on generally, waited patiently,
smcnang and yarning. Then a sort of general
move set in; the officials at the door were kept
busy yelling for “ Mrs. So-and-So’s kerridge,” and
the beauty and the fashion and the talent rolled
away. The last dance came, a mad, spirit-stirring
gallop, danced with feverish energy; then the
band stopped for a few seconds and then came the
well-known air beseeching the Almighty to keep
His eye on Tummy’s mother. The ladies moved
off and got their fleecy-looking clouds and wraps,
and with their escorts set forth into the night.
# # *
What of the aftermath ? We know by
the old song that “after the opera is over” the
fun really begins for some people. So it was at
the Mayor’s ball. After the ball was over the fun
began. The cloaks and hats had been handed in
to the cloak-room attendants through two win-
dows, and as the guests had arrived gradually, a
few at a time, this was well enough, but when
they all wanted to go away together and all
wanted their cloaks at once, it was a very different
matter. The result was that a surging crowd
surrounded each window, each man yelling out
the number of his ticket and trying to force his
way in before the others. Most of them had more
champagne under their waistcoats than was
exactly good for them. Some got on chairs at the
back of the crowd and tried to lean oyer the
other’s shoulders; others pulled these chairs from
under them, bringing the adventurous spirits down
with much clatter. One fellow so brought to
grief picked himself up—-“ That was funny,” he
said ; ‘ ‘ I’d like to see the that did that do it
again.” Later on the proceedings got rougher.
We have heard whispers about a fight in the vesti-
bule between one of the youngest members of
Parliament and another fellah, in which the other
fellah got a good deal knocked about and shed his
patrician gore all over his dress-clothes and shirt-
front. It is only fair to him to add that he hadn’t
been drinking soda, and that, like a lot of others
he wore a large-sized hat next day.
An ingenious American clergyman lias in-
vented a three-slot contribution-box which an-
nounces by a gong arrangement the amount
dropped in. There is a separate department for
buttons and card-counters, which are silently re-
gistered by a card that says, “ Mean old thing.”
Scene—Registry Officefor births, marriages,
and deaths, persons waiting; enter registrar. First
applicant, young woman wishing to register birth ;
many questions asked and answered. Registrar
(still thinking of births, to applicant for Marriage
licence): “ Boy or girl ? ” Applicant for Marriage
licence : “ Why, girl, of course.” Registrar :
‘ Oh, there is no ‘of course ’ about it; it is a mere
matter of chance.” Explanations and curtain.
Now that the London Club scandal has
bean unearthed, the London police need extend
their search for “Jack the Ripper.” Good judges
all along surmised that the Whitechapel outrages
must have been committed by unnatural and de-
praved ruffians such as the titled wretches now
fleeing from justice. What is more, the existence
of such dens of infamy must have been known to
the police long ago. When Meiklejohn in 1884
unearthed similar infamies among Crown officials
at Dublin Castle, rumours were current of London
scandals of the same nature. Nay, when one of
the noblemen (?) who lately fled, was divorced
from his wife some years ago, the case was heard
in camera, but people knew the reason why. Jus-
tice is blind, especially in the case of titled and
wealthy offenders.


Government Advertisements.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 2nd December, 1889.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting TENDERS for the Conveyance
of Mails between Armidale and Booroolong; Berry
and Nowra ; and Dubbo and Tenandra.
Tenders will be received up to the 18th instant,
and must be addressed to the Secretary to the
Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Amusements.
ejihkatre royal.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
Last Two -w- tt/ *x l nr l T3* *1"
Nights. OIaIVE T A E. Nights.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
■|£EB MAJESTY’S THEATRE'
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.80. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP
IS3LJC-. ElcA'winiTL "X 11 li o r*xe
—IX—
THE ROYAL GUARD.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
rpOWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage, is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 IG-e.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. BflL BARKER,
Town Clerk.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.45.
LAST TAVO NIGHTS OP
Pinero’s Powerful Play,
Nights. THE SQUIEE. Nights.
Interpreted by the
Brough-Boucioault Comedy Company.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7,
TURNED UP, preceded by IN HONOUR BOUND.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Daags, Business Manager.
| OYAL MUSEUM
Royal museum ■» c
AND AND
PALACE OF AMUSEMENT,
Immediately opposite Town Hail, George Street.
Sole Proprietor
Mr. John Solomon.
A GREAT SUCCESS!
Five Splendid Floors Full of Attractions!
THE DAILY RENDEZVOUS!
Amusements and Exhibitions of all Descriptions !
Concert Room ! Creak of Nature Room !
ILLUSION ROOM!
Mechanical Model Room! Variety Room!
One Shilling to all. Children Sixpence.
OTIS ELEVATOR. ELECTRIC LIGHT.
NOVELTIES ALWAYS ENGAGED.
HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
X? O N D I AQUARIU M.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10-a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
R
M
A!
The greatest battle in the world’s most mo-
mentous civil war is fought to its dread close daily
at the Cyclorama.
Where is it ? Opposite Redfern Terminus.
Open 10 to 10. Sunday Next (Half-price), 3to 10.
Have you seen it?
OAIETY THEATRE.
SATURDAY (TO-NIGHT), 7th DECEMBER.
SATURDAY (TO-NIGHT), 7th DECEMBER.
TliiodLon’s Wondlerg!
THIODON’S WONDERS!
The Oldest Show on Earth. The Oldest Show on Earth.
The Proprietors wish it distinctly understood thii
is not a Panorama or MarHonette Exhibition.
Admission—3s., 2s. and Is.
NOTICE.
INFORMATION WANTED of WILLIAM
MYLES, who left Kilworth, Co. Cork,
Ireland, in the year 1864. When last heard from
was in Queensland, and intended leaving for New
Zealand at that time.
Should this meet his notice he will hear of some-
thing which will interest him by communicating
with
Messrs. DUFFY & QUINN,
Produce Merchants,
82 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder. .
Everybody should use Pemell's Latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is tho greatest success of the age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Shipping.
IRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
ô
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and J apan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 217 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 8000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
ø
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
o
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. —Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,'
Acting Principal Agent.
JJORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS .
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable):—
ò
And thereafter everv four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
«. 5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postinasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under: —
ō
Bach steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu'de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FRKDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Furniture, &c.
AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
I MILL SUITES for DINING-ROOM-SIDE-
' BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH. EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
1 ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
_ This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. Cd. extra.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
o
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAI,
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ó
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by K. LIFT and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUEELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ò
JgEDSTEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
o
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also.
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13. Od. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. fid.; Wash stands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s,
/ 1 ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
VX Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
X>ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
jy 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d.. etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
EDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
N
EWT O N AND LAM B
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
A vision hairy—Parkes.
The man who carries his heart on his
sleeve isn’t in it with the Russian nobleman who
wears his compressed cremated wife on his finger.
It is said that an investigation is pending
regarding the Duke of Connaught’s military per-
formances in India, which will induce him to re-
tire on a pension.
It is a remarkable fact with respect to the
28 Melbourne Cups run previously to this year’s
that no horse which was ever placed second or
third subsequently won the great event.
Jem Mace is about to box Charlie Mitchell
four rounds for £200 aside. This is probably for
points, as Mitchell is accounted the best-scienced
man next to Mace that the ring has seen.
John Burns : “Yes, I’ve always been an
abstainer, but I hate the average teetotaller so
much that I think of going ‘on the booze ’ for a
month every year. I hate being held up by these
canting humbugs of temperance people as a shining
light.”
Searle’s unfortunate illness has robbed his
return to Australia of all its anticipated glories.
No demonstrations, no fizz, no speeches, no skite
of any sort. It’s a pity in one way that the
Champion couldn’t pass his complaint on to the
new Gov.
At a London Mansion House meeting Rev.
Fleming Williams said that “he had, in the exe-
cution of his duties as County Council alderman,
met a sanitary officer who told him that a day or
two previous in an underground cellar there had
lain the corpse of a woman, and when it was dis-
covered three fatherless little children were play-
ing around it.”
Surely there is a moral in the visit to our
waters of the mammoth German merchant steamer
Kaiser Wilhelm II., the biggest steamer we have
ever seen in the ports. The world moves, and
England is no longer mistress of the sea.
Rule Germania ! Sauer Kraut rules the waves.
Yah ! Yah ! Purser Schlachdalager, of the Kaiser
Wilhelm II., hands us one of those yard-long
sleevers.
Says the Cairns (Queensland) Post : —
“ Before Mr. O’Malley, P.M., at the Police Court,
an aborijinal, the property of Mr. A , was
charged with having stolen a coat with a watch
and (drain in the pocket from one Ah Fee, a cook
in the Cairns Hotel.” Still the same old Cairns!
Many a long year ago we were there and saw
niggers swapped for saddles and carbines and so on_
Poor Jimmy Scott! He thought there was
moneyin taking a Maori Football Team to England.
His speculation was not the success he hoped for,
and when he returned to the Land of the Moa, he
filed his schedule. His creditors appear to be a
very hard lot, for, finding that no books were kept
of the football speculation and that very little
definite information was obtainable about it from
Scott, they decided to take from him his gold
watch and sent him off to Auckland to endeavour
to raise money to pay a small dividend.
As we predicted some time ago, the re-
duction of the added money to the Wagga Cup
largely influenced the entries for tins year.
The prize attracted a field of fourteen —just about
double the usual number —most of whom would
have failed to enter had a larger stake drawn
thither one or two metropolitan performers. This
is as it should be. Local sportsmen are the back-
bone of country race-clubs, and the local public
are just as much interested in the galloping
of the leather-flapper they know as in that
of the second-class city crack come up to
annex their hardly scraped - together spon-
dulix. The giving of fairly good prizes open
only to local horses also encourages the farmer to
send his half-bred mare to some good horse, and
thus is, in another way, of some benefit.
As a successful breeder of blood-stock no
Englishman has approached Lord Falmouth, who
passed in his respectable checks recently. With
a limited number only of brood mares he turned
out more really first-class performers than any
three of the public stud farms put together, and
his name headed the list of winning owners year
after year, between the ’70’s and '80’s. Lord Fal-
mouth’s system of breeding appeared to be hap-
hazard until it was closely looked into; he was
not given to mating a mare with the same sire for
two successive seasons, yet his apparently most
erratic experiments had a method in them. On
the turf he had the advantage of first call
upon the first jockey, Fred. Archer, and his
trainer, Mat. Dawson (who has charge of Mr.
James White’s two Derby horses) was an impor-
tant factor in the stable success. The old yarn
about Lord Falmouth’s one and only bet will be
going the round of the English papers again. It
was when John Scott trained for him that Lord
F. bet Mrs. Scott sixpence against his mare, Queen
Bertha, winning the Oaks. Queen Bertha won,
and a new sixpence, set in diamonds, was duly
paid over to the trainer’s wife.
Here is a yarn related of a lately-knighted
Victorian magnate and a friend of his, Nathaniel
Barnett. They were boys at school together, and
Barnett was privileged in those anti-Loeh diamond
days to call the other “Podge.” When they both
entered the world’s broad field of battle, Nat. used
to say “ Podgeman,” and later on, when high
office inflated his friend, “Mister Podgeman.” On
the day after the cablegram arrived announcing
the knighthood of Podgy, the two men met on
the stairs in the buildings w.here both occupied
rooms. “ Good day, Mr. Podgeman,” said Nat.,
and disappeared into his office. He came out
again twenty minutes later and found the
great man very evidently waiting for him.
“ Can I speak to you for a few minutes, Mr. Bur-
nett ? ” inquired Sir Podgeman in freezing tones,
and when he had got his old schoolfellow safely into
his sanctum he continued : “Air. Barnett, you are
—a —a—ahem—an educated man, and—a—a—
you’ve seen a good deal of the world —a —a —by
this time; I can scarcely think you ’ave acted
through ignorance, most likely • ’twas thoughtless-
ness, but I’d ’ave you remember that in future
when addressin, me you say “ Sir Podgy Podge-
man,” not “Mr. Podgeman.” And he bowed Nat
out.


George Augustus Sala was spouting at the
late Brighton election for the Liberal candidate,
while Edmund Yates, once a Radical, took the
platform on the Conservative side.
A Sydney advertisement: —
\T ARY FRASER, please return cake and save further
m trouble.
We have often heard of the lady “who took the
cake ” and here she is at last. But suppose Mary’s
eaten it!
A Launceston schoolmaster states that he,
having resigned his connection with the R.C.
school in order to open a private seminary, has
since been boycotted, absolution and the sacraments
having been refused to such pupils and their
parents as have transferred their patronage from
the Church school to that which he has opened,
'.rids, of course, means ruin.
The Sydney Amateur Gymnastic Club had
its formal opening in the local “Old Masonic
Hall ”on Friday night last. The hall is well-fitted
with gymnastic appliances, and any man who
finds that he is not so active as he used to be, and
whose liver has grown to such a size that lie has to
carry it under his arm, would do well to fork out
the four guineas annual subscription and become a
member. Curiously enough a very similar
dub was opened in Melbourne a few weeks ago.
The opening of the Melbourne affair was very
high-toned, the visitors being gilded mashers in
evening dress and half-full of fizz. The Sydney
concern was less ambitious, but more workman-
like. The hall was crammed to the doors, and the
audience were about as tough-looking a lot as one
would meet in a mouth of Sundays. The show
given on opening was not as well-arranged as it
might have been. The first match, which con-
sisted of four rounds between Jones and Bottison,
both amateurs, was simply a pitiful farce, the latter
being so thin that one would think lie was
training to go down a gaspipe, and he was about as
formidable with his hands as a pig with a musket;
another four r imds later on, between Broomfield
and Benson, both amateurs, was of much the same
character. The latter was so attenuated and
weak-looking that a bystander remarked that he
must be a brave man to walk about in public at
all. If the leading members of the club want to
show what they can do, they ought to match
themselves against men sufficiently good to make
a decent exhibition, or else let them punch a bag
for the edification of the spectators; the two
matches we have mentioned were simply poor
exhibitions on ail sides. Some other bouts showed
hotter sport, and Valentine (amateur), who boxed
Tom Taylor, and Cowhand (amateur), who boxed
Jem Hail, both put in really good work. Cowhand is
an especially neat, quick, and clever boxer, and
showed some exceptionally good work, but i s hardly
powerful enough to bruise against top-flight men.
Valentine is more cut out for a rough-and-tumble,
and there is talk of matching him against Sandall.
The cutlass team of the N.A.Y. showed simply
marvellous precision; and were enthusiastically
encored. The single-stick and foil work is very
hard to follow by gaslight, but with the foils an
amateur showed distinct superiority over a pro-
fessional. If the club once get fairly going there
is plenty material in Sydney to turn out some
splendid athletes, and if tliey got up annual
matches against the Melbourne Gymnastic Club
they should draw well and furnish large supplies
of the good red gold which is so necessary to the
success of gymnastic clubs and everything else
now-a-days.
I
K
d(
s
o
.N
T
O
II
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3s*s Barrack Street.
ARTESIAN WELL SUPPLY 00-,
New York and Pittsburgh,
Manufacture Everything for Oil or Artesian Well
Boring, Drive Pipe, &c.
Competent Drillers sent when Required.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Agent,
22 and 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now Imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
£EMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES. CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUOEL-BALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT It should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from Ito 2 tea
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the V.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 82, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the 1 Vorld.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
o
SPRINGS .)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELEBTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL.—For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE.—An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
WARRAN EE. WARRANEE. WARRANEE.
(The Native name for Sydney.)
SATURDAY, 7tli DECEMBER, 1889,
On the Ground, at Three o’clock.
THE WARRANEE ESTATE,
The property of the St. Leonard’s Land, 8.,
and L. Company, Limited, situate
fronting the
North Sydney Road (Flat Rock), North Shore.
CTLARKE Si MTNTYRE, 120 Pitt-street, and
J St. Leonards, have received instructions to
sell, as above, this most important subdivision,
WARRANEE,
a valuable block of 10 acres, subdivided into
01 choice
Building Allotments,
and offered to the public on the most Liberal
Terms, viz., £3 deposit, and ss. weekly for the
balance, including interest at the rate of 6 per
cent., with right to pay off at any time, only
charging interest to date of payment.
MONEY FOUND TO BUILD.
Special inducements offered to purchasers to
erect Cottages, etc., and thereby save rent.
EVERY MAN HIS OWN LANDLORD.
TORRENS’ TITLE,
N.B.—The land is situate between the North
Shore railway and Willoughby tramway, con-
venient to both, and close to the Government
tramway terminus,
THE WARRANEE ESTATE.
DAY of SALE—SATURDAY, December 7.
Special ’buses leave Milson’s Point 2.30 p.m.
Litho. Plans to be obtained from the Auctioneers,
CLARKE and MTNTYRE, 120 Pitt-street, and
at St. Leonards and Chatswood.
Bon Accord Estate,
WAYEELEY.
CHOICEST LAND in this FLOURISHING
SUBURB.
SALE of this VALUABLE SUBDIVISION,
on the Ground,
On SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14.
CLARKE and MTNTYRE have received in-
structions from the Trustees of the late
Fraucis Smith, Esq., to sell, as above.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
Terms : 10 per cent, deposit, 15 per cent, in 6
months, and the balance in 5 years at 5 per cent.
Eiliiene’ Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Castlereagh St, Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
HXTe-w Business :
1887 There were issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ „ 84,884 „
1889 up lo *Bl li October 48,833 „
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death.
JAMES P. GARY AN, 1 Managing Director.
WM. ALEX. SMITH, / Secretary.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Jfj D WIN G, GOERTZ,
Stock anti Share Broker,
FUsTAirCIAL JLGKBUSTI?,
BRISBANE,
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, &o.
Should write or call upon
A. M. HARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO PLATE,
CIOAKS »V TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
3&E, l&aCecrlsLs «&s Co.,
Vickery's Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
PRINCE O F WALE S’ HOT E L,
St. Klilda, "Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
jAvfsoNyJ
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
£
R
F
£
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d. CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacconists,
ò
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
Wholesale Agents: A. M. MARKS & Co., 74a FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing' Machine.
IASTOKA LISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season,
Agents: J. H. GEBBEB & CO-,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
■mmspwws:
00* *
4 /
'\yj
D
<l/
1C
'
O
L
w
o
Offices
V/
JO
"i v
MILDU RA .
Melbourne
,
HENM ARK„
ADELA I DE _
England,
Vrcfsnf%:
_ Chalky Irrigation Ofncos, Swanston Street.
South AusTraLTM,.
.Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street!
—J. E. Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner)
Tro»d») i C»
Cornwall Buildings, 25 Queen Victoria St.
uqnoon &C-
ESSENTIALS TO SUCCESS.
Successful men are often quoted as instances of
rare good luck. Those laggards in life’s race who
point them out thus markedly failed to consider
their real essentials. Shrewdly observant thought,
keen ability, and foresight coupled with judgment,
care, and untiring industry, can alone ensure suc-
cess. This is not an age of sham. It is eminently
practical. To win popular appreciation an article
must possess intrinsic worth. Thus it has been
with the Waterbury Watch. It has won its way
to public esteem because it is a good timekeeper.
But that alone would not have accomplished its
widespread popularity so quickly. It has been
judiciously and continuously put before the pub-
lic, and the public in turn desire and will have it.
The success of the past demonstrates its reliability
and general appreciation.
WELL PLEASED.
Under date November 4,1889, Mr. G. Ambrose
writes from Goree Station, Narrandera, as fol-
lows : “ I am well pleased with my Waterbury
Watch. It certainly keeps excellent time. ”
AN AUSTRALIAN BUSHMAN’S OPINION.
“ Gentlemen, —I have had one of your watches
three years now, and I would warrant it to keep
time with the best watch in the country. I have
travelled the country with it, journeys of 400
miles and more, and have never once found it to
fail me.—l am, &e., yours respectfully,
JOHN M‘GARTHY.
“ To the Waterbury Watch Co., Sydney, 24th
April, 1889.:’
Ji
&
o
6
m
m
1;
r~-
tfTSQAP
W
10
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Selected with the greatest regard for Purity,
and for the
SOOTHING and BENEFICIAL EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers In
Toilet Requisites.
The Cabman Who Had to Buy His
Wife a New Frock.
From the WOLVERHAMPTON CHRONICLE.
We have just learned of the thrilling experience of
the well-known cabman, Charles Green, who for
many years has been employed by the Wilson Cab
Company, His experience, as related below, is as
interesting as it is extraordinary. It appears that
3VI r. Green had occasion recently to go out of town,
remaining overnight, and was obliged to sleep in a
damp bed, and thereby contracted rheumatism in
the most severe form. It seemed to settle all over
him ; he was brought home, put to bed, and for
more than eight weeks could not move hand or
foot. His agony was such that ho would scream
if anyone came into the room for fear they would
touch him. His knees were swollen to three times
their natural size. He was as near crazy as man
could be, but at the same time retained his facul-
ties. Everything was tried without benefit. In
despair he was taken to the Wolverhampton Hos-
pital, where he remained four weeks, at the end of
which time he was even worse than when admitted,
and the medical gentlemen who attended him at
the hospital told him that they could do nothing
more for him, that his case was hopeless, and he
was discharged as incurable. He was taken
home, where his wife persuaded him, as a last
resort, to try St. Jacobs oil, which was procured
from Weaver, chemist, 42 Dudley-road, Green
remarking at the time, in a joking way, to his
wife, “ that if St. Jacobs oil cured him he would
buy her a new frock,” little expecting, however,
that he would have that pleasure. His wife then
had a double interest in curing her husband. She
applied half the contents of one bottle to his knees,
rubbing the part vigorously for half-an-hour, when
she left the room for a few minutes. On returning
she was surprised to hear Green say, “I shall have
to buy you a new frock, for I can turn myself and
move my legs.” Continuing to use this famous
oil, Green commenced to improve, and after using
the contents of four bottles, he was out and on his
cab at work in all weathers, and as well and hearty
as ever he was in his life. He was laid up four
months altogether, perfectly helpless, could not
move hand or foot. This was such an extraordinary
and almost unheard-of cure, we determined to
ascertain, if possible, what sort of thing this St.
Jocobs oil really was. We, therefore, called upon
Mr. Weaver, the chemist above referred to, who
stated at once that he knew of Green’s case, and
personally vouched for the above statement, and
stated further that, while Green’s cure was
perhaps the most remarkable, he knew of numerous
other extraordinary cases which had come under
his immediate attention where St. Jacobs oil had
cured people of rheumatism and neuralgia after
every other means had been resorted to without
avail. Mr. Weaver said the sales of St. Jacobs
oil were enormous ; people invariably speak in the
highest terms of its power to conquer pain.


Medical.
A Wonderful Remedy*
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Is now Universally Acknowledged to be a wonderful
Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous
Prostration, Torpidity of the Liver, Indigestion, Palpit-
ation of the Heart, Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude,
Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypochondria, Loss of
Energy, and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness,
Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcholic
Craving, Premature Decline,. Impoverished Blood, Im-
paired Sight and Memory, Consumption in its early stages,
Effects of Youthful Indiscretions, Mania, and all diseased
conditions, of the system preceding from Deficiency of
Nerve Force. A few doses speedily afford whilst a
course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances
emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for
themselves.
Each Drop is Worth a Drop of G-old.
There is no remedy like Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for
Female Complaints. Every female should _ have a
bottle ready at hand, because for Irregularities, etc.,
it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the
main-spring of human vigor and healthful regularity,
so where this complicated organism is deranged, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine acts with a precision and curative effect
like the day spring dispersing the shades of night. The
whole organic system which depends upon the nerves for
its streams of electric force is recuperated and renewed
with tins Great Yitaliser. The muscles rebound with the
energy of youth, appetite and healthful condition follow.
The skin becomes bright and clear, and the winter of
disease is made summer by the glorious sun of health.
Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support
the forcible truth of these assertions, and one trial will
render certainly doubly sure.
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers, and is
ONLY PREPARED BY
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
410, Georgo Street, Sydney.
N.B. —In consequence of spurious imitations of “Tonic
Nervine,” which are calculated to,deceive the public,
Marshall Bros, have to request that purchasers see that
the Label on every bottle bears their signature, thus—
without which no bottle is genuine. Ask for Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine and see that you get it. Trade mark :
“Tonic Nervine.”
JNDISPENSABLE JOE RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
With a Delicate Skin;
If you, wish to Protect yourself against CHAPPED
HANDS and CRACKED SKIN, and to keep YOUR
COMPLEXION in good condition during the ivhole
year use
o
(Savon au heurre de Cacas.)
Thin celebrated Soap consists chiefly of Cocoa Butter, (ex-
tracted in the manufacture of Chocolate) which is THE
MILDEST FAT KNOWN, and possesses a wonderfully
healing and softening influence upon the Skin. The
beneficent properties of this product make themselves
apparent by the delicious creamy lather it produces,
rendering even the coarsest SKIN AS SOFT AS
VELVET.
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifler, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERS & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANKFORT-ON-TIIE-MAINE.
LONDON : 32&33 lIAINSELL-ST,, E.C. PARIS: 29 RUB EADZIERILE-
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
sole: agents for Australasia.
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TQNBC
CUBES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague,
Sleep’essness,
Liver and Blood-
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
Tins being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution,
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
MOTTLES at 3s. 6d. and ss.
Post, Is. Extra-
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
For Sale by all Chemists.
M. W. & Co.
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. (Qualities and prices
to defy” competition. Agent for the following celebrated
gunmakers:—J. Purdey & Sons, £ll. Boswell, John Rigby
and*®o., Joseph Lang & Sons, Co. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large assortment of various other makers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Weblky,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Casiimore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed u 692 George-street, Sydney.
Price listen application.
Building Sites, City of Perth, MV.A. Flam,
Intercolonial 1 nvestment Co., Limited, 10Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake fry Pcmell’s Snow-white Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Ncta Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 Georgc-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, dr.
■AUCTIOBTEEES.
dr. s:f»:b:hs;fi.’s
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 York Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at j
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14 j
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading i
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat !
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to :
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
J .
!«5
X e 'V'cru- '^ ? '
TO YOUHTG 3V3CX3 3NT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r I' I IIE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines mil he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from ths following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhnea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher's treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
bo incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
s ■
jtJfCT'. A •‘■jJ. . J
G a
■
r A3NaAS *-is-ynnag‘g *xrc
■■ ■ ;«:u,
, 'j i
' i i • •,
Tile °xforcX Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE r Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
How Perfected, the Hew Ho. 3 and Ho. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System,
STOCK JUST T. .A. TsT ID IXT GJ-
Parlelgh, 3XTettlieim, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
xe x T&roxicer. x stxxiejbt, x erxuDaxnEre.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in al! Details including \r.\rutiiwr-Ka
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the foßr-imr Frm.'t Tnr S - l>- i ■ , fj , G “ IN ? RY -
Tanners' Tools and Maud ;• W Indents KscluM oli Tarouulhle MV't
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOM 5
CONS Vi
3
. ■ .
W
hr RICHARDS -Jamßiimßii
r
i;hii 11111 nmi
V* •
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now hears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SON
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hit
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
alllict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expencs. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for (lie cure of NER-
VOUS ’DEBILITY'. Should you require medical
treatment,, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would he advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will bo found a Ist of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered (hey arc destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring' street
(Off Pitt Street North)
Y D FT E Y.
Bs sure to mention this paper when' writing
CONST! T/r ATI OX TRE E.
WRINGING THE CHANGES


Business Announcements.
BEALE & COMPANY’S
3XTew Warehouse.
• ff
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RADICAL REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing\ temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony. _
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished m good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions '
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments ; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the impel feet
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that hei lot
is cheerless, that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength ; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired.” .
Now, as purveyors of household implements, we base
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business iy
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined m the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed. . . .
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely oeitain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or arc
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale latent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And m a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows .
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped dolly which is woiked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly and fox-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ,
currents and cross-currents of water are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,,
carrying away every particle of dirt and stain. The hnen,
being merely suspended in the water, is not nibbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibh
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of -washing. Every -
one has noticed that their clothes .seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, however careful. A hen the \i ash-
ing is done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom, and
nothing to acsumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 Si 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs, ihe
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
Southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
Beale Patent Sewing Machines.
All goods may be had upon easy tune-payment,
or for cash less three shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
with a Piano, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout Is ew South
Wales and Queensland.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Merchant, Sydney and Meltoo
First Award;
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
bus®, photons, mimm
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express k Lumber Waggons♦
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills , °° Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
o
Melbourne Office:
No- 2 St- James’ Buildings, William Street-
Sydney Office:
22 & 24 Clarence Street
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus; —
#
XJSB
liebib COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Portable Houses
—FOB—
Fishing Parties, Surveyors, Miners, Squatters,
And GENTLEMEN’S SEASIDE RESORTS.
Cliilclren’s Flay-BCoixaes for the Lawn..
o
WILLIAM FLEMING
MERCHANT & IMPORTER,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET,
STOTTET,
AND
No. 2 St. James’ Buildings, William Street,
MELBOURNE.
ò
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
K:
p, '
V.
W'~ - , >**H,
f ‘ ~ „*» '
)
SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE 1*
—OF —
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
):(
CHEAP A.MA.TiBTJH. OUTFITS.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
& SHEET CLASS,
$
tP
ins
o yi
'T'
O
f O
30 O
V
0^
n
cn g
MERCHANTS
i
V
o
be
€
&
5T 3
5 2>
: x
JM#
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
Dr WESTCOTT’S AMENORRHCEA
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. bd.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 130
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
o
EucalypteOius.
ò
VirroftY Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE
pi)r£ '
The only pure Eucalypte in tlie World,
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-251 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
ò
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealam
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
All communications to be addressed to the
Managing Director.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
DOW'S
JvEMBRO CATION,
Ym ■ %
h-.f:
i 4 .1 _ • ■l l
1
-■■■ ——•
w
N 5
■n
ó


KCO 3F8.33J8rt.3Xr and COMPANY,
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
IFOIR. PRETTY DRESSES! %sr FOR SWEET HATS BONNETS!
tsr IPOIR GHARMIHG- PARACHUTES I pr* POR LOVELY GLOVES I
° f 11 oliday A ttire CF* ashionable all d ]R. easonatale)
YOU CANNOT EQUAL-
-00110? AMY, 486, 488, 490 Greorg*e-street, Sydney,
Next Royal Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
S’or all Kiuaa
HORDERN and
CATERING COMPANY, LTD,
(Late Chinsler’s Cafe)
175 I* itt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will <dte
their new csiue a trial. JAMES 0- MAEQUAND, Manner- °
ò
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
Offices:
Wool Stores : CENTRAL WHARF ; Produce Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY;
A 9 IS»A-£Sk.C3C£XT-i£Y.;iiF£XlH2 STHEET H\T OTRT , yT ) gyn-jg-gi^
N Hi
“They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets 1 have tried.”
| (.Signed) Marie Rose.
&
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
;y Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
Palls [Bridge Family Hotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
%
Tins magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Phage and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, &c.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANT Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
The AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE LOAN and
GAURANTEE COMPANY, Limited.
Head Office
Sydney: Corner of Market & York Streets.
Melbourile Branch; 283 Collins-street East.
Brisbane Branch: Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle Branch; 37 Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate advances upon Deeds of
Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise, Storage and Bond
Certificates, and all classes of mercantile and other approved
securities, for fixed terms or repayable by instalments.
A. MILLER, Acting-Manager.
—FALLON’S —
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
CHUBB AHB PRAECER,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES
BEALE'& CHAMBERS.
482 & 484 George Street, opposite the Markets.
iftOß High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
Note the Small Charge now made for Photos
of the Best Quality and Finish,
TAKE ELEVATOR 1
"Will be Fublisbecl Shortly,
“A GOLDEN SHANTY:
Australian Tales and Sketches in Prose and 7erse
By ‘Bulletm’ Writers.”
A Selection from brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. ;if posted, sd. extra.
‘“‘W'WCBIMt
: :
KiHiwmtmm
as
i
Messrs. CHAFFEY BEOS.’ PUMPING ENGINES at MILDURA, YICTORIA.
Triple Compound Condensing Centrifugal Pumping Engine, made by Tangye’s, Limited, for Messrs. Chaffey’s Irrigation Colony at Mildura, Victoria, Australia.
The following are principal dimensions, viz.:—High pressure cylinder 16|in. diameter, by 18in. stroke, for an initial pressure of 140 pounds per square inch. Inter-
mediate cylinder 24*in. diameter by 18in. stroke. Two low pressure cylinders, 31in. diameter by 18in. stroke. Each pump has a disc Oft. diameter, and the suction
and delivery branches are 20in. diameter; the minimum duty of the two pumps together being 16,000 gallons per minute, which is intended to be pumped from the
river Murray to an elevation of 35 feet. In addition to the two pumps shown above four others will be driven simultaneously from these engines, two coupled direct to
the extreme ends of the pump spindles (the base being extended for this purpose), and two to be driven by belts from the pulleys shown. All six pumps are of the same
capacity, the engines—which in general design are as prescribed by Messrs. Clmlley—being of sufficient power to drive them all with ease.


Japanese labourers are being quietly
landed at Mourilyan Harbour, Northern Territory.
Says the Pink ’Un :—“ The result of the
return of the temperance candidate for Peter-
borough was that all his supporters got drunk.”
Joe Thompson, acting as referee at a
Newmarket (Eng.) slugging match, was so bustled
by the loser’s friends that he reserved his decision
in favour of the other man till next day.
A contributor to the Hyde (N.S.W.) De-
bating and Literary Society’s J ournal says
“ Regarding the use of the cane in carrying out
our system, little need be said, as our teachers
may fairly claim to have hit the happy medium.”
In reply to a request from Sydney Zoologi-
cal Society for an increased Government grant,
Premier Parkes said: “Our great trouble just
now is that we want to get rid of our monkeys.”
“ Come along, then,” says the secretary. Only he
didn’t say it out loud.
At a Sydney inquest, the other day, the
name of the Quatre Bras tannery, Waterloo,
came up. “The Quarter Brass tannery!” ex-
claimed a high official —“ I never before heard of
brass being made at a tannery.” Then somebody
ventured to explain and he blushed to the ears.
Dr. Owen Bpencer Evans, of Balmain, one
of the most popular of Sydney’s medical men—he
was on Ballarat in the Roarin’ Days—was killed
last week in a buggy accident. The Doctor owed
his death to having driven an uncertain horse
which had given him more than one warning of its
fractiousness.
At a certain Sydney church some
time ago, special prayers were offered up for a
member who, as the minister put it, was in
financial difficulties. Amongst those who invoked
heaven on his pecuniary behalf was a creditor to
the tune of £4OO or so, but the prayers availed not,
for a week or two afterwards the embarrassed one
ass : gned his estate, when it was made clear that a
lot of valuable things bought on credit had imme-
diately been turned into as much _ cash as his
various uncles would allow. The pious creditor
piteously tells this story himself.
WOOL, -WOOX..
THE MEW ZEALAND
Loan I Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool lBBB~S9*
Regular Sales of Wool Held Throughout the
Season.
mHE greatest care bestowed on the Valuation and the |
J- Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to ■
the COlhpany £Or sale, whether from large or small clips.
growers Advised and Consulted with before ■ Sales j
of their Clips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, Oh Wool lieu
Of Ensuing Clip, and on Wodl Arid 'Other Produce, whether
tOr sale in Sydney Or shiptrierit t'6 London.
Auction Sales op Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &c., Held Regularly.
Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
—THE—
Fresh Food & |ce (X
1 LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead. They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
ugr- weekly Accounts.
BOOK or NATURE and Illustrated
Matrimonial Guide ♦ planation of the struc-
ture and uses of the organs of life and generation in man.
and woman, intended especially for the married, or those
intendin' 1 ' to marry, and who conscientiously and honestly
desire toTinform themselves upon the intent and nature
of marriage and its duties, 1 o which is added A COMPLETE
MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases of the generative
organs, whether resulting from infection or sexual excesses
and abuse with much other valuable and highly important
information, illustrated with more than flftj-engravings,
b y m. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. Price 3s. Cd., pest 4s.
'The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion for
Married People, post Is. 2d. Mrs. Besant s Law of Popula-
tion, Is., post Is. 2d. Wonderful Song Book extra large,
is id. Decameron Boccaccio, 2s Aristotle, complete,
3s! Cd., post 4s. Maria Monk, Is. 6d., post Is. Od. New
complete Fortune Teller, 2s.
“The Matron's Manual ot Midwifery,” the book every
married woman needs ; price 75., posted is. Od. _
‘‘ N -.-er Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern, price Cd.
“Tim Male Generative Organs,” their use and abuse
with many illustrations and coloured plates ; price 75.,
post 7s. Cd. _ ~ ,
The arts of Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made
easy enabling any one to become an export Boxer and
Athlete illustrated with fifty engravings, price Is., post
free Aff6Ht for London Reynolds, Bkkkkek, Dispatcii,
Dublin Freeman, Glasgow Mail. Advanced, and Republican
literature on sale.
glix* jtJ.olosrt;
Radical Book Stores,
mV, PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
P. c. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 736
HAYMAEEET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Sso., Made to Order.
ting's Imperial hotel,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel oil the Darling
DotvilS; First-class Aeconnnodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample Itooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
f /
Photog
PHIC
TRA
V
Views
RAJtS
? saISLANDS Uv 1
316,C
DNE.T. N
Royal hotel.
Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, c|ose to Pier and Baths. Ten
-minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone 082. _ §
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
ó õ
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD,
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.
331 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
J. LUDOWICI & SOUS,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Superior Oak-Tanned Leather Belting 1 ,
And every description of
Leather goods for Machine and Engineering Purposes-
Hydraulic
x Leathers.
m
Tangye Pnmp
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
o , .
Office and Factory; 162 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
1)0 YOU WANT TO KNOW
HOW TO DISPLAY
YOUR ADVERTISEMENTS ? WRITE TO US ,
F. T. WIMBLE & CO., Advertising Experts, 15 Post
OlHcc Chambers, Sydney.
SYDNEY TAKES THE LEAD.
The Sydney Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdresssing Palace
AND
TOILETTE REQUISITES,
32 nzxmca- _ S’X ,^.E33E3T'=
(Directly opposite the Arcade),
NOW OPEN.
The Public Verdict—A long-felt want filled.,
an Establishment that Sydney_ can be proud of.
No Expense has been spared in fitting up this
Establishment for the convenience and comfort of
its patrons.
A large staff of the very best Gentlemen Work- |
men are employed in the Ladies and Grentlcmen s
Hairdressing Rooms, and all work is guaranteed.
A SELECT STOCK OP
Gentlemen’s Mercery, Perfumery.
Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Toilet Requisites.
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco, &c-,
Sold at the Lowest Gash Prices.
LAUNDRY AGENCY, &c., &c.
Sydney and Melbourne Dail/and Weekly Papers
kept on File.
All Ladies and Gentlemen arc invited to visit
and inspect this establishment, and be convinced
that it is not equalled in the Southern Hemisphere.
HOURS:
From 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. SATURDAYS, 9 p.m.
Medical
%
a
d
\
a
&
infantile Loveliness
No mother who loves her children, who takes
pride in their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance,—a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Cuticura Remedies.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura
Boar, an exquisite skin beautitler, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to ago.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cura Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Cuticura Remedies. One year ago the Cuti-
cura and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Cuticura are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Cuticura Remedies.
B. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky.
Bold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
ô
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticuba Soap.
When six months old, the left hand of our liitlo
grandchild began to swoll, and had every appear-
anceof a large boil. We poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after, it became a
running sore. Soon other sores formed. lie then
had two of them on each hand, and,as his blood
became more and more impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when he was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). lie could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced
with the Cuticura Remedies, using ail freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in each one of these five deep ones
Just before healing, which would finally grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child.
Mrs. E. S. BRIGGS,
612 E. Clay St., Bloomington, 111.
Send for ** How to Cure Skin Diseases,o4
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
PIN)
PEES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticuea Soap.
Address:
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
f
- m
o
r&ADC
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London,
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents; Balehin, Johnston & Co a? Sycliiej*
M.
BUGLE
B. FOSTER
ZBIE-^ZUTID
& SONS, LONDON,
_A.Xj IE -jATnTID
-)(-
STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed eff on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. POSTER & SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Poster’s Bugle Brand ’’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have mstruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberat Reward will be given for information leading to conviction of the offenders.
)(
rT JEK 3NT S O m & «C?O., Sydney,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster & Sons.
fesa.' 1 ear’s DESX'fcs oar felcd lOeer
'(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.


esr READ THIS ! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where- the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &o.j for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; Ss doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout, and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &0., &o. 8s 6d; 80s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &o. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &o. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Cd; 18s dOz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz,
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &o. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Yomioa, for
I chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ssGd ; 80S & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic., 2s Gd; 20s doz.
Armstrong's Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant .aperient. Is (Id; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &o. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). Gd ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &0., from the hair. Is ; 8s doz,
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is Gd; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d; 6s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. Gd &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &IsCd ; Cs Cd & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for outs arid wounds
among stock. Is &IsOd ; 8s & 15§ doz,
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment-the best remedy for
splints, curbs* etc. Is 6d ; 18s doz,
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). Od &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper’, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &o.—
all ready mixed. 6d ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY,
t Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
FOR DRUGS, CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in
PERTH,
Tub CAPITAL CITY OP WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cities the Price
is Very Low.
The Coal, Gold and Tin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILD INS SITES adjoining the CITY
From £te Kadi.
"Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
Each Lot guaranteed good Building Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
tlie next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plans, and full information
posted to any address on application to
The Merabaia! limstment Co., Limits!
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J . DOLTGLAS, Manager.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AXD
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U
CAPITAL .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES in London and throughout Australia!
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to
The following are the rates of- interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits : —3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
C months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A, W, Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING.
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 40 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Directors:
James Fletcher,-M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Herron (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney
T. D. Merton, Cnnningar Works; Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous- -
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and js calculated to give fresh impetus, to..the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies. ’ 1 ■ *
These Works will supply- a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will-be’ generally
appreciated. -
Ores.in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. I). Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden,
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
rhe British ami New South Wales Investment
ami Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
• , Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 240 PITT STREET.
T>ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
G Months 8 per cent.
3 Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M’DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society,
Established ... 1872
S^sitises
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873,
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed fot RehoWal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon, George Thornton , M.L.A.,
Chairman.
UfiAi) Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY,
Walter Church ... Manager.
39PPS
r
r-
merchants
□ (I&o
r o
3
a a b
as.
T ®li
X A
R O B E RTS & 00.,
~W HOLESALE-
Ironmongers, Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AN D ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF-
Bailway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters’.^
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers' and Blacksmiths'
Conchbuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting’s Gas Englrios-The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing. thus saving end
Braddocks Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels'
Howe S Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges. ' 1 ey Wheels.
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR.
ô
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR,
w
years.
Strong
Razor
)-(
E recommend gentlemen who shave themselves to try the “PLUM” RAZOR. It is purely
Hollow Ground and NEVER requires Grinding and wo guarantee each Razor for two
Set ready for use. Price single Razor 10s. (id. ; or a pair of Razors, Black Handles in
sent y ’ 8,118,6 R “° r - 15s ' Pair iu cas8 > 30s ' &”>■> P-0.0. Every
CRAIG & AITKEN,
- - “ POTOSI ” HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
680 G-lEOIBG-IB STREET SYH UNT IE 3T
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO 4 CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Havaunali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor lie Itonito
Brand of Cigars and “ empire Cigarettes,”
XD-A.3NT. SXTXjiIjIV-A.nxr
(Late of Brisbane Cafd),
Has bought MATTERSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter’s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
Medical.
■pULVERMACHER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CUBE ,OP
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Qiie&i and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ “ Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free;
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victorid;
ALLISON BROS,, 477 ColL!$&-Btreet West, Melbourne
FREE BY POST for SIX penny Stamps, a
. Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at onCO
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their usJ
in every disease-. IF YOU SUFFER; TRY THEM. Manii
factured dhly at 76 NkW OXFonb-st , London, pkr. phi
chasers shotlld look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Business Announcements,
-AUSTRALIAN-
goiter jflour and grain gtore6,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W,
Sydney Office ; - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition.
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
M {
RE-COVE RE 0,
s
TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J . SULL IV AN *
841 George Street,
BUickl’ieLd Hill, SvdKeV,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts , ■
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allk'nds of Tinsfor Confectioners)
lea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kind?
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved mach'nery.
A Trial Solicited..
MUSICAL.
"pATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
-A’ 110 ®’ 3b ;- cd -, And improved vamping
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. Cd. posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted-Stationers.
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotel),
beg to inform our Friends and the
» ▼ Public that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice
- Moderate Charges—
SIKTI & KATZ,
PROPRIETORS.


Medical,
NERVOUS
i
7i
\ I \ eureka \•n
ELECTRIC BELTi
A''
tv
dd.
7'7
<v^l\
IV
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Yhis famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Ability, Impotence,
and all weakness caused-fey indiscretion. Tains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in-fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has groat improvements over all othet
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts Qh 80 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved thom-
■7.63 what we represent them, to be.. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing d cohfinuoiis-,
mild, soothing current of electricity through ‘all thfe Weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and Vigorous strength,
feyen the worst case permanently cured in three months.
« is more convenient to-wear than any other Belt.
A Book illtistr&tea, Containing 1 full infornifition and testi-
taomals from prominent people throughout Australia,
tad informing persons how they may obtain thehe celts
Vituout paying tor them until they havetr'oved them com-
petent to cure any disease of thth Nervous System, will he
forwarded to any address oh receipt of a 2d stamp f-at
postage, a *
VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
Ja-mes U 9 X»l©WBllyii,
t.R.C.P., M.K-.G.Sv, .L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
'SFECIA.LIS'V
— l ln—-
Chronic, Nervous and fi-Shito-Urinary Diseases,
may he Consumed daily at
-3 2 S tCNSDALE STRII T—
fbetmen Sivanstbn d: Elizabeth, Sts y,
MELBCtJRNE.
Cowf-'n'le&ce -Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are i?REE ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express tb any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation-.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
ds. 6d. (postpaid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-streefc, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
MMIIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
? The Public are requested to notice the
Wd U LiUIJ. ! words, IST Hose s Celebrated live
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Hose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK roil
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
iOL ROSE^
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Whqlesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post ,3s. Gd.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
EKV O U S
Consult l-’EEE, PERSONALLY,
DEBI L I T
. or BY post HERR BASS-
hfUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a Id., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-MEssex's Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, .€1 2s. (id. per course. Sent
unobserved. A ddkisss
Herr Rass-Musscn, “Rosalund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
biiou’S iljecYiolT
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
«3T. HP" ZEOi 2Fi !E3,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 ruo Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney;
E. DOUBLET, 185 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST & ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation;
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 und 7 till 9 p.m,
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S Y D NT B ■y.
Medical.
A MEDICINE.
Beeclxam’s Bills
c ma
%
&
1
PATENT
PILLS
*
&
Are universally adiliiltcd
to be Worth rt, .BliiHttt
b. Shit tOt hilicins
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stoniayh, sick head-
ache,, giddiness; fulness
and swelling- after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will giv e relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
rills, and they will be acknowledged to b@
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ffgbg these tills are invaluable,
as, a few (Ida®* bi them carry off all humors, and
bHhghhviHt all that is required. No female should
be Without them. There is no, nledicifte t'6 lie fdlind
'equal to BEECITAM-*S PILLS fbt Mhoving any
dbstructioh br bt tile system. If taken ac-
ebraihg tto the directions given with each box they will
&6bh fCstore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands,who have
tried them, and found the benefits which aVe ensitAv, by
their use. . . . /
For k wealf, sto'-Wa'ch, unpaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and g, few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They, strengthen .the
whole muscular system, resto're the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen.edge, of appetite, ana arouse into ac-
tion with the ROShJBUO ’6l health the whole physical
energy of thehiiVilan frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
ephtiff tfally by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale o'f any patent
medicine in the world,
BeechaaV's Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the ChesW. .Wheezi'ngj &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They Wre the best ever offered to the
public and n ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive tire
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Coraii
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, pud tbld wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, TholWas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its 'weight ih gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Goby. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
*1
OORE & HOGG
ft
THE EMINENT
_ SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases df the Genito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private OemplalntS,
1, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, tbYtier of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
00«.*«tTM-roNS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
Hotels,
m
i
m
M
BOWDt N
BIWOEHs
Horn
~S*S4?lStffcce3
33 OWU 3ES3XPS HOTEL,
Elizabeth Steebt (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOIBX €. BOV>I>EiV .. Proprietor
uotjul,
Warruambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and welhknown Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied, SSt Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
HF" Livery snul Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co. ’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ HoteljjlQqupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
04 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET,
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal tiitiefi
throughout ths I'hkcd States of America and
Gapdda, oiler special facilities for dealing
in Bullion; ,Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit; , ,
Drafts issued And BUIS pollc-cte'd bti iHost favour-
pOlb.terms',, ac rates wnifell can be ascertained On
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
3FE.eso.c2SL ! lOLooucl I :EE.©Emci I
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay*
By Arthur OayH.
Profusely Illustrated by Tu® BUlLUtln'b Well-
khowli Artists*
fc. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Frioe
I
Per post, Is; 3d;
Wholesale Agents; ( ,
Victoria: A., Benjamin’,, 321 tittle Colli nS-lft; Melbourne
Relbonrne' HordbH h Uotcli. *
llfuslmic: J. 11. Thompson, Bookseller, Gcorge-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co. ,
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros’., Oeorge-streeti tauticestoh.
11 For filling a ficture Meat mi %\\"
D BERNARD'S, .Picture .and Mftui.DTNn
s Store, 399 George-YtR (Opposite
Royal Hotel)., is acknowledged, to be the Best and
Cheapest m the Colonies. Photos.,, Engravii gs,
&C,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edge?,
■pecial attention paid School- Drawings Plush
work a speciality! invited.
o
is
HAWUfACTUReRS
ft IMPORTERS OF
mm ..111 .1 . -■ .-.JUjP
HATS CAPS U
43eCEORCE ST
%
ofiposi.Ce. Laasctkrj
'J
Branch :
67 8 GEORGE STSIIfiT,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD'NEY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET* BRTMbAXE.
ò
ò
m
i
ff
IANUrACTURED BY A. (
"1 JjM£s C///IM/VCM J/ariourS* \
lru all sAoc&'ui ft S^rfAet/jero
Business Announcements.
tJIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And Tiii
LfeW ira Portable Iks Lamp-.
The tiarvey Laipp ifas been adopted by ,tjie
Railway for lighting. the Sydney
fernyw'. ■AVe.w«r » wardeib'me 1 Highest’ Order tof
Mei’it fiiifcl Special Mention by experts ac the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 0000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
jiving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
□e seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £'2oo to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
—. ■
Patentees tor Australasia!
iEs£. V. JSz G&» t
i»l k«‘ul slrefi Swath. l
id Arhade, Adklaldio, 5.A..; Argent Street, BiibkfiN HIU.;
Parkside Iron Works, MiiLUOiiuXK.
Send for Price List land Circular
NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE;
NOBSELESS-LICHTEST RURNINC;
Niost Beautiful and Durable Worki
AND DOES NOT INDORE HEALTH.
Also fob
Beehives and Supplies’,, Incubators and Brpqders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Btoyes for Wood; dJGtI,
Gas or Oil,, Mangles And .Washing Machines,
Carpet SlhA’pbks, Preserving Jars, Ifce,,CHestS dnd
Refrigerators, American Kgg Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEWHITE «Sc C.d;;
41G GEORGE STREET? SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.]
-THE-
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffiil Gandies,
HOT I Ootb WATER ScMf*
bj every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
■ The only Genuine and Original——
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers,
Upfold’S Tree Test Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
“What is floitfe trtiii&W A Pierhbur
Xj.
BEBITASCOhri,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(hebi t'enlral Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, »Ve.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
589 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPER-HANGINGS,]
01is,C5lours 4 p A | N ts
WAtLJ^PBRSFRpM^
P£R
ROLL
PM
529 George Si> BathurstStl
is?
WALTEB HO lE* 18,
General Merchant & Commission
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all PnoorcK, Live Stock, etc.,
J received and realised in the best markets. Aceoput
Sales and Proceeds remitted the da.v after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pnre-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de.
soriptions Bought or Soup ox CoMsnsstox. All communi-
cations referring' to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Set ting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.B. W.
(A PECTAL NOTICE. — The Sydney Bulletin.
n Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar>
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday qt
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OE WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourkc-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situ ted.


SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
mercantile auctioneers,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
jotsV.,
' v -
r
m
. >■%*
• |- * -i
1
ti
D
4
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOOR
Fumitun & Land Sales Conducted.
Bit ASCII
Uf'Ouks
( 32 Chapel St., Prahran. \
i 2 Albert St., Windsor. 1
Branch
Offices
I*. R. XiARXUN,
IMPORTER OF
lUES ; x SPIRITS, x BEE DR S, x ETC.,’
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunvii.le’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
HBNNBSSY s, Martem, s and Sazbuao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
V l6 . C hoicest an d Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.Ii.L.
HfcS?- Ine Best 1 ort and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. j£*r' All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving* by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
JSkolesale ami Single linttle Dapajitments, rsa anil WM ticmige-st., Syilnejr.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIESTmCLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMEHT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
■n j- )x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE : GIFFS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
o
o
KTDE'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From lOs. Gci. to £35.
/?■ r
m
m
>• .! •
HP
»«j]i
d
; r r i
lUIN
' •
"'ODOCO.TI f. CD Eli
ipiti
! I 1
■>UJ f
spntru
811
SSSBa":.®'ra«pSplssfsS: 0 ”
»
• r 1
l-r-i
m
1 m *m mi tmrnm <i* \U m i—r<r »——: » - j *
_.jpn II Lli_ i Qf^DK-,tSl jf.-;
:j; | n ££
jV>*v
} .®3sB£
JO»l,
BAYLES & CO.,
General Auctioneers and E tatr Agents,
335 Collins Street, Melbourne- and It Chapt'i
Street, Stmtli Yarra.
E’X'O© > eSC52^l-g3-fcICSS3.S
Are to be found in the “lilgfit and Info,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
jA. ddress —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
t?
f
MASON BROTHERS,
m
LIMITED.
253 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Whvlemle Byyertt Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHEN W A R E.
WISES. DEERS <0 SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SOWN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. G A YEN’S,
Schnapps v aiid Geneva.
A. M E Ll' I N and SOX S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
SMITH, T7.5.A.,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEOEGE 1 STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m* %
Imperial Hotel.
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE, 5A
A
Propkietok. 4
I
•A\
1
r
OW
IL\
ToK
AIP V
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Pbeventh and Arrests Pa miners,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glassy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODOiMTO.
A I'URK, non-gritty Tooth Powder. Tt whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the e in-
plcxion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, lair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’
Article?, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
■□p A'xwro-'srxss,, ~ ' LiIMITbd,
Hay I' St., Hay market, Sydney,
ENGINES,
S ty 50 H.r.
' BOILERS,
ItoSSu.P. .
STEAM PUMPS
For all purpo3cs.
GBHTBinnUI PUMPS,
( f (
2" to 4t)" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Ija.tb.es.
DEALING mm,
&G,, &C.
a k
-■
' A
-
irJ*
‘
™«6 Hills,
Hauling Engines.
Ihiitcrv Engines.
•y O
Saw-mill Engines.
mim mis
engines
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitubular Boilers,
COUMBII KOIJLIIKS.
&C.J &0.
We invite al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, largo or small, to wri'je for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to give immediate delivery
V isitorS, whether buyers or ir.t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, ' y ‘
32 9, 131, 133 & 135 ECAY STREET, HA YM ARKET, SYDKTEY.
