

Aik foot
Ghrodev tot
Fry's Malted Cocoa .
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cap contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter. — Lanoi*.
CORNER OF
Pitt arrd XZuLXXter Streets, S^JDKTETZ"-
u
e:
T
R
ffi ■
ESS’S
®6>l
an
&
CURTIN
THISJHoteI is situated 'n the most centra' portion of th* city, being convenient to all the principal bank and business establishments,
? and within two mantes’ walk of the General Post Office. Although only open about fifteen months, under the successful manage-
ment of the proprietor i. has air ady become the most popular hotel in Svdiey. so much so that it was found necessary to carry out
extensive alterations i, •' t > irect* a i idditiond wmg for the p irpose of accommodati «g its numerous patrons. Visitors from Europe
and the neighbourin x c denies may rely upon finding all the comfores to be obtained in a first-class modern hotel the strictest attention
being paid to the co n »rt aril c> violence of giests Bedrooms and suites of apartments may be engaged in advance. Letters or
Telegrams from intending visitors will receive prompt attention.
T. Ciartlrr
Proprietor.
The Bulletin


TO
CO
A
II
ixsoimoNs
*
*
o
o
so
o
V
<?oo\
SIR ROGER
a:
a
0
toil
DIXSQNS
E
ICBLSIOR HOTEL.
TOWERS.
CHARTERS
Second Brlok Hotel BnUdlng Above
■1 to* ted corner of GUI end Church Street!.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ATili PAIN
The besfknown remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &e.
and taken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
internal aches and pains.
PRICE, 2s. ... SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. E. MOULTON, Sole Pkopeiktob,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
PAINT
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
all others for its lasting tnd natural
fragrance.
Taaaa Gold Mstals—
PARIS,1878, CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAQ-BJEA A CKMBIDITJM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
InTentors or their Agents
ATKINSON’S
sassum&sjpjmm
•dour It far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sold under the same name
ATKHJSON 8, FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics
Of mil Dealers, and of tht Manufacturers —
J. A B. ATKINSON,
M, Old Bon Stxsst, Lokdox.
Trade Mark—“White Rose" on“ Golden A
Cla.rera.cS.on. Hotel, IL^errl^r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining HalL Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can i j* 4ibly make one
Comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic arti vided. Table
Me HMe at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminsthb to make her
Visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
■n. KILWNSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
M‘LBAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
Co
5^
IRONMONGERS
2
5
p
o
<fc
<b
$
REG?
SPECIALTIES s
Davis' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES ;-LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &0.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS 11
BY TAKINS
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA.
(I Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretion*
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
THE BEST APERIENT FOB CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHERS
fVid • Mtdioai Testimonials. Analysis, dm,, accompanying took boitls),
TAKE ONLY KRUSE'B.
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
MMovlbsd Capital , _ r
Paid-up Mid Aoo rued Capital
Bepoelta Reoelred -
Advances Mad* -
fatal Income - - -
Tsar ending
Oak., 188 ft.
*180.416
81,630
03,681
I*3, *4B
*OO,lOB
Tear ending
Ook.. 1888.
*350.000
120,000
261,600
247,840
461,08 ft
Tear ending
Ook., 1887.
*481,125
206,686
891,856
807,828
797,990
Tear ending
Got., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
. 1,123,949
625,826
. 2,048,951
■i-y
Dmodta reoeJved at following Rates .—l2 months, 7 p«r cent.; 6 months, 6 per
•ent. j S months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
. SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
rw* Parsons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
—I.V *o Moure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
■TORY THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
2LL TB.ANOH offers the Tery best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Patty Balance,
axfls mss
for Borrowers. THUS LIBEKAL.
m
A
'Sf.
m
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of is. p»
Share Entrance Eee, and the Payments upon these Shares are It
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders In Oath.
The holders of t ie First Issue of these Shares received In October,
1886, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed oalf >
£l4 65., at the rat a of Is. per Fortnight for II years.
Hon. JOHN HIM ID, M.P., J.P., - - Chairman. I
WILLIAM DOHEBTT - AetUm-SeoreSnry.
L‘ I’j'JiUJ
3
THE
Federal coffee Palace,
CORNER Of
EZlaagr <35 Collirrs Streets, lv£elloo^Lro3.e,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR
With excellent Menb, presided over by an experienced Chtf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
hot, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen
Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No 466,
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19, 1889.
Price, 6t Q]
jUjAy
Sir Marrowbone MacBain.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ••• 06 G
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknoivledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
•whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with ii«-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confident ial.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable 1/.S',S', when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sanding MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling —which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, w Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ivhom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19, 1869.
Walking into the Trap.
It was an inspiration. Sir Henry Parkes
has borrowed a device from the ptizs-rlng.
He slipped down to escape punishment. The
dally papers have confessed themselves be-
wildered by the sudden collapse of the
Parkes Administration. They speculate, in
vacillating confusion, as to whether Sir
Henry Parkes had pre-arranged the defeat
of his Mtnlstiy, or had been taken by sur-
prise. The actual state of the case should
have been obvious enough. The Bulletin
last week demonstrated that the Government
was doomed beyond retrieval, sinking under
the weight of its own malfeasance. This
condition was undoubtedly as clearly per-
ceived by the astute veteran of a score of
Ministerial crises—Sir Henry Parkes—
as it was by The Bulletin The
New Siuth Wales Premier knew that
his Ministry had reached the end of
its tether, and that every day served but
to sink it more deeply la obloquy and to
minimise its chances of facing the consti-
tuencies with any prospect of escaping a
demoralising and irretrievable rout. Mr.
Want’s attack was one which to many
Ministries would have appeared a serious
Impeachment. The moribund Parkes Ad-
ministration, however, was chargeable with
such a load and such a variety of misdeeds
that the particular transaction condemned
by Mr. Want appeared venial and trifling
when compared with many other impeach-
ments which were impending. Sir Henry
Parkes did nob anticipate the peculiar turn
which the discussion on Mr. Want’s motion
for adjournment would lead to. By absent-
ing himself from the Chamber while Mr.
Want was arraigning his action In humbug-
ging the country with a mock Inquiry re-
specting Mr. Fehon’s alleged delinquencies
and disqualifications, the Premier in all pro-
bability merely repeated Ms habitaal Insolence
In that respect. He had made a practice
of the same pretended contemptuousness
throughout the session. His refusal, on
returning into the House, to reply to Mr.
Want's strong Indictments was perhaps
prompted, in tUe first impulse, by tne same
arrogant feeling. But it is pretty clear that,
at the critical moment, “the old Parliamen-
tary Hind ” recognised and instinctively
appreciated his opportunity and decided on
the impulse of the instant to accept defeat
for his Government on a side Issue, which
would be, of all which impended, the one
least calculated to have a damaging tffict
with the constituencies. It was an inspira-
tion—one of those lightning Hashes which
occur only to men of genius.
* *
“To men of genius!” Aye, we do not
withdraw the epithet. For the character
and abilities of Sir Henry Parkes, viewed
comprehensively, we have now, as ever,
nothing but contempt and repugnance. We
have never been able to recognise in the
composition cf h’s character or intellectual
faculties those constituents which make a
statesman. It has ever been requisite for
him to maintain a constant trumpet lag of
his own achievements in this respect. This
necessity suffices to damn his pretensions.
He repeatedly dins It into the ears of the
public that he Is the author of this and that
great item of legislation, and he never re-
laxes bis industry in jogging the memory,
or reviving the credulity, if the electors in
this respect. He appears fnlly conscious
that, failing this device, the public Ytould
arrive at a just impression of his true capa-
city. It is necessary for Parkes to Insist
over and over aga'n that It was he who 5s
author of the Education Act, lest the fact
that it was Parkes who opposed James
Greenwood, George Bibbs and others,
at the inception cf the system, and
who merely turned his back upon himself,
and passed the Act when It had become In-
evitable, and there was personal advantige
to he derived from adopting the principles
he had resisted. But for the reiterated
screams of Parkes to beg people to give
him credit for having been ii office when
this or other measures were demanded by
the constituencies and carried into effect,
people would, of a surety, remember that
there is not one in the whole list of such
measures, of which he claims to be the
father, which he has not endeavoured to
strangle at its birth. Even with respect to
Foreign-trade, of which he now poses as the
champion, this is true. Parkes is the author
of the strongest series of resdutions In
favour of protection to native industries
which are recorded among the archives cf
the Parliament of New South Wales,
* * •
Parkes Is the Godlin of New South Wales
politics. A weak, seemingly-friendless
theory—a Little Nell- of-a theory—receives
from him nothing but flouts and affronts.
But let powerful interest iu the same waif of
a theory or in a principle make itself apparent,
and at the convenient moment we have
Parkes loudly declaring his long-standing
devotion, ‘ ‘Godlin is the friend—not
Short.” Parkes, the friend of Free Secu-
lar and Compulsory Education—not Green-
wood ; not Bibbs. This is not statesman-
ship. It Is mere tricky and unscrupulous
opportunism. And if farther evidence were
wanting to demonstrate his lack of originality
of conception, or of that fidelity to principle
which is often due to conviction and origina-
tion, such proof is readily foond by consider-
ing the scope and nature of the projects and
measures which Indisputably have originated
In Sir Henry Parkes’ own mind, Never had
Minister grander opportunities for impress-
ing bis own personal qualities upon a people
than Sir Henry Parkes had enjoyed as
head and everything else of the Ministry
just collapsed He had selected as colleagues
men who, with the exception of Mr. Gar-
rett, were mere puppets in his hands. He
had a commanding majority of the most
docile and oplnionlees creatures a Parlia-
mentary leader could desire. Practically he
had been Dictator. Thera was no concep-
tion so great, no project so vast, no reform
so sweeping, that his majority would have
refused to co-operate In it. The country
was In revolt against repeated exhibitions of
imbecility and Inefficiency. It would have
supported with joy and enthusiasm a strong,
wise man in every rational and national
enterprise.
• * *
There was no lack of work to be done.
The applicability of irrigation to convert
periodically desert regions into ever-fertila
tracts had dawned upon the thoughtful. It
has been recognised that the colony had out-
grown Its constitution and that Its Parlia-
mentary institutions were becoming de-
graded by the necessity of dealing with
merely parochial work. There was a huge
deficit in the finances. The land laws were
cumbrous and ineffectual. Here was surely
scope and marge enough for the exercise of
statesmanship. There were besides the
larger themes of national Australian signifi-
cance^ —the future relations of these com-
munities with each other and with the
mother country. To put these In train for
satisfactory development would indeed
have been an achievement for a states-
man to accomplish. Bat not one of
these has Sir Henry Parkes grappled
with. Dexterous as he Is in the aro cf
speaking, he has not even thrown one gleam
of illumination upon any of the grand pro-
blems which await solution. Yet hfs mind
has not been utterly barren. His Intellect
has revolved in its orbit, and as specimens
of conceptions of his genius he has produced
to a public, divided between mirth and
derision, a preposterous and kaleidoscopic
fantasy of a State Honse, in which were to
be received the ashes of the great and the
armies of the —t f the Dependency ! A State
House at £250,000 to contain an army ! A
stable at twopence-halfpenny to house an
elephant! Next, as an Illustration of the sin-
cerity and intelligence cf his occasional
favourable references to Federation, Sir
Henry Parkes evolved out of his states-
man-like mind the idea of confiscating
from every ether colony the recognised
name of the Continent for the ex-
clusive enjoyment of one province alone —
thus creating irritation and susp'clon when
It was supremely desirable to foster good
feeling and to exhibit good faith. *
Who, after pondering these facts, will
dare to pretend that Sir Henry Parke,s is a
statesman ? Yet we have written him down
a man of genius. Yes, of true genius for
party management and trumpery intrigue.
No man knows better how to make the
worse appear the better cause, to heap
eulogy on necessary confederates, to load
opposing virtue with obloquy, to phrase
promises which do not bind, and find lan-
guage for half truths which hide a lie. A
strong, true man could have stripped the
lion’s skin off the man at any moment, and
exposed the paltry reality it concealed.
Thera are true men and good in the com-
munity, and even in Parliament, but un-
happily the true men are not strong men,
and the men who have any degree of strength
are not true.
* * *
Mr. Bibbs is a strong, stout man In his
way. He is more than resolute. He carries
that virtue to the margin of vlclousnees.
To be resolute is a great quality, to be ob-
stinate Is a detect. The public will, we ap-
prehend, discover ere long that Mr. Bibbs
har, with his customary dogged obtusenets,
walked straight Into a tiap which Sir Henry’
Parkes laid for him, Tnere was nothing in
the circumstances attendant on the defeat
of the Minis L ry which imposed upon Mr.
Bibbs any responsibility. He was tree to de-
cline office at this juncture. Had he possessed
one lota of the tact and shallow Insight which
constitute Sir Henry Parkes’ political
stock-in-;trade, he would have declined to
allow the ex-Cabinet to retire from a posi-
tion in which they were becoming daily
more compromised and discredited. He has
officiated as the late Ministry’s best friend,
and has consented to extricate them, only
half ruined, from the Irreparable destruction
which surely awaited them. The repulsion
from the Parkes Administration was only
In its first boil. A little longer and there
would have been a boll-over. Mr. Dibes
kindly consents to lift off the pot.
* * *
lb Is impossible that the now Premier is
under the misapprehension that New South
Wales looks to him as a saviour. If such be
his Idea it is one of the moat seriour
amongst his continual blunders. Mr. Bibbs
is in no sense the recognised leader of the
Proti cbionlst party. He is indeed the leader
of the Opposition in the Assembly, but
merely by virtue of the nomination of a
little clique of leading members of the party
who cannot themselves lead and wished to
secure portfolios. A Dibbs Ministry will
appeal to the country preposterously handi-
capped by having to carry Bibbs on Its back.
Tnls is just the reverse of what happened
when Parkes went to the cmntry. Ha
carried his party on his back. A Bibbs
Cabinet which is to so great an extent as
the one just formed a rmra repetition
of the unforgotben last Bibbs’ Ministry,
will evoke no enthusiasm. The country has
not forgotten the dump-cars nor the Standard
paint. The Protectionists care nothing for
Bibbs. His conversion was convenient to
them when it came. But while they holloed
to dispirit their adversaries, they put the
finger of doubt to the nose of scorn among
themselves. Mr. Bibbs’ conversion was too
obviously necessary for the convenience of
Mr. Bibbs to be regarded quite seriously.
A reproduction, therefore, of the Dibbs-
Garvan Lyne Copeland syndicate, just
flavoured by the addition of Mr. Barton,
and filled np with men as much
nonentities as the Inglis-Roberts-Simp-
son contingent of the Parkes Cabinet,
cannot excite very ardent hopes or
arouse any fervent enthusiasm in the
country.
• O •
Mr. Bibbs and his Cabinet may claim
to hold the right to dissolve the As-
sembly. But Sir Henry Parkes equally
wields the power to force a dissolution, and
if Bibbs wishes to hold back can at any time
thrust him forward. It will, we apprehend,
be vain for the Protectionists to look to the
Bi bus’ Cabinet with any liveliness of expecta-
tion. Id represents merely one wing of the
old Conservative party, of which Parkes
and his Calico-Jimmy adherents represent
another. The National Party, of whose
platform Protection is bub one plank among
many, must yet replace both these jival
and played - out syndicates. Bibbs is
identified y i h the Soudan : so are
Lyne and Garvan. Bibbs supported
Parkes in carrying the Naval Defence
bill, a measure infinitely damaging to the
self-respect and self-reliance of Australians.
Bi bbs endorsed Parkes’ invasion of the New
South Wales coal-districts with troops and
Gatling guns. The best thing to be done
with him and his Cabinet is to support it as
pis alter , use it to Inaugurate a Protectionist
tariff, and then get rid of It, along
with Parkes, religious animosities, and
all the other offensive lumber of days
that have gone by. It is, however,
doubtful whether the Protectionists will have
the option of choosing their course of action.
By their blundering haste to accept office
Mr. Bibbs and his associates have played
right into the hands of the Foreign-trade
party, who were sinking Into despair at the
growing discredit which was dragging down
the Freetrade Premier, his precious “Glad-
stone of New South Wales ” (and of
Hornsby) Treasurer, and his motley crew of
colleagues, to a sure destruction, in which the
cause identified with them was Inextricably
involved. We venture to predict that the
coming general election will return to the
Legislative Assembly a larger proportion of
membera claiming independence from per-
sonal fealty to the leaders on either side,
than any Parliament has contained during
the past 15 years. The Administration will
be the servant of the Honse, Instead
of, as has during the present Parliament
been the esse, the House being the
humble servant of the Premier. Protection
is coming. It la p'obably coming too strong
to admit of the defeat In the country of even
aDi mis Government. Bat should a majority
for Protection be returned, it will not, we
apprehend, be a very docile majority for Mr.
Di bus, whose Cabinet will probably subsist
chiefly by a free use of tae bogey cry—
threatoneniag the ProtectJolists Info good
behavioar, with the apparition of Parkes
and Freetrade.
The Economic Equilibrium.
We are continually told by superficial reasoners
that the question of Free trade versus Protection
is simply a battle between importer and manu-
facturer, and therefore does not concern the bulk
of the community. Putting on one side the
obvious retort that manufacturers employ many
more toilers than do importers, the matter is
surely of deeper import than these sciolists imply.
If a country, capable of supplying all her own
wants, imports much raw and manufactured goods
from other lands, does it not necessarily follow
that a number of her workers almost proportionate
to those employed in supplying her from other
lands, must be deprived of labour within her own
boundaries? Where the workshops are, there of a
surety will the wages be paid, and the status of
the worker in the country where the workshops
are situated fixes his rate of payment, and there-
fore, to a great extent, the selling value of the
article. If a Freetrade country would compete
successfully in even her own markets with foreign
productions, it is evident that the pay of her pro-
ducers must be reduced almost to the level of the
countries with whom she has to compete.
• • a
This is a pleasing prospect for the artisans of
New South Wales. With their civilised tastes
and mode of life how can they degrade themselves
to the level of the enslaved, ill-fed, ill-housed, over-
worked, underpaid, Asiatic barbarian? Yet, if
they do not, and if buying in the cheapest market
is religiously adhered to, starvation is theirs,
while ultimate bankruptcy is the portion of their
country. Were the conditions of life precisely
similar in all parts of the world, were all nations
equally enlightened and free, were the hours of
labour of equal duration everywhere, then would
it be advisable “for every nation to exchange
with every other nation” such things as it has in
abundance for something else it cannot itself pro-
duce. At present there is no equality of con-
ditions between the various nations of the earth,
and, therefore, the labourer in a Freetrade
country is more at the mercy of circumstances
over which he has no control than the labourer
who lives in a land enjoying a greater or less
amount of Protection.
* • •
At present two-thirds of the cereals consumed
in Great Britain are imported, while 1,300,000
acres of corn laud have been lately withdrawn
from cultivation owing to the impossibility of
competition with impcrted grain. By this means
50 000 men have been deprived of work, while the
wages of those still employed are reduced almost
to the amount with which labour was remunerated
50 years ago. The land naticnalisationist will
probably tell us that if all this lately-abandoned
land, and all the land at present withdrawn
from cultivation —parks, moors, deer forests,
etc.—were used to-day for the production
of grain, then Great Britain would, so
f»r as grain is concerned, be self-supporting.
Were this given a trial it is a certainty that she
would be still undersold in her own markets by
grain grown on Russian steppes and Indian
plains. Thus would British land again be thrown
out of cultivation, unless the chief factor in its
cost, the wages of the labourer, were reduced to
the lower level of a coolie’s payment. This could
not be ; therefore thousands of agrarian toilers
would again be dismissed. If work could not be
found for these men in producing or manufactur-
ing some article to exchange for the imported
grain, then would Freetrade be still manufactur-
ing British paupers, and thus would Great Britain
remain fairly on the high road towards commer-
cial insolvency and national extinction. To put
it in another way. If a country possessing cer-
tain natural resources fails fully to utilise them
by reason of a Freetrade policy she but enriches
the capitalists cf the countries whence her sup-
plies are drawn at her own cost. Such a drain
being unnatural cannot long continue ; things
must come to a climax sooner or later. The
labourers of a civilised Freetrade country are
pauperised to provide the labourers of a less
civilised land with work, while the condition of
the latter is thereby little improved. Then if
another turn is given to the screw by the capitalist
the earnings of the wage slave are further reduced
to the lowest sum compatible with the support of
existence, while his civilised competitor is wholly
deprived of employment, and is therefore doomed
to starvation.
• • •
A deal of high-flown twaddle is talked about
Freetrade, As a theory it is simplicity itself and
on paper a most comforting doctrine, but stomachs
cannot be filled with theories, nor by all the
windy orations of a Pulsford or a Wise. If a
country has within her boundaries raw material
sufficient to supply all her wants, and men
numerous enough to prepare it for her use, the
policy that deliberately deprives these men of
work and neglects to utilise these resources, is
suicidal in the extreme and unfitted to stand the
test of time.
* * *
This is essentially a labour question. Free-
traders tell us that Protection robs the poor man
by increasing the cost of the necessaries of life. If
that be tru°, then Freetrade not only robs, but
absolutely murders him by depriving him at once
of the opportunity to work and the means of sub-
sistence. What matters it to a man who is unem-
ployed, and consequently penniless, that goods
are cheap ! If bread be sold at a penny a ton
and beef at a penny a yard, if he have not the
penny requisite to purchase whereby is he ad-
vantaged by its cheapness. On the other hand,
if he has the wherewithal to purchase, whas
matters the cost, more especially if the increased
cost is a consequence of his employment, and
absolutely necessary for its continuance ?
* * *
As far as civilised countries are concerned the
difficulty is chiefly caused by the over-use of ma-
chinery. Were there no labour-saving machines in
use there would at present be little need for protec-
tive tariffs. The discovery of steam and the inven-


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limitbd.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom hours),
Directors t
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. j T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of mow y
of all nations In addition to all nsaal banking
business.
T. 8. Richardson - _ managing Director,
12 MONTHS
Interest on Deposits:
:hb ... 7 psr oint,
... m »• ® II II
——— B „ „
tion of muebineryhave upset the economic and com-
mercial equilibrium of the world. Nearly every
country manufactures more goods than are re-
quired for home consumption, these must be got
rid of ; consequently they are shipped to other
countries, Ereetrade preferred. Thus springs up
an excessive and unhealthy competition, and the
earnings of labour are beaten down on every side
in a blind desire to dispose of goodi. How can
this unhealthy over production ba put a stop to,
how can th : s criminal competition be ended !
Were it possible to equalise wages, and so shorten
the hours of labour all over the world that the
services of every man, in every country, would
be necessary for the complation of the country’s
work, then the problem would be solved. Mean-
time the country that has undeveloped resources
and idle men might very reasonably, in the in-
terests of these unfortunates, prohibit absolutely
for a time the importation of everything that can
be produced or manufactured in her own territory.
A tariff imposed for the purpose of raising revenue
does not meet the case. It is not the raising of
revenue, bub the fostering of industries, the
development of resources that is required. While
the woild contains races whose modes of life
are altogether dissimilar, it will ba absolutely
necessary for the higher civilisations to pro
tect their workers in order to reduce the in-
tensity of the struggle for existence, and in order
that the national economic equilibrium may be
preserved. The policy which admits the surplus
manufactures of the overworked inhabitants of
->ne c run try to the marts of another, only tends
to degrade and pauperise the dwellers in both.
Thus in one country the toilers are overworked,
in the other they are unemployed. By means
such as these the social problem becomes more
complicated, and its solution is rendered more
difficult of accomplishment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Criticism of Heaven.
The New York Herald has gone one better than
the London Daily Telegraph in admitting a dis-
cussion into its columns under the beading of :
“ What shall we do in Heaven ?” Most of the
replies are from parsons, and are, therefore, par-
ticularly entertaining. For instance, Tal-
MAGE; who evidently has been there, says;
“ Heaven is always improving It is quite a differ-
ent place to what it was 1000, orevenlOO, years ago.”
They have had a land-boom probably, and subur-
ban allotments have greatly increased in value.
The great pulpit orator also states that heaven
“contains a family-room, music, reesptiot, and
throne rooms.” He makes no mention, however,
of a smoking-room. Strange omission! Then
Rev. Dr. Eaton declares that, “I do not
believe that Heaven will be a plica where
we will spend our time in waving palms,
and singing psalms. Neither do I look on it as
an o’d curiosity shop where useless saints are kept
in stock.” The Rev. J. R Paxton asserts that-
“ We have not all of us the gift for music, and
for my part if I have to join the choir I don’t want
to go there.” At this j unoture Dr Seward in the
most practical way ir.quires —“ If people follow
their earthly occupati ns in heavens, what on
earth will become of the undertakers ? ’ N jw, if
we admitted anything into our columns appreach-
ing these utterances of the Lord’s chosen in
airy depreciation of the advantages of a
heavenly residence, we’d expect at least to be ex-
communicated by Cardinal Moran ; denounced
by Bishop Barry ; lectured on by Pastor
Jeffebis ; cursed by Pastor Allen ; and gimleted
by the Social Purity Society.
The 0allows and the Stage.
The fearful bungle at the hanging of Louisa
Collins, the other day in Sidney, has roused the
ire of actor and manager George Rignold, and
that gentleman unburdens himself thus in the
S.M. Herald
I with no doubt thousands cf other 1 , was shocked this
morning on reading in the Herald the account of the
execution ef the unhappy Lootsa Collins. It is the
second time since I have settled in Sydney that a dis-
graceful bungling has occurred at a hanging.
If, in producing a play on which no dread cense quences
hang, there occurred at the mest critical moment in the
representation a hitch which interrupted the movement
towards the climax to he reached, and turned the tense
anticipation cf the audience into disgusted irritation, we
should receive at the hands of the critics, and rightly so,
merciless criticism. I am glad to say that here we do net
indulge in such morbid realism ai to produce a hanging
on the stage, but if we did so we should take care to have
proper rehearsals of the machinery to be used. Bags of
sand would be utilised to calculate the weight, and the
stage manager and stage carpenter would see that every
portion cf the mechanism had been exercised. Then,
does any one suppose that the working of this mechanism
would be dependent on tte wits of a stage-hand or a
super, engaged the day previously ? Scarcely. Yet we
are toll m to-day's paper that tae bungling occarred
through the stupidity or excitement of an a?sistant exe-
cutioner engaged the evening before.
This seems to me to be atrocious. I remember years
ago seeing a hanging in a play produced in Eagland, and
the effect of it was startling anl intensely realistic There
was a real gallows, and such machinery as is now used,
aud to all appsaranoes the man was hung. I knew of
course how the effect was produced. The man dropped
the fall length of the rope, but he also dropped the full
length of a wire invisible to tha audience, bus which held
him at the waist and prevented the rope from drawing
taut at the mok. Now all this mechanism had been
tested over anu over again before the actor hincself con-
sented to rehearse the scene. HU weight to an ounce
was represented by bags of sand, and tha stage-carpenter
did nob rest till there was absolute certainty cf the
machinery working without a hitch. Does it not seem to
everyone tbat reads this letter that to produce acourate-y
the effect of a hanging and yet not to kill the van is a
mere difficult thing than to in terrible reality produce the
actual death? To me, a player and manager, who lives
among mechanical tffectis, and have mechanists, en-
eiccBis. carpenteis, and electricians about me, and who is
deuandent on the fiithfulnees of their labour fer his
living, I oanrot bub view with cLgatt such revolting mis-
takes as that of yesterday morning, while, humanely, I
am moved to make protest against the incompetence or
the negligence which adds awful poignancy to a suffering
regarded as being both degrading and t rrible—that c f
the death penalty compassed through hanging.
Mr. Rignold here scores a decided point against
the public cfficial who has lost bis organ of smell.
A successful actor must necessarily know a little
of almost everything under the sun, hanging in-
cluded, and probably the retired tragedian would
make a greater success as a hangman than would
a man from any other walk of iidastry. Once
and only ores did we witness an execution on the
Sydney stage, when Mr. Arthur Vivian judi-
ciously hanged Mr. Newton Grifriths ti the
s vti if action of a large audience at the Gaiety ; and
tie workmanlike manner in which the business
was done convinced us that if the object bad
rerlly been to get rid cf Mr. Griffiths that
gentleman would very shortly have removed his
trunk to the Golden Shore. There was no hitch,
no fuss, no confusion. Mr. Griffiths merely
knelt down and spoke a little prayer and then he
fell off the scaffold into a bogus eternity, and all
was over. Even the practised Nosey Bob himself
—;let alone his cumbrous amateur assistant —might
learn a lesson from the veterans of the stage, and
Mr. Rignold’s long acquaintance with dramatic
mechanism of all descriptions, if combined with
Mr. Vivian's practical experience of hanging,
would enable him or them or either of them jointly
and severally to round off the angular parts of an
execution and cast a few agreeable side-lights on
the obliteration of the accused. An orchestra,
for instance, could be run in, and at critical points
iu the proceedings the big drum could give an ex-
plosion on its hide-bound end, and the lime-light,
j udiclously applied, would cast a halo around the
head of the party who was about to have this
mortal coil shuffled off him, and would seem to
delicately suggest thoughts of the far unreachable
that hangs round the Jaspar Sea. We do not
offer obese few ideas in any spirit of unseemly
levity. The religious sentiment that gilds the
ash-heap and piles flowers upon the tomb is only
the outward expression of a desire to electro plate
the ugly things of this lower world, and a few
ferns and pot plants and theatrical effects in
general, tastefully festooned about the gallows,
would do much to ease the strain upon the public
mind when the spirit of Justice is under the pain-
ful necessity of hanging someone in a hurry and
then finding out afterwards that it had executed
the wrong individual altogether.
♦
“An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth ”
is the Scriptural heading over no less than
three letters which have recently appeared in
Sydney daily papers demanding the judicial
strangling of a woman condemned to death All
the scriptural reasons now raked up by the hang-
man’s apologists were not so very long ago given
for the burning and drowning of witches. Here,
for instarc % is an extract from the charge of Sir
Matthew Hale to a Suffolk jury in 1644 during
the trial of two women for witchcraft There
were such creatures as witches, for first, the
Scriptures had affirmed so much; secondly, the
wisdom of all nations had provided laws against
such persons, which is an argument of their con-
fidence of such a crime.” That settled the miser-
able women’s fate at once ; they were convicted
and shortly afterwards burnt to death. To day
that act is universally regarded as a piece of gross
superstitious savagery. In much less than two
centuries more our own official ttranglings will be
ju-tly looked upon in a similar light.
The paid advocate of the “ gospel of humanity ”
is wont to quote, in excuse for his bloodthirsty
sentiments, the Biblical apophthegm—“ Whoso
sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be
shed.” Now let us work this out. Louisa Col-
lins killed Michael Collins and her blood was
shed by the hands of Nosey Bob. Now, who is
going to shed the blood of Noseless Bob, and who
is going to shed the blood of the other fellow, and
who is going to shed the blood of the man who
shed the blood of the other fc How, who shed the
blood of Nosey Bob, who shed the blood of
Louisa Collins, who shed the blood of Michael
Collins ? Where are we to stop ? If it be urged
that Howard, the hangman, only represents the
community, that only aggravates the matter. In
that case the lives of the entire community are
forfeit. If there is any logical escape from this
conclusion we shall be glad to consider it, when it
is presented to our notice.
♦
The New South Wales country Press so unani-
mously condemn capital punishment that we shall
not be surprised if at next general election candi-
dates will be asked : “ Are you opposed to capital
punishment?” The following very fair sample of
what the country papers are saying about the
execution cf Louisa Collins is taken from the
Armidale Chronicle
Which were the greater monsters—the men that were
tortured and flogged to daath or the ruffians that were
carrying out “ the law ?” Which were the greattr brutf s
—the men whose lives were mads a hell to them and
their legal deaths the only glimmer of mercy, or the mis-
creants thatmadeandadministered “thelaws?’' Ob,indeed,
the world has improved sines then, but the blood-stained
shambles, the rack called the “ triangles,” and the dog-
ger’s whip brought about the change by working up the
souls and voi es of the people to put down crimes which,
under the name of legal punishment, were a thousand-
fold worse than the effantes they sought to s"ay. But
still there remain two heirlooms handed down from those
daik ages cf less than a century ago, which, though used
in a far less degree, still are clung to as the remnants of
a blood-thirsty tirm— the whip and the hargman’s
shambles ; and it is the agitation of the people, as in the
present case, that shall scon put down for ever these two
relics of barbarism that feel and encourage the eery
crimes they seek to repress.
+
Another instance of how Young Australia is
fooled and flattered by certain “blow” organs.
“ Melbourne,” says its skiting evening journal,
“ is a long way ahead of London in adoptirg the
world’s inventions. We have now an elevator ia
nearly all our tall buildings, while the world’s
metropolis is only just considering the matter.”
Probably the tcribbler who penned, and the
editor who passed, that paragraph didn t know
they were dropping another seed of ignorance
into the fresh young minds of Herald readers.
London contains plenty of tall buildings fitted up
with elevators, alohough it certainly hasn t
adopted the world s invention of stinking drains, nor
do the squalid alleys of the great metropolis ever
resound with the rumble of the aesthetic “night-
cart.” Neither is its death-rate as high as that of
Marvellous Melbourne, nor are its suburbs as ugly
and gardenless. Pshaw ! Parochial journalism
should at least possess the virtue of truth.
Accursed social, commercial, and labour systems
preserve filthy streets, dens, and haunts of
wretchedness in the midst of wealthy London, yet
in the matter of “city improvements” it goes
ahead every bit as fast as Melbourne or
Sydney. And old London has to make
building improvements under difficulties beyond
the comprehension of Melbourne, which was
mapped out with a free hand only fifty years
ago. In the name of common-sente let us have no
more cackle about tall buildings, stately hanks,
town balls, or eh valors. A nation is not to be
built up wish bricks or worked by hydraulic pres-
sure. The Australian who swells with pride at
the sight of another ten-storey house in our beau-
tiful city, etc., is too apt to become a violent
admirer of the Hempire, the Flag, the Queen and
other vanities. In which respect we wish to
remain behind London by very long chalks.
♦
In Queensland, where the amount of the payment
to members cf Parliament fluctuates with the
hrgih of the session, it has been proposed that
the leader of the Oppositt’on should, like the
leader of the Government, receive a fixed salary.
The proposition, alohough unlikely to bear fruit,
has points of speculative suggestiveuess. Why,
for instance, with such light as recent events
have thrown upon Parliamentary practices
in New South Wales, should there not be
a paid official anti-Ministry as well as the
usual Ministry ? The facilities Ministers have
of aggrandising their private fortunes at the public
expenses demand that constitutional provision to
prevent abuse should exist. An anti-Ministry
would represent some such provision. But then,
what guarantee have we that a tramway or other
syndicate which succeeded in buying a Ministry
would not also buy an anti-Ministry ?
Protection to Mental Industry.
Dear Bulletin,— The London Daily News pub-
lished an article lately on S laden's “ Century
of Poets,” which provoked a section of the Aus-
tralian press to deal sportively with the tribe.
About the same tijne the question of the repre-
sentation of Australian art ii the Art Gallery of
Sydney arose, and another branch of native in-
dustry came in for columns of merry references.
General Australian literature eicaped, but only by
accident, ard on reflection it becomes plain that
whatever sport can bj derived from twitting Aus-
tralian poets and Australian artists with ill luck
can be also worked up against the Australian
essayist and story-writer. Hence I bulk the lot,
and will, vi.h your permission, show that the
literary man in Australia has actually more to
complain of in the fiscal and social system he lives
under than the carpenter, tailor or shoemaker.
Carpenters and cabinetmakers complain of having
to compete with Chinese labour ; tailors and shoe-
makers compLin of competition with foreign
sweating systems ; they are right, and they
should do what they can to i mash up the firms
that thrive on the existence of this competition.
But these people are not as badly treated as their
literary fellow-worker. The latter has to compete
with stuff that costs the Australian vendor in most
cases Eotbing. Let anyone, for example, take up
the papers (1 am now not alluding so much to the
S.M Herald as to other publications issued from
its office) published by the Fairbanks, of Sydney.
A great proportion of their literary matter is
scissored out of English papers. Turn over the
pages of theJEcHO. A big percentage of the paper
is pirated (T don’t say it is not “ acknowledged ”) —
that is, the bulk of the stories, the sketches, the
essays, the poetry, is all cut out of foreign
papers. Now, the Fairfaxes don’r, so far as
the public is aware, pay one penny for these
things, Occasionally they arrange for a story,
but by buying through syndicates they get it for a
figure that would noli pay any Australian to sit
down and write it. Nevertheless, the Fairfaxes,
through the Mail and Echo and Herald, are al-
ways proclaiming that their enterpiiae enables them
1 1 supply th:ir readerswith tin’s, that, and the other
literary masterpiece. T he point I want to b iugout
is that while a shoeshop pays something for what it
imports from England or America, the Fairfaxes
often pay nothing. When I talk of the Fairfaxes
I mean only to indicate a well-known firm. Symb,
of the Melbourne Age and Leader, is just as
bad, and the Argus company, although they
spend a lob of money in first-class litera-
ture, and pour out money ‘Mike water” in
getting special news, have nothing to boast
of considering their splendid revenue. The
Brisbane Newspaper Company are looking
after their weekly with a little more con-
science, but the Sydney Daily Tblegrarh
Company sends out a weekly that runs the Echo
close. Once Marcus Clarke, Garnet Walch,
and Walstab wrote out a protest against this
practice. They s'gned the document with
their names and begged the wealthy news-
paper-offices to publish it. The representa-
tives of the Argus, so Marcus said, declimd
to do it, and Mr. Syme, of the Age, is
understood to have stated distinctly that he didn’t
see why he should pay Australians for what
he could get for nothing in Eagland. That
protest was never published, and it is a
tact that Marcus Clarke almost went
mad over his inability to get the public to see
how these pretentious champions of Australian
ability were the very persons who profited by its
poverty. It is said that Australian writers should
not object to competition with English ones. That
is a favourite line of argument with those who
appear to want to confuse the issue. There is no
doubt whatever that Australian writers are
satisfied with and desire competition with English
one s. But they want the Australian purveyors pf
English literature to pay per column or page for
it. That is the point. Australian writers
cannot compete with pirates. Further, when
newspapers determine on wholesale clipping
they are enabled to employ editors of com-
paratively indifferent ability. I don’t say that
they do so, but I say that the valuing of
manuscript matter is the highest test of
editorial ability, and there ii little left for a
good editor to do when he has been ordered to
scoop all or most of his literary matter out of a
paper that has been already edited. A lame boy
with an eye in a sling could do all the editing of
many of the big weekly papers at the present
time. Here is the case : Australian writers do
not complain of the re-publication in Australia of
English work, but they complain that that work
is taken out of English newspapers without, in
almost all cases, any remuneration being given to
the English writer. The Australian writer who
works for money meets, therefore, in the market
work that has been “annexed” from an English
writer. That is his trouble. Is there a way to
ease it ? Well, a new society of pressmen has
been recently established in Sydney. Why
should this society not open communication with
the lit crateurs of London, forward regularly the
papers that pilfer their work, and request them, if
only for cameradcrie sake, to demand payment
from the Australian newspaper firms ? In some
instances, copyright law will support them, but
where that is not available a good end might
be secured by keeping an index of pirates posted
in London. One objection to this likely to be
raised is that the piratical sheet credits the news-
paper on which it has preyed, and that a stolen
sketch or story, when the origin is given, destroys
the author's claim. There is in the English courts
a precedent which puts that objection to rest.
Tom Taylor sold a critical artie'e to a Review
once, and on the proprietors of the Review launch-
ing another Review some years after they re-
published the article. In this case Taylor sued
for a second payment, and got it. But anyway,
the index of pirates would likely do the business.
It will be seen that I do not claim Protection in
the sense the manual worker claims it, though
as literary property is properly I dan’a see
why, if Protection be a sound principle, I
shoul i not. Bat, waiving that, I maintain
that Freetraders would support the case here
presented, simply on the score of fair play, and
I urge that Protectionists should support it both
on the ground of fair play and professed princi-
ples. Now, almost all the country paparsin Aus-
tralia are Protectionist, but almo.-t all of them
publish with every issue “supplements ” made up
out of pirated matter ! The editors of these papers
should stop talking about Protection. They are
not alone guilty of foul play, bub they are con-
tradicting their principles. They are doing what
the big newspaper-people do, but are proclaiming
all the time that they are fighting against the un-
fair competition of foreign labour. In mere newe-
matter change and interchange go on, but in mat-
ter of permanent literary value the idea of pro-
perty is as fixed as it is in land, as it is in a boot-
factory, as it is in timber, as it is in corn. There
are, I know, many who think with me in Sydney
and in Melbourne, and these, I think, should add
their ideas to those here presented. lam
aware that my opponents will plead that there
can be nothing wrong or immoral in a world-wide
system, but, nevertheless, I feel that there is on
my side the material for a good case. I have
only thrown together a few fragments of desul-
tory thought on the subject.—Youre, &c.,
Author.
Under false colours —A painted cheek.
The girl who chews, swears “By gam.’'
The tun achieved a best-on-record at
Adelaide on Christmas Day. The register was
107 in the shade and 150 in the sun.
St. Jade’s Charch, Melbourne, has been
broken into, a f. ct which has occasioned great
surprise, as the prevailing aspiration with the
congregation is to break out.
Horace Harris, at one time editor of the
Northern Standard, Townsville, and later of
the Croydon Times, is returning to Townsville to
edit a new daily, the Evening Stab.
A Chinese magnate at Malacca recently
died and his body was interred in a coffin which
had been in readiness for him 40 years, and on
which storage fees had been paid all that time.
The 1880 edition of Sands’ Sydney aid
Suburban Directory, now in its 21) th year of issue,
is now before us. The big work maintains the
high degree of accuracy and excellence by which
it has for many years been characterised. The
edition, which embodies all conceivable kinds of
references, contains 11,000 more names than that
of last year, and a large number of new and useful
maps. We must heartily congratulate the pub-
lishers and the chief compiler, Mr. Charles Moore,
on the result of their labours.
To Premier Gillies.
1 a honour of Sir Duncan G.
I pen this gentle eulogy,
And hope and pray most fervently
That he in lime may come to see
His curious idiosyncrasy.
His passionate love of Monarchy,
His constant prate of Loyalty,
His servile bow to Royalty,
Homage to Norman pedigree
Ar d Bloated Aristocracy.
He reads with joy and ecstacy
Ten letter rot from Salisbury,
And he Ids with love and sanctity
The Downing-street authority
His dear ambition is to be
The ruler of the colony
That has complete sc premaoy
Over her elder sisters three.
Io language that is “ loyal ” he
Condemns the Queensland Ministry.
For this great personality
Loves the phrase “ His Excellency,”
And prates about the Jn bilee.
But I am thinking that when he
Addresses his constituency,
They’ll hand him in this firm decree ;
That he on no more hope to be
Their leader till he owns a free
Australian Nationality,
And with a strict veracity
Pj’eads their cause against knavery.
All this I ask moat fervently
That Duncan may be brought to see.
F. CHANDOS.
Australian Cruisers.
The Admiralty Duet, “ H.M.S, Stagnation.”
Sung nightly with great enthusiasm by the pre-
sent First Lord and the Chief Secretary.
Do ye want to know what’s a first-class craft
For a home or a foreign station ?
Why, then, come give a look, mates, fore and aft,
At Her Majesty’s ship Stagnation.
Every inch of the hull’s our own design,
Her plates are as thick as a wafer ;
While her bait, just down to the water line,
Makes her cheaper, my mates—and safer 1
Then her bow and stern are planned with a skill
That should rouse an enemy’s wonder ;
For as soon as they’re hit they’ll quietly fill,
Come off in a lump and go under.
No matter—the moment peril she spots,
She can heap on her coals in plenty,
And make at h'gh pressure her thirteen knots,
While the foe that's in chase makes twenty.
And if through her boilers a shell goes clean,
And she’s forced to offer resistance,
She’ll run out her guns—when the fact she’ll
glean
That they won’t carry half the distance.
What’s the odds ? Old-fashioned, useless, con-
demned
On inquiry, searching, judicial,
Let them burst! Why ? Don’t they serve their
friend,
The permanent Woolwich official !
“ With ships and with guns, not as those of yore,
Did Nelson make all Europe caper ?”
That’s true; and these here, by which we set
store,
Exist only yet, mates— on paper !
But contracts are placed ; and, fifty years hence,
If work goes on fairishly steady,
Should ten be required for sudden defence,
Id’s possible one may be ready !
And she'll be, my mates, quite a first-class craft,
And a credit to this here nation ;
So let the salt breezis three stout cheers waft
For Her Majesty’s ship Stagnation !
HENRY I EAHY.


Do you wish to make money ? Then buy a £lO
building allotment at Perth, the capital of West
Australia. £1 deposit. Easy terms. Marked
plans posted. The Intercolonial Investment
Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE
OFFICE
W. M. IHACIiBM,
Stationer, Engraver. General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesmker, Embosser, Bookbinder
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o ’
Maclardy’s £5 Box of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List of Contents. '
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
N B—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xma* Card*
«od (fancy finedn Inspection Invited
llorBCord’s Acid Phosphate.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS.
“ The richest blood, sweetest breath, and fairest skin in
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
The Referee.
Black Jackson, of Sydney, fights Ktlraln
in America in March.
• * *
The Charters Towers (Q.) Times congratu-
lated the handicapper of the local race-meeting on
the close finish for the Maiden Plate.
• • •
In the match between the Maori foot-
ballers and Northumberland, won by the former,
some of the rougher of the border lads exhibited
very nasty tempers. The Maoris, wet and miser-
able, speedily retaliated, and the spectators hissed.
This brought both teams to their senses, and till
time was called no further fault was found.
• * •
Mr. Ten Broeck, the American turfite,
thas become insane.
• • •
The welsher has at last reached his proper
level. One was locked up for larceny, at Caul-
field, last week. Formerly the police were bound
to protect the defaulter, now they treat him as an
•ordinary criminal.
People in Australia epeak of Ned Tiickett
as ’cute and Bill Beach as honest, yet the former
’lost a small fortune through not appearing at
music-halls when he visited London.
* * •
The Victorian Eleven devoted nearly the
whole of a beautiful summer day to scoring 152
runs against N.S.W. And again we ask why
the present school of Australian batsmen are
incapable of playing a lively game until they get
to dear old England.
* * •
Entries for the Australian Cup and New-
market Handicap show a decided falling off from
the average of recent years. But as nearly every
'“ ■crack ” in Australia and New Zealand is entered
for one or both races, it will be an early bird who
finds the “ double ” at next Y.R.O. meeting.
• *
Tom King, the ex-champlon pugilist, who
died the other day, had a premonition that his
race was nearly run. He was at the last Good-
wood meeting, and as he looked over the landscape
he said, 4 ‘ I thought I would come and see it again
for the last time. Isn’t it beautiful ? But I’ve
got to leave it.” In answer to some reassuring
words, all that he said was ; 44 No, no—l shall
never see it again. I know that it is not a ques-
tion of long with me. lam gone here, and lam
saying good-bye.”
* * •
We have never yet heard whether Shrews-
bury, the cricketer, married his Australian
inamorata , or returned heme in a bachelor state.
• • •
It seems to be definitely settled that
Elsternwick (Melb.) racecourse will fall a victim
to villa residences when the Club’s lease expires
To be in accordance with the eternal fitness of
things bookmakers ought to build on the old,
beloved ground.
* * •
Ihimalra—Anglice, Smller—one of the full-
blooded Maori members of the N.Z. football
team, now in England, has written a letter to his
grandfather, the chief, Te Muera, of Napier,
N.Z., of which the following is a translation
44 Glendower Hotel,
44 England, October 16, 1888.
“ To Te Muera, also to Raniera, —Ore at is my affection
towards you all. My inmost heart is full cf love, and I
cannot help keeping you constantly in lemembrance.
14 O, sits ! Salutations to you all. May God be gracious
and keep you all in health who are living at that place.
Here end the greetings to each of the people. And now
about our travels. After Melbourne, we railed aoross the
great water to England, which we reached in a month
and two weeks. I suffered mist from sea-sickness, as
also did Nehua. We could eat no food for over a week,
but recovered when crossing the line, which divides that
world (hemisphere) from this. It was terribly hot, so
that we oould not go below at night, but lay on the
steamer deck at night without blankets. We then entered
the Red Sea and landed at several towrs on the coast. We
al so sa w the place where Moses cross ed over with the children
when I hey were pursued by Pharaoh and his hosts, who
ware overwhelmed and drowned in the returning waters.
Then we reached the narrowest part of the Red Sea, and
onr ship steamed into the canal dug by human hande. It
is 00 miles in length and cost fifty millions. The work
was all done by the Arabs. After leaving Alexandria we
crossed over to the coast of Italy near against Rome and
beheld many of the places visited by the Apostles Even-
tually we airived safely in England, and on the Wednes-
day, four dajs afterwards we nut a representative team
picked from ten clubs and heat them by four points to one
in the presence of a vast multitude of people. About 60
matches in all have been arranged for us. Friends, we
are all in good health and spirits. I like the travelling
about greatly. I have been presented with a valuable
ring by a lady of great rank. It cost at least £6, and
contains diamonds set in gold.
44 We play our next match on the 17th October.
44 This is all the greeting to you. May God preserve
you and the tribe.
44 From your loving grandchild,
44 SiMILER.”
We fancy we can witness the excitement that the
arrival of the missive at Te Muera’s ancestral
Icainga would cause. The cow-bell would ring
the summons to the rununga house and the entire
tribe would muster. Then some expert reader,
probably a lad from Te Ante College, would read
the letter, which would be subjected to a rue mug
commentary by the intent listeners whose
44 a-wei’s ” of astonishment would be frequent,
and no doubt a discussion of two or three days’
duration would ensue, during which Ibimaira’s
pedigree and the deeds of his ancestors right away
back to the migration from the mystic Hawaika
would be recounted.
«• • •
44 Coomberland ” men In Australia will be
sorry to hear that William Jamieson, a grand old
41 wrastler,” is dead. Jamieson was champion
heavy-weight wrestler (in th<? only style worth look-
mg at) when he and Wright tified conclusions with
L nor “ OUBl y f** l Frenchman at the Agricultural
# ai ’ (£i 6ce i/ < n bernational ” matches were very
funny. The Frenchman always won in Ms style
which consisted in rolling on Wright or Jamieson
until they couldn’t keep one shoulder off the
ground any more. Then they used to topple the
mountain of Gallic flesh over at Coomberland
style, and the international match was declared ft
draw. Jamieson was a noble sample of the north
country Englishman, weighing some iVst. when in
sound condition. His polo-leaping (too little
practised in Australia) was a sight for the gods.
The cable, strange to say, sent no news of
the latest six-day wobble perpetrated in New
Fork, although Littlewood, the winner, made
more money thereby than can be earned by a
champion sculler in six matches. In addition to
big stakes and a lump of gate-money, Littlewood
scooped an extra £lOOO for beating the previous
record of 621 miles, which he accomplished with
another 30 miles up his sleeve, or properly speaking
up his running pants. Littlewood is a “home "man
and ib looks as though the Yanks had invented
wobbles in the interests of Britishers, who come
over and beat the local men at their own game.
Rowell and Hazael (the latter a veteran English
pedestrian without a shilling to his name) made
small fortunes in New York, and that’s where
our man Scott ought to have tried his luck.
* * *
Lovemaking la not conducive to success
on the turf, nor to anything else where alert wits
are required. The Duchess of Montrose has been
very unlucky this year, and her chagrin is in-
creased by the fact that the most successful horses
of the season were once her property. She, how-
ever, parted with them during her wooing of a
youth about a third of her own age.
* *
Searle, despite that Brisbane affair, seems
to be a sterling fellow after all. He has presented
his parents with a thousand pounds out of his
winnings, and thus deserves prai?e. As a rule,
our athletes get too big for their old associations,
and their "stuff” is spent in liquoring-up swells
and buying silks and jewellery for “ ladies.”
* • •
The N.Z.-built yacht Akarana Is for sale ;
price, £550.
Now that the totalisator has been legalised
lo’.y Adelaide expects a racing boom.
• •
A review of the twenty-five most important
races on the English turf last season shows that
only in six instances was the favourite returned a
winner.
• • •
We desire to draw attention to an article
appearing in another column headed “ The Bul-
letin Consultation Idea,” also to an advertise-
ment of “ Mr. Adam Bede ” concerning consulta-
tions on the Newmarket Handicap and Australian
Cup.
Mr. R, Hope Atkinson, local manager of
the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
United States, has received a cablegram from the
New York head-office of his scc'ety giving the
following particulars The mw business of the
society for the year 1888, £31,250,060 sterling;
income for same period, £5,416,666 sterling. This
is an increase of new business amounting to
£2,495,189 over 1887, and an increase in income of
£520,267.
The attention of the tradea-unions, and
especially of the compositors and printers of Aus-
tralia, is directed to the fact that newspaper s pur-
porting bo be locally-produced, bub which are in
reality set up by cheap girl, boy and “ rat ”• labour
in other colonies and printed in non-union offices,
are now being imported duty-free and sold in
Sydney; also to the fact that newspapers printed
from stereotype-plates imported from England are
entering into competition with locally-produced
newspapers composed and printed by union
labour. The Bulletin (whose proprietary, by
the way, was the means of raising compositors’
earnings in Sydney) does not object to
the employ ment of female compositors so
long as they are paid at the same rates
aa men, but it does object to the introduc-
tion to Australia of a system under which two
compositors, man and wife, have to work (for such
is the case in N.Z ) for even less than the wages
paid to a male union compositor in Sydney.
We invite the attention of every member of Par-
liament or candidate for Parliament to this ques-
tion, which is an excellent illustration of the in-
terdependence of trades-unionism and Protection.
What have the Freetraders to say in the matter?
Would they be prepared to allow newspapers set
up and printed in N.Z. by Chinamen who had
worked out the white typos, to be issued in
Sydney as local productions and run in competi-
tion with union labour ? Without Protection,
no trades unions ; without trades-unions, no Pro-
tection.
FOOTBALL AS SHE IS PLAYED.
" 'Vith "six of their best men hors da combat, the
Maoris were not so well represented as usual.”
Four-and-twenty Maoris, starting on a tour ;
Fifteen to play the game, and nine to watch the
score.
Fifteen Maoris, battling hard with Surrey ;
Two get their legs smashed through excessive
hurry.
Two-and-twenty Maoris try their luck with Kent-;
Fifteen still to play the game, and seven in the
tent.
Fifteen Maoris, “ playing rather rough;
Three of them got carted off, having had enough.
Nineteen Maoris, working farther North ;
Four look on now, while fifteen to play go forth.
Fifteen Maoris, vanquishing North Hants ;
Four get their limbs torn, and several their pants.
Fifteen Maoris resuming three days later ;
All have now to play the game, and none to play
spectator.
Fifteen Maoris, at Burton-on-the-Trent;
Three very soon to the right about are sent.
And then Twelve Maoris, trying to hold their
own;
Six break an arm or two, or else a collar-bone,
Half-a-dozen Maoris, of all save pluck bereft,
Fight one more battle, and then none are left.
Four - and - twenty Maoris, damaged beyond
measure;
All swear there’s nothing like a football trip for
pleasure.
MAN OF THE WORLD.
"The bulletin's" consultation Mea
THE PROJECT TAKEN UP.
" ADAM BEDE" ABD "THE BULLETIN."
In The Bulletin of Decamber 8 h appeared an
article which discussed the possibility of raising
large sums of money for benevolent objects by
means of a deduction of percentages from the
commitsions charged in racing sweeps. The
article in question laid particular stress oh the
point that if sweeps were permitted at all their
promoters should be mulct of some of th’plr
enormous profits in the interests of ‘chabity. We
expressed the opinion that if the authorities tacitly
permitted the tunning 'Pf Enormous sweeps con-
ducted solely for thja benefit of the promoters,
they could not logically'dbject to fairly conducted
consultations tvhose objects were wholly or partly
Charitable. The article concluded with an invita-
tion to the established sweep-promoters of N S.W.
and the other colonies to conduct their tu inesses
on the lines laid down by us.
* * »
But success is apt to mike one confident that
competition is impossible, and the men who had
for years been obtaining a princely revenue —one
of them alone, if he has no partners, makes at
least £16,C00 a year—through the s ; mple process
of charging the sporting public tm per cent for
the privilege of borrowing the public’s own money*
gave no sign of falling in with oar suggestion.
True is it that diplomatic advances were made to
us from several quarters by men who saw in out
plan a golden opportunity of embarking in the
lucrative sweep-promoting business, but none of
these offers time from sufficiently responsible men
or in other respects adequately approached our idea
of how stioh consultations ’as those sketched by us
should be conducted, and nothing resulted. Iu
the meantime the article was widely read in the
other colonies. Newspapers re-published it with
approving comments, and we have now before us
ft file containing many scores of letters from
readers of The Bulletin approving of and at the
same time criticising our suggestions in a friendly
way.
■ •
One of the first to read a cablegram on the
subject which appeared in the N.Z. piers
was a business man known to fame as “Adam
Bede,” and whose address was “ care of Mr.
H. N. Abbott, Abbott's Opera House, Auck-
land.” Mr. "Adam Bede” had for 20 years
been before the public of New Zealand as a
sweep-promoter, and until the passage of a
stringent Gaming and Lotteries Act in that colony
was at the head of his business, amassed con-
siderable wealth, erected large public buildings,
and in other ways demonstrated that he had a
level head andjwas a solid man. Well, Mr. “Adam
Bede,” erstwhile the New Zealand “ Tattersall,”
opened up negociations with the proprietary of
this paper, signified his willingness to give satis-
factory evidence c f hu bona-Jidcs, and to generally
conduct the sweep on the lines laid down by us.
Then he came to Sydney, and all the prelimi-
naries having been satisfactorily arranged, the an-
nouncement of his first sweeps under Bulletin
lines appears in our issue of to-day,
* * •
With reference to the conduct of the sweep we
may say that The Bulletin proprietory hold
satisfactory guarantees that a percentage of the
profits on all sweeps shall be devoted to charity—
principally to Sydney Hospital=-and have, more-
over, taken such steps as appeared to them neces-
sary from a strictly business noint of view, to
secure a due performance by ‘ Adam Bede” of
his duty to the public. We now desire to draw
the attention of sweep-investors to the consulta-
tions announced, and we venture to express ike
hope that many of them will on taking tickets
devote a certain portion of their prospective
winnings to charitable purposes, if on no higher
ground than "for luck.”
• * *
We do not claim to ourselves any particular
credit for creative ingenuity in connection with
the project. In imny of the continental countries
of Europe, and in some of the American States,
lotteries for charitable and public purposes am
conducted directly under State supervision. We
claim, however, that we have successfully en-
gineered, in the face of many difficulties, a scheme
that will immensely benefit a number of good
objects, and we make this claim without the least
hesitation, as we can honestly say that neither
The Bulletin nor any one in cornection with it,
is, apart from the advertisement involved, in-
terested in the success of the sweep to the extent
of one penny-piece.
• • *
Thus we send off “ Adam Bede ” with our best
blessing. His 20 years of energy and squareness
in New Zaaland are in themselves a guarantee of
bis squareness and success in Australia. His
personal record and the system on which he now
proposes to work are such as entitle his enterprise
to success. The time is, we predict, not far dis-
tant when his business rivals will have to follow
his example—or collapse utterly.
Notwithstanding the recant rains, it is
reported that the only green things in the Welling-
ton (N.S.W,) district now are the cloths on the
billiard-tables, and it takes the billiard-markers
all their time “shooing” the cattle and horses cut
of their rooms.
The annual report of the National Por-
trait Gallery of England states that the salaries
of officials for the year amount to £1176, other
expenses, £591, and police £635. This leaves a
balance of £143 18s. for the purchase of pictures,
and, accordingly, seven daubs at £20 each have
been lately added bo the collection. It is exceed-
ingly English, you know, these items of £1176
worth of official and £635 worth of pol : ceman to
look after £143 worth of dubious illustrations, but
somehow English art has always consisted of a
great deal of policeman and a very small amount
of picture, and it will probably continue so till the
end.
A young lady who was to have appeared
in the Rockhampton (Q,) police court, the other
day, had to be postponed owing to a tragic cir-
cumstance. An embarrassed policeman got into
the witness-box and testified that he was unable
to bring ,the blushing vision “ afore the coort ”
because she had born up every stitch of her
clothes, and was then dancing on the fragments
and singing comic songs in her cell. If the coort
was absolutely determined to see her it could only
be done by bringing her in in an overcoat or tying
a blanket round her, bub as the young lady was
evidently suffering from considerable cerebral ex-
citement he urged that she should be postponed
and allowed to cool. The case was remanded
accordingly.
Herr Kahler Artist.
Hebb Kahlbb, one of the most distinguished
figures in art circles in Melbourne, is best known
to Australians generally as the painter cf the
Successful picture “The Lawn at Elemington oft
Cup Day,” Herr Kahler, whose portrait appears
elsewhere, is an Austrian and is well known in bis
own country as a contributor bo bhe high-felash
illustrated papers of that artistic laud. He vVah
born in 18511 at Lin Vwas educated fob lefral
profession, but having a atrchg love of
determined to become an ‘artist. A (jJeimqn prince-
ling who had pCb'ceiVbd bis true; vacation fqp art, pre-
vailed upeta hio parents to send him to Munich, and
h'e entered, the Royal Academy of that city rs a
student. .. After four years diligent application he
carried off the prize for the best oil-painting. In
1882 two pf his paintings were exhibited at the Bat is
Salon, and both of them achieved a decided suc-
cess. la 1885 he came to Melbourne. His big
picture of “ The Elemingtcn Lawn on Cup Day,"
containing portraits of many of the most im-
portant personages in the colonies, is a veritable
historical page in the history of Australia.
Singapore has a Chinese alderman
Mount Shad well, the Victoria eXtlndt
volcano, has come down to very bate purposes in
lbs old age. The gravel and laVa are being exca-
vated from the crater and used for ballasting a
new railway-lino, and when the old phenomenon
has been all scooped out it is probable that a boh
tract will be let for removing the husk of a lusted
feature of IS ature, and the site will be sown with
Carrots by a practical and mercenary generation
tvhich has no eye for the picturesque.
Francis Abigail, who, politically, has just
gpne bung with the rest of tie Ministry, kt ft
dinner the other night said, in the course of a ten
minutes’ whine, that he had endeavoured to cany
out the precepts of his father, and he urged hio
children not to mind the accumulation of wealth,
but to build up a good name. We wonder how
brands reconciles this statement with his con-
nection with the Australian Banting Go, and
with the rates of interest lately charged by that
institution on leans to workmen !
The Sydney Fortign-lrade press, seeing
which way the political wind blows, are Very civil
indeed to the new Ministry, The Sydney D.T.
with an eye to Government advertisements, re’>
marks of the Premier s—“ We tear no malice, and
shall be glad if jcurnalistic duty yet calls upon Us
to point out to an astonished public the excellen-
cies of a regenerated Dibbs.” The SM. Heßald
speaks of the new Government as men of high
personal character, and remarks that “it can
hardly be denied that on personal grounds the
new Government gives promise of capacity and
strength.” The King is dead; long live the
King!
“ Five years In a dark cell '* Is the latest
Christian sentence in Hungary. After that we feel
a sort of subdued admiration for the se old fashioned
Persians who used to fix a prisoner wioh his head
sticking out of a hollow tree, and having smeared
that part of him with honey in order to attract the
wasps, leave him there to solve the problem of hie
destiny the best way he was able. Sometimes ho
died of the wasps 5 occasionally he perished from
sunstroke, and now and then he pined away
owing to sheer stickiness ; bus anyhow, be always
bad the gratification of dying and getting aWay
from a world which had evidently failed to appre-
ciate him. These remarks will now conclude with
the customary hyhm about the necessity of con-
verting the blinded heathen in bis cave.
A West Australian equal<er has been fined
for tying up 01 e of his aboriginal shearers and
flogging him with a stockwhip. The local paper
bad some comments on the case and the squatter
writes a letter in extenuation of his condUor. from
which the following is an extract: —
Tre chaining up was not a b t mote selere On him thah
rn an.y othef naMVa on the chain forai u proved cftenfce.
Are you aware that natives awaiting tiial are not only
chain- d together in their cell but Chained to a ling-bolt
ir.to the floor? As for toe flagging (ar.d that is the only
ttiDg that hurt him) he got about a dc£en cuts with a
fctock-whip, and I consider he deserVed evtiw one of them
and so does everyone that 1 nows what ratiVes really are.
So we still have in Australia in almost the last
decade of the uineteeuth century a man who
claims the indefeasible right of everyone to whale
his own nigger. God bless our old iquattocracy !
Says the London Despatch ;
Tae Archbishop cf Canterbury, in opening the prcc ed-
ings at his Diocesan Conference, dwelt pathetically on
the utter failure of the Church to touch the hearts of the
people. Its failure, he said, was due to wait to exhorta-
tion rather than want of living illustration.
We like this rather, especially from au Arch-
bishop. According to this gilded reverend, the
people want more exhortation in the shape of
firstly, secondly, and thirdly, also a few words in
conclusion, my beloved breth er-en, and they have
fallen away because thq old smooth bores of the
Church drone along for three quarters of an
hour instead of an hour and a half or up-
wards. But the living illustration is all
there. The fat Archbishop with his £15,000
per annum and his two palaces are on the spot,
and the starving masses who once used to look to
the Church for aid and consolation, hear of him
as a corpulent illustration ” that gives expensive
garden parties and hangs around in royal palaces.
The podgy, well dressed rector is there—another
living illustration that sells up the hungry agri-
culturist who can’t pay his tithes ; and, following
him, comes the threadbare curate who ekes out
his pittance by keeping pigs, and travels about on
all-fours looking for preferment as a living illus-
tration of the unspeakable meanness of that
branch of the Church which is down as contrasted
wioh the greasy arroganca of the other branch
which is up. Yes, the English Church is well off
for illustration, but the world is getting very
tired of it all the same, and some day it will wipe
out the whole picture with a wet cloth, and start
afresh.


Do you wish to make money ? Then buy a £lO
building allotment at Perth, the capital of West
Australia. £1 deposit. Easy terms. Marked
plans posted. The Intercolonial Investment
Co,, Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
Mrssrs. Most & Chandon are now shipping to the
Colonies their 1884 Vintage “ Dry-Imp6rial ” Cham-
pagne. This is the produce of their own vineyards of
1500 acres of the choicest growths around Epernay. The
" Dry-Impdrial ” has never been shipped to the colonies
before. It Is very dry. Ask for Most’* " Drv Imperial "
at all Wine Merchant*
Gr
AIETY THEATRE.
LAST WEEK. LAST WEEK.
TO-NIGHT.
Mr. Frank Lincoln Mr. Frank Lincoln
Mr, Frank Lincoln **
Mr. Frank Lincoln Mr. Frank Lincoln
In his Funniest of Funny Entertainments.
Professional Matinee— Thursday Afternoon.
(See Morning Papers)
Prices: 55., 4a , 3s. & Is. Box Plan at Nicholson's.
Doors open at 7.30, commence 8.15.
Manager—L. .1, LOHR.
£JOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
# More Novelties! %
The First Importation into N.S. Wales of
A HERD OE DONKEYS!
(Quiet) for the Children to Ride.
SATURDAY NEXT ! OT SATURDAY NEXT I
Positively the Last Appearance in Australia of
The DONALDSON BROTHERS!
Physiological Marvels.
Anniversary Day — Watch future announcements.
All previous Sensations Eclipsed.
Parachuting Outdone.
AGINTON'S
&
PERILOUS plight
THROUGH St'AGE.
A. R, 3TOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Rotali. —“ Hands Across the Sea ”p. 14.
Heb Majesty’s.— “ Youth” .’
Obitebion.— “ Hans the Boatman ”
Hatmabkkt Music Hale —Harry Rickards „
Gaiety Theatre.— Frank Lincoln
The first night of “II Trovatore ” filled
Sydney Opera House to the outermost portal, and
the company looked glad, being probably im-
pressed, in their artless, foreign way, wish the
idea that they had at last struck a city with a
genuine love for the tragic muse of Italy. The
audience, id is true, was yawning fearfully at an
early stage of the proceedings, and the golden
girls of Potts Point were asking each other who
was II Trovatore, anyhow, and if he was very
ill, and how he came to be tore, but, hap-
pily, these symptoms of incipient ignorance
were not audible from the stage. And
as a solid compliment to the company, it
is worth noting that not more than two-thirds of
the people present seemed to want to rise in insur-
rection and state that they didn’t know any
I Dalian at all, and that they couldn’t follow the
translation worth a cent, and that they didn’t see
anything about the music that was better than the
music of any opera that was a little leas incom-
prehensible, and that they were losing all their
hair in the miserable effort to look like cheerful
and joyous patrons of foreign art. Everything,
in fact, looked bright and prosperous, and as
the audience dispersed, a hundred citizens could
be heard telling each other that there was a
sort of—er—er —aw—you know—a kind of—cr-
ab-something inexpressible, as it were—and—er
—and then the person addressed would wave both
hands in the air and say that Italian opera always
struck him that way, and compared to it English
opera always showed an indescribable want of—er
—ah—in fact it hadn’t the—aw—er—haw .
Still, despite all these outside drawbacks, “II
Trovatore ” was a fine performance. Signora
Ajmo’s voice was sufficient in itself to prop up a
show consisting of one hurdy-gurdy and a hairless
horse, and her melody was one of the things
which even a Hottentot audience could under-
stand at the first try. Mdlle. jLablache, as
Azucena, the darksome person who hovers in
caves and curses in dark spots generally, took a
good second place and acted her tragic part with
a vigour which made the air shake. Pimazzoni
sang the bad, wicked qount affably, and gave
.general satisfaction, and .Mancini and Venturi
were two thoroughly cheerful persons w;ith re-
liable voices which ware always there when
wanted. Thanks to these alleviating circum-
stances Italian song stands a reasonably good
show of earning b:ots for itself during a short
season, and a judicious mixture of English opera
promises to make things pay. By the time tioese
talented obiervations appear in print the “Bohe-
mian Girl ” will be on view.
•it" -V- -it" '•I-
Tf* 'A' 'A' 'TV'
A matinee performance will be given at
Sydney Royal next Monday as a friendly send-off
to Miss Dora Wiley, an American actress who has
met with many undeserved misfortunes in the
land of the kangaroo and the emu, and who con-
sequently intends shaking the Australian dust off
her little feet on the departure of the next
San Francisco steamer. As many of the lead-
ing artistes of Sydney as cau find standing-
room on the stage have volunteered their ser-
vices. Mr. Chas. Warner will appear as Jack
Dudley nnd furnish an act of “ Hands Across
the Sea.” Mr. Rignold has sworn a large
affidavit ,to eyhilnt himself as Joe Saunders—a
character in which he has few equals any-
where —in a section qf that pathetic drama
“My Partner; ” and Mr. Chas. Arnold and
little May ijlannenlthe Baby Coquette) supply an
act of the evergreen comedy, “Rants the Boatrnan.”
Messrs. Rickards, R. Kowalski, Horace
Poussard, and a large number of others will assis%
and if Mr. Frank Lincoln can succsssfully post
pone fiis other engagements he will bA present
with a pnqiber of fatal witticisms. The ever-
lavish Triqmyirajse give their ’ theatre free of ex-
pense, and the two rival (irms— Brough and Bouli-
eaulb and Rignold and AUison —have lent out
their companies and properties with a noble disre-
gard of possible weat and hear.
** ♦ #
Some ,y 0 leading pi embers qf the theatrical
profession haying intimated by letter to Mr. Frank
Lincoln that they are unable to die happy 1 with-
out seeing him, the American humourist an-
nounces a matinee performance at 2.Jp this
(Thursday) afternoon. This act of charity, we
trust, will be its own reward.
AA AA AL Ah
*7l* W WV* fA*
Mr,. Aginton., the champion skating man,
intends constructing a new horror at Coogee
Aquarium on Anniversary Day, when he proposes
fib' skate down the toboggan slide and arrive
an a dishevelled h ap at the bottom. The distance
is stated'as being several hundred feet, and from
the moment Mr. Aginton starts nothing but sud-
den death eafa stop him till he reaches the end qf
his excursion. He is expected to do the last s Sages
■of the journey at a velocity of 1,7,000 yards in a very
-abort time, and if anything solid intervenes it
will haVe to break—unless Aginton goes in separate
'pieces, one half passing over and the other under j
the obstruction. The performance itself will be
■divided info two parts, the first consisting in the
public seeing Aginton at the top, and the .second
in hearing him dr his remains arrive at the foot,
and the tWo acts will be joined together by qn in-
distinct vision of a hazy crack splitting desperately
through the atmosphere. Before starting, we
would urge the performer to consider the
14 5h chapter of Matthew, and in particular
the latter part of the 20th verse, and having
done this, we would implore him to have 2(5
feather-beds handy to fall upon, and he should also
take out an accident insurance policy and repent
of his sins, and, if he can manage it, he should
rtfleet upon his past life and think of his mother
and the happy hours of his childhood, and the old
home, and the cow, and the other fixings, before
he starts. And when he has done all these things,
we would advise him not to go after all.
•* ♦ *
“ Hans the Boatman,” “ Youth,” and
” Hands Across the Sea ” still travel gaily at
their respective theatres. Also the evergreen
Lincoln at the Gaiety continues to hold up against
a temperature of 10G in the cellar, and “ Spoons ”
swelters as before in the music-hall of the Hay-
market.
*# # *
Melbourne shows remain as they were on
Boxing Night, save in one painful particular. The
Vivians, who had previously been holding a gravy-
spoon up to Nature in some remote corner of the
marvellous city, swooped down upon the Opera
House last week, and shook their gory locks in
“East Lynne,” amidst suppressed shrieks of
horror from such bucolic pilgrims as didn’t know
any batter. The periodical visitations of the
Vivians and “East Lynne” are among the most
awesome calamities which overtake our modern
civilisation, for a drama doomed to drag any com-
pany through the dust of healthy contempt is
“ interpreted ” by a company doomed to do ditto
with any drama. Qualified exceptions can be
made in the cases of Mr. W. G, Carey and
a Miss Tennyson—the latter a seeming raw
beginner, who might develop into an actress
if she is a raw beginner, and begins all
over again. Moat of the others have either
grown too old in histrionic sin to be capable
of regeneration, or are possessed of a brazen front
which no improving stage influence can penetrate.
It is very saddening to watch paople who have
buried their one little talent—forgotten where it
lies hidden, perhaps—and taken the wrong path
in life. As private units of our social system
there is satisfaction in believing that the members
of this Opera House combination coterie or
“ push ” are loaded with domestic virtue and
charged with the milk of human kindness. The
gentlemen would doubtless appear to advantage
in any Australian Legislature, while the ladies
might sit upon the throne of England with unex-
ampled success. But as actors and actresses they
are mostly destitute of a redeeming circumstance
and walk in danger of the judgment. Oa Monday
“East Lynne” was to be replaced by “Current
Cash,” a play less mawkish but more maddening
than the other.
*# * #
“ Dorothy ” keeps them in such an excited
state at the Princess’s that it is found necessary to
provide a continual outlet for hot enthusiasm
through the sliding roof. “ Private Secretary ”
shows no symptoms pf decay at the Bijou, but
“The World Against Her ” has filled the Alex-
andra with ladies, until the fruitful river in their
eyes is dried up, and the sex can weep no more.
Next Saturday will be sacred to the first perform-
ance of “ Marvellous Melbourne,” a new tragedy
HERB KAHLER, ARTIST.
ia several tableaux which is vaguely understood
to be built up on'the land-boom, open drainage,
and other matters of local interest.
** * *
The Royal pantomime gets there with a
regularity which —in the beautiful Words of the
advertisement —is beyond all precedent, and fresh
joys are being added regardless of expense There
were two performances on Saturday, at eaoh of
which the attendance bulged out in all parts of
the house. The Borani Brothers (late with His-
cqcks and Friedman) have brought their Satanic
gambols into the show, and, although this neces-
sitates the appearance of a plain deal table in the
beautiful bails of JSblis, it doesn’t make the pan-
tomime more incoherent than usual.
* # **
An Art .Union, in connection with the
Centennial Exhibition, should bring one last little
bag of grist to somebody’s mill. The promoters
propore to put 40,000 tickets at ss. each upon the
market, Eighty per cent, of subscribed capital
will be generously “allotted” to the purchase of
prizes, five per cent, goes to the Alfred Hospital,
and fifteen per cent, is set apart for printing, ad-
vertising, and working expenses. Considering
that there is only a fortnight in which to print
and advertise, the scheme looks pretty promis-
ing for the “ working expenses ” department,
Dontyerknow.
** * *
New departures of a sweeping character
have been initiated at the Victoria. Likewise
the Ooghills prosper at St. George’s, and sultry
weather brought Pain’s Fireworks into violent
demand on several occasions last week. An
alleged German, one Herr Weitzmann, entertains
the allied forces with some remarkable slack rope
dancing, just previous to the taking of Sebastopol.
The fact that a Scotch regiment indulges in a
Highland Fling before going forth to conquer also
tends to mitigate the horrors of war.
** * *
It is said that the late William Creswlck
frequently impressed upon E isie Jenyns the
wisdom of nob lingering upon the stage too long,
though the veteran actor himself trod the boards
almost to the last. It is stated that he often
quoted to Bill Holloway’s relative the couplet
from Pope:—
Walk sober off, before a sprightller age
Come tittering on, and shove you from the stage.
#* ♦ ♦
W. 6. Carey the actor has gone Into the
hotel business. He has become host of the Surry
Hotel, Lennex-street, Richmond, Melbourne,
close to Pine Grove, the princely residence of
George Coppin.
** * *
Last Saturday was the twenty-third anni-
versary of the loss of the s.s. London in the Bay
of Biscay, in which several old colonists went
down, including G. V. Brooke, the tragedian,
who was returning to end his days in the colonies.
Some 19 persons were saved, including one Gar-
diner, formerly a hairdresser in Melbourne, and
who went to England to claim some property.
Being disappointed, he worked his passage back
in the ill-fated steamer as one of the stewards.
The boat which survived was the engineer’s. It
would accommodate 20 persons; there were 19 in it,
and before shoving off the twentieth seatwas offered
to Brooke, but he declined to avail himself of it
unless room could be found for his sister, who was
with him. As this was impossible the boat put
off. Before she left, Brooke desired Gardiner if
he ever reached Melbourne to give his kind fare-
well to the people of that city. The steward did
reach Melbourne all right, and a night was fixed
by George Coppin on which, at the Theatre Royal,
Gardiner should deliver his message from the
sea. Mames Hingston—“ Branches from the Mail
Route ’-—wrote a speech which Gardiner duly com-
mitted to memory and rehearsed to the satis-
faction of its author. The eventful night came,
the house was crowded, the first piece was toler-
ated only. At its clpse loud calls were made for
Gardiner, who appeared ib front of the curtain,
but so “ overcome ” that he could not recite the
speech, and after waving his arms like a railway
semaphore, retired ignominously. Some member
of the company made an apoldgy for the steward,
and the affair ended. *
Judging from Mr. Gilbert’s own account
of the latest thing that ,he has dashed off, the
veteran operatist must be getting into the sere
and damaged leaf
Miss Neilson, for whom, at Mr. Rutland Barrington’s
request), the play has been written, is the unconventional
daughter of an Australian squatter, an ex-convict who
has repented of his sins and who is a rich man when the
play opens, living 200 miles up country from Sydney.
Miss Neilson is a flower of the forest, a beautiful child of
Nature, who knows not the taint of Society, gentle, soft-
voic 2d, and speaking the language of the Bible. The son
of'a proud old English peer falls ill on her father’s station;
she nurses him, oures him, and marries him. In
the midst of this wedded blips he is recalled
to England by an urgent telegram, which in-
forms him that he has come into a large legacy.
He sails, and the ship in which he has taken passage
goes down in mid-ocean. By this disaster the father be-
comes possessor of his son’s property, and looks forward
to paying off the debts which have hitherto crushed the
life out of him. Then appears Miss Neilson at the man-
sion of the Saxmundhams with the news that she is his
son s wife—she, the daughter of a convict. The proud
old lord learns for the first time that his son has a wife,
and 19 terribly upset, for the son’s money goei to the
son s wife, and not to his father. Miss Neilson only asks
for the Jove of her “darling’s” father, and spurns the
monsy, but the old lord is proud as he is poor Here I
must stop, for the sacrifice which the heroine makes is
the pivot of the plot My idea was to present an instat ce
of a woman ai" sacrifice of self.” The play is in four act*,
the first two being laid in the bush, the others in England
from Gilbert—is awful to contemplate. We
know that repentant squatter—we have met) him
in a hundred insolvent dramas and in a thousand
bullock-punching novels, and the only difference
that we ever observed in him lies in the fact that
he lives at a variable distance up-country. We
know his poetic child of nature, too—the girl with
the soft voice who never cooeyed so that she could
be heard three miles off, and who spent all her
ll J e bush, and acquired an exquisite degree
of refinement through seeing nobody but an oc-
casional swagnman. We are acquainted also with
the desperately noble but awfully impoverished
peer who marries her through falling off his horse
and breaking 127 bones at her front gate, and then
el !P I ha P t . i asis and swelling up till he weighs
S/0 lbs while lying on the drawing-room sofa—we
know the whole lot of them and they make us
feel sad. Never in our wildest dreams did we
picture Gilbert at such a low ebb as this.
** * *
Our Adelaide correspondent writes The
Brough and Boucicault combination continues to
draw excellent houses at the Royal, and this
happy condition of affairs is well deserved. A
double bill—“Xu Honour Bound” and “Turned
up is now running. Perhaps it would be difficult
to find so pleasing and complete a little play as the
first-named piece., which is enacted in a most
finished style by Messrs. Titheradge and Bouci-
cault, and Mre. Brough and Miss Temple. It is
the old story though—a woman at the bottom of
it all. The godly people fairly revel in Mark
ville’s comoly. r * Qn ’Change ’’.corners negt.
#* # *
The Gaiety were not tjjip
great public success in America that had beep
anticipated. Individually, florally, gud precious-
stonily, however, the gjrls enjoyed a splendid
triumph. ' 1 ' ‘ " 1
♦# * *
A Hamburg locksmith has struck an ; idea
by which all the doors of a theatre can be opened
simultaneously. When an alarm is given, a calih,
collected man turns a crank, and instantly every
exit yawns wide to admit the departing throng.
With great presence of mind the crank by which
the machirifr/ is set in motion is fixed in the
refreshment-room, it being held on good authority
that that department is the last to lose its
head in the hour of imminent peril.
#* # *
On Boxing Night at the new Wellington
(N.Z ) Opera House George Darrell drew the
largest audience ever yet assembled within the
walls of aNZ theatre. No less than 1712 per-
sons paid for admission.
** * *
Despite all the newspaper “success” of
the expensive Exhibition orchestra, it is pretty
evident that Conductor Cowen is sick, in his own
supercilious way, of performing before audiences
that have “no taste for good music, dontcher-
know.” At the outset of his Melbourne mission,
Mr. Cowen made a point of turning round to bow
his acknowledgements at the conclusion of every
number. Popular applause, however, drooped
and died, until there was often nothing fcr the
great man to acknowledge. So now, on ordinary
occasions, Cowen has left off bowing to the people
who provide his salary, applaud they never
so loudly. He just keeps his back turned
upon the mob and exchanges small sneers with
familiar spirits among his orchestra. And if the
humble listeners behind insist upon an encore,
Cowen finally a cede? to their demand with a
bored expression of spine and shoulders, which is
very touching to behold. By the way, Signor
Green-Verdi expres'ed a strong opinion about the
“ music loving people of Melbourne ” and their
recent treatment of Mr. dimonsea before he sailed
away in sorrow with Bmelie Melville.
♦* * *
Departed Emelle Melville was offered the
name part in “ Siabad ” at Melbourne Royal, but
the piece wasn’t high enough.
** # #
Melbourne theatre advts. are reviving the
old “ Vice-regal Command Night ” in an amended
form. Last week the Bijou people announced a
“ Vice-regal Night by Command ” without making
it clear whether the Governor or Brough and
Boucicault had issued a mandate on the subject.
Considering, however, that Governor Loch (accord-
ing to a recent Supreme Court decision) isn’t a
viceroy, and can’t “command” anything at all,
we conclude that he and his “distinguished
party” were ordered upon the scene by a de-
spotic management. The mystery requires clear-
ing up in the interests of Mr, Frank Thorn-
ton and the Bijou crowd, who may imagine
themselves to be groaning under the tyranny of a
proud Gov,, when they are really the slaves of
B and B. Also the time is ripe for inquiring
what could be done to any theatrical company
which insurrected on a Vice-Regal night, and
scoffed at the command. This is a solemn question
to be considered by all who think of entering the
perfeshun.
** * #
Mr. George Leitch, a gentleman whom
this world can ill spare, is now lying in a doubled-
up condition at Ballarat (Vic.) He was playing
“ Harbour Lights ” at the local theatre, and
while tossing in a boat on a stormy mimic sea he
somehow received a severe internal injury which
will probably lay him up for some time.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And Is »
Pure Refreshing Beverage*
Be Oareful poo obtain Wolfe's.
Exhibition,Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
>they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pkrpumbry Co.’»
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on this Soent
PERFECT HEALTH 1
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Stiroeli, near King Street.
Aboriginalities.
A chapter of colonial history. Extract
from the diary of a station in the Qiiee island
back country December 24, To day being
the day before Christmas, we kept it as a holiday,
hot knowing whether Boxing Day is the day
before or the day after Christinas. We looked
In Greenhide Billy’s prayer-book, but it said
faothing about it, Macpherson drunk (Macpher-
son is the manager). December 25 (Ohristrhas
Day), Holiday, no work done, all drunk The
mailman arrived here to-day in the horrors and
would not get oft his horse for fear of the spider s,
December 2(4. Having ascertained that Boling
Day is the day After Christmas; we kept to day as
a holiday. Macphersotl still drunk. Everyone
else sober, as we hate cleared out etery shanty
ttithin 50 miles,”
• • *
A venerable stump has been discovered at
Sweer’a Island, Gulf of Carpentaria, and engraved
upon it are the initials of the explorer Tasman,
and the date, 1781. Following this comes the
date 1708, when some other old-time navigator
struck the spot and forgot to leave his card, and
third in ord;r are a quantity of Chinese hiero-
glyphic j like a flat-iron under the influence of
chloroform, while the rotting remains of
a junk close at hand help to explain
how the Mongol got there, and how
he didn t get away again. Probably the
hieroglyphics are the printed wail of a lone, lorn
Chow exiled for ever from his native land, lut
the bark has partly overgrown the expression of
his woe, and it has become illegible. Then in
succession coma the dates : 1802, with “Investi-
gator;” 1841, “ Sloke,” the name of the captain
of the Beagle; 1856, “Chimmo,” the name of the
commando.’of the Sandfly ; and last, 1861 “ Nor-
man,” the name of the skipper of the Victoria,
from whom the Norman River is named. This
interesting relic will be placed in the Brisbane
Museum, and along with it the stump of the old
junk’s mast will find a resting place—twin volumes
of the unwritten history of old Australia.
* • *
Some blacks out in the Never-Never, ia
Queensland, chummed up to a bulloek-driver and
followed his wagon for a week, as bullocky after-
wards di covered, to see if the back wheels would
catch up to the front ones, and when that con-
catenation did not eventuate they declared the
back wheels were not “on the job,” and wanted
bullocky to go back 90 miles and make a fresh
start. This is » fact, and a fact is a lie and a half,
* • •
Dear Bullitust, —Hangman s Creek is be-
coming notorious for its bacchanalian orgies, and
if the grog holds out and no one gets murdered
something original and funny is bound to happen.
Boxing Night saw things at their very best on
Hangman’s Creek. The usual go-as-you-please
all-night dance took place, and all the long-hahed
wild-eyed dandies from Tin Pot Flat and Billy-
goat Range, together with a fair sprinkling from
Diedog Valley, put in an appearance. They wore
red sashes and spurs, and brought their own
whisky. They were met by a corresponding
number of reckless maidens with bony hands and
freckled faces and then things just started straight
away to the wild and i xciting strains of the ever-
present concertina. They flew at each other and
round each other —with wild and charming aban-
don,; they closed and swungandslippedand tumbled,
hugged, their salves and each other—especially
eg,ch other—and “between times” the maidens
stamped the floor with delight, and boiled-eyed
dandies of the wilderness kept lime to the music
with the flopping of their ears. Tee local joker,
who is always allowed free admission and free
whisky on such occasions, added to the excitement
by giving vocal imitations of the Scotch bagpipes
and indulging in gruesome and mysterious panto-
mime, while the occasional exclamation of “Rip
goes the muslin 1” was eloquent proof that the
spurs of the “ gentle yahoos ” were beginning to
a,saert themselves. No maiden of Hangman’s
Creek can realise that she has enjoyed a night’s
dancing unless her garments, flap in wild and tat-
tered disorder on her back next morning, and the
“ gal ’’ who goes home without at least one “ cruel
yeut ” in some portion of her airy garments is not
considered fit to mix with the society of the district.
Rather than return from a dance scatheless the
large-footed heroine of Hangman’s Creek or
Billygoat Range will rip and tear holes in her
dress, for should she not bear such marks of
masculine attention she is contemptuously referred
to by her sex as a “ darned wall flower. ’
Bub the fun reached its climax on New Year’s
night, for on that evening the extra excitement of
a wake was added bo the programme. A drown-
ing-accidenb accounted for the presence of the
corpse, which was served up in tip top style, was
young and fresh, and looked, according to the
testimony of Miss O’Gallagher, of Quart Pot Fla*,
“ becomingly purby,” The Dooleys and Hickeys
and Mulcahys commingled their tears and whisky
with that of the Stuarts and M'G regors and M‘ln-
nises, and had such a night, When tired of howl-
ing over the corpse, they retired to the dance-
room ; and when tired of dancing, they hit their
partners in the eye and retired into the back-yard
lor a free fight. Some one wanted to dance with
the corpse, but it “ cocked a deaf ’un,” As I was
galloping home next morning I bumbled off mv
horse and broke my nock, and I’m glad of it. I
am in Sheob but that don’t matter much, for
nothing can be much worse than a night spent at
a Hangman’s Greek dance and wake. —Your?,
MJac.
• * a
Some of the Victorian railway-stations
haya very queer and evil-sounding names. At
Benalla station one night a rather deaf old; clergy-
man ventured bo ask the porter where the train
then standing at the platform was bound for.
“ Goorambab, Nooramupga, Devenish and Tunga-
mah,” replied the porter. “Good gracious !” ex-
claimed the rev. gentleman, “how dare you use
such dreadful language when I ask you a civil
question! I shall report you !”—and it took a
consUierable effort on the part of the station-
master to appease his wrath and explain the
matter away.
• * i
The dusty and drought-stricken town of
(ijniliqnin must be a lively place to live in.
During Christmas wefek two elopements in “ high
life ” took place ; a rtionkey escaped from a
travelling circus and ran down the cHmte/ of the
local clergyman's residence ; a “ gohanna ” five
feet long bit a visitor in themua stre.-t on Boxing
Day ; and a shearer broke his neck trying to do
back summersaults down the river bank. In ad-
dition to these incidents three leading residents
were run in for cheeiiog the “ Harmy a house-
maid was blown away in a dust storm, and the
local bellman kept rigidly sober all through the
holidays.
* * *
A Maori chief once made an amusing
apology to a N.Z. Resident Magistrate. The
beak was leaving the district without a stain on
his character, and the chief, at the head of a
copper coloured, gridironed deputation of ranga-
tiras, presented his Worship with a greenstone
wtere, and excused the shortness of the weapon by
explaining that in killing a missionary for break-
fast once he splintered the end of it, and the mere
had to be ground down.
• • *
Mubtaburra (Q.) is favoured by the posses-
sion of one of the most obliging magistrates in
Australia, and, thanks to his unfailing courtesy
and his manifest desire to oblige all with whom
he comes in contact, the relations between the
bench and the dock have been established on a
firm basis of mutual esteem. The other day John
Olewer, a gentleman who had acted contrary to
tha Haot, appeared at the Muttaburra court and
was awarded 14 days in gaol, and when the sen-
tence was pronounced he asked the beak if he
could make it three months without unduly strain-
HASH AND POISON: AN ASSOCIATION OF IDEAS.
AT THE HASH-HOUSE TABLE. MRS. JONES (the landlady): “WILL YOU
HAVE A LITTLE MORE OF THIS -AHEM-STEW, MR. SMITH?'
MR. SMITH (absent-midedly. looking up from the evening paper): "NO THANK YOU,
MRS. COLLINS—I REALLY BEG YOUR PARDON, MRS. JONES”
ng himself or in any way deranging the ear of
Justice. Then Mr. Clewer kicked one policeman
in the face and bit a piece out of another, and the
magistrate, with his accustomed urbanity, gave
him the desired three months right off. Id is
always gratifying to see a magistrate thus go out
of his way to oblige a humble prisoner who has
no influential friends to back up his request, and
if this spirit of courtesy were more widespread in
j udicial circles it would doubtless act sa an in-
fluence for good and tend largely to ameliorate the
conditions of existence in Australia.
* * •
D«ar Bulletin,— You’ve hit lb at last—l
mean the most obj °cti onable trait in young Aus-
tralia s character. As you say, the new-chum
generally has seen life, and perhaps a little too
much of it before he comes here ; yet be is treated
as one who has just left the nursery. I once knew
an Oxford B.A. who had retided in India, Canada,
South Africa, and other places, yet this accom-
plished man of tee world was patronised by his
mate, a youth whose knowledge of humanity
never went beyond the knocking-down of a cheque
at Wagga. I once camped with a genuine whaler,
a Derwenter, who had come straight from Tas-
mania to do the Murrumbidgee up and down
every year, and because I dipped my pannikin in
the billy he roared, “You dunce, you’ll never
learn manners ; you’re no more fib for living among
men than that other silver-tail man I met yester-
day.” That other “ silver-tail man ” was the
accomplished and experienced “Scotty the \Vrink-
ier ” who was then sundowning the opposite side
of the Murrumbidgee, the best tucker-track, by
the way.—Yours, Quart Pot.
* * *
Locky M'Bean, the millionaire squatter of
Rivetina, has gone in exclusively for Chinese cos-
tume. In wide holland trousers, blue tunic, and
cabbage-tree hat he looks a mandarin of the first
rank.
imprisoned for life.
The other day a paragraph, obviously in-
spired, appeared in the Sydney press indicating
that another determined effort was about to be
made in the direction of obtaining the release of
the murderer Bertrand, who shot and poisofaed
Mr. Kinder, of the Citv Bank, for the purpose of
obtaining possession of Mrs. Kinder, and who has
nr w been 23 years in prison. Bertrand has power-
fill friends, and having served so long a sentence
his chances of release are considered to be strong;
but ThK Bulletin, which has consistently advo-
cated the abolition of capital punishment, and
the substitution therefor of life-imprisonfnent,
holds that he should be kept in gaol until he dies
—this for the purpose of showing the community
that there 'can be such a thing as life imprison-
ihent, thatit is a good substitute for thegallows, and
that the public sense of the enormity of a great
and cold-blooded crime is not diminished during the
lifetime of a generation. It is stated in the pm s
that Bertrand has of late years supported his
mother, now dead, by writing to the relatives of
prisoners saying that he knew how to get their
friends out, viz , by biibirg officials for good re-
ports, and these people in their anguish would
shell out to Bertrand s confederates outside. As
an indication of the sort of man Bertracd is, or
was when he was convicted, the following extract
from his celebrated diary will be of interest.
Branch Arthur Jackson alluded to below was a
man whose imprisonment Bertrand wrongfully
obtained, his motive being that he bad discovered
that Jackson was or had been a lover of Mrs.
Kinder ■
((0 , t
Sydney, October 2G, 18Go.
“ Thursday, 26 ch —Lonelv ! Lonely! Lonely!
She is gone—l am alone, omy God, did I ever
think or dream of such agony ! I am bound to
appear calm; so much the worse. I do so hate
all mankind. I feel as if every kindly feeling has
gone with her. Ellen, dearest Ellen, I thank, I
dare to thank God for the happiness of our last
few moments. Surely He could not forsake us,
and yet favour us as He has done. Tears stream
from my eyes; they relieve the burning anguish
of my breaking heart. Oh, how shall I outlive
twelve long months! Child—l love thee pas-
aionabelj— aye, madly. I knew not how much
until thou wert gone. And yen lam calm. ’Tis
as the dead silence that preludes the tempest.
What fierce passions are contending in my breast!
Love, jealousy, revenge, hate, and unappeased
rage ! _ Can I ever be good ? I will try, since my
love wishes it. Dearest child, what would I nob
do for you, my wife in heart, soul, and spirit !
Angel of love, star that has illumined my dark
existence, I am grateful, ever grateful, for
the intense happiness you have caused me.
Oh, darling love, give me oy thy future life faith,
neW) sterling faith in thee. Thou art all I possess
h o th in this life and in the next. Do not rouse
the demon that I know lies dormant within me.
Beware how you trifle with my love. lam no
base slave bo be played with or cast eft as a toy.
l a m terrible in my vengeance; terrible, for I call
on the powers of hell to aid their master in his
dire vengeance. God, what am I saying ! Do
no (, f ear m 6) darling love ; I would nob harm thee
—not thy dear self, but only sweep away, as with
a scimitar, my enemies or those who would step
between thy love and me. Think kindly of me
Q f my great failings. Bee what I have dene for
t hee, for my, for our love. Think of that and
then doubt me if you can. Oh, Ellen, I swear
that since the creation of the universe no woman
waB evtr loved as then art. Daar love, are
you not proud of that ? and I feel that I am loved
equally well. lam so ill, Ellen ; I want a smile
from those dear eyes to give me hope, renewed
energy. My life seems ebbing away. I want to
live now, since thou art the prize to be won. I
have thee I know, but I crave, my own darling,
to call thee wife before God and man. Will that
ever be ? If I thought not I would not live. No !
what is life without thee? One burning kiss,
Jove. Adieu. Will you think of our last part-
ir g ? you did not leave me o ■ I you, we It lb each
other of our own free will that we should sebner
meet again. How strange it seemed you going
one way and I another, and vet 1 seemed to caity
ycd back with me, thy darling spirit is ever by
me. Courage, dearest, courage, and all will yea
be well. The journey will fatigue you greatly,
and I not there to help thee, my love ; that happi-
ness will fall to the lot of some one who knows
not the pleasure he is robbing me of. Dear one, I
pray that you may not be ill. That my love will
strengthen instead of exhausting you, my own
child. 1 feel I love you as a mother, sister,
brother, husband, all, all combined. What work
I have before me God only knows, but I will call
HD love to help me and strive to do right. I feel
I shall; thy dear devoted love shall save me. I
know it will, and we may yet be good and happy
together. In the train I borrowed half the
Empire, which contained this paragraph:—
‘Francis Arthur Jackson, convicted of sending a
threatening letter to Henry L. Bertrand with the
intent to extort money, sentenced to twelve
months hard labour in Parramatta gaol It
pleased me. I am satisfied. Thus once more
perish my enemies. He is disposed of for the
present; are you sorry ? Came home. The first
thing that Jane did was to tell me, that after all
our quarrel with regard to your laughing at
Jackson, you, while I was in Court, laughed
openly at him. Did you do so? If so, jouwill
be his ruin, for I have not done with him yet.
Why will you enrage me ? I called on Cooper,
at the City Bank, and gave him your letter.
The Board meets tomorrow at 12 am. I trust
to God that they will do something for you;
afterwards telegraphed to you Jackson’s sentence ;
am doing no business whatever; Alfred not here
to-day : obtained five copies of your darling like-
ness : kept two for myself, gave one to Jane, at d
one each to my sister and Mrs. Robertson ; I had
also three of mine at the same time, I have been
very ill all to day, and very sad. That is not to
be wondered at; bow could I be otherwise ! I
could eat no dinner, had nothing whatever to eat
since breakfast with your darling self until half-
past 7 to-night. Great pain ia my stomach; I
fear that I shall be ill; Mrs. Robertson was very
ill when they returned from the railway, and was
obliged to go home directly in a cab alone. Mr
sister promised to go and see her this evening ;
and accordingly, Harriette, Jane, and myself
went to see her at 11 o’clock; we could not go
sooner, because of the children. I was taken very
ill at her house, and was obliged to take one of my
powders. I gave her your portrait; she liked it
very much. Mrs. Robertson gave me two pearl-
shells to look at, to see if they could le mounted
into sugar-spoons, and asked me if it would be
very expensive to get them done, when I told her
that it would be. She asked me to accept them,
and ihat she would try and get others from the
Islands for herself. Ido not know what to do,
whether to accept them or not; however, I will
consider what to do. It is now a few nfinutes to
2 o’clock, high time to retire, particularly as I am
very weary and tired. I placed one of jour dear
darling portraits this morning in your lecket; so
I carry you, my love, about with me, and kiss
your dear eyes again and again. Love, dear,
dear Nelly, how do you b;ar cur separation?
Oh, darling, you must be tired and worn out.
God bless and guard thee, Eden. (One day
nearer to thee ) - Louis.
Medical Enterprise.
Messes H. H. Waenek&Co,, of “Safe Cure
celebrity seem to think that their preparations
are not so much appreciated in New South Wales,
as they are in any of the other Australian colonies,
or elsewhere, and though their returns from this
colony since they first introduced their specifics
present figures astonishing enough to take one’s
breath away that enterprising firm is of opinion
that they may be unlimitedly augmented were their
curative powers more fully recognised. With that
object in view their medical representative is at
present in the city. The firm’s medicines while
absolutely harmless are exceptionally powerful
for good, and the only proprietary medicines sanc-
tioned by the German Government. Their efficacy
is demonstrated in a vast number of testimonials
by leading members of the faculty and quite a
host cf distinguished colonists. Unfortunately
precocious brains are borne about by doubtful
spines, brilliant talents linked with weakened
frames, and especially in this hour of triumph and
expanding civilization life seems jeopardised by
premature decay. But the great ideal cf the
philosophers’ dreams seems also within our grasp,
and diseases such as Bright’s disease, diabetes and
manifold so-called incurable liver and kidney dis-
organisations now subside to better systems of
treatment. The representative, in order to effect-
ually popularise, Warner’s Safe Remedies intends
circulating in N S. Wales 100,000 books descriptive
of the various preparations, with symptoms of
disease, dietary regimen and a number cf colonial
testimonials of except’onal dist inction and strength.
Mr. Elsasser, who is known through his long
connection with the Fourth Estate, will make a
lengthy stay in Sydney, and prior to his departure
from the colony will also pay a brief visit to the
principal provincial towns.
Dion Boucicaulb, at latest, was dangerously
ill of pneumonia.
A Japanese author has jest written a
novel of 90 volumes.
It was the matrimonial halier that
stretched Louisa Collins’ neck.
Since the Whitechapel murders com-
menced the London police have arrested the
wrong man at the rate of about half-a-dozen a day.
Japan has no*r a standing army of 150,000
men, and intends shortly to increase this force to
000,000, disciplined on the German system and
splendidly armed. Yet another cause for Aus-
tralia to sib up and reflect violently.
Not content with demolishing Mr. Glad-
stone and others in the North American Review,
Colonel Robert logersoll has devoted some space
under the caption of “ Rome or Reason” in that
periodical to the flattening out of Cardinal
XVlanniog,
The Melbourne correspondent of a N.Z,
paper says:—“The Ministers of the Cospel are
not free from the spirit of gambling in allotments,
and some of them are in it as deep as they can
wade.” You bet! Allotments at Marrickville
and St. Kilda are better than the Joys of Poverty.


The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wllo-
ken’s Beaoonsfield House Hotel Is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea level.
N.B.—Onlr t*o hour* f»nnr» Mnlbonvn*.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true l
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Holler Flour is the.
best in the market.
Uniform a specialty ; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
■ai«n. '• My Taii.or." 164 Kinsr-street Newtown.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO-,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, fto.
Printed list ef Businesses for Bale leaned Dally,
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Mark Twain Is jaat 53 years of age.
Sala is now putting the finishing touches
on “ My Australian Book.”
Sir Henry Tichtorne, Bart., is a short,
clean-shaved, nine-stone youth of 22 years.
Primate Barry has under him 122 clergy-
men, while Field Flowers Goe, of Melbourne, has
137.
Bismarck is losing his appetite and
memory. He still, however, cling 3 fondly to
cigars.
B. L. Farjeon, the popular novelist, was
at one time a compositor on the Otago (N.Z )
Daily Times ,
The cominj musician and composer in
England is said to be a young man from Glasgow
named Hamish M'Cunn.
“ What I chiefly admire about Lord Har-
tington,” says an American in a recently-published
book, ’* is his conspicuous youbedamnedness.”
One day lately the new American Presi-
dent replied to 44 letters, each informing him that
a boy-baby had been named “Benjamin Har-
rison.”
In alluding to the N.S.W. Ministerial crisis
(according to the Star).' Mr. M‘Mill an, M L A.,
used the old proverb, “ Everything is fair in love
or war.”
Melbourne merchants are subscribing
munificently to purchase an annuity for Mrs.
William Kerr-Thomson. Nearly £4OOO has, so
far, been realised.
The Scotch Earl of Klntore, the new Go-
vernor of S.A., had £l2OO as captain of the
Beefeaters,” an ancient royal bodyguard now
unhappily abolished.
There is a bailiff In Normanton (Q ) who
speaks seven languages. There has been until
last week a Minister of the Crown in New South
Wales who could not speak one.
! ' Max O Roll says he has known cases of
English schoolboys being “boycotted” because
they dropped their .Ms, an unpardonable offence
in England. D’ye ’ear, ’Enniker ’Eaton ?
Wilson, of Bowen (Q.), whom Judge
Cooper sent to gaol for contempt, takes a hat
size 8. The judge takes one 6|. It is little
wonder that Wilson felt contempt for Cooper.
The Duke of Marlborough being a divorced
man, the Anglican incumbent at Blenheim (Marl-
borough’s own estate) declines to admit that the
Duke is legally married to his new Yankee wife.
Old Bentley, the publisher, after reading
the M.SS, of Vogel’s novel, sent it back to him
endorsed “No good,” and the Vogel has now
made arrangements lor its publication elsewhere,
Simon Fraser, who has just died in Bris-
bane, was an old identity. He was »n auctioneer,
and took a prominent part in swelling every one
of the many land-booms which that city has seen.
Sir Claude Champion de Creeplgny,
British baronet and amateur hangman, has been
declared insolvent, and there seems to be some
difficulty in finding his present address. He is
probably hanging about somewhere.
Since his visit to Australia the Marquis
Queensberry has been through America, and in
addition to holding a levee of bruisers at Police
Gazette Fox’s office he has been dining with Col,
Bob Ingersoll, of Freethoughb celebrity
The Mayor of Christchurch (N.Z,) re-
cently received a letter of congratulation from the
Mayor of Gravesend (Eng ). The former was at
one time the latter’s pupil, and their election to
the mayoral chair of their respective towns was
■coincidental.
Drs. H. N. Maclaurin aad F. Norton
Manning, two of the leading lights of the N.S.W.
medical profession, were at one time in the navy
—the latter having seen some service ashore with
the Naval Brigade (sailors and marines) duiing
the* Maori War, 1863-G.
Dr. Doyle Glanville, the Mephistophelean
medico who went to the Soudan with the Aus-
tralian Contingent, is travelling upon the circum-
stance in England. In point of fact, Dr, Glan-
ville, who is an excellent self-advertiser, is lec-
turing on his adventures.
Memo, for Hiberno-Australian snobs.—
Dr. Esmond, grandfather of Sir Thomas F smond,
who will shortly arrive in Australia as a delegate
cf the Irish Land League, was hanged. Offence-
giving medical relief to “ rebels.” Charge—High
treason. Jury—Court-martial,
George Augustus Sala is about to publish
bis “ Autobiography.” We should like to see
what he says about the Melbourne Yorick
Club business when the corned beef and
cabbage went to waste and Haddon and the other
trustees went to see if George wae really in bed !
Prince Henry of Bittauberg, husband of
Princess Beatrice, has, it is cabled, gone into
training. He has been appointed Governor of the
Isle of Wight. Lech was Governor of the Isle of
Man, another small spot, and he has now blos-
somed into Governor of Victoria, with £lO,OOO a
year and perks.
The Queensland Government meteorolo-
gist, Mr. Clement Wragge—better known as
“ Inclement Wragge ” and “ Wet Wragge ’’—re-
ceived the following telegram from Rockhampton,
the other day :
Welsh Arms Hotel. Please discontinue predicting cy-
clones. Wind carried my roof away. Am satisfied.
The new American President is a direct
descendant of Major-General Harrison, one of the
signatories of the death-warrant of Charles 1.,
and who, on the Restoration, was beheaded,
drawn, and quartered himself—just to make
things square. The President’s great-grandfather
signed the Declaration of Independence, and his
grandfather was President of the Republio.
The richest woman In the world, Dona
Isadore Cousino, of Chili, is going to New York
city, and it is intimated that “if she likes the
place she may buy it.” If all the stories told
about her enormous wealth are true, she must be
a feminine Monte Christo. Such little affairs as
mines of various minerals and a fleet cf iron
steamships are casually mentioned as among her
belongings.
The old-established and popular Auckland,
N.Z., firm of E. and A. Isaacs is just now in the
insolvency court. The Isaacs have been connected
with N.Z. for nearly half a century, and were be-
lieved to be enormously wealthy. Lady (Saul)
Samuel is a daughter of the head of the firm, and
Alfred Isaacs, the other partner, was well known
some years ago as an athlete and as a breeder of
prize stock.
Tae bedstead on which Byron slept at
Missolonghi is now on view at Liverpool (Eng ),
and is bringing in a good revenue. Wnen we
consider the average Englishman’s admiration for
the relic 3 of departed heroes it occurs to us that a
good rival show might be got up by any individual
who could produce the particular plank of the
floor which Byron concussed on when he fell out
of the bed already mentioned.
George M‘Cullagh Reed, of Auckland
(formerly a member of the Queensland and N.Z,
Legislature) has, we hear, been appointed editor
of the new Melbourne evening paper. Mr. Reed
is the most forceful writer on the Press of Maori-
land, and is as white a man as steps in shoe-
leather. He will be best known in Australia as
the originator of the celebrated “ Noah’s Ark ”
hoax, one of the best practical jokes on record.
It now transpires that “Onlda” did not
know that she was writing a story for “ Beecham’s
Pill Annual ” until she saw notices of it in the
papers. “ Ouida’s ” and the stories of other
novelists were supplied to Beecham by a firm who
buy certain rights of novelists and run the stories
through 50 or 00 colonial newspapers simulta-
neously, each one of which advertises that the
proprietary have obtained the exclusive, etc , at
great cost, and so on.
The New Yorkers have presented a sea
captain with a silver brick beating the inscription
“ This is a brick and so are you.” And apropos
of this : when Grant was elected President of the
Republic a delegation from his native city waited
on him to present him with a beautiful gold vase.
The spokesman of the delegation had prepared an
appropriate speech for the occasion, but when he
faced the great man his ideas had deserted him,
and all he could stammer out was, “ This is the
jug.” The taciturn Grant appreciated the brevity
i O!Wf*ARMSH Or
aS PATRICK O'BRIEN ’ PR&PKiCTOR/
‘fe.
AN ABORGINALITY.
FARMER: “HALLO, CHARLIE, WHAT ARE YOU DOING UP THERE.
PAINTIN’ HAMS?"
BUSH ARTIST (indignanl) : HAMS BE SLOWED, THEM’S THE QUEEN'S
ARMS.”
of the speech and merely replied : “ Oh ! is that
the jug,” and bowed the delegates out,
S. V, Winter is left alone in his glory on
Melbourne Herald. John Halfey loved the
Herald so much that he selected its office to die
in last week. The Herald has undergone a lot
of changes since 71. In that year a company
bought it from old William Forsyth, the builder
(now dead), who erected Wesley Chapel in Lons-
dale-streeb, Melbourne, one of the finest and pret-
tiest churches in Victoria. The first directors of the
paper were F. C. Mason, ex-M L A ; Milne, of
the Carlton Brewery ; John Curtain, afterwards
M L. A., and now a wealthy dis tiller on Y arra Bank
Winter, and the late Jerry Dwyer, the barrister.
The general manager was A, B. Robinson, now
commercial editor of the Age, Before long Mason
and Milne dropped out ; Jerry never took
much interest in the concern, and Halfey came
in. In 1873 the paper was sold up by a
successful plaintiff in a libel-action and was bought
by Halfey on behalf of himself and others. The
plaintiff didn't get much coin out of the trans-
action. Curtain, Halfey, Winter, and P. J.
Martin, the brewer, then became the proprietors.
About six years ago Curtain sold out to his co-
proprietors; somewhere about the same time
Martin went smash, and so Winter and Halfey
were left alone in the swim. Now Halfey has
taken his departure and Winter alone remains.
The survival of the fittest! Hooray ! Halfey
was disgustingly rich. Not many years ago there
was a boom in a certain mining-stock. John re-
membered that he had some of its scrip stowed
away somewhere -bought long before at Id. a
share, or something ; he fossicked it up and found
that it was now worth £4OOO. He had money
invested in all kinds of companies—opera and life
assurance, newspapers and mining. Mr. Halfey
looked upon a newspaper as a thing to make
money out of; he had no more sympathy with
literature than a crow.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Sir Henry Parkes was reduced to his pre-
sent condition by Want—Jack Want.
A country paper wants to know why
Parkes strained at the Fehon gnat and swallowed
the Tramway camel.
Ch&ffey Bros, require 2C0,C00 or 300 000
acres of Queensland. But up that way tiny
irrigate quite enough ; a3 ia is.
Lord Hartlngfon and lis clique have
resigned from the National Liberal Club. “Open
foes are better than false friends.”
Keep both eyes open, but don’t see more
than half you notice, and don’t mention the other
half. —Hints to Australian Legislators.
Dan. O’Connor complains of the “ absence
of the appearance ” (his own words) of his name
in the division on which the Parkes Government
was defeated.
Earl Kimberley says If the colonies want
peers for Governors they ought to be accommo-
dated. Suppose they want neither peers nor
Governors, what then ?
Orders were, a little while ago, given that
the gallows at Brisbane Gaol should be so enlarged
that three could be hanged at a time. Can this
have been in view of the Governorship of Coercion
Blake ?
A journal named Young Australia (edited
probably by the Little Boy of Manly) an-
nounces itself as “the official organ of the Im-
perial Federation League of Australia.”
The prospects of the Panama Canal are
said to be hopeless. America, besides warning
France not to meddle in the New World (on the
Monroe principle) is promoting a rival canal
through Nicaragua.
Caring bon says he wouldn’t have come to
N S.W. had he known he would have any royal
prerogative to exercise. What a high notion of
NS.W. morality he must have had! Charles
Robert, you flatter us very much.
In Ms last dying speech and confession,
Sir Henry Parkes said that during his thirty-five
years in Parliament he enjoyed the friendship and
esteem of all the leading men in public life. They
-are albdead, and dead men tell no tales.
Mr. Curnow, editor of the S.M. Herald,
approved of Eddy displacing Goodchap on the
N.S.W. Railways. His brother, Under-Secratary
Curnow, of the Queensland railways, is now about
to be displaced under similar circumstances.
In <Q aeensland last year one out of every
419 persons was insane, and in Victoria one out of
every -294. Which explains why Queensland
adopted Nationalism and Victoria sang “God
Save the Queen,” coming up to Christmas time.
Certain 'Chicago clergymen have recom-
mended that Sunday papers be boycotted. It
would be at least as easy for the newspapers to
induce the pufclic to boycott the clergy, as for the
clergy to get the public to boycott the newspapers.
Chinaman Mong How tells the Canadian
1 Government that wealthy Chinese merchants in*
tend sending a million Chinese from the States td
Canada and Australia. All litee Mong How.
Lot us get ready cur bone-mills. Australia wants
manuring.
Jamaica objects to receiving Sir Henry
Blake :n a Governor, and alludes to 11 : m as
“Queensland's leavings.” Jamaica, however, is
str all and inoffensive and is too hot to exert itself
much, so Knubaford hdi treated the protest vG&h
silent contempt.
One hundred Japanese were to sail frortl
Yokohama for Australia on Isbh December. Wo
have excluded the Chinaman—how about the
Japanee, who makes wax matches so cheaply that
they can ba sold two boxes for a farthing ? And
everything else in proportion.
David Buchanan, M.P., says that “if
justice were done to Uncle Abigail (the N.S.W,
Minister of Mines) he would ba clothed in rabbit-
tkins from head to foot, a stick put in one hand,
and in the other a Gazette appointing him Imp
of Darkness at the Oaves of Ballyhooley.”
PARLIAMENTARY PROTEST.
You may call us a flea or a 1 —e,
You may say that our mother we’d chowso,
Such words won’t appal us—
But hang it ! don't call us
“ The lowest-bred man in the House.”
W. M. Fehon, the N.S.W. Railway Com-
missioner, made one attempt to get into the Vic-
torian Parliament. At the last general election
three years ago he contested Foobscray against
W. M. Clark, a Real newspaper proprietor (who
previously and since represented the place), hub
was defeated. He polled well, however.
A Bill for closing public houses on the
blessed Saw bath, nearly squeezed through the
House of Commons. Ten years ago no English
Government would have ventured to support—or
not to violently oppose—such a Bill. But it be-
gins to look as though the poor man will have to
be robbed of his beer fqr one day in the week.
Tyson, Archer, Fisher, and Taylor, be-
tween them, own J17 : 00i» acres of land in Queens
land—good land," too. Their territory, cut up,
would .give ever y man, woman, and child in Aus-
tralia a quarter-acre section, besides providing
space for churches, schools, recreation grounds,
roads, and other public purposes. This is a fact
that want a a deal of thinking over.
“I have nothing whatever to say,” was
the reply of Louisa Collins when asked if she had
anything to say why sentence of death should not
be passed upon her. “I have nothing whatever
to say,” was the reply of Sir Henry Parkes when
the N.S.W. Assembly demanded that he should
make some reply to the charges made by Mr.
Want against him in the Fehon business.
Ten years ago Profesror Pearson acted as
private secretary to G/aham Berry when that
volatile politician went to Europe and had a lovely
time with 5000 Treasury sovereigns, and kicked
up a big row over the ultra-Toryism of the Legis-
lative Council. Now this same Professor Pearson
has just been assisting the same Council to perpe-
tuate plural voting, amongst other fossil customs.
The enormous sum of 70 millions sterling
is raised by British taxation in India, and is spent
or dissipated by a mere handful of Government
officials without the slightest control or the check
of an, independent audit. Under the beneficent
reign of her Imperial Gracious the poor ryots of
Hindostan are ground down until they have to
exist on an average family income of £2 sterling a
year.
In a recent Eagllah paper one J. D. E.
asked: “Is it true that the old Duke of Man-
chester had only part of a brain ? ’ To which the
editor frankly replied The late Duke met
with an accident by which a part of his skull was
kicked away by a horse, and at the same time a
portion of the brain was lost. Yet his Grace, not-
withstanding, made a very excellent colonial
Governor. ”
“Two of a trade never agree.” Mr.
Nicholas B. Downing, one of the boss expounders
of the. Local Option League and a foreign-trader,
says Parkes has not lost the confidence of the
W S.W. Temperance party, while Mr. George
Perry, Total Abstinance Lecturer, Domain Orator
and Protectionist, says Sir Henry has lost not
only the confidence but the support of the Tem-
perance party. Which is it ?
The following is a verbatim copy of the
notice convening the meeting that culminated in
( .Eareka Stockade
MEN OF CASTIiEMAINR,
Meet on the bill behind the Baptist Chapel to discuss
matters relative to the proceeding's of the oftiaials. on
Saturday night. Chair to be taken at four o’clock. NB.
—The sheriff has been invited to attend. You are re-
quested to attend the Police Court on Monday, and watch
. the proceedings.
Harrington, M.P., who is undergoing six
months’imprisonment fora Home Rule offence,
objected to have his moustache shaved in gaol,
but was overpowered and the operation was
forcibly performed. Than this incident there
could be no stronger illustration of the infinite
meanness and paltry spite of the Tory Govern-
ment. Salisbury, Balfour, and Co. will find that
they cannot cripple the modern Samson by clip-
ping his hair.
When a Ministerial crijis occurs at 'Ome
the Prime Minister travels to the Sovereign wher-
ever she may be and places his resignation in her
hands. la N.S.W. the Premier “ wires ” the re-
presentative of royalty to “come to town,” as he
wants him,” and he cometh. So would not Sir
Hercules Robinson, who knew what was due to
his position Last week, when the Parkes team
broke down, Lord Oarington travelled to town in
a brake-van. Oae of the “ loyal ” evening papers
in reference to this said that his Excellency was
“ the impersonation of patriotism”—so that there
should be no delay he travelled in a brake-van,
and he said that “ if necessary he would have come
in a horse-box.” A horse-box, we venture to sug-
gest, is just the place in which me lud would feel
quite at home.




THE EXPECTED SOMETIMES HAPPENS.
SIR HENRY: “RATHER SUDDENT, BUT A BLESSED RELIEF ALL THE SAME,”


giyEET BORONIA, the New Perfume. Mann
factored from th West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiavia." Sold Everywhere. Price, 83.6 d.,
Ba., and 10a. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONQMORB. 188 Bonrke-st„ Bast,
High Abt Photoqbapht.—For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLE IdLONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarington
'• By Appointment."
Thb 1884 Vintage is one of the best of this century
Moet and Ohandon are now shipping their “ Finest Extra
Quality ’’ Champagne of that year (with 1884 branded on
oork and label), styled “ Dry—lmperial." It is very dry,
and is the produce of their own vineyard of 2500 acres of
the hast growths In France Of all Wine Merchant*
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1868.
THE LEADING HOUSE
TOB
Pianos, Organs, Musis,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention la called to the
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS s
ÜBBEL and LEOHLBITER PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and CO, PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Plano ever
factored
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
BSTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves 1 The Bate,
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
«.H.PAUMtn-,U>
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
Ibis reported on moderately good authority
that there are just now in Tasmania 1600 young,
middle-aged, and elderly girls with fortunes rang-
ing from £BOOO to £lOO,OOO apiece. During the
present hot weather the weary Australian citizen
might do worse than take a holiday in the
bracing atmosphere o! the Tasmanian mountains,
and keep his eye lifting for these girls.
* • *
The N.S.W. assiatant-hangmanahlp having
been vacant just before the execution of Louisa
Collins, the Sheriff looked round for someone to
fill the situation, and ultimately got 23 applica-
tions for the billet, which carries with it a regular
salary of £l2O a year, rain or shine, hangings or
no hangings. The position was ultimately given
to “a decent young married man, who, we
are officially informed, promises to be a most
suitable person, and is not nervous.” We can
imagine that decant young married man going
home to his lavin’ wife at the end of his first
month of office, and proudly planking on the well-
scrubbed kitchen table ten bright red sovereigns.
“There, my dear, go buy yourself a new bonnet.”
Ugh ! Such is life !
* * *
Twenty-three applications ! T tvenfcy-three
chartered assassins ! Twenty-three people who
are prepared to murder for the sake of gain
to break the necks of men, women or children
for fifty shillings a week ! Let us suppose that
you, John Smith, or Plantagenet Caringbon, as
the case may be, who are reading this had to
leave your wife alone in your house every day
while you went to work at a 1 distant place, and
yon happened to know that the gentleman next
door had successfully or unsuccessfully applied for
the assistant hangmanship, what would you do ?
Don’t you think you would shift from the neigh-
bourhood —or supposing that that were impossible,
don’t you think that you would buy a six-barrelled
revolver and a seven-inch knife and a gallon
of vitriol and get her instructed in the use of those
articles —and don’t you think you would get
double-bolts put on your door, and buy a savage
dog, and tell your wife to blaze away all she knew
if she happened to see your dear neighbour come
near the gate during your absence !
And suppose you had a sister who had got
married to a lazy ruffian —most nice girls do get
married to lazy ruffians—who bad made up his
mind to get into the Civil Service in wbaoeyer
capacity and at whatever screw, and supposing
that your el ear brother-in law, in pursuance of his
government-stroke policy, happened to be one of
the twenty-three persons aforesaid, what would be
your course of conduct ? Suppose that your
sister, in horror at the conduct of her brutal
lord, ran away with another man—a man who
would rather be a highwayman than a hang-
man —would you blame her ? Don’t you think
she would be morally entitled to a divorce
notwithstanding that it was she who had run
away from her husband, and not her husband who
■'/ad abandoned her ? And yet we all know that
jijo woman, however refined and gentle, could get
on the mere ground that her husband
had become a hangman, and that he had come
home and offered her 50 pieces of silver stained
with another woman’s blood.
• - *
It is the duty of the Government to let us
know the names of these 23 would-be hangmen.
It is as well we should be made aware who are
not our next-door neighbours.
* * *
James W. Brown, of Detroit (U.S.),
married 33 women between the years 1883 and
1888, and 15 of them rolled up iu one infuriated
batch to tell him what they thought of him in
court, the other day. It was a very lively time
for Brown, bub there is something even worse
ahead, for he was remanded till the other 18
wives could be hunted up.
* * *
A piteous tale about an aunt was told the
other day in the Edinburgh Court of Session. A
tear-stained husband applied for a divorce on the
ground that his wife’s affections had been stolen
away by her mother’s sister, and he could hardly
even see the alleged partner of his existence ex-
cept when her aunt was not about. She walked
and dined and slept with her aunt, and when she
was in an affectionate mood she sat in her aunt’s
lap and fondled her and smoothed her hair, and
called her ducky, and lovely-dovey and things of
that sort; and all her husband was privileged
bo do was to gnash his teeth and pay the house-
hold bills, of which fully half were for little
delicacies to tempt the aunt’s appetite. The court
concluded that it was a hard case and granted a
divorce right off.
~ * *
In that weekly re-dupllcatlon of ancient
history called the Qoeenslander there is a
column devoted to “ Musical Echoes,” gathered
together by one “ Euterpe,” who happens to be a
male creature this time. Here is some of the
treacle with which he tickles the palates of his
cultivated countrymen : “ Australia is in great
need of a National Anthem. Will Mr. F. H,
Cowen crown his musical work by composing one
which will satisfy our Australian sentiment and
develope our national spirit?” Iu need of a
jNational Anthem! What, when the N.A. is
Ihowled on each public holiday and at every school
tfireab? And then, fancy the dapper high-priest of
cockney cult developing the national spirit of
Australia !
* * *
The poet Campbell aaya that he once heard
a lady of distinguished beauty and rank defend
Sir Thomas Lawrence from the charge of having
been culpable in paying attention to ladies with-
out intending to follow them up by an offer of his
hand. A gentleman remarked that Sir Thomas
was highly blameable. “No,” replied the lady (it
was rumoured that she herself was once the tem-
porary object of the great painter’s attentions),
“ no, not exactly—not so much to blame, ’ said
she musingly. “What!” exclaimed the gentle-
man, “ you astonish me ! Not to blame for such
conduct?” “No, not so much,” was still the
musing response. “ Can you really, madam, de-
fend such behaviour as desertion ? ’ “ Why, sir,”
interrupted the lady, “to confess the truth, I am
firmly of opinion that the majority of women
would rather be courted and jilted than rot be
courted at all!” “ ’Tis better to have loved and
lost, than not have loved at all.”
• • •
Ib Is related that an English gentleman who
had made himself useful bo the Empress of Aus-
tria when she was hunting in England, boasted to
Madame de Metbernich of the condescension of
her Imperial Majesty : “ Why, I can _ assure
you,” said he, “ she was more than amiable to
me, and I have lunched with her over and over
again, and we’ve chatted together for hours.”
“ Very likely,” said Pauline de Metbernich,
“ but you can do what we can’t. You see, the
difference is simply this ; you don’t exist, and
Her Majesty can hardly be said to stoop to no-
thing !”
n « * •
A Wellington (N.Z.) woman who keeps
hens was eggs-tremely distressed on Boxing Day
to find several of them lying dead in her back-
yard, while the survivors looked woefully sick and
appeared to bs brooding over some great calamity
that bad befallen them. Being a person of some
skill and henergy the owner of the animals lost no
time in diagnosing their disease and forcing them
to swallow some nauseous mixture of her own
concocting, which soon restored them to their
normal condition of wellness. Oa dissecting
the dead stock she saw at once that foul murder
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
Scene: Off “Post Office Place,” Centennial Exhibition. Time; 4 a.m.
1st January, 1889.
KAWNSTABLE CHIRRUPER (log.): “WANTS HIS CANVAS SHOES
BLACKED DO HE? BE TABERS, I’LL LET HIM KNOW THIS
AIN’T HIS HASH HOUSE, IF ITS THE ARGUS HIMSELF,
BEGORRA.”
had been committed. The crops of the poor
birds were stuffed to the nozzle with a devilish
compound of flour, raisins, candied peel, spice and
other fixings, which had hardened into a mass of
concrete and soon caused death. It appears that
the wretch who lives next door and keeps a garden
had taken a diabolical revenge on them for many
a bygone offence, by privately throwing over to
them with a chuckle his share of his wife’s
Christmas pudding !
i * •
Again ! Thus the Hawk
It is said that Lord Oarington, the popular Governor of
N.S. Wales, returns home at once. For a long time ib
has been common knowledge that ‘'Charlie'’ was sick of
the colonies and the colonists, and why he ever went out
there always puzzled his friends. A reoeat occurrence
has set all the tongues of the gossips wagging, and no
doubt this has had something to do with his sudden de-
termination. Lady Covington's sister, Lady Hastings and
her husband, Lord Hastings, are now just about arriving
in Sydney, so doubtless the visitors will not make a long
stay. It is not known whether Mr. Rupert Carington,
once well known in racing circles, and for a time “ head
lad" to the Duchess of Montrose, also contemplates re-
turning to England.
• • •
The ravages of typhoid are not confined to
Melbourne. On Dec. 13 a boy named Edward
Jones was admitted bo the Prince Alfred Hos-
pital, Sydney, suffering from the fever, and
on the day following his sister Maggie was taken
into the place afflicted with the same disease.
The mother, Charlotte Jones, four days later, as
well as the father, William Jones, entered the
hospital seriously ill with the malady. Three of
the family are now dead, the father first succumb-
ing on December 21, the son dying on the follow-
ing day and the daughter passing away shortly
after. The mother is the only on s left and she
may not recover. She is still unaware of the
decease of her husband and children.
• • *
A Viennese baron, just dead, had a
craze for surrounding himself with relics of poor
mortality. His house was ornamented with skulls
and skeletons, and he wore no ornaments that did
not in some way symbolise death. His immense
gold watch-chain was made to represent linked
bones, and was hung with the dearest little skulls
in diamonds and rubies. Even the handles of the
Baron’s canes and riding-whips were death’s
heads; and one room in his sumptuous private
residence was fitted up as a chapel, funereal hang-
ings, lighted tapers, and an open coffin on a cata-
falque—in fact, all that could be necessary when
he should really die being ready there at all hours
of the day and night. The Baron was, indeed,
thoroughly prepared, and even went so far as to
have the invitations to his funeral ’engraved, the
date, of course, alone being left out, so when he
died the other day his heirs were spared all
trouble, and only had to put the body into the
open coffin, and fill in the date on the invitation-
cards.
t • *
A few years ago ib waa currently reported
in society that the beauleous Lady Dudley (one of
the lovely Moncrieff girls) used black silk or satin
sheets on her bed for the purpose of showing to
greater advantage the delicacy of her skin ; and,
though the extremely limited nature of the
audience under such circumstances is an un-
doubted disadvantage, the idea is becoming ex-
tremely popular. Black silk sheets and even
black underclothing are now all the rage, and the
blondes of fashionable life go in for black pillow-
slips to show off their tresses to advantage. The
high-born dames of Australia have not quite
caught on to this idea yet, but no doubt it will
soon take root, and then there will be a boom in
black silk, and the crest with the public-house
rampant will shine with unwonted lustre on the
new background,
* * *
Retrenchment in New Zealand has affected
nothing more disastrously than the reputation of
its gaols as places of compulsory detention.
Prisoners now find it easier to absent themselves
from durance vile and continue absentees than at
any time since the good old days when it was the
custom of the gaolers of the colony to send their
interesting charges out for an evening stroll, and
caution them against keeping late hours by the
threat of locking them out all night if they dis-
obeyed orders. The number of N.Z. prisoners
illegally at large at the present time is not known
for certain, as many of the escapees had business
engagements at Melbourne Exhibition which
prevented them from giving the local Press due
notice of their movements.
• • *
_The case of Mr, E. A. Paterson, the Mel-
bourne auctioner, proves that the main idea of
Pinero’s comedy, “In Chancery,” is sound and
acceptable. Mr. Paterson dropped the thread of
his daily life on a Gippsland railway station, never
to find it again until he happened to be prowling
around South Africa with a shaved head and no
visible means of subsistence. Pinero’s hero for-
gets his name, marriage, age, and occupation for
a few weeks only, but the Melbourne auctioneer
lost the run of himself for close upon a year. For
all that Mr. Paterson can remember he may have
eclipsed Pinero’s man by actually getting married
half-a-dozen times between Gippsland and Africa.
And possibly a wild Irishman with a 16-stone
“ little gurl ” is coming from distant latitudes to
sue the auctioneer for a breach of promise given
under circumstances beyond his control, at a
period which he didn’t remember at the time and
has never called to mind since.
• * •
A wealthy Russian land-owner lost all his
money over the chess-board. His daughter, now
Mdme. Lavroffsky, when still a young girl, was
seized with the fixed idea of winning ib back in
the manner in which it was lost. She studied the
game with unexampled assiduity under her
father's guidance, and in time became a past
master—or mistress —therein. Then she began
her career as a professional. She has since then
amassed a considerable fortune, playing for large
stakes, and lately married M. Lavroffsky, also a
lover of chess, and is now coming to Si. Peters-
burg to be lionised.— Pall Mall.
* * *
Jones : “I am surprised to hear you say
marriage is a failure--you who have been married
thrics.” Smith : “Well, sir, if you had three
families to support you would say that marriage
was bankruptcy. «
• * *
“Is marriage a failure? Not In Kansas
city. Eight hundred blooming mottled infants at
the baby show yesterday testified to the fact that
marriage in this section is a howling success. —
Kansas Paper.
• • •
A certain noble lord who is now in the
colonies on his dorsal fin had the reputation, in
Eagland, of being the best living judge of fox-
terriers, and acted as sole judge of these canines
for five years at the great Birmingham dog-shows.
* * »
The new patterns of men’s pants are so
loud that they wake the baby.
• • •
Melbourne death-rate fell last week, while
the doctors were engaged in the duties and
pleasures appertaining to their Medical Congress.
• • •
Sic Henry Loch descended from his official
eminence, the other day, to make some plain, un-
varniihed remarks about the diffusion of typhoid
germs in Melbourne. We should like to have
Baron Robert’s ideas on such a plebeian subject
as the Circular Quay sewage.
• • *
The Prince of Wales, according to an Eng-
lish contemporary, has lately built up a large and
complicated joke, the plans and specificat ions of
the same having been prepared entirely by himself
without anyone to assist him, During his fre-
quent visits to Homburg, it appears, Wales is
seriously harassed by a low class of dudes and
others, who insist on copying his style of dress in
every particular, and this fact has sat on his cheat
and gibbered at him during the silent hours of the
night, until his existence has become a load and
his consciousness has begun to resemble two tons
of bricks. On the occasion of bis last visit the
wonted nuisance was in full swing, and Wales
grew desperate. Then an idea struck him, and
bruised him bally in the unexpected concussion,
and he went out and bought a suit of dirt-coloured
tweed, a red nigger-minstrel shirt with a blue
collar, a soft felt cream-coloured hat with a band of
orange-ribbon round it, a red handkerchief, and two
tan boots. Nobody copied his style of dress after
that. For nearly a month Wales went round
looking like a rainbow that was on bad terms with
its washerwoman, and the dudes of Homburg only
stared and concluded that Edward VII. was off
his head. By an unfortunate oversight the cable-
man omitted to telegraph particulars of these pro-
ceedings, and thus lost a valuable opportunity to
cement those bonds which have so often been
alluded to in these pages, but we trust that it is
not too late to repair this mistake, and we issue
our simple statement of the circumstances in the
feivent hope that it may strengthen the links,
&c , &c.
* * *
The Governments of Victoria and Queens-
land are both going in for the encouragement of
wattle-cultivation. That will take every poet out
of New South Wales.


COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
TAW TAPT.Tf _frr»TMrrTIVTT? DATrnr™ .mrnnT h " 1 ln 1 < LU|
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES jWITH GUARANTEED MORTUAPV mwrTwxr-na
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUm AstTP VT.
IN TONTINK SURPLUS, *r Br»,h« h, ,11 Cowm., “S^" 1 ‘
A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OE THE
death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PARTTCTP ATTON
[?]
81G Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, Jan. 16th, 1889.
Dear Moorabinda,—
’Twixt the bandaging of broken limbs and the smooth-
ing of sick men's pillows, the heart of the tender hos-
pital nurse is, occasionally, sorely stricken by Cupid’s
dainty shafts. At one of our city hospitals some few
montl s ago a naval engineer was admitted suffering from
a raging fever. The kind treatment and skilful nursing
he received so touched the invalid that, in the happy days
of convalescence, he wooed and won the particular minis’
taring angel whose gentle care and attention had
Shortened his sickness and cheered lis weary hours The
affectionate pair arranged to get married and return to
England as soon as circumstances would permit, and the
loving nurse at once gave notice to the hospital authori-
ties that she should quit their service after the usual
interval. Here, however, a difficulty arose. The sick
man was on the point of being invalided home, and
if he left the hospital at once, the Thalia (which
was under orders to sail) would cruelly bear him
away before his inamorata could have her duties. If
love laughs at locksmiths, however, she fairly derides
doctors. The day before the convalescent was to leave
the hospital, the house-surgeon was alarmed to notice a
decide 1 and sudden increase in the patient’s temperaturr,
which rendered it imperative to postpone for a lew dajs
h s return to the open air. Again the time arrived for
discharge, and again came the alarming increase in tem-
perature. This happened three or lour times. The
doctors were peiplexed, and imagined that they had
discovered some new and interesting form of malarial
lever hitherto unknown to medical science. But the
time came when the “ Thalia" sailed, and all fear of the
lovers being parted was thus at an end. The convales-
cent was rapidly restored to health, the dexterous nurse
left her servioo and married him, and the tenderly-
attached couple returned to Eigland together. The
careful maiden had somehow or other caused the timely
rise of the thermometer, and thus the lovers were pre-
vented from undergoing the sweet sorrow of parting.
On entering a certain Anglican Cathedral down South,
a little while ago, I was struck with the bras? lectern, and
wondered what nondescript bird supplied the pattern.
All doubts were, however, dispelled when a c’rta'n dandy
dcctah ” stepped up to read the lessons, for it was evi-
dent that the bird was simply the dootah “conventionally
treated.” The likeness is perfect: the elongated nose,
the bald head, the receding chin, the very attitude being
reproduc’d with faithful accuracy. The dear old doctor
is a character in his way, and is reported to have sus-
pended a chorister who didn’t wear purple stockings on
Christmas Day, while anyone can point out to you a lady
who wore a pink bonnet in Lent, and was therefore
ordered off the premise?.
My dear Miss Smith :-Tae furore against the slaughter
of birds and small animals for feather and fur, Is being
revived at home. I have seen at Scarborough, Brighton,
Dieppe, and other watering places, costumes so outre
that one would think the wearers coveted notoriety like
the Magdalen who wore a Nun’s dress and winked at men
in Regent-street. If you know any fast young ladies who
would rival the “ Boy-girl" I can put them up to a sweet
thing in neckties. I wore one myself in Brisbane (during
the palmy Palmer days). It is made of the skin of an
iguana’s (N S.W .-ice gohaoner, guana, &o.) fore-feet
fastened cross-wise with a carbuncle or cat’s-eye stud. It
is easy to make and cheap, and honestly it is neat on a
white shirt front. With a snakeskin belt and a single
cockatoo’s crest in a platypus hat I can imagine” a
C.M G.-let fetching the block. Don’t you try it though 1
I’ve too much respect and the other thing for you to wish
you to look either slangy or ridiculous.—Yours again this
year, Scotty the Wrinkler.
At a certain VicSoiiaa mioing town the other day there
was going to be a ball, and Mr. Da Smith intended to be
there. Accordingly he packed a email portmanteau and
went off, and on arrival at the township he left the port-
manteau at the railway etatioo. Now, by the same train
arrived a young lady who likewise had a portmanteau
which she left at the sfatioi also. Mr. Da Smith sent up
for his portmanteau, and when it arrived took it up to his
room, at the same time asking a friend of his to come up-
stairs and look at the splendid costume he had brought
for the fancy ball. He opened the portmanteau. He had
got the girl’s eff.cts ! Tableau.
Last month a Hobart man found a fine Gordon setter
wandering about the city, and guessing that the dog’s
owner would prize him, he sent a lad to take the dog to
his house, where it was wail-fed and cared for while in-
quiries were made and advertisements iaserted—“ O wner
can have by paying expenses." A few days after the dog-
flnder’s better-half informed him that a “ masher "
was waiting to interview him. The mas tier proved l
to be Mr. Alan Hamilton, the Governor’s son, who
claimed and identifled the dog and inquired' what
expenses had been incurred. The man informed him
that the advertising had only cost eighteenpence, adding:
“ But the boy had great difficulty in bringing him here
and deserves a reward for bis trouble.” Mr. Hamilton
then produced two shillings, the odd sixpence being for
the boy, but the man handed him the change, declining-
to present that munifleent sum to the lad. Two years’
resid’noe in the kawlinies does not seem to have had any
noticeable effect on the excessively economical house-
hold in the Domain, Hobart. Local drapers now accede
to the request to send one reel of cotton to Government
House without the least surprise.
The Hobart Mercury does not often joke, but plods
along in a calm, serious way, usually letting any una-
voidable humour that comes along flow into the weekly
Mail issued from the same office, but an opportunity oc-
curred lately too good to resist A widower M.P. took a
second chance in the matrimonial lottery last Nivember,
and duly advertised the fact in the Mercury, yet, in the
review of 1888 published on January Ist, tbey were, I sec,
unkind enough to remind folks that his first wife’s death
only happened last January I
Tna best and most melancholy stoiy of modesty which
I have ever heard is related by someone who writes to a
daily paper as an advocate of mixed bathing“ The
phase of ‘delicacy’ reminds me of the recent loss on a
river near Sydney of the life of an unfortunate bather
who‘caught ths cramp,’ and, calling for help, was ap-
proached by some ladies in a boat. When near enough
they saw he was nude, and although there were four of
them they pulled away, leaving the unfortunate to bis
fate.” Dear me I And yet I can see all those four ladies
in evening-dress and the poor bather, who was afterwards
drowned, sitting beeide them in the theatre. And yet he
does not run away from them. I wonder how such things
can be 1
It would be rather interesting to trace out whose was
the ingenious mind which originated the idea of trans-
forming the most prosaic of kitchen uteneils into drawing-
room ornaments. For on the walla of every apartment
with the slightest pretensions to call itself a drawing-
room are now hung frying-pans, gridirons, dust-pans, and
brushes—gilded, painted, and adorned with plush and
ribbons. Ginger, and even blaoking-jars, enamelled and
painted, are also utilised as brio a-brao, while common
earthenware drain-pipes are by similar devices metamor-
phosed into umbrella-stands.
yr r
c fj 4 '
\
V
Hi .y c - /•?
, ]C fjorjt rya/jpufi
f[pc[ op fj/t'en (jib lami/.
'Hitf Wyipiayd w(^joqr
tytffdehfxre Jtb,t ib c 'ujt^
Necessity being the mother of invention, one would not
be surprised were such contrivances to be found in the
homes of the poor, but the curious part of the thing is
that it is the daughters of the wealthy who thus employ
their fair lingers. To the mind of anyone having suffi-
cient curiosity to wonder at the cause of this fad, it would
probably seem merely another phase of the revolution of
Fashion’s wheel from aesthetic langour and sickly taste in
colour, and the grotesquely affected in shape and form
to the other extreme of bright hues and robustness of
contour which have replaced the greenery-yallery reign
cf some time ago.
Shocking accounts of the rudeness of the waiters at Sir
Henry Loch’s “ medical" ball reach my horrified ears. It
was a common thing for the hired attendants to say
“ you’ll find it somewhere about, if you look,” in answer
to anxious enquiries for this, or that, in the refreshment
way. Now, to my way of thinking, there is nothing real'y
infra dig in a waiter’s calling, if it is practised with
civility. But Sir Henry Lech’s young men appear to be
ashamed of their cloth.
I hear, as a funny fact, that the womenkind of a Sydney
clergyman delight in mentioning that there is “ a title in
our family.” It seems that paterfamilias is or was (which
is right ?) distant'y related to a tictoriaa knight, whose
ftle went do*n with him into the tomb many y ears ago.
Why doesn't some kind friend explain to these ladies—
they belong to the Established Church, if you please—
that a knighthood is not a family title at all. But perhaps
the kind friends don’t know much about such exalted
matte* s.
Yours truly, Sappho Smith.
THE SUCCESS OF MARRIAGE.
Osar Bulletin,— I was in doubt as to addressing you or 1
Miss S. Smith on the above, because, although the items
I am about to give are stale even to gamey, still they are
society mems. You need not have gone to ’Frisco to find
queer experiences of marriage. I am all in favour of it.
coupled with a reasonable facility fdr Speeds dtvorfce. I
wish to use three instances of union, which Mona Caird
would quote against the suocees of the vinculum, but
which, I contend, will show the suocees of marriage on
one side of the problem. The parties are all Scotch and
colonial (excepting a Paisley mill girl), and therefore I am
a competent j udge.
1. A squatter’s son when at home (Glasgow) was shook
(to use his own elegant expression) on a girl in H ggy’s
mill, v hose sole assets were a shawl and short gown, a
petticoat and a blazi of golden hair. The passion ex-
tended to love, and young Cornstalk sent Maggie to learn
mayners for a year, but he did not marry ter. He left
her at a moment’s notice with £5O and a baby, came to
his ancestral (one generation) leasehold, and married a
Toorakian, who knows all about Meg and wears the com-
bination. Wherein lies the success ? Not with Cornstalk,
nor with Margaret, but decidedly with Mis. C., who
threatens to send to Glasgow for Maggie as housekeeper.
N.B.—The latter would not come, as she is making
money by endeavouring to become a libel subject for the
Pall Mall Gazette,
2. Now, take another case. A rich Scotch settler fell
fathoms deep in love with a barmaid, a gentle (looking),
graceful, and delicate girl. In her childhood she was so
poor that she attended her mother's funeral without shot s
or stockings, and used to earn lollie-money by carrying
beer in a billy to a Chinaman's camp. Never did any
lady receive such devotion as Supercomb lavished upon
her. When sick he carried her in his arms up and down-
stairs, but when she came on the station error and scandal
supervened. Divorce followed, and that killed her. Mar-
riage was no failure with her, the failure of marriage was
her death-blow.
3. Now I come to a case where the profit of matrimony
is so great that poor young men will see a chance of ulti-
mate wealth. Only four years ago a young labourer came
out from Scotland bringing a wife who was useless for a
month or so. She could nob bake a johnny-cake, and
was so disgusted with Australia that she started one
night to walk home to SroMand. In Glasgow
she had been emp'oyed painting crockery in a pottery.
But Sandy adapted himself to the country and whacked
her into shape. They got a billet as Married Couple,
saved money, and took contracts at ary sort of hard
work. Mrs. Sandy bad to handle the pick and spade, and
they sent for her fatter and mother and made them work
•also, Sandy scooping the coin. The old lady is an expert
nurse, but Sandy insists cn drawing her pay as payment
■for hoard when unemployed, aid the old man has to slave
(from daylight till dark on ncthing a week, doubling
monthly. Now do you think that marriage has been a
failure with Sandy ? I don't. He has cattle and horses,
rents a farm and banks money. Ha actually signs
cheques. 1 shall marry.-
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
The other day a Melbourne lady thought
her sick daughter dead and while standing by the
bed b -came totally blind from nervous shock. The
appearance of the eyes remains unaltered.
An amiable German w«s discoursing the
other day upon the various existing methods of
coping with the N.S.W. insolvency Jaw, and
happened to begin one sentence wioh “Fenerer
Sir Henry Parkes pecombs insolvent ” He
paused here, and after a short pause added : “Is
not fenever a goot vort?’’
‘ The worst enemy of Miss Jeannie
M'Gregor couldn’t cast anything in two of that
young lady’s teeth, because she swallowed them a
week ago. Jeannie was brought to Melbourne
Hospital, but after an ineffectual course of fishing
for her lost grinders, the fair patient was dis-
charged in deep distress. She was in the act of
eating a banana when those articles of vertu
vanished into the unknown, with “ plate at-
tached.”
Missing Relatives.
Enquiries are made through Lloyd's Weekly,
London, for the following persons ;
Oliver Clark, smith, left Mobcombe, Dorset, for Aus*
tralia in 1865. His mother writes.
John Dibble yas in Cooktown in 1886. His mother is
anxious for tidings.
Emma Hall (supposed to be now Mrs. Walker) left
Bermondtey for New Zealand in 1861-2. Her brother
Henry ir quires.
Emmeline Martha Hyam (now Mrs. Drury), formerly
rf Greenwich, but in Australia some years, is sought by
her sister Lavinia.
Ernest Jones went to America four years ago, and was
Utt heard of at Brantford, Ontaiio. His mother seeks
him.
Mark Lansdell last heard of at Gunalda, Queensland.
His parents are anxious.
Sarah McKay and Adbila McKay, who went from
Glasgow to Australia are inquired for by the first named.
Mary Mankelow left Tunbridge Wells, Kent, for Ade-
laide about 1865. Her brother Edward wishes for news.
John Gilruth Mitchell, commercial traveller, who
was last heard of at Sydney about three years ago, is in-
quin d for by his brother.
Edward Smith, born at Oroston, Lane , went to New
Zealand. His father (91 years old) would be grateful for
ne wa.
James Smith was in the Mounted Police at Melbourne.
He was said to have been engaged in the capture of
Morgan, the bushranger. His mphew Hugh seeks him.
Francis Staples left Somerstown for Australia in 1884,
and was least heard cf two > ears since in Svdney. His
parents ask assistance.
Mary Vellacoit {nee Tucker), with her husband and
three toys, left He East India docks in 1865, in the Ocean
Chief for Queensland. Pier brother, John .lames seeks
news other.
George Walker, in September, 1884, was living at
View Hill, Balaclava, East SU. Kilda, Melbourne. His
mother and sister wish to hear from him.
Benjamin Webdon, who left Eoelatd, for New Zealand,
in 18eo, aid was lait be aid of at Wcolloomoolco, Sydney
ia 1880, is ‘ought by his aged mother.
—Whiffin, seven years back was living at Fern Tree
Gully, near Melbourne. He went to Australia 12 years
since. His sis’.er seeks Her.
Evan Williams, Eta cf Betfwsycoed, left Gravesend in
the Westmeath for Sidney in 1883. His biother John
wishes to cf him.
James Boulton left Westminster fer Tasmania in 1854.
He was last heard cf at Bathurst-street, Hobart Town
His sister Eliza wcu’d be glad to hear from him.
James Carpenter, a blacksmith, eight or nine years
ago live! at Brougham-street, Sandhurst, Bendigo, Vic-
toria. His brother and sister are anxious.
Maria Clark (Mrs Edward Acton) went to New Zea-
land in May, 1873 ; her last letter was on April 2, 1876.
Her brother Henry wculd be glad of news
Susan Collier, who went with Mr. Bruce, of Hackney,
to Australia, 35 years ago, is inquired for by her sister
Sarah.
Alice, Margaret, cr John Greenough are inquired for
by their brother, Peter Greenough (a Tasmanian corres-
pondent).
Josiah Hall left Cornwall for Australia, in 1854, and
was last heard cf In 1862, His daughter inquires.
Thomas Bell was last beard of in 1882 as a storekeeper,
pljing between London and Sydney. His mother desires
information.
James Charles Chapman, shipwright, last heard of in
Melbourne. His sister asks for news.
George Coster went to Australia in 1886. His mother
inquires,
Robert Stoxeiiam Dinsdale, cf Hull, sailed in the Yeo-
man for Newcastle, Australia, His mother writes.
Rebecca and Louisa Dodds are sought by their father.
The first-named was at Sandhurst or Bathurst, in 1869 •
Lou si, in 1873, was also there.
Thomas East and family left Blaekwall for N.Z. in 1864.
Last heard (rom at Papanui, Canterbury. His brother
William writes.
Ann Hannah Horton left Malden, Essex, for Sydney in
1851. Not heard from since 1854. Her brother William
seeks tidings.
George Lawrence (Whitesmith), went to Sydney in the
S'averton, 1884, and last wrote from Newcastle in 1886.
H : s daughters seek him.
Joseph Michaelis, five or six years ago, was keeping
an hot 1 or sailors’ boarding-house in Sydney. N.S.W.
His sis’er Sarah seeks him.
David Norwood left England in 1886 for Queensland
His mother seeks him.
Alfred Packman went to N.Z. 13 years ago and las)
wreta a year later. His sister inquires.
N.B.—ln writing care Editor Lloyd’s Weekly,
please mention The Bulletin.
London contains 250,000 single women
who work hard for a living at an average wage of
a fraction under one shillirg a day.
A yacht containing a party of lawyers was
recently capsized among a school of sharks. Total'
deaths, four lawyers, seven sharks. —Epoch.
At the return ball to Mayor Benjamin, of
Melbourne, George Copjiu, comedian and senator
cetat 70, danced with the Mayoress in the first
quadrille. That doesn't look like gout!
The Mongols cat off the right ear of their
enemies slain in battle. In 1239 they collected
270,000 of these from the plains of Russia, and
after the battle of Leigbnitz, in 1241, they filled
12 sacks with then). When they invade Austra-
lia, the ears of our principal Uncle will have a
little sack all to themselves.
A pathetic spectacle was witnessed re-
cently near Brisbane. Chun Get was taken ill, and
his friend, Long Wai, started to take him to the
hospital, but he got tired under the burden of his
own name and laid bis countryman down for a
rest. Then Long Wai discovered that Chun was
dead, and lifting up his voice, he wept piteously.
The doctors who killed the Emperor
Frederick are still doing their utmost to slaughter
each other, but with poor results. They are all
publishing disgusting pamphlets about cancer,
and tracheotomy, and morbid growths, and ab-
cesses, and malignant tumours, and the like, but,
as they don’t take each other’s medicine, no fatal
results are expected.
The P. M. Gazette has been taking the
opinion of leading Englishwcmen of letters on the
question, "Who are the world’s greatest women?”
Jcan of Arc heads the poll, and after her in order of
votes come Georges Sand, Queen Elizabeth, Maria
Theresa, George Eliot, Mdme, Roland, Catherine
of Siena, Sappho, Mrs. Browning, Esther, Char-
lotte Bronte, Mdme. de Sbael, and Elizabeth Fry,
Now we want the Down and Gumtbek Jebnil'..
to take a poll of its readers on this question, and
we are willing to bet a week’s supply of poloniest
that the wife of the Governor cf the day will head*
the lut
The late eccentric Duke of Bavaria had’
an insane affection for dogs. He had about 140>
and they were permitted to roam his apartments!
at will while a favoured few even found places aU
bis table. Seated on chairs, with serviettes duly'
tied round their necks, the quadrupeds partook of
every course, from soup down to sweets : and the
excellent manner in which these four-footed guests
behaved themselves, and the cleanly manner in
which they took their food, was a source of un-
bounded satisfaction to their master. The Duke’s
will shows that these humble favourites are not
forgotten, and a considerable sum is devised for
their maintenance.


Something Nevr In Sewing Machines.
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT.
THE restless march of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
or the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ng, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra ,
the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
fu Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for blankets,
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top-sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines —as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
abour, produce work of similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
Is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING. —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key,
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the "cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong And simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel, of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, AND 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
£JHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.
IVf F.IiACHKINO t
M klachrino t
This world-renowned Egyptian Oigabettb is
made from the finest Yenidqb Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Labgest Sale in the
WOBLD 1
M. MELAOHRINO & GO., Oaieo,
And 21 Cockspur Strbbt, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
leading Tobacconists In Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily. Fresh supplies by every Mail Steamer,
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to B p.m. Admission,
Is. \ Children, 6d. Trams run to Oates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUOIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
A HAPPY NEW YEAR !
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
Mr. CHAS. ARNOLD
IN HANS THE BOATMAN.
GRAND MATINEE PERFORMANCE,
SATDRD AIT 5.1889.
ADMISSION—Ss., Ss., is. and Is.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson's Musle
Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIR.
■\TEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
-131 Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY,
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
ooubdians, bingkes, actors, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Evebythino New, Original, and Rbpinbd,
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission—Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John O. Leete.
Theatre royal*.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodmans
Immense Success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by
A MOST POWERFUL
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
IN
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackayfe.
fjl HEA T R E RO Y A L.
MONDAY NEXT, JANUARY 21.
Complimentary Matinee Benefit and Last
Appearance in Australia of the celebrated
American Prim a Donna.
MISS DORA WILEY.
Under the patronage of U.S. Consul Griffin and
principal American citizens resident in Sydney,
Box plan now open at Nicholson’s.
Manager for Miss Wiley—Mr, Philip Stuart.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE!.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison*.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45;.
Tremendous Success of
Thb Grand Christmas Production,
YOUTH YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTM.
PRICES, 55., 35., Xs., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to> 5i
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Managobi
G A a
GAS.
G A Si
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages],
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THB GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays,
đ
THE ITALIAN BEE C»*,
Fabbauatta, Supplies ItaUm
Queens and Bees, Extracted*
and Oomb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
£lO 000
given away to buyers of a Bottle of Bbbasolbar.v
Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale)
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
"Mr XAiiiOß," 161 King-street, Newtown, Don*! forget
him. Balt* be rntumi lor <1 I*.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers.
Sitin'! Baking Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
&c., &c., &c.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HJURIS STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
BAD, MARK, LEARN.
Far-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Western Australia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO BACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARE SELLING
RAPIDLY.
They Cannot be Replaced at the Price.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will ferge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &e., posted to any
address on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
90 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JUST PUBLISHED.
•'THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
Bx Abthdb Gath.
m nefisiiY iuvitbatbb -m
BY
Thb Bulletin's well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price ■ ONE SHILLING.
Pei Poet, le. Bd. (except Queensland).
Ut AfiKMTB.
JJLBBLIT & COMPANY,
SIGN WRITERS
AND
—ART ++ DECORATORS
96 (Uastkereagh Street,
One Door from King Street.
£2O
£2O
BIJC KBOAKir BUBBIES
Regular shipments of the Best Euckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and tor
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or stoamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms s Cash: or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggc
Road, Brisbane (South).
m
w
Brittenberg & 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Olabenob Stbbet, Wynyabd Squab*.
'Furniture. Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings-
I>
R. GEORGE ON LEE,
31 Oarltok Terrace,
"Wynyabd Squabe, Sydney,
Consultation Hours: 19 a.m. until 2 p.m.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
tifres for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Duress Suits lor
Mttondod to b; ' ’ ”
HMended to by QUITTBNTON BROS.. 11l
st. MIfItBOITUNM
IT
SIWION
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS^
Full suites for dining-room.— side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
j ELF- AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites. Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CO ASTON AT. TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
1
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
’HHE
s>
la
Drawing boom oabi
nets.
■aMS K MALIBU
Obiivirdali Dibichs.
Nbwxon k Lami.
PIANOEQR ES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NBUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
d
AUSTRIAN-RENT-
WOOD
EURNITURE.
A VftßT OOjMPI/JiTH
Assobtmknt.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Rod
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
KLF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
T 3 OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
i\j ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
tn
sb
Bedsteads, ail sices.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Nbwton ft Lamb.
ď
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring,
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
I3s. 6d. 5 Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side*
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. fid. i
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooiaa and Hand* acton* i
•PRIWO * nonFFlLl RTIIIITI/


When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Do you wish to make money ? Then buy a £lO
building allotment at Perth, the capital of West
Australia. £1 deposit. Easy terms. Marked
plans posted. The Intercolonial Investment
Co., 'Limited, 05 Bathutsfi-stroot, Sydney. ‘
Adam Bede's Benevolent Consultations,
“ All the Year Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
Sec Sydney Bulletin, January 10, 1880.
On both these events, 3 per cent, of Adam Bedes
commission will he devoted to charitable objects,
No. 1 on the
Newmarket Handicap
Ran at Melbourne, March 2, 188!).
10.000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 Each, 10.000
First Horse, £4,000) Second, £1,600; Third,
£l,OOO. Starters, £1,500; Non-starters, £2,000,
to be divided amongst them.
And No. 1 on the
AUSTRALIAN CUP,
Run at Melbourne, March 5, 188!).
10.000 SUBSCRIBER 4 at £1 Each. JQ^QQQ
First Horse, £4,000 ; Second, £1,500 ; Third,
£l,OOO. Starters, £1,500; Non-starters, £2,000,
to be divided amongst them.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
miis't enclose stamps for really and result.
Address
“ADAIt BEDE,”
care of H. N, Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event (£10,000) SYDNEY GOLD CUP,
run on APRIL 22, 1889.
JJESIDENT AGENTS WANTED.
NATIONAL PUBLISHING COMPANY,
SYDNEY.
If you are anxious to MAKE MONEY FAST
Apply for Particulars, &c.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENS-
LAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
The Chief Justice,
Mr. Justice HARDING, in Chambers.
In the matter of the petition of JOSEPH JUPP
SMALLMAN BARNETT, of Apis Creek,
near Rockhampton, in the Colony of Queens-
land, Station Manager, praying Divorce
against his wife, EMMA SMALLMAN
BARNETT.
TO EMMA SMALLMAN BARNETT, Re-
spondent, and ALBERT LLEWELLYN
CORRY, Co-respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that by an order made by Mr.
Justice H 4RDING in Chambers on WEDNES-
DAY the nineteenth day of December, 1888, it
was ordered that service of the petition filed
herein on the fifteenth day of NOVEMBER last
and citation issued out of this Honorable Court
on the fifteenth day of NOVEMBER last
by publishing this notice once in the Queens-
land Government Gazette, once in the Bris-
bane Courier, twice in the Queenslander,
twice in The Week, once in the Sydney
Morning Herald, twice in the Sydney Bul-
letin, and once in the Melbourne Argus,
newspapers printed and published in the Colonies
of Queensland, New South Wales, and Victoria
respectively, and by posting office copies of the
said Petition and Citation addressed to the above-
named respondent and co respondent, care of Mrs.
GEORGE MARKAM, of Tiaro, near Mary-
borough, in the colony of Queensland, be sufficient
service of the said Petition and Citation.
And further take notice that you are required
to enter an appearance thereto at the Supreme
Court office, Brisbane, within six weeks from the
publication hereof, otherwise the Petitioner will
proceed your absence notwithstanding.
Dated this 31st day of December, 1888.
CHAMBERS, BRUCE & M‘NAB.
Solicitors for Petitioner,
Adelaide-street, Brisbane.
MATRIMONY.— A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, good-looking, wishes bo correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
offer on first-class station in North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X.Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens-
land. 1 • 1 •
The “ [Descent of Man ” is a mere question
of do tail;
tt Is not generally known that daring the
worst part of the recent drought the Sydney
Omnibus Company sent to South Africa for two
cargoes of maize.
THE
Sydney aid Pmiicial Laid aid Building Co.,
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £67,460.
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £39,987.
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK. — Withdraw without notice.
Interest, 5 per cent,
gHow to Buy a House for 12s. a week,
ow to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. 6d. a week,
ow to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
A fite took place the other day at the
Hobart Mhpboßt Office, and a
dent wired his sympathy for the proprietors’ loss
in a “collect ’’ telegram. Evidently been taking
a leaf out of a Royal book, but it was not properly
appreciated, for he was informed that a penny
post card would have served his purpose, and
b:en more acceptable to the recipients.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The Sest In the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
lit I Cl
231 CLARENCE STREET
DOWS
JAEMBRO CATION
\i
|&ve^xwh D eJ/-3
m
Perdriau Co.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washeeb. Gaskets &0.. &o. Molded to «n y Size. Rubber goods tor all purposes.
* IS * S ani * Samples on Applfcation.
ALLA
C 0
*■ A. MARSHALL &
PTnMnUBH B p a ™ S : C ° PPEEBsnras - Beass and Bell Fodndebs.
Finishbbs. Pldmbbbs, GaseiWees, Ship & Geseeal Smiths, Abt & Medieval Metal Wohkkbs
Verity's Gas Fires Heaters' “ ake^ ith Bra «« 0* Wooden Wheels.
iZSllTiSsssl j“ w r
BOM ACCORD WORKS. 9 »ae„uari« Mac*, B ys | H ey f and Stamnore Road.
Grosvenor Hotels
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH HILL, SUBNET,
overlooking the Harbonr.
rpHIS Magnificent Hotel is now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended In
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. ROWAN, Manager.
" ■>
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
BI3ZSB-A.WB § ZZOTEL,
LAUNOEBTOI, TASMANIA.
■tamo *t
■
S
77”
-
.
a
\ r
vx*
jsnaTfjß v
*«.S3I»V**
:u’|
nun
...
HOTTSB,
Wines, Fpeaei Liquors I Emm Cigars a Smcialitf SU Boasi, Cuisine Fraocaiii,
CORRESPONDENCE
u Ratiick Kelly ” : Have not received letter
"Jackson" (Leichhardt District): Many thanks.... ■
“ A.L.Li"; The law does not allow a new trial when the
prisoner wants it ■ why then should the Crovn have as
tnany as it likes Uookaigne ” writes: 11 1 tele that I
Wante a ohainge of air. Wat would you advis me too
do.” If yoitr health is as had as your orthography we
ttotild advise you to go to the country for a "spell. 1 ’
"Bt. John W.”; Good “Peter S." (that's Derry):
Ihitnks St. Mungo”: The host Of your advertise-
ment wotild be BS “ Waddy Mundoty ” (Maokaj):
ihAnks..;.“ W.8.A." (Melb.): Many thanks ...“ One of
ii he Sufferers”: Good idea. Handed to artist “Geo.
Sjnion: We can't read jour hieroglyphics. We like
type-written copy, not shorthand “In Leisure
Moments”; Many thanks “ H 0.D.” : No, not neces-
sarily humorous “J. Johnson ” (Melb.): It “narks”
us to be asked to explain our own jokes... “ J.C.” (Jerry's
Plains): No, James, we cannot oblige you by giving the
other fellow a “jar.” “ A,J.” (Broken Hill): Your
Item his gone to the place where all bad items go
“Trotter Bethune “ : Why, you are sending us some cf
OUr own matter, which has been annexed by the English
paper from which you quote “ A 8.C.” :We don't be-
lieve the crimes in qu'Btion were a 1! committed by one
than, they look like the deeds of a syrdioate....
"Dramattous” : Many thanks Phase write again
l, d. H. Vagg”: thanks. It pleases them, and it doesn’t
hurt us. We are right, they are wrong. Oa their side
they have a decaying institution; on ours we have a
growing cause. Every cause is either growing stronger
or Weaker—waxing or waning. In whioh direction, tell
Us, do present signs point? “E.W.S.”: thank you.
Hardly worth noticing, however...." Butcher ": If you
lllake a chftjue payable to Brown’s order, Brown's signa-
ture will have to be endorsed on the cheque before the
bank will pay it....“ J.8.A.”: Kindly call “Old
Miner”: In the abstract it is perhaps unjust that you
who keep sober and do not Often want a doctor are com 6
polled (8 pay a weekly contribution towards supporting one
justi as are the drinking men who tcO often need medical
assistance. But, altar all, the matter is too small to be
growled over “A. A. Hunt You accuse us of falling
into the popular error of including the Sovereign as one
of the three C state j of the realm, and quote Ha’lam's
“ Middle Ages ” in support of your contention that the
three estates are “The Lords spirited, the Lords
temporal, and the Commons.” YOU are right as
Regards the medieval meaning Of the term, but
toodern historians, Cjllier for One, give the three
estates as “ tho Sovereign, tie Lords, and thb Oom-
B'on&.” “LS;J:”: “Is it a digiliflcd thing for
a rich nevspap to sst up a news-
paper Sia'l in opp §ition to a woman who has long
bBan established on the spot?” Why; certainly
“T. W.” (boola): iVe can’t tell you how oftsn—but three
tubes at the very least “Billy Eoyleshover”: We
haven’t the slightest idea what you are driving at in
your poem “ Would-be Benedict ” : Yes, you can
mahry comfortably on bio() a year in Sydney, but you'll
have to give up all the little extravagances you have
henedioted to. “ t.A M.”: Gicd article. Write
again “ JtJ.M.” (Hraidwood): Kapai.. . .“Scotty " ;
W. M Robertson, Tubbo Station, Narandera, asks for
pour aldresS “J. Warburton”: Mailed to England.
School” (Yio ): Many thanks “C.HiR”: Thanks.
...“Antigua”: One shilling. Postage to Queensland is ten-
penoe “S.L.” (Paddington) i (1) The jury have no
Control; (2) The judge c m sum up as he pleases, though
if he deei not sum up according to law the verdict is
liable to be quashed. (8) Nobody has the “ right ”to in-
terrupt him, though counsel and jury are permitted to
draw his attention to any error or seeming error he may
chance to make in going over his notes of evidence, and
the jury often ask him questions when they happen to be
in doubt as to th‘e purport of his directions “R.
Brothers ” : Will read “ Dangong ” : You are echoing
our ovn remarks ,W.F.S.”: Purely personal
“ A. 0.”: Handed to artist “ Gamleaf ”: Many thanks.
It doesn’t trouble vs.
Seven members of the new N.S. W. Minis-
try are native-born.
“ Bloody ” Balfour, the Irish Secretary,
odi ns 1000 seres in Wairarapa, N,Z,
(1 overnor Carlngton, when he receives an
important deputation, always reads his reply
from manuscript.
A large number of Australian citlzms are
now O.M.G.’s, And there is not one single
C.M.G, who doesn’t fib his tiole.
Tho incoming N.S.W. Ministry promise
to give more attention to irrigation in the country
and less to irrigation in the refreshment-room.
Tiger laglis says that “ we must see that
glib-tongued knaves are kept out of political
power.” Right you are, Tiger, we’ve just started
on the job.
On to morrow (Friday) evening the Sydney
branch of the Australian National Association
will lay their platform before the public at the
Protestant Hall.
Unless certain officers of the Australian
military forces give whisky a rest and take to
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine they won’t have much
backbone by the time the enemy comes.
Chjffoy Brothers will make a colossal
fortune out of their Mildura enterprise. Accord-
ing to present indications, the speculation should
net them at least a million within a few years.
England is getting tired of the colossal
task ot drinking itself out of debt. The Reform
Club, Sydney, has managed to drink itself out of
debt. Ergo, Sydney Reform Club carries its
liquor better than England.
Mr. F. H. Cowen, the distinguished
musician, now in Melbourne, says “ I have
spent many an evening with the English aris-
tocracy, and I have found them—the blcod
tostobraey, &t least—the most brainless, upin-
perbsting people Op the face or the eatth. They
have Only three ideas betWeeh the airhole lot Of
theih-bleat and dtpik, wdijhen ana sport,”
Mr. and Mrs. Essie Jenyna Itfo for Eng-
land bjy the Massilia.
I( “Morally,” says the Australian Star,
the new (N.S. W.) Ministry is free from reproach,
no adulterers, nor drunkards, nor
jobbers. It may suit the Foreign-traders to be
represented in the Government of the country by
men who occasionally drink themselves into a
state of delirium tremens, or who wink at the ex-
penditure of public money on their own estates,
oot teat rort of thing will never be tolerated by
the National party.” However, as the Star, in
the same article, pleads, on behalf of Mr. Dibbs’
Treasury-deficit, that he was c died upon suddenly
to spend half*a-million sterling in connection with
dispatch of troops to the Soudan, and as Mr.
Dibbs has never recanted—nay, as he is associated
in his pre ent Government with a lot of Soudan
men, and showed during the discussion on the
NaVal Tribute Bill that he was still a howling Im-
perialist, we don’t exactly see how he can claim
the leadership of the “National” party.. With
Thk BuLiM'iN, Australian Independebce is before
all things.


Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AB WILL AS THOBI
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Bate’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
Americas and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
Sf EVERY REQUISITE H
AT 0
fHICES WHICH DEFY COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND Of
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
FROM
AID UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
Town and Country Customers.
Note Addriss—
Craig & Aitken,
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Pkioe List Posted on Application
ffl
=■
□
GOOD-BYE TO THE BRIDE; IN TWO ACTS.
M. Noel Pardon, the new Governor of
New Caledonia, has been banqueted by the French
Club, Sydney. M. Pardon is understood to be in
no way related to Old Pardon, the son of Re-
prieve.
Advb. from a Georgian (U.S.) paper :
“ We have on hand an excellent clothes-washer,
which we have got for a year’s advertising. As
we have no clothes to wash, we are offering the
thing for sale cheap, and to the person buying we
will throw in a free local notice and year’s sub-
scription to our paper.”
A Lovrly and Dblioatb Complbxion.—This Is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Post, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Ronslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, Ac. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 Qeorge-etreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near Klng.street.*
Er rg cv
&
£
&
G=
*
<y
&
&
*
&
Yi
V
&
&
<s
5c
5c
D
O
v
£
&
&
r\
o
£
&
o
*
o
o
v
<3
*
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY
At Hawaii recently, the doctors have been
dircuaairg bhe quastion of whether leprosy is cr is
not a contagious disease, and the Government
agreed to hand over a convict under death sen-
tence for experiment. The poor wretch, to save
his neck, consented to inoculation, and he is now
a sufferer from tubercular leprosy.
lo has just occurred to us that if Essie
Jenyns’ wedding had lasted all day, after the
Greek fashion, not o ily would the ornaments in
St. Andrew’s Cathedral have been smashed by
that tumultuous bevy of reckless maidens who
elbowed each other within the sacred walls, but
the pile of massive masonry itself would have
tumbled to the ground in one dishevelled heap.
It’s a consolation to be perfectly sure we’re living
under the Southern Cross.
William's Australian Inseotlold Is death to all Inserts.
Simple in application—sure in effeot. this is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 867 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
£
i
(
s
T
O
u.
f
SCENTS,
DELISSA* PHILLIPS
ft 3&*5 Barack Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STOREY.
(ytUL*
it
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
•I*;
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
jcnes’ lv£stclb.i3ae s,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
7AUEIQB, SETT SEIM & Co., Tanners and Leather Merchants,
16 V 0 R K STRE E T, SYDN E Y.
_ Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
0
a UnTmoorters of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all Details. Including Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &c.: and of the following Special. Lines : PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLAORING. Tanners Tools and Materials, Indents executed on Favourable Terms,
DR. RICHARDS
l)CO
D^JRJCHARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Ohlel
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private os
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
rn receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
!n the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 26,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
T Spri ng Street, Sydney
•f Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention ihis paper when writing,
CONSULTATION FREE,


Easiness Announcements,
BRUNTO IPS
KOYAE PATENT BTBBL ROLLIH
FLOUR
Om be obtained throughout New Booth Welea,
Queensland, end Vletorle,
BTDNBT m m m 84 Pm BVMH.
BRISBANE... m ...Bdwabd Bnm
MELBOURNE _ . Bfihobi Brain,
EPPS’S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
Medical*
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured I
fhe Greatest Success Y
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
{All Chronic Disease
are Curable.
Hi, S, E. KDSEIMAHH, Conultini Eclectic,
Skillbd Spboialist for Alii, Chronic Disbasbs,
ft WHSiIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call oan write for a list of ques-
tions (frbb) by whioh they oan be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’a treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. It
you are Buffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronio Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Bead the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1888]
to H. K. Kuoblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe oough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe oold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that 1 was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement 1 did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
tor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
liectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
ungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, whioh I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of tbe exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you oould guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
■kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very Mat.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two atone in weight,
a result whioh my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
•re as strong as ever they were, and I oan do as good and
as bard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
OT All Consultations Free. *M
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
BOX BBINO EFFBOXBD,
T
O SUFFERER
CONSULT PERSONALLY OB BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
x :x
THEY Treat and Cure all Chronio, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
X : x
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
ISS Elisabeth Street, Brie Park, Sydney.
PBISOBIPTIOWB are to
mu be fonnd in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, &oT A copy of
this book will be sent Free, sealed, lor Six Fenny
Stamps. Address —
Bv WARD ft 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
' r
Hope for the »eaf.-NiOHOLBON’s Patbntbd Art
vioal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness In all Its stages. The
most astonishing onres have been effected. Send for 188
paged Illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness.’
Illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
•wed by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr
■IOHOLDON. ai William Beaut. aslbewaa
Gt-K-A. 3iT 3D t HOTEL,
OOBNSB Of
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
Ladies’ Drawing-Booms. Beading and
Smoking Booms. Night Porter
CDSCROVt
I
41
r M
t
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel)
Pbopbibtbibs.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
Si
THE
“ Plum ”
II A Z 0 R.
FOR PRIVATE USE Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed J
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HIL L, SYDNE Y,
Farson/s t Grape J Sl'silln.e.
TRADE MARK—“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from PIPE FBUIT , and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness,
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & 00., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE ALINE.
Ka&Sf '-M
AM
In consequence §f Imii&tims ®f THE WORCESTERSMIMM
SA UCE which mru g&imi&kd m dmmt A AKj Ls& <mi Fenrhm
have i® request ik&i PunMmr® m &hsf iks L®sA. m kiis3
k&rs Sheir StgmMfs fihss****
wiikmli mhkh m ssiSk »f fks es4§§m! W|«Wllf|||
SA UCS is gms. jfe.
Ask for LEA and FEMMMMSP Smuss, mnd sm Msmg m W&a§sep- 9 Lshd v Msti&te csrS
Stopper, Wholesale and f<sv Mssfreri §p i&g Fresvik6)m, Cnees escf
MlacSmall, Lmdm, #®(? n s bp Qn&ssps «mS Oiha/m sbemtsh» ws sks
PHOTOGRAPHY !
■!:}•
LICHTNEE & CO.,
a 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
--I® AND
9 Elizabeth Streep Brisbane,
Cordially acknowledge the satisfactory relationship which has been established between
them and the Photographers of Australia, and so largely extended daring the past
Twelve Months. It will be no fault of theirs if the
COMFLIUEMTS of the present HOLIDAY SEASON
are not continued throughout the coming year. They
have now issued a New and Comprehensive Cata-
logue, profusely illustrated, and ask all old friends
to send for one, whilst extending the same invitation
to those we have not yet had the pleasure of meeting.
:++:
A visit to our Establishment will give proof that
we have the Largest and Best Assorted Stock in
the Colonies at Reasonable Prices.
d
LICHTNER & CO
{
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
ANB
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Assurance Companies.
T»»
AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGUA
MINT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Ineasporated by Act of Parliament, I! Vie,,
No. IB.)
Registered Capital w m m 51,111,111
Paid-up and Subscribed m m IBS, III
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKBT, Baa., F.1.A., Deputy
Chairman.
This Company reoelvea deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 yean _ 7 pet cent. I
For 0 monthi i per cent. |
Foi 1 jreu - 6 pei eenl.
For 8 month! _ I pet oenl.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate aeal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, art
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards*
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and,
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONBT ADVANCED FOB BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-dlvlded and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
HMD Onion—l 9, AlB HUNTEB STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1171.
CAPITAL, fISM.NI.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS.
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices—lo, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay*
able by Instalments at very reasonable rates of In*
terest. Bills discounted dally,
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS I
8 months, 6 per cent.
J II 7 H
IS ~ 8 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 18 month
per cent. 8 months 1} per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
Business Annennecmenfeu
KING’S V ( EWs
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c , &c.,
3tS SEOESE SI,, Setviti Suiter-si, & IP 0,
TATTBRSALL'B
IDlim COISOLTiTIOVI
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event*
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
tor reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGEtfE’S
(From Parte)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(. <« Joor. fr-jagOj-gbt. oamtal Bank),
pIOR BALB.-Two grand Water Frontages.
IL.nV'SKT “ d L “" °"'


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whiti
Patknt Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery,
the quality Is exceptionally good and the price very low.
CAUTION.
LOOK ODT FOH FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “Hop Bitters” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “ Hop
Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Biltera are the
Purest and Best Bitters ever made.
They are compounded from Hops, Bnchu, Man*
drake, and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all tha
be-t and most curative properties of all other Bitters,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, (Aver Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect ate their
operations.
They give new life and vigor to the aged and in-
firm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other genuine. Take no other.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W, JAMESON A CO.’S
" mimm lame" wsisst,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
“MAGIC” MEAL.
THE BEST COMPOUND EVER INVENTED
FOR FATTTENING STOCK AND
POULTRY.
Its effects on Horses and Cattle are astonishing.
When one dose has been administered to the
drought-stricken Bullock of the Western Plains
his delighted owner can stand by and hear him
grow, and Cows, when treated with this com-
pound, become enormous milkers. Its effect
on Horses is no less marvellous. The at-
tenuated Gee-Gee with as many points as a
hat-rack, after taking one bag is transformed
into a magnificent animal 18 hands high, and even
the sight of the wrapper has been known to pro-
duce remarkable results. Hens and all descrip-
tions of Poultry also derive great benefit from it.
The supposed recent eclipse of the sun in Cali-
fornia was an optical illusion arising solely from
the stupendous shadow oast by a Fowl which had
been taking the MAGIC MEAL, and many
other equally marvellous results can be quoted
and substantiated on first-class authority.
A. H. PHILLIPS, Proprietor.
17 Victoria Chambers,
Castlereagh-street.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roi.liEb Fi.ovk. It is the greatest success of the
age. •
By Authority :
BEADY IN JANUARY ,
Demy Bvo., cloth, 650 pages, Illustrated with Maps, Portraits,
and Sketches. [Price, 10 s. 6d., including postage.']
Volume I op
11 THE HISTORY 07 NEW SOUTH WALES,"
From the Records :
By G. B. Barton, of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-law.
This volume will contain the History of New South Wales
from 1785 to 1789, founded on the letters and despatcnes
written by Governor Phillip during that time, and many other
records of great historical Interest, never before published,
-which have recently been obtained from the Public Record
Office in London, the Record Office In Sydney, the collections
of Sir Joseph Banks and others, &c., &c.
CHARLES P#TTER,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 21st December, 1888.
ď
ftowlaucb’
MaeocAdarOil
a a. And bAHUtiftOT 0
H the b*t end
PAMJ-I),
gasss®~ag£sj„,, „„,™.. T
(Mling off or turning grey, strengthen.'iad mou»t*ch*iS
aan else be had in a tl
which, after greet time end trouble, he. been w®S» md io tow .melt!
Children end Wor grey-heired edulte, Sires 9*. «d.; f».; «*mlly bobtle*. *<!«*» » 0
SO*. 6d.; end double that size, ffl». ______
ROWLANDS" KALYDOR Jg e heeling end refreshing *2!
She fece, hands and arm*; It eradicate, freckle, to. “nd dlucet*
of the skin, pimples, cntoeou. eruptions, «tc„ ana produce, m oeeuraxm
(Bomplexion.
ROWLANDS 7 ODONTO whiten, the teeth, •£sSheM C foip
[toiler nemM.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bkos , and E. Pbossbb & Co., Sydney.
Brief Mention.
Booz’em friends —Drunks.
Always on strike —the blacksmitns.
“Getting tonicked ” Is bald Australian for
getting drunk.
“Esoteric Jutnboism” is the fancy name
of a newly-constructed faith in England.
A penny will close the eye of a dead man,
but it takes a sovereign bo close the eye of a live
policeman.
When a tramway swindlecator wants to
pick up something hot without being burnt he
uses the office-holder.
The freshest lie ia that a whale has been
captured near Norfolk Island with the name
«• Jonah ” carved on its ribs,
A grampus has been captured near Manly.
It is proposed to keep him alive at the aquarium,
and run him for alderman on the first available
opportunity.
In the city of Leeds (Eng.), with a popula-
tion of 250,000 souls, there is not a single labourer
or artizan who owns the house he lives in.
i Wellington (N.Z.) suffers from a zephyr
now and then. The last one blew several bricks
right out of the wall of the General Post Office.
In the time of Edward 11. a British ad-
miral received 14s. a week. He gets more than
that now and is generally worth a good deal less.
Haynes’ paper remarks People
in olden times were punished with the rack, the
thumb-screw and the press.” The torture by the
Press still survives.
Wheel barrow racing, with a lady in the
barrow, was invented by the Prince of Wales in
one of the few spare moments which he devotes
to recreation.
An Australian paper ia publishing a
coloured supplement entitled “ The Home of the
Lyre Bird.” The picture of some evening news-
paper-office, we presume.
With the memories of the late drought
still in mind, the Australian farmer is not
likely to kill the fatted calf on account of the
return of the prodigal sun.
It is reported that there are iu the Hay-
market (Sydney) three ordinary-sized houses in
which 533 Chinese live, move, and have their
being. There are 10 sleeping-rooms with 50 Chows
in each.
The fossil impression of a human face has
just been found in an old sandstone formation.
Cheek is eternal—Henniker Heaton’s, for instance,
would survive undamaged over two or three
geological epochs.
The Sydney Star, in a big heading,
enquires, “Why should we hang? ’ That’s an
easy one, dear boy. You should hang because
you published 11 awful columns of chestnuts about
that “scragging.”
The other evening the Sydney E. News
recorded that two sharks at Bondi Aquarium had
had a savage conflict, judging from the wounds
found on them. The paper adds regretfully :
“ Unfortunately there weta no spectators of the
event, and the fury of the thing can only be
imagined.” Yes, imagined only by the EVUN
News.
It ia estimated that during the Melbourne
land-boom the Argus and the Age were earning
from advertisements alone at the rate of £5OO 000
per annum between them. And yet the Argus
was bought, lock, stock, and barrel, not so many
years ago for £3OO.
“ An’ yez looks out o’ sorts this mornin’,
Mrs. Dacey.” “ An’ enough to make me, Mrs.
Grogan. Last week I lost me husban’ and this
week two goats. The loss of the ould man was
pretty bad, but goats is high in price, Mrs.
Grogan; very high.”
At Macquarie-place the other d»y a han-
som-cabby backed on to the pole of an omnibus,
whose driver, in very elegant language, asked him
why he didn’t look where he was going. Look
where I’m going?” said the cabby. “Do you
take me for a bloomin’ Cyclops, with both my
eyes in my back ? ’ -
A passage of words between two land-
agents, Hussey and French, who gave evidence in
the Parnell-TiMKS case, is reported in the London
press. Said French to Hussey : 11 How is it, con-
sidering the way you treat your tenants, that
you’re not shot ?” Said Hussey to French : Be-
cause I tell them that if I’m shot, you’ll succeed
me as agent.”
This Is a bona-fide excerpt from a child’s
exercise-book. Initialed as it is by the master, it
must be according to the system laid down for
instruction in History :
William IV., 1830 ; Victoria, 1837. The richest and
meanest widow in the world.
What do you think of it, G.C.M.G. Parkes and
Maharajah Inglis ?
A curious old French story of the guillo-
tine from De Loye’s new book on “ Capital
Punishment ”:—
This partisan (Schavenburg) was caught together with
four of his associates, and they were all condemned to
death. They were already on their knees, ready to sub-
mit to their fate, when Schavenburg addressed the judge,
asking that his four companions might be ranged in single
file in front of him, at a distance of eight feet from each
other “ If,” he said, “ after lam beheaded, I get up and
walk ‘up to the first of my comrades, will you pardon
him?” The judge thought he was pretty safe in comply-
ing with the request. “ But if I walk up to the second,
the third, and the fourth, will you pardon those also I
The judge replied that he would obtain their pardon from
the Emperor. The partisan was satisfied, bent his head,
received the mortal blow, and his head rolled down ; but
to the great suprise of the judge and the spectators, the
body got up, walked along, past the first, second, third,
and fourth of the condemned men, and fell down. The
occurrence was told to the Emperor, who pardoned the
four criminals.
A visitor from New Zealand la writing in
a Sydney paper, a book about N.S.W. Here is
his estimate of Judge Windeyer whom he has
reckoned up in the snap of a steel trap and decided
bo adore: —
The judge had commenced to sum up shortly before I
entered I g'anoed up at the bench and saw there pre-
cisely the type of man I expected, for being somewhat of
a politician myself I can gauge the value of. and »m not
to be led away by, opprobrioui epithets. Indeed, I can
use them myself on a pinch, though, 1 hope, always under
justifiable circumstances. There was a tune in the
history of our country when a “hanging judge’ was a
miscreant ready to shed human blood at the mere bidding
of kings. Now-days he is simply a gentleman possessing
strength and courage to bear the responsibilities entailed
upon him by an important, yet occasionally painful office.
Such is Judge Windeyer. A mild-lcoking, thin, regular-
featured man, with facial lines that show possession of
the, sense of responsibility f qenpitive. 1 should imagine, in
disposition,, and or nervoup temperament ?, speaH y£ry
quickly and in, short runs ,it were, but by np means
indistinctly; keen, sharp, penetrating eyes that move
quickly about the court and fasten on the jury while he
is addressing them. In appearance he is like what one
would expect Mr. Denniston (who will probably one day
be a New Zealand judge of the hanging order) to be at 60.
In addressing the jury he seemed to me to be minutely
and anxiously careful. Though summing up heavily
against the prisoner he omitted no item that seemed to
tell in her favour ; and to refresh the memories of the jury
he read out at length the evidence of all the principal
witnesses. His conclusion was an impressive exhortation
to them not to shrink from responsibility if such should
lie in the path of their sworn duty. Emphatically a man
to be trusted on the bench is Judge Windeyer ; and
certainly one not to be cowed by truckling parliamentary
motions.
A fitting companion picture to this would be
found in certain recent remarks of the press of
the Western Circuit of N.S.W.
More logD. Theme—Snider rifle. Snider
is a German and to rifle is to steal. Ergo, a Snider
rifle is a German robbery.
YOUNG URCHIN: “SIR, WILL YOU HELP A POOR ORPHAN
WHAT’S GOT NO MOTHER?”
OLD GENT: “HOW LONG HAS YOUR MOTHER BEEN
DEAD?”
URCHIN: “TWENTY YEARS, SIR.”
There Is a “ Reception Room ” In Pent-
ridge Prison (Melb.) It is a cold, clean, white"
washed chamber, containing a solitary piece of furni-
ture for the accommodation of one visitor at a time.
In the near left-hand corner, as you enter, stand
the “triangles,” looking as innocent of blood-
stains as soap and soda can make them. What
warm receptions some poor devils get in that cold
room !
Miss Braddon, who is writing her memoir?,
naively says that she had no idea she was person-
ally so interesting,
Jones: “Got any property In Sydney I’’1 ’’
Smith : “Yes, I own a terrace in Darlinghurst,”
Jones : “Is that your address ? ” Smith : “ Yes.”
Jones ; “I’ll just write it down : ‘lona Terrace,
Darlinghurst.’ ”


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
HKLBOUBX.
•tram Baikwax Terminus, Spences Bum.
W7TBITOBB patronising the above hotel, which
f |im lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
ivlU ted all modern Improvements! such m lights
Mty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large pabllo-
teozn, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
tad needle baths passenger elevator, eleotrlo bells,
telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
3W passed in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
Mag tailed lor early morning trains. Letters
Mil telegrams promptly attended to. Prises very
PHTim WOODS.
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S a
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREETJ
ISstween Burge and York Streets.) P.O. Box 980. Dr,
•pur it a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Basette, January 81st, 1886; also New South Wales
Basette, April I7th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
gun to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
iPEOIAL DISEASES. Four of these were In the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all umplalnts with excellent results. All applying to
h&n will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
He experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
§ positive cure In every case he undertakes, or forfeit
ASM. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
firganlo disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or.
In ether words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
Sieved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
IB perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
fee CM" 18 only to be a skilled and successful physician
•feetsughly Informed In his speciality—CHßONlC akd
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
eeridingala distance can, by explaining their troubles In
MaQ be treated at home. The course of treatment will
Sit In any way interfere with their business. Examine-
Hen and advice free to all. Chargee moderate. H. J.
gran, M.D., 48 Margaret Street, between George and York
Bluets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
IS «.m. to 18 a.m.; Bto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
31 Is 11 a.m. only.
a imsusi behest
M all Afflicted with Rheumatic Hour, Tio
BOMBEUZ, AOHIHE PAINS In the LIMBE,
Face, or Head,
Why Sifter iheie excruciating Patna when ena
bottle of
DR. 80UTHA1T8 RHEUMATIC pills
pH give Instant Relief and Cure In a few daya (
She Anatnllan Remedy. No change In diet
stsoaeary. In Bottles. Is., la. Sd., (fa., and lie.
CURB FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION,
ftfela Lotion la the Beat and Safest Remedy for Bad
Bfss. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
ffmighi, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from thorn who have recovered through
IH'agenoy ean be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and beet manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor.
L a ion, nunucantlnl Sunlit.
081 OffiovHa-EtTMt, only.
Mesmeric, magnetic, and electric
INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
•IDs. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
Awnwrlniui Remedy Company. All Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
Fveatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only. his motto being :—“ Nature cures Nature’s
decay. ” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
four days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self In being the only person known in the world
erko will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
longue without Surgical Operations of any kind;
IE (act, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
Incidental to suffering humanity, even when all
ether treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Uandid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
ha cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where) medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that you get
entitling but the genuine article. A Fact. —This
lathe only Institution of its kind in the World
where'all Kinds of Cures are Effected .with little
M no medicine.
jPlease Copy the Address —
DR. ST. VINCENT,
Iff Liverpool Street (faoinglHyde Park),Sydney.
Usssnui ftok
Victory Oiwtwent^
WK TREE OF LIFE
pgrt rf TRACT/' 1 " 7
Business Announcements.
SKATE ROUESB.
fTVURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best in the Amerl-
can market, at the following low prices:—
13 in. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lota .. $l5 per lot
2 to. „ „ 10,000 „ .. $l7 „
13 in. „ „ 50,000 „ .. $l2 „
2 in, „ „ 50,000 „ .. $l4 „
Through rate to Australia about $1 50c. per 1000 rollers.
Address—
joror t. iiONci,
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
IV
&
$0
NMHIFACTUftCRS M
* IMPORTERS Of”
HATS CAPS I
*436 CEORCE 8?
SYDNEY %
dfaeastfc iuuaetUrs
438 GEORGE STREET. 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
ISOpOOfliTo Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, M Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For Its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
gold. Send your lull address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Stdnit Butumn,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence pet
quarter, or One Found per annum.
This Bulletin will be on sa<e every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners In
the street.
OjNTCASR£|%o
MANUFACTURINGMATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNty
1 t'POHTERS OF AIITHC
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
ORIGINAL
T
Baking
%
s\\s
WAUGH’S
ONLY
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O B
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
uin^
P*/one?
&
;?< Hji
IStHEBEST INLTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUG H’S
RECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZEMEOAL
Manufactured byJamesChannoN
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Grocers and Store Keepers
Medical. l *SW
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
&
\p
&
PATENT
PILLS.
a
Sr
3
3S
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Herron*
Disorder* such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costireness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
Hfeyg Sanctions, Ac. Th* fir at doM will give relief
la Sweaty minute*. x
Bvery eufferer is eemeetly mvited to try one
ifffir of these Pill* end they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
female* of all age* theae Pill* are invafttable,
as a few doaes of them carry off all humour•» and
hspWp about all that i* required. No female ahould
bo without them. There i* no Medicine to be found
eflvi&il to Baecham’a Piil* for removing any" obitruc-
■ "--a. If taken accor-
or irregularity of the ayatem.
siay to the directions given with each box, they
wflThod restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. Thia has been proved, by thousands
wlho have tried them, and found the benefit* which
ara ensured by their use.
Tor a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorder* of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
fo*r doses will be found to work wonders on the most
Important organs in the human machine. They
«tawft«ri the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, arouse into action with the rosebud
of Malta the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
- ” ' M —*-■— — J of t v -
UMHVi AUOBO Maw a avsa ■vu.u.ww j «
member! of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated i*,
BKXOHAM’S PILLS have the Largo* Sal* of any
Taten* Medicine »» the World.
Boeoham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Branchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the "beat ever offered to the public and will
ever offered to the public and
speefilly remove that sense of oppression and (mu-
salty ef breathing, which nightly deprive the
T-t nn.mn iriva. TnCWnWiITS
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Be tail, b j
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helena, Lan-
‘ e, Ingland, in boxes Is. ltd. and 2s. ML each,
by all Druggists and Patent Medieiaa
■ everywhere.
M3.—Full directions are given with sack box.
The bamc of new Zealand,
Sydney Bbanches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal citlet
throughout the United States of America and
i, and can offerspecial faculties for
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial ---
Travellers’ Letters of Credit, 1—. v
olle
Drafts issued and Bills collected on moet favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
s
CIKNOE CONQUERS DISBASB
g~ The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
awarding to the Laws of Nature and
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No ICobb MERCURY ob othkb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Ur. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
tldney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
he Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
egally qualified practitioner advertising In Australia whs
tolds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, hM
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute*”
IS, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
or the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Net-
rona Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
lead, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
ir Business, Liver, Heart. Lung and Kidney Afleo-
ions. Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid coa-
litions of the system. It matters not what your
ironbles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get nil
lonest opinion of your complaint. If it Is curable, he
*lll tell you so i If not, he will tell you also, for he will
iot undertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
rare. - it will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
rears ’ ’ that the Dr. understands your case.
ABSOLUTE,
lofierera can be treated equally well at a distant®.
M. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not claim
la perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I fiaitn only to be a skilled and successful Physlolaa
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
ioimsivs VESICAL IXBTITSTE,
68, Fmndbbb Stbbbt W„ Muboubnb.
Jlo tonnection with any otter NTed€<totf XnafiCCtoCa €«
Australia Box S6B, ft.P.O.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
[Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
ruts') QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
BOLB PURVEYORS Co Che
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLBSALB AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.,
Onuurelal Chambers, Bond-Street. Sydney
Robert butcher «e co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE STRBBT
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES,
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
nw INFANTS hid INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into ths
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
T.nWDON. ENGLAND.
fi. STEPHENSON
BAB OB BALD-
WINS CASKS, BRKWBRS’ CASKS, VATS,
BUM, BHBRRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
fimnas VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUOKBTB, fcO.
OOOPBRAGB,
■Bl KENT STRBBT, and 174 SUSSBZ STRBBT
Between King and Market Street!, mi a-4
AnH(M
đ
*r»«» .osst*cKise WUiiieni. nron «r«»
Hmya'i itearDl KUmlr did thu,
mSuHII ioU o « s«k«r bald
A«a or Ooiv /am Ponte
heavy Mouetaeht in from 9 to
4 tceeke and mnr fade. 90,000
toorda, having
in qff*ft. Pa o
tovtr.frtefran
Boa no, 07.
town# mm aCreodK
■ml I<o 3 pW«. Afo injmy s ratily applied, wrHNQ
■/id!
UU, 10. 3d. each, Bfor St. 6c!., poet paid. m!
> bbumxUion & tSertm, Pmk BoaglMs Beit .dfmfe
0.. Bnamm. K.B.W.
W ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Mak«f s
296 <t PITT STREET.
MARQUEES ON HIRE.
MBRCLLAS
RECOVERED.
ST POT BCO]
•M
Hateyoar Umbrella _
oorerod. and
ParasOls re-Uned and □
toifeer.a*.
J. SULLIVAI
Ml George Street
Brickfield Hill. fieM
liverpeol end- Brihufi
Parasols made to og'
tomes. Repairs neatly
J'FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAI
m - AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Piotdbb and Modmmkb
• SIOBB, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), Is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest la the Colonies. Photos., ®s,^*7.“V^ s '
&0., carefully stretched and mounted. Be-gildlng
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Flush
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
IFE PRESERVATION
Dl. J. D. LLEWELLYN.
Specialist,
It Lonbdaib Btbii® Babb, Miiboobib
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses. In-
discretions and other enervating Influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advlca
on health, and replete with valuable and tanglbls
Information that la of Incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con*
fidentlal Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid 01
quacks.
Price per mall Bs. Bd. (any colonial stoops!.
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
BT


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON HAD!
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
»« ST., SYDNEY (Near TatterMil’ft.)
-I: y
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ABE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
LONDON FASHIONS Tfff
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
kvvr.\
~^S9
MASON BROTHERS,
• 3k®»' • (limitbd,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL H&RDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and OO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. B, liABKDff,
IMPOSTER 09
*r WIND’S, S£>I»XTS, BBBBS Sc C., &,C, -»
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
J Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise's
(old Cork) Whiskies. Ilennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The. Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. tar All Brands of Colonial Wines,
ihe leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesa e and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Oeorge Street, Sydney.
Or SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
-I:}--
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT ROOM aid LATATORI,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
\ ; >.
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prmce of Wales’ Hotel).
ROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Slack Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
18, CATTLE S ML
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Seam.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, iSN.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FBSSS
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGB |
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAIN*,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS,
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
WhOLESALB!
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag Co., S. HoAmb*
and Co., J. Brash, Son and 00., W. H. Biapsw
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Brea.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Vowm,
Eagle Street, Bbisbanb ; E. Fietehw, Janr«
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Jt. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, MtWRI
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Batik,
Sold by all Ohemists, Saddlers and StorekaspM.
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMSm
There is not a country in the oiivlieed world wtewt
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have Ewsbwas
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the OTJSfteesjr
ailments of humanity their benefioient action is at awe*
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for thsfe ms
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Sfeaß»
faotured only at 78 Nsw Oifoed-st., Loudon. JCT Fas-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes awd Pats.
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street; London, tbay MN
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
BURG PIA
AT THS
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IK
"V 1 O T O
MELBOURNE
Richmond
WINDSOB
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
BOHUOA ...
BEEOH W ORTH .
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL.
BALE
MARYBOROUGH.
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Ooffee Palace, Bonrke street.
69 Swans ton Street, opposite Town HalL
... ... Swan Street.
». ... Chapel Street.
m. .« Sturt Street,
w ... Pall Mall, next Ljroenm Stores.
h. m 66 Moorabool Street.
m. m Main Street, next Aaeoblmann'e.
«. m High Street.
m. m. damp Street.
m. n. Gray Street.
m. ». Fairy Street.
•m ». Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE WOLSELEY SHEEP SHEARING MACfIIM
PABTOBALIBTS are notified that, to avoid disappointmessl.
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTSI
T- H. 0-EXD2DX.S cS Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BFNTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine ffnyHuft
made Article , and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS nr TOWN and COUNTRY,
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, AB L & CO., B 3 YORK STREET, Sydney.
-■ 'I ,
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Hbbb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cubb fob Nbbvous Dbbimtx ABB
Diskabks. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
167 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALK
i
srzH
de
f s*
W^:*T Ss
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
r Have obtained OOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
it).
Tho American Waltham. Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the vepr best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
S 2: JSSZ C„^“ V ’ Bregtiet Springs, the p,te„t J ea m , heir's SSXSSS
anxr W fi LTH if M w A Tp, HKS ?£? obstructed upon the Interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected In
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass. U.S. A,.
of vaT.e S j/f an ' U G ° ld and Silver Caae8 ’ either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
’ Waltham Chronographs infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
VALTHAM Lacks Watches. I he “ No. 1 Mze” just Introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horolouloal
achievement, and is the smallest and most p rfect watch yet made. *
Waltham Railway Watches are mod upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and a 1 the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
w LIT ® E00 ? D8 Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold a< vantages, are p eferable to all ot hers. * *
Waltham Watohks ar© Sold Rot&il by all \VatchLinak©rB and tTowGllors#
CHRONOGRAPH
m
<b
88
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond htreat, SYDBEY.
