

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the
The following Report is by the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the MelbourneCentmnud Exhibition test of some non-magnetic watches of this
“WAT THAM WATCH COMPANY.— Non-Magnetic Watches.—Having obtained funtheir information ,Watch and that of PalUard’s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion of an expert
exhibit.Thave a^fone^PanTa^d^you’vrhetlKn tte’same'islhlaiilcEil immni asPetard
r h the Waltham Watch Commny, a non-magnet,o rab y roll de of .such
foAvMch they are made. The balance, and hairspring are not identical with those
kn ° WH “ : TteSltotJ have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried (me rf h fi^n^fs ' used in timing tests of dynamos.
, • rn, »At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After wear ng . . ’ i j „ This being constant for six days, the watch was again used in the
au ***. -*»* « 1 r*
£Xn 0 o o rdinary movement; but'its rate still remains gaming about 20 seconds per day. Fletcher engineer in charge of electric light result of which shows that these matches
: , -««■ -r’.
*. W- company no given a FIRST AWARD for the* NSW
non-magnetic'watch. j> C. J. ELLERY, E.R.S., Chaieman.
/ r, _ •'. The following is a List of A wal'd., gained by the Americas Waltham Watches at 1 tir.rnationai Exhibitions
miiMIA IS7S Four Prise Medals i PiE!5, 1575, 501 d Medal ; SYDKiY, ISBO, Sold Medal, with Iwe Special aad Pour Pirst Prises i MIUOIME, 1551, Two Sold Me as j
KSSL Prise Medals; PiKM BUI, UHWI, 1555, Add Medal; IBM CSHT.MIAI EXHIBITION, 1555-5, First Award, WapeticWatchee
*********, -—w.
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express. Ig —
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.—GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
TENDERS having been - lor the WiT^. or G_U«'£Xs
RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM W L ~ a purposes, WALTHAM WATCHES are used by the Government Railway Officials in New
SoSwIIS Sh Auto4uf and also upon all the Great Rail way of
AMBRI Sti» BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
r pn f COU)M AL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
. , °‘' rfd “ a SYBTEM&
Pooc.es issued under the 0»«~. 1839 and Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonns.
Federated Sqtxattera
, . . . -AND—
Farmers’ Go-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
cikctjijAE sirnDicsriEir. f
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Kates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfittbrs, Art & Mbdi.®val Metal Workers
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with ItU.ISS op WOOBESf WHEELS.
-()■
Vcritv’s Gas Fires Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices— ll,ooo Fires already in use.
TmtSrters and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron oTC sWpsSgle and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
highly nutritive
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COIQNV-
m
m
WM/A.
y d>
Ls, S
m
T Co 55
m'B
V
-.»■/
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
> —liifoM—
EC Ia- EZ-O L -A. S S I XT' 3D I -A- XT & CHIUTA
*X B Jbjj jA- S 3
Packed in 20lb. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d. ; Is. 9d. and 2s. pep lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Pott in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence Invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, November 9, 1889


o
Ml
llfl
nsr.
IHBi
"X
Sißill
'
eras
ò
OM£
«3
O
37
o
X
o
v
Port*
SIR ROGER
x>
*
o
I&
fa
VL
DIXSONS
Dr.BIOGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“ %/an’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of ( heap and Pure Tobacco;,
In spite of competition, is still, pur tx nue-ncr, the People';
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New I Something New !
Tlie £2 Package. “Can’t B Beat” (registered
Smoker’s Companion: TBl
ó
lib. Williams’, ilb. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
lib. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H h Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pool, et Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
. Jib. Long Gut, American
Delivered Free at Redtern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymarkbt, Stdnbt.
RITTENBBRG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors , Oleographs, and Mouldings.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour,
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrrrtflled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturer s —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“White Kc>se'on“Goiden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST,
•{ : y
IBreOjd, Tea Caines, Pastry, &0.,
ABE
: Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian 'Yeast Powder,
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitat es. Sold 111 TlllS at 61 the Half-PoUlli
:-•> *;
l.
'
Sn
AVC
j* <meqmm Tzmishs y tke'worcestersrrrxs
SAI/CE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pemns
have to request that Purchasers Sfe that the Label on every bolt is
bean their Signature thus—
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Aik'fiTCEX lU PJLRRiNS' Souse, end « Name on Wrapper, Lmbel, Bottle o*d
Stopper. Wholesale* and for Export bp the Proprietors, Worcester; Cross* and
Bloebdseil, London, (r“c , &e. ,* and bp Croeers and Oilmen throughput the World.
WILLIAM ™ CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
BALDWIN DRV AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
LSAXON SQUEEZERS,
& c.,
•Sec.
l£cL©an ZOros. Sz
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fcSf* Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYI.L.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists.
L. HOPKINS and FHII. MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents— Victorian : A. Benjamin, 821 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian ; Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland : J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
\ cl. 10—No. 503
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1889.
Price, 6d.
Weighting in-A sketch at Flemington Course.
"But calm as stone stands sturdy Miles
Amidst the deaf'ning din."-See Page 6.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum
Half-yearly 0 6
Quarterly ®
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
lt Correspondence" column all contributions submitted-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing u'ith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. token
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS, to distinctly undetstand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bullktix Office Twenty Shillings
sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1), 1889.
Debasing the Standard.
In all civilised communities it is felony to
tamper with the standard of current coin.
Until very recently the criminal who debased
the coinage or put into circulation spurious
moneys rendered himself liable to the
penalty of death. He was regarded as an
enemy to the State, and was dealt with ac-
cordingly. The gravity of the offence can-
not be denied. Its effects were far-reaching.
Confidence was shaken ; the ordinary barter
of every-day life was rendered uncomfort-
able and harassing. Every man, while
counterfeiting was common, was made uneasy
and suspicious. By tradesmen and other
sellers, every purchaser was regarded as a
possible embezzler, even though, perhaps,
an unconscious one. His appearance and
the appearance of the money he offered be-
came the object of disagreeable scrutiny.
Flash professional “smashers” and passers
of base money were apt to gain by the in-
sinuating address, which was part of their
qualification, civilities which were withheld
from honest folks of rugged exterior. Un-
conscious recipients of spurious currency not
merely lost what they had given in exchange
for it, but. were constantly experiencing the
aggravation of being mistaken for rogues
when they innocently sought to purchase
with it, and in too large a proportion of in-
stances had to suffer all the penalties pro-
vided for the guilty.
# * #
Such were the effects of a prevalent de-
basement of the monetary currency of a
country. The debasement of the moral
standard, though often undertaken in all
good faith and with the utmost unconscious-
ness by well-meaning men, themselves the
victims of the system which they perpetuate,
is a far more serious matter. It is time that
the full significance of this truth should be
recognised in Australia. People have pal-
tered with their consciences too long, and by
winking at the debasement of the standard
of public station have corrupted the entire
code of national morality.
# # #
What, we would invite our readers to ask
themselves, is the true ideal, in the abstract,
of a public leader? Is there any quality
which it is more than desirable that he
should possess ? Is there any one quality
which is—are there more than one which
are—absolute essentials 1 Let us reason the
subject out. Ability—is that desirable ?
Certainly. Talent ? Yes. Eloquence ?
Undoubtedly. Integrity—in public affairs ?
Beyond question ! In private transactions ?
By all means. Decent and self-denying*
conduct and life ? Decidedly. A sense of
honour? Yes. This is a long and formi-
dable catalogue, and it may be questioned
whether, reviewing all modern history, many
prominent statesmen before Gladstone could
be thought of, of whom it could be truly
affirmed that they possessed every one of
these qualifications. Review British con-
stitutional history: Walpole, himself cor-
rupt, spread rottenness throughout the whole
structure of Parliamentary government.
Chatham, professing patriotism, clutched
at a pension. His son, William Pitt, was
a drunkard and spendthrift. Charles James
Fox was a reckless gambler and owed money
to his very valets. The public, like states-
men themselves, have to avail themselves of
very questionable implements occasionally.
But, acknowledging the necessity, they are
under no obligation to cringe before their
useful tools.
* * #
If it could be conceived as possible that
in any community pre-eminent station were
accorded to a man who was notorious for his
contempt of every obligation which the com-
monest and least exacting codes of moral
conduct enjoin, it w’ould be easy to deduce
the reactive influence which would affect the
community itself. Let us suppose that a
man, eminent for his fluent and dexterous
eloquence, and predominant by his adroit-
ness, were to lay his grasp upon power and
to attain it, although notoriously devoid of
integrity, of decency of life, conversation,
and conduct ; and absolutely incapable of
appreciating in relation to many of the
affairs of life, what is termed a sense of
honour; the reaction upon the community
w r ho endured the pre-eminence of such a one
could not fail to be fraught with profound
and enduring debasement. The spectacle of
such a character elevated in place of pride,
indulged with all the deferences of the in-
terested, and honoured by the genuflec-
tions of the mean and supple, would
at first offend and ultimately deprave
the public vision. Nature gives all the
senses an original and instinctive recti-
tude. The eye judges truly, the ear affords
a faithful register, the taste warns against
noxious substances, the touch is sensitive.
False art and evil customs are adequate to
corrupt these gifts. Fashion suffices to make
that appear comely which is ugly. Associa-
tion of ideas is absolutely capable of pervert-
ing the eye. A head crowned with a touzle
of horsehair appears fraught with dignity
and wisdom to most Englishmen. A head
crowned with a structure of pasteboard and
silky fibre seems more stately than one sur-
mounted by the easy, graceful lines of the
soft felt “wideawake.” To the Highland
Scot the groan and whine of the bag-pipe
yields melody sweeter than the “Pastoral
Symphony ” executed by the finest orchestra.
The colour green excites sentiments of
reverence in a Moslem, of patriotism in an
Irishman, and of spleen in an Orangeman.
A European lover dwells with rapture on
the whiteness of his sweetheart’s teeth ; a
Japanese could summon no love for a maiden
whose teeth were white, like a beast’s. A
Russian, of the Greek Church, could feel no
veneration for a priest who had not a goodly
beard; a Roman Catholic reverences a
shaven cheek and chin as an outward symbol
of piety ; while a Methodist wouM require
some special testimony to move him to
venerate a pastor who wore any neck-cloth
but a white one, and any trousers other than
black,
* * *
Thus, by a false system of training, the
utmost incongruity can be interposed be-
tween the real and the spurious in things
moral as well as in things material. New
South Wales has suffered in both respects,
partly in consequence of deliberate imposi-
tion upon the senses of her people, and
partly in consequence of the over-weening
self-esteem of alleged teachers. We may
instance, in the material aspect, the once
famous carvings which disfigure the Pitt-
street facade of the Post-office in Sydney.
They flaunt there as the most prominent
type and example of the art of alto-relievo
in sculpture which is supplied by the public
authorities of New South Wales. The eye
and taste of every youth with nascent talent
for sculpture are perverted and degraded
every time it rests on these monstrosities.
They have made New South Wales world-
infamous throughout the universe of art.
But they have remained so long in their
place of prominence that public opinion,
which on their first disclosure, felt and
resented the outrage upon natural taste, has
now become reconciled. The sculptures no
longer hurt the feeling as they once did.
They have become endurable. Presently
they will be rather enjoyed. In time they
will become a standard—in New South Wales.
Travellers and dwellers in other communities
will appreciate the lamentable character of
the tableaux. A Sydney-born youth will
presently ask what’s wrong about them,
resentfully, if their elegance be questioned.
# * *
We would feel disposed to invite the New
South Wales Minister for Education to in-
terpose peremptorily in this matter, which
comes clearly within the scope of his func-
tions. But considering in what a lament-
able occupation we perceive him to be en-
gaged in respect to the higher the moral—
aspects of education, we judge it useless to
appeal to him with regard to the lower,
Mr. Carruthers, we apprehend, offends
against “ these little ones” far more on ac-
count of sheer ignorance than of malice
prepense. He need not yet, therefore,
hitch a millstone round his neck and take a
header from the Dunbar Gap. But unless
he pause and consider how he is abusing and
perverting his responsibilities, he would do
well to look up the cheapest house for mill-
stones.
# # #
Mr. Carruthers, Minister for Education
for New South Wales, has recently con-
sidered it consonant with a proper discharge
of his duty to impress upon young persons
in the State schools that Sir Henry
Parkes is a model for their un-
qualified imitation. That he has used
his high and noble office to 'inflict this
grievous injury upon the budding intelligence
of the children of New South Wales may by
no means impair his reputation in a
community with a kink in its moral eye. Mr.
Carruthers is a neat little man, with a
natty little mind, and a compact little gift of
fluent chatter which is oratory in much the
same degree as the P.O. carvings are art
sculpture. He has lived in one parish all
his life, and his nice little mind has not been
able to rise above feelings of awe when it
contemplates the splendour of the town clock
and the stupendous talents of Parkes. For
him New South Wales is the visible world
—he has no actual knowledge, by personal
observation, of any larger community, or of
any greater men. Never having seen the
sun, he worships the biggest light which has
dazzled his eyes, just as the puppy in the
fable, having, while in the blind stage of
existence, been entertained by stories of
elephants, on emerging to daylight turned
its stomach upwards and its legs in the air,
as a slight expression of its awe and admira-
tion of the mighty beast, on meeting a
porker. Lord Bolingbrokb once replied to
one who dwelt upon the flagrant defects in
the character of the Duke of Marlborough ;
“I know the Duke better and more
intimately than most men do, and I
know him to be so great a man that I
forget that he has faults.” It is doubtless
thus that Sir Henry Parkes appears to the
raw inexperience and narrow cognisance of
Mr. Carruthers. But he makes a doleful
mistake when he gauges other men’s feelings
and impressions by his own. To the outside
world the talents of Parkes appear by no
means so monumental as they do to the just-
opening eyes of his youthful colleague, and
the faults of the man engraved on the
memories of men, the records of Parliament
and the tribunals of the country, are de-
ciphered without any difficulty arising from
dazzlement of eyes.
The Rationale of Judicial Butchery.
THE MORAL OF LANDELLS' HANGING, FOR APPLI-
CATION TO THE LEGAL SLAUGHTER OF THE
YOUTH RILEY AT WAGGA.
Somebody says somewhere that the Radicals
have all the wit, all the wisdom, and all the
argument; and that Conservatism and Dullness
are the bastards of Ignorance and Property. In
regard to the question of Capital Punishment this
is particularly the case. All the brains worth
brokerage from Christ to De Quincey are dead
against it. Moses, notwithstanding the dictum
of Henry George, is stamped as a legislative
fraud and failure through all the ages, by his
attempt to construct a code in which crime and
punishment will be accurately balanced. An
eye for an eye and a tooth for a tootli sounds
like justice; but it isn’t—in equity no usurious
dealer in Judaic ducats could practice as an optic-
gouger, or pursue his calling of compulsory and
dynamic tooth-pulling within the precincts and
under the approval of the Court. In' Shake-
speare’s “Merchant of Venice ” a case in com-
mon law is argued as though it were a case in
equity, and a principle is admitted which, were it
applied to all eases of common law, would mean
the total abolition and ruin of all merely conven-
tional law. There are in the play constant refer-
ences to motives, to exigencies, conditions, se-
quences ; appeals to the human sentiment of mercy
and brotherhood; invocations of that eternal
justice which is not a convention of clime or of
cycle, and which exists in its elementary germs even
in the rudest creature that ever drew the human
breath of life. Apply Portia’s reasoning, within
the limits of the case, to cases involving no greater
issues—viz., the life or liberty of a fellow-creature
and the branding with reflected infamy of his wife,
innocent and heroic though she be—and not one of
the hideous judicial botches which have been
recently incubated into blood and barbarity both
in New South Wales and in Victoria could be
justified in the light of the Shakespearian text.
# * *
Personally, we feel keenly on this matter; per-
sonally, we feel ashamed of participating in the
citizenship of any Au-.tralian metropolis where
such an insult to the race can be accomplished as
the hanging of the miserable Landeli.s. The
irrational, unthinking man will say “that murder
in itself is an insult to the race.” Must we, then,
as a people, compete in degradation with the mur-
derer ? But this is altogether wrong ! A murder
is not an insult to humanity ; it is an injury
inflicted by one individual upon another. It is
not an act which receives the sanction of the race—
as does an execution —in any sense whatsoever.
Of course, it would be vain to hope that, although
Capital Punishment may eventually be abolished,
the entire community will see the good and right-
ness of its abolition. This would be hoping too
much ! There will, perhaps, always be in this
semi-enlightened world a good per-centage of fools,
crass dullards, cowards, brutes and ghouls to whom
an execution is too much an essential joy of their
existence to be lost to them without murmunus
indignation and tigerish discontent.
* * #
The theory of Capital Punishment rests upon
one of two other theories : the theory of barbarous
requital, “an eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth;” or upon the theory, the lie and the con-
vention of ages, of Private Property in Land. In
all Christian countries the first theory is anni
hilated by the faith beneath whose regis the law is
publicly administered ; although this is entirely
lost sight of by the individual Christians who
make up a Christian state in their efforts to
justify retaliation in kind upon those whose
punishment essentially‘implies their degradation.
It is, in fact, an effort on the part of the race to
exceed the crime of the individual. This is, we
think, the strongest argument against Capital
Punishment. How is it possible to raise the moral
tone of a people—how is it possible to teach a race
the lesson of the sacredness of human life by
taking it in the name of Right and Justice ? The
murder in itself, the initial shedding of blood, is
admittedly wrong. It is, however, paralleled in
the retaliatory shedding of blood as an act of re-
venge. The murder is committed outside the pale
of the law ; the execution is consummated within
the pale of the law : hence every execution is a sin
committed by society against that instinct of
human gregariousness and continuative solidarity
which makes society itself endurable and its
civilisation possible. Every execution is a weaken-
ing of the bonds that hold humanity together.
* * *
The arguments used by those who advocate
Capital Punishment natural!y fall into the same
category as the arguments against Socialism and
a progressive land-tax. If you say to the man
whose position in life is an assured one that
wealth is unequally distributed, he takes an argu-
ment from his ignorance and assumes that you
advocate not so much an equalisation of con-
ditions as an equal distribution between all th*
units of mankind of the world's actual money.
He says, “Supposing such a distribution to take
place, brains would tell within a week, and
those who were cleverest would in a week again
have and hold the money only seven days before
divided between all.” This is an argument which
flatters the vanity of its presenter, as supposing
him possessed of brains. If you admit, for the
sake of discussion, his position, he immediately
retracts. You say, “ Good ! Evidently your
being possessed of brains, the aggregative nucleus
of Capital, have nothing to fear. Divide then
in willingness ! Within a week your original
wealth, by your own showing, will be back in your
own coffers. ” The women who clamour for Capital
Punishment on the head of the violator of female
virtue are the virtueless demireps and the hysteri-
cal prudes ; the one has nothing to rob, the other
has nothing worth robbing. In regard to Capital
Punishment generally, the most enthusiastic advo-
cates are the potential criminals—the murderers
in posse ; and those who, by their sentimental and
innate abhorrence of murder, are never likely to
commit it; the sentiment and not the punishment
in their case being all and sufficient by way of
deterrent.
* * *
The man who is imaginative, cultured, high-
strung, and realising in the full all we mean when,
saying “a man,” we mean “the animal that
thinks ” can, only by an effort of the wildest
imagination, be viewed in the light of a possible
criminal. Consider, gentle advocates of rack and
thumbscrew,gyves, lash and gallows, that the men
who murder are the mentally diseased, the morally
depraved, the intellectually atrophied! Are any
of these, pray, likely to be deterred in the com-
mission of crime, by a mental picture of the
gallows that walks in the foot-prints of deeds of
blood and violence? All crime is ignorance—of
some sort or other. We do not mean that men
conventionally called educated cannot commit
crime ; but we do assert, and that boldly, that no
really good (in the sense of moral) and powerful
intellect ever stooped to its commission. Again,
the men conventionally called educated are very
frequently amongst the most really ignorant of
their kind ; many men conventionally called edu-
cated are men who suffer from various forms of
mental disease ; and, until education is treated as
a high and serious science and not as a mere
fashion, we dare not look, not even in the judge
who sits upon the bench, for an “ educated man”
—a man who sees straight, whose mind is not
biassed by convention, by fashion, by those idols
of the theatre Bacon so delicately analysed and
pictured.
# # *
But if Capital Punishment is wrong when it is
meted out as the reward of crime actually proven,
how much more is it wrong when it is awarded to
supposititious guilt; to guilt “not proven” but
assumed on evidence “purely circumstantial!”
Take the case of the executed man Landklls, re-
cently done to death in the name of Christ, within
the walls of Melbourne Gaol. Not one single in-
cident used to confirm his guilt, but which, viewed
by someone anxious to prove his innocence, could
have been used in his favour. And oh, the
barbarity of our Christian laws ! The very death
sentence is employed, the grisly apparition of the
gallows itself is pressed into service, to extort a
confession of guilt from the man who is about to
be swung into eternity. No assertion of inno-
cence is asked. The law here tacitly admits its
inconclusiveness. “We have no doubt about
your guilt; but we should be infinitely obliged fo
you, Mr. ‘Murderer’ —proclaimed such in
solemn court—if you would be so kind as to say
we have made no mistake in the matter ! ” The
law seeks only death —not truth. If a man lies
on the scaffold, so long as he lies on the side of the
Ermine, he is—no, not applauded ; execrated the
more, perhaps—but he is regarded with a sort of
smug satisfaction, as a satisfactory, if not com-
plaisant criminal.
# # #
But take the mode ! Her-ein lies the barbarous
cruelty of alleged civilised and Christian man.
The murder must be accomplished suddenly or
else unwittingly. The victim is done to death by
stealth or by unexpected violence ; by poison ad-
ministered as medicine, or, at all events, unknown
to the subject as poison ; or else he or she is killed
with a hasty blow, while asleep or otherwise un-
prepared. Now as to this question of requital in
kind ! It cannot exist! The trial itself is a
linked torture long drawn out. Every question
asked by the counsel is a dagger-thrust, every
comment by the judge a drop of molten agony.
The nerves are stretched to their utmost; the
system is tortured and deranged to its farthest
limit of endurance. This is a terrible experience
in itself ; worse, far worse, than a thousand actual
sudden deaths —ay, than a million of them. Then
follows the weary lethargy of daily suspense,
when mental agony becomes so persistent
that it almost atrophies the mentality neces-
sary to its conscious appreciation. The cell
is so situated that he is allowed the privi-
lege of knowing that he has to walk but a few
yards to stand on the trap-door of his grave be-
neath the gallows from which he is to dangle to-
morrow—an insult to the human race of which he
is a unit, a blasphemy against the divinity that is
in us—or it is so placed (as in the case of Reilly)
that the doomed man hears the noise of the
hammers used in erecting the scaffold on which he
is to die. Every day the clergyman attempts the ex-
tortion of a confession. On the hateful drop itself
the prisoner is coaxed and cajoled into calling him-
self a “ villain.” If he dies courageously, if he
exemplifies a heroism which, under any other
circumstances, we should worship and revere, we
call him a “hardened criminal,” a “callous and
dogged assassin.” If—doing, as 99 out of every
hundred of us, not excepting even the judge him-
self on the bench would do —he should break
down, frail humanity asserting in his nature her
universal sovereignty ; if he should sob and tremble
and turn pale with a sense of palsied fear, then we
insult his memory with the abhorrent epithet—
“ craven wretch.” On the gallows obtains the
rule of that phrase which they of old supplied to
one claiming the gift of prophecy in the country
of his nativity. On the gallows every virtue


assumes the hue of its opposite vice. The perse-
cution, however, stops not here. When the life
is gone, the law recognises not that the sin lay in
the spirit and not in the flesh and blood of the
criminal; when the life is gone, the poor dead
body, which the State paid hangman cuts down
and humps away as the butcher humps away the
corpse of a slaughtered sheep, and which, in a few
days, will be putrid and offal, is flung into an
obscure grave, “ within the precincts of the gaol.”
And all this takes place in a land governed in the
name of the merciful Nazarene.
# # *
It is not right! Nay, rather it is the foulest
wrong inflicted by Ignorance upon our common
humanity, for it is a wrong of cold calculation and
deliberate perpetration. And the people who
assist in the maintenance of this wrong are the
very people who would rejoice most at its total
abolition —but they know not how to go to work
in order to effect their object. Whenever an exe-
cution is about to take place petitions are sent
round for signature, but, unfortunately for the
sake of the principle upon which is based all argu-
ments against Capital Punishment, these petitions
are invariably grounded on the merits of the indi-
vidual case. The Premier, as the representative
of Executive law, discusses the objections brought
forward by the petitioners, and generally succeeds
in pointing out their baselessness, or else he w T aives
them aside as immaterial to the case. This nearly
always happens. What, then, is the proper
course ? This : Base the petition absolutely on an
objection to an existing law. No matter what the
merits of the individual case, let each execution
be the opportunity of a protest, gathering force
with each, against the barbarity of Capital
Punishment. This in time will be bound to
achieve its purpose, for no law can long withstand
a determined, an organised, and a scientific be-
siegement. Take a lesson, at least in this, from
the Local Optionists, in that by organisation and
marshalling of their forces a few can control the
diffused will and aspirations of the indifferent
many.
# # #
We will conclude this rather long article with an
extract from De QuiNCEY, in his note ‘ 1 On Suicide, ”
anent flogging. It is a splendid argument also
against Capital Punishment, and De Quincey is a
great intellectual man, as against the crass brutal-
ism of insentient matter. Thus De Quincey
There is no man, who in his heart would not reverence
a woman that choose to die rather than to be dishonoured;
and, if we do not say that it is her duty to do so, that is
because the moralist must condescend to the weakness
and infirmities of human nature; mean and ignoble
natures must not be taxed up to the level of noble ones.
Again, with regard to the other sex, corporal punishment
is a peculiar and sexual degradation ; and if ever the dis-
tinction of Donne can be applied safely to any case, it
will be to the case of him who chooses to die rather
than to submit to that ignominy. At present, how
ever, there is but a dim and very confined sense, even
amongst enlightened men (as we may see by the debates
of Parliament), of the injury which is done to human
nature by giving legal sanction to such brutalising acts ;
and therefore most men, in seeking to escape it, would be
merely shrinking from a personal dishonour. Corporal
punishment is usually argued with a single reference to
the case of him who suffers it; and so argued, Gon knows
that it is worthy of all abhorrence ; but the weightiest
argument against it is the foul indignity which is offered
to our common nature lodged in the person of him on
whom it is inflicted. Ills nature is our nature ; and,
supposing it possible that he were so far degraded as to be
unsusceptible of any influences but those which address
him through the brutal part of his nature, yet for the
sake of ourselves—no ! not merely for ourselves, or for
the human race now existing, but for the sake of human
nature, which transcends all existing participators of that
nature—we should remember that the evil of corporal
punishment is not to be measured by the poor transitory
criminal, whose memory and offence are soon to perish;
these, in the sum of things, are as nothing; the injury
which can be done him, and the injury which he can do,
have so momentary an existence that they may be safely
neglected; but theabidingin jury to the most august interest
which for the mind of man can have any existence—viz,,
to his own nature: to raise and dignify which, lam per-
suaded, is the first—last—and holiest command which the
conscience imposes on the philosophic moralist. On
which account, I am the more struck by the ignoble argu-
ment of those statesmen who have contended in the House
of Commons that such and such classes of men in this
nation are not accessible to any loftier influences. Sup-
posing that there were any truth in this assertion, which
is a libel not on this nation only, but on man in general—
surely it is the duty of lawgivers not to perpetuate by
their institutions the evil which they find, but to presume
and gradually to create a better spirit.
Which last sentence must of necessity find its echo
in every logical brain fed by a really human heart.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sunday Newspapers.
õ
parson tell black falsehoods under the pretence
that they constitute the Gospel of Christ ? Law-
abiding, forsooth ! If the men of Melbourne care
to agitate for their just rights, then Sunday news-
paper publishing will be sanctified by Law, and
the Wrxxon clique will have to abide it as they
would have to do in any other large city. The
law-abiding Britisher can obtain forty Sunday
newspapers if he chooses. But enough. The
instinct of self-preservation teaches us to make
this addition to our long list of protests against
the lamentable subraissiveness to Government
tyranny which seems to be the chief characteristic
of Victoria. One of these days Weixon will be
bringing in a bill to “put down” The Bulletin
in his colony because it isn’t peaceful,
+.
“The Arg-tis” and Payment of Members.
With a certain amount of leaden artfulness and
dull ingenuity the Argus makes another of its
characteristic attacks upon payment of members
by asking “has it raised the tone of our Parlia-
ments, or has it brought a better, firmer, and more
intellectual type of manhood into public life?”
Taking “tone” to mean a senseless something
which pervades the “party manners ” of Govern-
ment House sassiety, and a better type of man-
hood to mean the type which owns the most pro-
perty, the Argus enquiry may be answered with
a qualified “no.” Nor has payment of members
conduced to the establishment of a very “firm”
legislature, in the Argus acceptation of the word,
for which let Providence be thanked. The pig-
headed old Conservative peer is the “firmest”
type of manhood met with in Anglo-Saxon poli-
tical life; He holds on to his blessed principles
with a death-grip, and will stand upon his de-
caying rights until they are chopped from
under his gouty feet. As regards the intellectual
standard of any Australian Assembly payment of
members musb inevitably tend to elevate it, by
throwing open the doors of the House to men who
have searched more diligently for knowledge than
for wealth. Even the Argus would not dispute
that Charles Bradlaugh is one of the shrewdest,
deepest read, and most eloquent member of the
British Commons, yet only the other day Brad-
laugh said he had no hopes of being able to stand
again for his seat at the next election, because his
means were too limited. He has no ancestral
estate, no stock in trade, save his brains. And if
he devotes all his brain power to unpaid parlia-
mentary work he will come to beggary. If pay-
ment of members has not yet filled the Vic-
torian Assembly with such men as Bradlaugh
(who lives on less than £3OO a year, probably), or
with men approaching to him,"the fault lies with
the electors, and can by no line of argument be
charged against the system. In many instances
it is a fact that no desirable candidate offers him-
self to a constituency owing to the sinful careless-
ness or petty parochialism of the voting body.
Other constituencies choose Mr. Wrong instead
of Mr. Right because he swears more than his
opponent or can effect a better drop-kick. But
this is deplorable stupidity, and want of public
spirit prevails in spite of the system of payment
of members, and not as its result. The electors
of each borough have a sum of £3OO a year at
their disposal with which to obtain a genuine Par-
liamentary article, and though they persist in buy-
ing a bad brummagem imitation with the money,
yet the purchasing power of their squandered
gold is not reduced. They might have chosen the
jewel instead of the bit of glass All things con-
sidered, the payment system has prevented Vic-
torian politics from falling under the control of a
squattocraoy. So much of negative good it has
accomplished, and it will bring Argus sneers
notwithstanding “a more intellectual type of
manhood into public life ” when the masses have
attained to a higher development of intellect in
private.
Mr. Carruthers’ Circular.
Mb. J. H. Carruthers, on whose shoulders tem-
porarily rests the Public Education system of New
South Wales, is going too fast. He appears, like
Mercutio, to be able to say more in an hour than
a man of consistency and reason would attempt to
stand to in a month. Take, for example, his re-
cent dealings with teachers employed in his de-
partment. It is a sound general principle that
persons employed in the public service of the
country should not exhibit a spirit of partisan-
ship either in religion or politics. The State
is entitled to the best and fullest services
of L its employes and that it cannot have if
they occupy a position of antagonism to any
considerable section of the community. It is
possible, no doubt, to discuss delicate and de-
bateable questions without calling up the bitter
spirit of partisanship, but there is no means of
discovering beforehand who have this power and
who have not, and consequently a general pro-
hibitive rule is necessary. All this was well
understood, and the rule was, it was believed,
working fairly satisfactorily. Suddenly, however,
Mr. Carruthers re-states the rule and has it
issued in circular form to every employe in
his branch of the public service. The first
question that arises here is—What called for
this action ? Have teachers been breaking into
forbidden bye-paths, and have the offenders
been so numerous that the whole body must be
officially reminded of one of the conditions of their
contract ? It is bad public policy to needlessly
remind persons that they are deprived of rights or
privileges possessed by ordinary citizens. If a few
offended, these could have, and should have, been
reached by private reprimand. If substantially
the whole body have been offending, how is it the
country has heard nothing of it ? In the second
place, Mr. Carruthers lends himself to a flat
contradiction of the spirit and words of his own
circular. While forbidding teachers to take part
in political affairs, lie courts from teachers and
children combined expressions of political opinion
about himself and his Ministerial doings. At
Nowra, the other day, the public school pupils
addressed him in these words :
During your term of office the administ ration of the
Department of Public Instruction has been characterised
by tact, talent, and energy, and we feel sure that from
your efforts on behalf of education will accrue lasting
benefits for the rising generation. We sincerely trust
w*. . . that, you may be long spared to occupy your
present high office.
Nobody supposes this address to be the work of
the children. The schoolmaster is written all
over it. Yet Mr. Carruthers, in a public school
where he says there should be no politics, from
children who, he says, should not be inspired with
political sentiments, and from a schoolmaster
whom he has warned, under pain of dismissal, to
abstain from comments on political persons,
accepts an address complimenting him on his
“tact, talent, and energy,” praying for a length-
ened tenure of office for himself and, by im-
plication, for the Barker Ministry? This is
both illogical and indecent. To pray for the
continuance of Carruthers in office is to
pray for the continuance of Eroetrade, for the re-
pression of Protection, for the triumph of Parkes,
for the discomfiture of Diuua. There is no way
out of it. It means all that, and if that be not
party politics—well, what are party politics ? If
Ministers will accept addresses couched in such
language the Oarruthers circular can only be
interpreted as a prohibition against the expression
of opinions favourable to political opponents only.
Is it not an expression of party opinion to eulo-
gise Sir Henry Parkes as the Father of the Edu-
cation Act? Is not the eulogy untrue as a matter
of political history ? The two members of the
present Parliament who stood nearest to the main
principles of the Act and nursed it on the Statute
book are Mr. James Fletcher and Mr. Bibbs. Sir
Henry Parkes opposed the principles tooth and
nail while Mr. Fletcher and Mr. Bibbs worked
for them with all their might. The Rev. Zachary
Barry, who, it is claimed, is the only survivor of
the four who drew up the original manifesto .of
the Education League, candidly counsels Sir Henry
Parkes to give honor where honor is due and stop
masquerading as the friend and patron of educa-
tional principles which he resisted while backed
by a minority and only adopted when a majority in
their favour was assured. In the face of these facts
and challenges of facts, theN. S. W. Premier is found
day after day accepting from children and teachers
in all parts of the country political tributes credit-
ing him with a virtue he does not possess, and
inferentially depriving opponents of a reputation
earned by hard service. What is this on the part
of teachers but the worst form of political parti-
sanship ? While, therefore, bronze idol Parkes
honours teachers who falsify history to gratify his
vanity, and tin idol Oarruthers elicits piping-
prayers for the continuance of his political reign,
the circular ordering teachers to stand apart from
debatable politics must be taken either as an out-
come of vexatious meddlesomeness or as a direc-
tion to employes to praise only those who are now
in power.
Speaking at Waverley, Sydney, that much-
vaunted apostle of Foreign-trade, Mr. G-. H. Retd,
is reported by the daily press to have got these
lofty sentiments from off his oiled-velvet tongue;
Mr. See next said: ‘ ‘ They must have heard this humbug
about the Single-tax !”—this humbug, that was to say,
about taxing the land and the millionaires. That was the
humbug of which Mr. See’s friends had heard. It was not
humbug to tax the working man. It was the grandest
magician’s remedy to tax the houses and the commodities
of the working man ! That was a grand stroke of states-
manship, but when it came to taxing the land of the
colony which was owned by the rich, which scarcely paid
a sixpence to the Treasury, then Mr. See talked of the
humbug of the Single-tax.
Now, the solid fact is, that this same Mr.
G. H. Reid is not in favour of the Single-tax, but
is opposed to it, as is fully proved by his action
with respect to the Single-tax party at the New
South Wales Foreign-trade Conference. A mere
Land-tax is not the Single-tax. Mr. Reid has
here been guilty of an unpardonably disingenuous
attempt to shield himself and the Calico Party
behind theories which are to him and them abhor-
rent - behind theories which he could neither con-
scientiously advocate nor clearly expound. Mr.
C. H. Reid, are you a single-taxer—Yes or No?
Come, now. Are the land-auctioneer-eim-Mount-
Morgan syndicate of the Daily Telegraph single-
taxers? Not much. Mr. G. H. Reid and the
paper named speak merely to bamboozle their
audiences and carefully huddle out of sight all
that might be unpalatable, while arrogating to
themselves and party principles which, however
sound —aye, and principally because of their sound-
ness-are in no way part of, but antagonistic to,
their policy. Ax’e the Parkbs Ministry single-
taxers ? Is Mr. Bruce Smith, of the Liberty and
Property Defence League, a single-taxer ? Heaven
forbid—and he doesn’t pretend to be.
The N.S.W. Executive is not going to hang
Dickey Dickey ; it is only going to keep him in
gaol for two years. Now Dickey Dickey was
found guilty of criminal assault and sentenced to
death. It is true he was recommended to mercy
by the jury, but then the N.S.W. Executive has
carefully hanged the three last people who were
recommended to mercy by juries, and the Colonial
Secretary has in two such cases told deputations
who interceded for the criminal’s life that lie could
do nothing, because the verdict of a jury was a
“solemn” record that couldn’t be interfered with.
Why continue this Pharisaic mockery ? If the
verdict of a jury is solemn let it always stand. If
it isn’t sufficiently solemn to prevent the farce of
a man solemnly sentenced to death being let off
with a couple of years’ gaol like the fellow who
steals a coat, why, then, it is plain that the
verdict of a jury is a thing to be monkeyed with
at pleasure by Judges and Ministers, who calmly
grab from the hands of the people—the jury—
the democratic power. In New South Wales the
ultimate verdict is not that of the jury but that of
other people.
♦
It is settled that the Duke of Connaught is
to succeed Sir Frederick Roberts as Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Indian Army for two
years, and then the Duke of Cambridge as
Commander-in-Ohief of the British Army, at the
Horse Guards. It is no use Wolseley protesting,
so that probably he will retire “ huffed,” and
Roberts succeed him as Adjutant-General, while
Wolseley declines into Radicalism, for which he
has a strong penchant, despite his title; for
he greatly admires the Confederate general, Lee,
and is always wickedly cracking up Napo-
leon above Wellington, after whom Connaught
was named Arthur, as prospective Commander-
in-Chief. The Duke of Connaught has been in
action, or near it, at Tel-el-Kebir. “Dear Lord
Wolseley. Pray keep him out of danger.”
Lord Brassey says Australia is to defend India,
but they won’t take our vote as to the Commander-
in-Ohief. Otherwise we’d send ’em General Soft-
goods Sargood, or Major-General Sichardson.
There is a well-known painting of Tel-el-Kebir,
with Connaught in the thickest of the fight. A
cannon-ball is within an inch of shifting his ear.
He has been spared for greater things.
Says the Age
Is the prejudice against Murder reasonable ? We single
out the murderer for exceptional punishment, and treat
his offence as the most inhuman and unnatural in the
catalogue of crime : and yet a very little reflection upon
the evolution of the race will tell us that it lias its source
in the most universal and conservative of human instincts,
namely, the instinct of nutrition and self-preservation,
and that when a man took life he was simply obeying the
law of nature which, in the language of the elder Darwin,
condemned the Organic World to “Eat or be Eaten.”
This is, no doubt, true so far as it goes, but
civilisation has been one long struggle to get out-
side of the horrible conditions imposed by natural
law. If the instinct of nutrition and self-preserva-
tion furnishes a strong argument for the execution
of murderers, it furnishes a much stronger one for
cannibalism, and surely the Age people, crooked
as are their journalistic morals now-a-days, don’t
advocate that.
■
The London dog-mnzzling Act lias given birth to
anew craze. Says the Pall Mall
Barrett, of Piccadilly, is making silver and silver-plated
muzzles. The plated muzzles only cost a guinea. Barrett
ia constantly making gold bangles for poodles, and gold
and silver collars for terriers. The poodle wears his gold
bangle with his name engraved on it on his right fore-leg,
just below the joint. Pretty, inexpensive silver bangles
were fashioned after a lady’s. One, about an inch and
a-quarter wide, in a close chain pattern, finished off with a
little silver padlock and key, was three guineas. . . But
the dog’s collar is always more elaborate than his bracelet.
When of gold it is usually set with precious stones. One
dog carries £250 worth of diamonds round his neck.
Next month the demand for dogs’ tailor-made coats will
begin again. On chilly days during the last few months
these precious brutes have been wearing coats of silk and
velvet, the latter trimmed with gold braid. Now they
want something heavier and warmer for the cold weather.
A dog’s coat is even more trouble to make than a lade's,
and to excel in his business a dog’s tailor must be one ( f
the most patient of men. A dog always pays one visit t o
his tailor to be measured, and another to be “ tried on.”
Within a hundred yards of the patrolling ground
of these gorgeous brutes, men, women and ehildrt n
emerge from their styes to fight for fish-offal.
Dukxng the height of the London Dock strike
there was one XXX lie cabled to a confiding
colonial press, which may as well be pinned down
now, as at the time it hurt the tindher feelins of
many a bould heart. It was said that a large bod v
of labourers had been procured in Ireland by the
Dock Company, and that these men had gone to
London to take the place of the strikers at
the_ old wage. Now that the papers of the
entire strike - period have been digested i t
would appear that no such thing occurred. At
least in no paper, whatever its political hue, is
there the faintest suggestion that could give colour
to such a statement. Those who knew that many
of the men doing the “hard graft ” of organisation
among the labouring masses in London gained
their experience during the old Land League davs
in Ireland, largely discounted the cable-cram, but
few were prepared, be the powers, to think it was
such a thumping wan as it was. Even the dock
strike couldn’t pass by peaceable without another
injustice to Ireland.
The present Queensland Government is at every
pains to make it daily more evident that most of
what it possessed of worth, vigour, principle,
patriotism, and democracy left it when Thomas
MTlwkaith left it; and" it is no less careful to
show that running the colony in the interests of
Mount Morgan entails a number of curious pro-
ceedings which the average Banana-man is not
likely to be educated up to in the near future.
How strong was the strong hand of Mr.
MTlweaith is now to be seen, and how fre-
quently it had to be used may be without diffi-
culty guessed. It is also clear that, so far as
Australian Nationalism is concerned, MTlwkait t
is as a voice crying in the wilderness, for there is
not a politician of them all who has grasped his
idea of the question. Verily the dawn is not yet..
“Geo. Hatswell Bentinck,” writing from
Queensland to a Sydney paper, on the subject of
emigration to Queensland, says :
A Parliamentary emigration vote is passed for £150,000,
in the face of thousands being out of work for months!
Employers are reducing wages from 80s. to 16b. per week.
find themselves. A large butchering firm are employin ’
married men, with families, at 12s. a week, existing on
the bare boards of a small hut, both women and children
as destitute of clothing as Africans. This is a positive
fact. Most of the men are Bermans and Norwegians.
There are scarcely any recognised hours for meals or resl,
almost continuously working day and night. Clerks gel
from 10s. per week. All are treated worse than an\
slaves before the American War. In fact, their lot was a
paradise to that of these shopkeepers. Sad to sav, the
most regular customers, "to their shame," are the wives
of right hours men, at full wages.
Elixir.
A sicker man than Reuben Lees
’Twere difficult to find,
He suffered Sheol from disease
Of almost ev’ry kind.
His parents thought his end was near
Before a tooth had come,
Because of too much atmosphere
Upon his little turn.
Then faster far than we can tell
Convulsions, measles, croup
On tiddy ickle Reuben fell
In one almighty swoop.
No sooner was he cured of these,
And fit to run about,
Than, catching cold, for days he’d sneeze
Until liis teeth dropped out. .
When as a boy to school he went,
He ne’er indulged in sports :
Half-holidays with him were spent
Extracting of his warts.
No love his early manhood knew—
What gentle maid could smile
On one who had tic-doloreux
And sempiternal bile ?
’Twould be, indeed, a ceaseless toil
To tell about a fit,
A most uncomfortable boil
On whei’e man’s wont to sit,
Of ague, shingles, barber’s itch,
The cholera and stone,
Diphtheria and earache which
Poor Reuben Lees had known.
Suffice it, then, to say that he,
At fifty-three or four,
Was just as near as he could be
To Death’s unwelcome door.
Now, as the very last resource
To save her only kin,
His mother thought she’d run across
And call Crivelli in.
The doctor took the case in hand
With pardonable pride,
Injecting from a rabbit’s gland
In Reuben Lees’ inside.
Before a week passed o’er his head,
Though strange it may appear,
The patient rose from off his bed,
And went and had a beer.
Now, surely, ’twas the thing to do
On this poor sufferer’s par
In joy to take his parent to
His overflowing heart.
Alas ! ’twixt Reuben and his ma
Were no such touching scenes—
He chased her with an iron bar
And gave her bally beans.
In fact, he made the house so hot,
She died within a week,
And in a cool, sequestered spot
She lies at Haslem’s Creek.
There is a moral, by the bye,
To this here little lay —
’Tis better we should live and die
The good old-fashioned way.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow wurrs Patint Roi.i.«h Promt is the
best in the market
Deaf Forty Years.
' ' o
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J- H NICHOLSON.
175 William Street, Melbourne.
[?]
SIC Macquarie-street North, Sydney, November C, 1880.
.Mv Dear Moorabinda,—
The display of high-class millinery on Derby Day, at
Flemington, was rather more liberal than usual, except
in the vice-regal box. Lady Loch graced the festival in
apparel which was expensive rather than fetching, and
Countess Kintore cut an unimposing figure in green. It
was hard to say whether the Countess’s dress didn’t suit
the Countess, or the Countess didn’t suit her dress, but
anyhow, the tout ensemble was not what the eye delights
to rest upon. One other lady only belonged to the “ Court ’«
party—viz., Miss Hamilton—and she sported a very un-
pretentious black gown, with a bilious shade of pink
front. On the lawn and in the luncheon-paddock, how-
ever, there were many bright and airy visions to be seen
at odd times. Greens, of the early-apple tint, dominated
perhaps over very pale blues, but white dresses, pure and
simple, were considerably in evidence. In many
cases the “ improver” had gone forever, while the hats
didn t run on any well-defined lines, being of varied sizes,
shapes and degrees of merit.
Either the distinguished committee of the N.S.W. Jubilee
tV omen’s Fund are very particular as to what awful depth
of poverty applicants must reach before they become
eligible for relief, or else there are a great many people
beside the Beautiful Harbour who try to impose upon the
goloshed philanthropist as she rises in the East. At the
recent monthly meeting it transpired that during the
quarter 14 out of 131 applicants were rejected as having
the brand of comparative affluence on their brow; three
gave fictitious addresses which condemned them instantly,
of course ; and eleven were regarded with strong suspicion
and remanded—that isn’t quite the word, but it must do—
for further investigation by the sharpest-eyed woman on
the Board.
Another instance of tardy justice done to our sex at
the eleventh hour. Somebody interviewed a corn-doctor,
the other day, and he said, “I have three men patrons to
one woman. It is generally believed that women are
more vain of their feet than men are of theirs, but my
experience proves just the contrary. Men will insist on
making their feet look small at whatever cost. The
toothpick -toed boots so much worn now will alwaj r s
ensure the corn-doctor a living, especially when the shoes
are patent leather, which, for some reason or other, raises
corns quicker than an ordinary shoe.” How’s that, um-
pire ! But Sappho forgives the bifurcated person his
little pedal vanity. Put any woman into plain, relentless
inexpressibles with her feet hanging out at the ends ex-
posed from heel to toe in all their awful majesty, and if
she doesn’t jam four into two there’s no true womanliness
about her.
1 wonder if men guess, when they see a girl wearing a
sailor-hat the size of an ice-plate perched at a dizzy
altitude, what a trouble it is to mount it so high? Very
few girls know the trick of giving a hat the right perch—
which is to loosen the lining from the crown and draw it
I ight across so that the hat merely rests and doesn’t fit
on ; at present the majority cover their heads with heavy,
heating pads, and achieve a stylish appearance at the cost
of a raging headache. And some of the “pads” in use
are very, very unorthodox. The pin-cushion is a recog-
nised medium, of course, as also are a pair of folded hose,
hut on the “ Block ” the other morning a girl went sailing
along with a strip of bright flannelette hanging over her
left ear from under her elevated hat, which grew more
and more lob-sided as the flannelette padding paid out.
In a recent S.M. Herald “ Ardea” devoted a column or
two to a jeremiad on the subject of "Clothes,” wherein
appeared all the usual jargon of the dress-reform crank:
And what leisure for art and culture might wives and
maidens enjoy were it not for those inevitable winter cos-
tumes and summer cottons which must be made up in the
newest fashion,” &c. This sort of tabby talk makes your
Sappho very tired. It’s all very well to preach the doc-
trine of cotton gown, but in everyday life bad dressing is
bad policy—especially if a woman has to earn her living
at “ ladylike ” pursuits. For a local instance—somebody
lately urged a well-known man to exert himself in favour
of a most deserving woman, and he said, “No, I can’t
bother over her affairs. She came to see me the other
day in soiled ragged gloves and her head bundled up in a
rusty black veil. How could I successfully recommend a
woman who dressed like that ?”
The second Sydney University concert on 30th inst. did
not come up to the initial effort some months ago. The
singers got lost at times, and the tenors, hopelessly at sea
themselves, glared scorchingly at their fellow-warblers
when the melody became tangled. The proceedings were
listened to by a large, pince-nez crowd in full evening un-
dress, and the senatorial decree that students should wear
gown and mortar-board gave an air of intelligence to the
front seats. During a pause Sir William Manning made
a little speech congratulating the society on “ the high
standard of music attained.” No one smiled, but, remem-
bering the very last chords we had listened to, some of
the folks looked rather dazed. By-the-bye, the “ Balcony
Scene ” by Haydn was billed as the “ Ball-room scene by
Wurst,” which is a cruel mistake calculated to bring con-
fusion on any painstaking horse-reporter put on to “do”
the show.
Poor Mr. Santley ! Also poor Herr Soherek and Signor
Hazon, who have to whistle for their emoluments, I hear.
Bappho is especially sorry for Herr Scherek, who gave up
his Melbourne classes to support Santley on tour, and
now he has neither cheque nor pupils, and the financial
outlook is gloomy. Somebody suggests getting up a sub-
scription to re imburse Mr. Santley. I think if this is
done there ought to be a clause inserted in favour of the
other musicians, who suffer equally through the alleged
dishonesty of the agent
Speaking of male fads, have you seen the dear little
pins that are sold for fixing refractory evening ties in
position ? They are in gold, with tiny pearl or ruby
heads, and look ever so much better than the common
brass pin which men have so often adopted in despair
when they found their tie coquetting with their left ear.
And apropos of scarf-pins, the fashion of wearing them on
the side has already appeared on the Block, and though
some may call this dudishness, it is really more useful
than in the old position, for, on the side, it serves to hold
the billowing scarf in place.
I went to see Snazelle, at Sydney School of Arts, the
other night, and found myself surrounded with nicely-
dressed people. All the items on the card were good,
especially Snazelle’s own compositions “ Bill Adams ” and
“ The Whistler,” but some of the music reminded me of
the man who played “Rise up Johnny Riley” to the
raising of Lazarus. For instance, when “ Una and the
Lion ” —the lion having the best of it in the matter of
drapery, by a long way—shimmered on the sheet, the
piano gently tinkled; “ Believe me, if all these endearing
young charms which I gazed on so fondly before’’—which
showed the defunct Thomas Moore up in rather a Pick-
wickian light, don't you think ?
So the Sydney Beauty Show has fallen through, osten-
sibly because the lady competitors had withdrawn owing
to the newspaper comments; I should say, however, that
paucity of exhibitable material was mainly responsible for
the collapse. Meanwhile, the Melbourne Show progresses
and Sappho hears that no fewer than 100 medicoes rushed
Dampier to offer their services as appraisers of local
loveliness. It is also reported that one zEsoulapius, with
Ihe air of a frost-bitten Don Juan was selected as a judge,
to his expressed joy, but a few days after the committee
received a letter to the effect that “ owing to professional
engagements ”he was compelled to resign, &c. And then
they understood how very much married he was.
A Brisbane friend writes me this:—“l saw Mr. Kinnaird
Rose, of the Courier, in Queen-street, the other day,
looking very ill—a shorn and shocking spectacle ;it was a
dastardly trick they served him. Worn out with literary
work and watching the progress of the Stonewall he ac-
cepted the invitation of some members to take refresh-
ment with them; and afterwards he fell asleep (as any
man might well do whose mind had been on strain for so
many hours) on a lounge in the balcony of the House.
Whereupon an alleged honourable member stealthily
attacked him with a pair of scissors, and horribly muti-
lated his once noble beard, a beard innocent of shears or
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 BRIDCE-ST. SYDNEY.
MR. NELSON P. WHITELOOKE.
razor until that unhappy moment. When Sir S. W.
Griffith referred to this utterly inexcusable and un-
paralleled offence in the House, some of the leaders of the
Ministerial party, nay, even the Ministry itself, attempted
to vindicate the act by asserting that the stranger (a
well-known and most honourable gentleman) was, at
the time, where he had no right to be, that he was
a spy in the enemy’s camp, and in some places would have
been tarred and feathered; further that he was drunk—an
allegation that was completely controverted by numbers
of the most respected members of the House.” As has
been remarked, the creature who is capable of deliberately
mutilating a sleeping man’s beard would also be capable
of cutting a sleeping man’s throat if it suited him to do
so. I shall be deeply sorry if Mr. Rose be unable to exact
satisfaction from the author of this inexpressibly mean
and cowardly outrage. And what can be thought of the
members who seek to palliate so unutterably flagrant a
breach of the laws of hospitality and manhood ?
At “Our Boys,” the other evening, I sat beside a he-
diamonded dowager, who enjoyed many a superior laugh
at Anson’s vulgarities as the ex-buttemian, and occasion-
ally repeated his faux pas with a comical assumption of
horror. And when he alluded to “Pall Mall” as
“Pell Mell,” that dowager nearly took a fit. “Did you
hear that, my dear ? Fancy, Pell Mell !” and the row of
bare-armed women cackled gleefully and w'aited for
another Malapropism.* Moral; When you are retired ham
yourself, and yet like to snigger at had English, take the
governess along to say when.
The Santley complimentary concert is fixed for 13th
inst. at Darlinghurst Hall. Lord and Lady Carrington
will attend and so it is possible will the Kin tores, who are
expected ns guests at Sydney Government House after
the Cup. Lady Cavington intends to be present at the
Orpheus Society’s Ladies’ concert at Sydney Y.M.C.A. on
20th inst.
Advt. from the S.M.H.: -
ANOAROO, lady's pet, follow anywhere, no room.
Holt, Old South Ilead-rd., Bondi, nr. Tea Card.
Kangaroos may yet take the place of dogs on the Block I
Fancy I)e Jones “mashing” a girl who objected to the
process, and indignantly sooled her pet “old man” on to
him!
Quite a noticeable feature in Sydney theatres during
Cup week is the number of sassiety people who haunt the
stalls in the fond delusive hope that there’ll be n. v.d v
above to recognise them. At the second performs.. . ■, f
“The Squire” at Sydney Criterion quite a posse of
ladles presenting quits s rollicking ont-for ths night
appearance in shirts, ties, and miraculously perched sailor,
hats swarmed on the ground floor, and Lilian Secoomhe
was there, too, in a white gown and hat. Mrs. Brough’s
“ Kate Verity” is very real make-believe, and I am pleased
to see her looking so bright and chirpy again. She wears
only two gowns, grey and brown cashmere made each the
same, with about a foot of smocking below the waist, which
gives a nice fullness to the long plain skirts, and she
sporteth not a vestige of improver. Pattie Brown, with
her hair flying loose and a red handkerchief round her
neck, looks so adorable that the alleged desertion of her
by Sergeant Morris is not believed for a moment by the
smallest gallery urchin, and at the end of each“ak”a
solemn procession of high-class vegetables found their way
across the floats to Mrs. Brough.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Mr. Nelson P. Whitelocke, secretary to the
N.S.W. Licensed Victuallers’ Association, and
late editor of the Australian Mining Standard,
whose portrait appears herewith, was born at
Kensington, London, in 1861, and arrived in
Sydney, where he received his education, twelve
months later. Mr. Whitelocke is the grandson of
General Bulstrode Whitelocke, the hero of the war
which lost the Argentine Republic to Great
Britain, and can also boast of his descent from
Chancellor Whitelocke, the great lawyer who was
Cromwell’s legal adviser. The versatility of the
subject of our illustration is well known : he is
one of Sydney’s ablest draughtsmen, has some
pretensions to artistic skill, and has written many
mellifluous poems and fanciful tales.
Editor Bulletin.—Sir, — ln my modest
little speech at Tenterfield I said I thanked my
gods for the opportunity of being present there.
A printer’s error elevates a harmless far.on deparler
to the dignity of a blasphemy.—Yours, very truly,
D. Christie Murray.
The Bulletin’s Christmas number, now in the
press, will contain 32 pages and a coloured supple-
ment, and will be published at sixpence. It will
be the best value ever given for sixpence beneath
the Southern Cross, and if you don’t buy it
instantly on issue you won’t be able to buy it at all,
Some lately com-
piled American calcula-
tions, show that the
workers receive on an
average but eight per cent
of the fruits of their
labor, the rest going to
others in the shape of pro-
fits, interest, rents and
taxes.
To prevent disap-
pointment, as in former
years, agents will please
send in their orders for
the Christmas Number
of The Bulletin at the
earliest possible moment.
The ‘ ‘ History of
Botany Bay,” price, Is.,
profusely illustrated, pro-
vides excellent reading
for those who are travel-
ling long distances by
rail or steamer.
Had Singapore im-
bibed Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, instead of Mel-
bourne water, he would
have thrown off the sleepi-
ness that left him no-
where when it came to
racing.
During the stonewall
instituted by Queensland
Opposition to defeat the
Government proposal for
£1,000,000 to be expended
in railways unspecified,
the Government, after
repeated invitations, were
at length goaded into
nroducing a list of
railways which they
pledged themselves
to construct with the
money when they got it.
The works included in this list would require, at a
moderate estimate, eight to ten millions to com-
plete, but a consummate artfulness was displayed
in its compilation. Already two electorates have
been seduced by the alluring hopes fostered by
implication and have gorged the hook so ingeniously
proffered, Enoggera and Rosewood, returning
ultra-Oppositionists, have deputationised their
representatives, requesting that on this occa-
sion they should vote with the Government. Why?
Because, in the impossible list submitted were in-
cluded railways through' their electorates, and
these might be the ones constructed if the mem-
bers voted right. With these astute electors, as
with the N. S. W. South-Coast constituencies, any
wind is a fair one if it’s going their way ; though
hitherto loyal strongholds of the Liberal Party,
they saw no wrong in abandoning their principles
and emasculating their representatives if by so
doing they could stick another peg into a railway
to their own back-doors. To the everlasting credit
of the members concerned they declined to abjure
their political faith and desert their party at the criti-
cal moment at the bidding of these artless patriots.
There must be some powerful element of
demoralisation connected with the running of a
daily newspaper. The Telegraph, erstwhile the
mouth-piece of the Queensland Liberal campandthe
avowedly bitterest enemy of tire Whisky party, is
now pleased to devote all its energies to propping
up the falling cause of the whiskiest end of the
Whisky party; while its late deity, Griffith, has
been contumeliously consigned to the bottomless
pit of obloquy and scorn —the wily chief appeas-
ing his managerial conscience (if any) by concen-
trating his fractious invective against MTlwraith.
The Courier, with its self-assumed air of infal-
lible wisdom, now fails to find words sufficiently
strong to express its copious contempt for More-
head, Macrossan and Co, (of the party it
lately boasted of having put into power), and
seeks to create a popular feeling in favour of coali-
tion between MTlwraith and Griffith, a possibility
indignantly scouted by the Telegraph. Brent-
nail just now gets political tips, items of nows,
&c., in advance of the morning light, and Buza-
cqtt writhes thereat—bub as it is beneath the
dignity of the creator and leader of public opinion
to recognise the existence of so disreputable a fish -
wrap as the Telegraph, all the mud which issues
from the Courier office is fired by the Observer.
THE REFEREE.
. Next time the A. J.O. or Y.R.C. are “send-
mg up ’an alleged “doubtful” owner or jockey
the running of the Hon. J. White’s horses at some
of the past meetings might well be looked up if
only to show how hard it is to judge between a
eronk piece of business and the unfortunate re-
sult of a chapter of accidents. Take Saturday’s
JJerby for a start. Mr. White sends two horses to
the post—Dreadnought, at 2 to 1 on, and Rudolph
at lo to 1 in the betting, which long odds about
the latter are not supposed to be sufficient to stop
him from winning if he has sufficient pace. Rp.
dolph goes to cut the running out and is first in
command in the straight. Dreadnought soon
passes him into pride of place, but when Richelieu
the only horse in the race that the White stable
has to fear, comes sailing up full of run-
nmg, he has not such good luck in getting-
by, as Rudolph at that moment takes it into
his head to swerve and run Richelieu out for
some 50 yards before the latter can get clear and
go in pursuit of Dreadnought, who, notwithstand-
ing the wonderful kindness shown him by his in-
telligent stable companion, only wins after a
heavy belabouring with the whalebone. Ninety-
one out of every hundred racing men on Fleming-
ton think that Rudolph, with Hales and the odds
on, could have won the Y.R.O. Derby of ’B9, and
the writer thinks that if horses and jockeys had
hailed from stables under surveillance there would
(perhaps quite unjustifiably) have been a row of
some sort, if only a hooting from the people who
thought Rudolph a better cut of a Derby horse
than Dreadnought, and had backed him accord-
Mr. White’s stable is deservedly the
Caesar’s wife ” of the Australian racing public.
* *
Jockeys, rather than horses, are worth
backing in the Maribyrnong Plate. Hales, O’Brien
and Power, the only men who can claim a strong
following among the general public, have each
ridden a winner during the last five years, and on
Saturday that accomplished trio filled the three
places.
# # #
The conflict of opinion as to the way in
which Dreadnought won his Derby was charac-
teristic of the Turf’s “ glorious ” uncertainty.
Some maintained that Mr. White’s colt won
“cleverly’’—whatever that may mean. Others
swore that Hales merely played with Richelieu,
and waited for the all-important moment to shoot
past the black horse. A large army of critics con-
sidered that both animals were beaten, and Dread-
nought’s superior condition brought him home.
From The Bulletin’s point of view, the winner
was just galloping his fastest for the last 250 yards.
He could not go any faster than his stable com-
panion, Rudolph, after the latter had once dropped
behind, while Richelieu gradually fell away from
Dreadnought and was coming back to the gelding
as they passed the post.
* * #
Writing while the Melbourne Cup has yet
to be decided, it is only natural to ask what can
be this strange disease which has crept o’er
Singapore, also how comes it that the horse’s
running on Saturday was out of keeping with
everything save the mysterious whisper of the
betting-ring. Singapore, stripped for the Hotham
Handicap, was certainly the grandest-looking
three-year-old ever seen at Flemington so early in
the season; big, symmetrical, and even more
muscular than was the sire, Martini-Henry, on the
Derby Day of 1883. The one unaccountable
feature about the colt was his drowsiness, which
he seemed to shake off fora minute now and then,
only to relapse again into the old apathetic con-
dition. In the preliminary, for instance, Singa-
pore went freely and at the post he appeared lost in
deepest meditation. And since the betting opened
he had been slowly receding in the market from 6 to
4 to 7 to 2, all the “books” being ready to lay,
and some always wanting to lay a point longer
than their nearest neighbours. In the race Singa-
pore ran well for five seconds here and there-
finished like a wearied carthorse—returned to the
paddock slightly pricked by the spurs, but quite
undistressed. Huxley’s remark to one of the
stable boys that “he couldn’t get the horse to do
anything” was superfluousunder the circumstances,
for all the world had seen as much for themselves.
But why the touts and their Hebrew employers
were so unanimous in assuming beforehand
that Singapore—magnificent, muscular, and in
the undoubted opinion of his owner, as well
as horse could be—was not going to do anything is
somewhat curious. Five weeks previously Singa-
pore had won the A.J.C. Derby like a racehorse,
and followed up the victory (a week later) by
demonstrating his ability to give lumps of weight
away to the field in a nine-furlong flutter. Then
he had run with “extraordinary gameness,”
making a “phenomenal finish,” &c. Why wasn’t
he going to do the same on Saturday, and why
had the “books” been treating this handsome,
well-trained, first-class performer like a “ dead
’un” for many days before? Pay ten and Mr.
White have both sung the praises of Singapore,
calling him “another Martini-Henry.” The
horse looks to be in fine condition, as all his
stable companions most certainly are. One would
imagine that Payten had been reading The
Bulletin’s “ Loafer’s Last Tip ” to him, and that
its personal application had disagreed with the
A.J.C. Derby winner.
* # *
Evidently the unprofessional racing public
didn’t lay odds on Dreadnought, for the cheering
when Hales returned to scale was very moderate,
and the investiture of the Blue Riband by Lady
Loch excited only a genteel burst of enthusiasm.
All the talk in the dailies about a great “ popular
demonstration ”is moonshine. There was far
more applause when Abercorn got home from
Melos and Carbine in the Flemington Stakes.
* * *
Commissioner Speight’s new and special
arrangements for conveying the multitude to
Flemington on Derby Day resulted in a hideous
muddle. Train loads of candidates for the Stand
were landed on the wrong platform and had to
reach their destination by way of the Hill, after a
weary ascent and a slippery descent, which wasted
about fifteen minutes. At a rough guess the
Stand and Hill attendance was less by five thou-
sand people than last year, although the Flat,
perhaps, was never so thronged before. Which
seems to indicate that the proportion of “lower
orders ” in Melbourne grows apace.


“Thu lending Packet Tea in New South Wales
»h the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market.”
PACKED ONf/f BT
James Inglls A Co.,
4 A 6 Dean's Place, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’h Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the beat investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
% Bathurst street, Sydney.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. IVI. MACLARDY
lifts just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, Sec., Sec,,
HIMTABIiR KOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Siiortkst
Notick ami at Modkratk Hacks. {W' A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note I’apkkr and
Knvbroken just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Nonr Wynynrd Street).
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Grasshopper.”
Her Majesty's “ Flying Scud.”
Criterion “Diplomacy.”
Gaiety Prestidigitator Perron,
School of Arts Snazelle.
Cyclorama Battle of Gettysburg.
Darlinghurst Hall Orchestral Concerts.
Palace Museum Reality and Illusion.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Opera House “ Antony and Cleopatra.”
Princess’ “Little Lord Eauntleroy.”
Theatre Royal “ The Shaughraun.”
Alexandra .... “Sultan of Mocha.”
St. George’s Hall Oogill Bros, and Coy.
Victoria Hall Novelty Company
Exhibition Building The Congress of Wonders.
“The Squire” of Pinero, whether sug-
gested or not by Hardy’s “Far from the Madding
Crowd ” is a work of genius, pregnant with great
possibilities for its delineators. The story is told
in action and dialogue without that explanatory
reference to events that have previously occurred
which is so wearying to English-speaking audiences,
and much that is not directly told is delicately yet
incisively suggested. Throughout there is but one
touch too much, one note that jars, one broad
utterance that treads coarsely on the heels of re-
fined and tender implication. The reference is to
the words—“ Here’s baby’s health,” placed in the
mouth of Eric Thorndyke on the exit of Kate
Verity towards the close of the first act. Hitherto,
Mrs. Brough, rapturously welcomed back by a
crowded house, has shown nothing in the way of
emotional display to equal that of her Squire
Kate. In Barbara we had a suggestion of the
budding power now fully evinced, not only by the
pathos of suitable gesture and “ tears in the
voice,” but by facial expression so true to the life
that the self-oblivious actress was forgotten by all
in the sorrows of the innocent, trusting, deceived
and forgiving woman. Cecil Ward, as Lieutenant
Thorndyke, worthily sustains the divided burden
of several weighty situations, but his enunciation
as usual is here and there marred by the great
stress laid on initial syllables. In Parson Dormer
G. W. Anson has a character widely different
from those in which he usually revels, and his
capable performance is on that account all the
more enjoyable. Dion Boucicault’s Gnnnion,
wonderfully “ made-up ” and a most original con-
ception, is perhaps a somewhat overdrawn carica-
ture of the worn-out, partially palsied farm-hind.
The voice was occasionally reminiscent of another
menial, Waiter Andrews : the attitudes and
gestures never suggested “Kerry,” a servant of
higher degree, but the occupant of a similar
stage in servile senility. Christy, an impos-
sibly changeable being pourtrayed by Lucia
Harwood, was unnatural, but the burden of
partial failure does not wholly rest on the
shoulders of the actress. Pattie Browne’s
Felicity, otherwise pleasing, lacked rusticity. Mr.
Henry made a decided hit in the small part of
Robjolms, Junior, and the verisimilitude of W.
Holman’s enactment of “ the representative of the
Paglky Mercury,” especially in his speedy seizure
of thirst-quenching opportunities, can best be
guaged by the irritation of a section of the local
press at the insinuations thus levelled at the craft.
The farm courtyard, with its uneven pavement,
weather-stained, ivy-concealed, brick buildings
and warm-coloured tiled roofs is highly creditable
to Messrs. Spong and Churchward. “The Squire,”
a play brilliant enough to hold the boards for a
month, will give way this Saturday evening to
that old Sydney favorite, Sardou’s “ Diplomacy.”
** * *
“Jack in the Box,” at Sydney Royal,
continues to receive all the patronage that Mel-
bourne Cup time will admit. A mere string on
which to hang song, dance, and sensation, it is not
one whit more true to nature than the ordinary
Swain-Putnam Amnrikan atrocity ; but represent-
ing, as it does, a phase of London life in the
Italian beggars’ kitchen hitherto unexplored on
the stage, it lias a novelty that atones for many
absurdities. In representing a very different boy
to the unfortunate crossing-sweeper, Jennie Lee is
as blithe and active a lad as ever cocked his
beaver at the gallery, and with the laughter-pro-
voking Geo. Walton and the villainous (on this
occasion only) Herbert Flemming, booms the show
for all it is worth. Maggie Knight, Flora Hastings,
J. H. Clyndes, Edwin Kelly, and C. H. Sidney
continue to stagger along under a crushing weight
of bathetic situations and boshy lines. H. Diver
has a clever conception and gives a careful render-
ing of Bepj)o. This Saturday evening “The
Grasshopper,” an adaptation of “ La Cigale,” will
be produced.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s “ Held by the Enemy ”
is not more successful in drawing large houses
than other entertainments. Despite its novel
scenes, strong situations, and sinful waste of gun-
powder, it is a dreary production, and has even
fewer “ good lines ”in it than the ordinary British
melodrama. Cheerfully admitting the pre-
eminence of the American citizen in most things,
his ability to write plays pleasing to anyone out-
side of Oshkosh and Arizona lias not yet been
made apparent to The Bulletin, which patiently
waits, however, for additional evidence lie fore
starting out to exterminate all the plays
and play wrights of the mighty continent.
With the elimination of her nervousness Florence
•Stockman has somewhat tamed down, likewise
chastened that skittish exuberance that caused
the good young men on the morning papers to re-
move their eye-glasses that they might not be
shocked by a view of something—say stocking—
whose non disclosure in opera would excite their
grave rebuke. Emily Fitzroy’s rendition of her
part has not improved on her better acquaintance
with it, latterly she has been over-tragic and in-
clined to anticipate effects. Messrs. Rignold and
Jewett are still all that could be expected by an
American general from, Roman consuls ; Jrhil.
Beck wrestles vigorously—collar-and-elbow style—
with a part for which ho has no affinity, and
Stirling Whyte, as Rufus, does his best to recol-
lect that notwithstanding his name, his alias, and
the fact that his complexion is not calculated to
stand washing, he is a faithful old woolly-
headed, spur-heeled nigger. On this Saturday
evening “ Flying Scud, a horse-play of some
antiquity, will lie produced when an additional
attraction will lie provided in the appearance of two
London artistes, Madge Seymour and Frank
Ayrton, specially engaged for the lighter class of
entertainment which the management intend to
make a feature in the coming season.
Professor Perron and Miss Ada Fitzjroy,
at Sydney Gaiety, nightly compel country visitors
to scratch the grass-seed out of their heads in the
vain struggle to understand how it’s done; while
the clever young man who knows all about it and
can explain everything is represented at least once
in each row, and causes everybody in his vicinity
to regret that he wasn’t converted into an angel
before he had time to become a public nuisance.
The ever-ready sailor-man who is cunning at
knots —but covered with modesty as with a halo,
after the fashion of sailors —emits guttural sounds
of strange import when he finds that none of his
best devices in coir or hemp are of any avail to
restrain the fragile lady spirit within any given
number of fathoms of conventional practice ; and
the awe-stricken look of the owner of the silk-hat
in which omelettes are mixed and eggs are laid
has never varied by a line since the Witch of
Endor took her final benefit at the Cave of
Askelon.
# * *
The Saturday afternoon and Sunday even-
ing orchestral concerts at Darlinghurst Hall con-
tinue to ravish the ears of increasing audiences.
** * *
At Bondi Aquarium innocent sports, nightly
draughts of ozone and iced colonial wine, with
brine-laden breezes cool the fevered brow and brae
the flaccid muscles of a dust-wilted, gasping com-
munity.
** * *
The new features of the Sydney Palace
Museum during the past week have been the
engagement of Sydney’s prize baby, Emma
Davidson, and the dog-faced boy, Jo-Jo, whom
the Czar of all the Russias —see advertisements
and handbills —like Sheba’s queen of old, hastens to
offer as tribute at the feet of the mighty Solomon.
* * & &-
The great Cyclorama of Gettysburg is still
a steady boom.
-*-
A sumptuous setting up of “ Antony
and Cleopatra,” at Melbourne Opera House, ful-
filled every promise of the paragraphs and adver-
tisements which heralded Mr. Miln’s plucky
venture. Of all Shakespeare’s plays this offers the
most legitimate opportunities for the introduction
of leg and variety shows, and deals with the most
catchy incidents in classic history. The absurd
nightgown dance promiscuously lugged into
“Merchant of Venice” during an evanescent
Shakespearian season at the Royal, had no raison
d'etre. It was an insane gambol, perpetrated in
the middle of the street by a crowd of nobodies
who seemed to have tumbled out of bed under an
impression that the pantomime was going on. But
when Antony expresses his desire for “ one more
gaudy night,” it is in accordance with the fitness
of things that the historic slave, Professor Miller,
should be brought on and freed of his chains while
he wrestles with another notable Egyptian, in
Donald Dinnie, as men did wrestle 1800 years ago.
Miller, by the way, deserves a very good word for
his suitable performance in Cleopatra's Palace. In
the dumb-show line he can knock spots off two-
thirds of the perfesh.
# # *
Professor Benjamin, who stands upon a
pedestal to flourish Egyptian clubs, is another
glittering item in the gaudy night. A troupe of
piebald infants, wagging their little heads and
shaking silver bells, also a bevy of brown maidens
with cymbals, are all sufficiently suggestive of the
Nile; but the premitre danseuse wears far too
much clothes for such a rorty occasion.
* * *
Irrepressible Alfred Plumpton lias evolved
some dreamy, if not too original, music from his
gigantic brain, and Miss Ida Osborne, who
possesses the special advantage of looking Eastern-
like, sings a couple of love songs as sweetly as
maybe. Harmony is introduced likewise into the
realistic scene aboard Pompey’s galley, where a
colossal su]>er. in I Jack skin-tights lifts the
drunken carcase of Lepidus and carries off that
bulky Triumvir as though he were a trifle light as
air. Of Mr. John Hennings’ scenery nothing too
nice can be said. The interiors are noble, and the
cloths are unique representations of solid masonry,
distant landscape and lurid sky. In short,
“ Antony and Cleopatra ” is a gorgeous ceremony
from first to last, a sensuous thing to be gloated
o’er by every lover of poetry, music, feats of
strength, or mazy dance.
# * #
Milu’s Marc Antony is the same mag-
netic Roman who wiped out Brutus and Cassius a
few months back. Late hours and reckless dissi-
pation at the court of the Egyptian seductress
have streaked his hair with grey and taught him a
more luxurious method of sitting down, but be-
yond an added suggestion of his having cultivated
the art of doing nothing in hours of regal ease
there is no marked difference between Csesar’s
friend and Cleopatra’s fancy man. Mr. Mi In fills
the character in all directions, and his whole per-
formance maintains the period of the play’s story.
It is in this respect that his company come out
strong in the lump. The men are spectacularly
efficient, and they strike the proper note even
when there is nothing brilliant about their touch.
Octavius Cajsar seems to have walked out of ancient
history to take part in this show, so much so that
his family name of Dobson can only be regarded
as a freak of Fate. The trusty J. F. Cathcart
gets boozed on Pompey’s barge with excellent re-
sults, and many others can accept favourable men-
tion as read. Miss Louise Jordan is a rather more
satisfactory Cleopatra than was expected, but ex-
pectation never soared very high.
# # #
There has only beew one woman who ap-
proached the popular ideal Serpent of Old Nile
and she kept a pub. off Oheapside, London,
E.C. “ Will yon give your little Antony a glass
of stout and mild ?” we used to say to that mag-
nificent creature. Then she would turn her dark
lustrous eyes upon our very soul and request ns in
a mellifluous whisper to “ cheese it.” We gener-
ally bread and chose it. Looking around Aus-
tralia for a suitable Cleopatra one cannot see so
many ladies who would do milch better than Miss
Jordan. An easily-remedied defect in her per-
formance is its coldness. She takes hold of Marc
Antony by bis finger-tips instead of hanging right
on to him. If Mrs. Miln went so far as to kiss
her husband’s beautiful pink and white arm when
he returns from his trip to Rome, it would be in
accordance with tradition and pretty fetching,
anyhow. On Saturday night both Cleopatra and
Anthony died while the audience were rushing
for their last tram. Now and henceforth things
will be pushed along, so that the curtain may fall
at 11 o’clock sharp.
m* » *
A seven nights’ revival of “ The Points-
man,” at the Royal, is merely remarkable for noth-
mg but a falling off from the original oasfc On
Saturday night Mr. Grattan Riggs commences a
farewell engagement, that grand old landmark
having decided to transfer his expansive smile to
Europe. He opens this parting occasion with
“ The Shaughraun,” and will not finally tear him-
self away, let us hope, until he has assumed in-
numerable disguises culminating in hot clam soup.
Grattan Riggs is the only man in the world who
knows what hot clam soup is made of, and the
secret will die with him if he ever dies at all. He
is generally considei’ed to be immortal, however.
“ Little Lord Eauntleroy ” is still undermining the
morals of Melbourne’s rising generation. Hun-
dreds of ordinary, everyday boys babble of the
aristocracy in their sleep, ami awake with a con-
viction that a family lawyer is about to call round
with the news that they can have whatever they
like by putting a name to it. “ Beggar Student ”
still goes with great vigour at the Alexandra, but
its last hour is at hand. On Saturday next they
produce “The Sultan of Mocha” for the first time
in Australia.
** * *
A dozen other entertainments are having
a Carnival time. The Exhibition rakes in nimble
shillings by the sackful, and the Royal Museum
has got a strong hold on the sluggish, bucolic
imagination. The Cyclorama drives a howling
trade all day long, Wirth’s Circus is received with
hoarse shouts of joy, and the Midgets boom more
than usual at the Athenaeum. On Saturday the
Cogills re-appear at St. George’s Hall, with Slade
Murray and a Comedy Speciality Co. —whatever
that may mean. Also the newly-varnished and
improved Victoria Hall will burst forth with a
“ Vision of Beauty” (expected to be mostly legs)
under Harry Friedman’s management. Which
reminds us the Great Beauty Show promised a
week or two back, seems to have gone hopelessly
bung. Miss Menk-Meyer gives another pianoforte-
recital at the Town Hall, next Monday, and
other Firework displays are of nightly occurence.
** * *
Miss Yon Finkelstein has gone to Western
Australia. For a wonder, the Much-Travelled
has gone to a place where he has never been
before; and the gifted daughter of Zion is the
first eminent lecturer who has gone to Swan River.
The railway did not run from Albany to Perth
when Proctor, Forbes, and Sal a were scooping in
the dollars under Smythe’s management.
** * *
Wounded in their feelings and trousers’
pockets by a succession of prosperous shows, at
Melbourne Exhibition, the Triumvirate are now
making arrangements to have a flutter of their
own in that big, bugbear of a building. They are
tired of protesting against the iniquity of Exhibi-
tion competition, and think it better to accept the
inevitable and make a good thing out of it. When
Harry Lyons first had a mind to start the enter-
tainment, which is at present playing mischief
witli the theatres, he proposed to Messrs. W. G.
and M. that they should go shares in his spec.
The firm ’ortily refused, whereupon Lyons shook
the dust from his feet and whispered abroad that
he was “going to give them (the Firm—not the
feet) such a ‘doing,’” And he is giving
them even a worse unmentionable “doing” than
was expected.
* * *
There is a mistaken impression that the
delightful little girl, Olive Berkley, whose portrait
we give in our present number, and who acts
Little Lord Eauntleroy to perfection at the Mel-
bourne Princess’s, has acted it throughout America.
She took the part for the first time at the Prin-
cess’s. Coming across the Pacific from San Fran-
cisco to New Zealand and Sydney, the part was
drilled into her by her mother and Henry Edwards,
the time being utilised just as J. C. Williamson
and Maggie Moore worked out their characters in
“Struck Oil” during the voyage. Another Little
Lord Eauntleroy, Miss Grace Hopkins, has been
imported by W.G. and M. from San Francisco to
relieve Miss Berkley at times.
I T se Batho’s Baking Powder.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.
From the evening edition of the Sydney
Morning Herald :
The accommodation in Wagga gaol is shamefully inade-
quate for even ordinary requirements ; but when an exe-
cution takes place the arrangements are not. even humane.
Within four feet of the windows of the condemned man
Reilly’s cell the gallows, the upper bar of which may be
seen from inside, is now being erected, and the prisoner
can hear every nail driven in and timber adjusted. The
condemned man took exercise in the yard set apart, for
females, as in the other yard the work of preparing for his
death was going on.
The hangman, by the way, personally supervised
the building of the scaffold and gave the necessary
orders in Reilly’s hearing. How many deaths did
Reilly die? Beautiful old convict colony, Botany
Bay I
After the Cup.*
MISTER MILES-A MAN OF WEIGHT.
Each winner’s face is wreathed in smiles,
Each loser now his luck reviles,
But calm as stone stands sturdy Miles
Amidst the deafning din ;
Tis naught to him who swims or sinks :
No cheerful winks or doleful blinks
Tell what he feels or what he thinks—
Inscrutable as fateful Sphinx
lie weighs the victor in.
Ten thousand white-faced men debate
The question whether this “ came late,”
Or that had wiser been to “ wait,”
Or t’other didn’t “spin
Young Jones exults, old Brown bewails,
Tom grinds his teeth, Nat gnaws his nails,
Ben thinks of bills and Jack of jails—
The stolid clerk stands by the scales
And weighs the victor in.
* Vide BuiiUstik’s first page.
The Melbourne Cup.
(FORM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT.)
[BY TELEGRAPH.]
After the traditional conflict with a number
of opposing forces at Spencer-street railway station
we succeeded in taking train for the course, and
were duly turned loose upon that festival by eleven
o’clock sharp. Our gloves were in ruins, our collar
flapped idly in the wind, and a small portion of
jagged ferule from the point of a fat man’s umbrella
was embedded in our damask cheek, but otherwise
we were doing quite as well as could be expected.
Thegrand stand presented the appearance of having
been filled many hours prior to our advent. Look-
ing round we found a female acquaintance brooding
in one of the back seats, and she expressed an
opinion that the front row people took their posi-
tions over-night; nevertheless, the grand stand
sitters looked fresh and pleasant as compared
with the gloomy gatherings of aged woman-
hood that we have gazed upon in former years.
Watching vehicles rattle into the members’ car-
riage paddock is the only excitement to be had at
this early period, for the band has not yet com-
menced to outpour its joyous strains. Equipages
were fewer than last year: the only drag
that came under our notice had Mr. Fitz-
gerald Moore aboard looking none the worse for
Mr. Dix and the Round Hill shares enquiry. A
number of flaming red parasols were bobbing about
on this drag, and the inflammable effect of these
upon our nature had scarcely died away when
something that we took to be the Light
Brigade came cantering up the course. It
turned out to be a troop of untamed mounted
rifles preceding, following and generally fool-
ing around the vice-regal drag and a two-
Ihorse chariot. To this latter inferior means
•of conveyance had Sir Robinson, the troubadour,
ibeen relegated because he is out of work just at
present: the other was reserved for Governors in
active receipt of their salaries and their ladies.
Somehow the gorge of the multitude seemed to rise
against this unexpected military demonstration.
Apt one solitary cheer, not a hand clap, not a little
chirp of admiration fell upon the ghastly silence.
On a former occasion we have heard a demonstra-
tion of six or so inspired to shout hooray by a
plump and pleasing old gentleman alleged to be
Messrs. Williamson and Garner’s legal adviser.
This year, unhappily, the Triumvirate’s solicitor
was not at the right spot to cry, “ Hats off,
gentlemen, and three cheers for the Governor!”
and so what might have been a very hearty greet-
ing never occurred. Lady Loch was handsomely
arrayed in pale slate-oolonrcd silk and the
etceteras to match, but she looked very careworn,
and had probably only come in order that the
people might see her at what somebody called
“dear Lady Loch’s last Cup.” Lady Kintore
also wore something silky and creamy, and the
Misses Loch were long, thin objects of interest
in white.
After Bellringer had won the Hurdle Race,
we made tracks for the hill, to find how things
were looking on that unnatural mountain of
laboriously-collected dirt. There humans had con-
gregated in tens of thousands. Every seat
in the long stand had a perspiring occupant,
and for more than fifty yards we pushed,
squeezed, and slipped through a surging mob
most of whom were absorbed in shilling sweeps.
It is terribly slippery on the slanting hill, but the
habitues always lean different ways which pre-
vents them all falling down at once. At the.
back of the hill stand many varieties of sport
served to beguile the weary luncheon hour. One
popular game wis constituted by ten men paying
one shilling each for the privilege of heaving a ball
at a row of dolls on a railing, the man who hit a
■doll’s head the oftenest took nine shillings and the
proprietor annexed the balance. In the likely
■event of his training poor relations to aiiii
■straighter than the common herd, we suppose
that the whole tiling is an annual source of
income, that in the course of years may be claimed
as a hereditary right. This doll-man disturbed
many loyal souls by saying, “ Come and have a
trow at Lady Loch.”
After falling down a few times we had exhausted
the delights of the hill and slid back again to
haunts of higher culture. The lawn was by this
time a dream of whites, pale pinks, creams and
apple greens. One alarming spectacle was a lady
in black and white check silk, 2in. to the check,
with parasol to match. No husband-beaters had
found their way to the Cup, and the women seemed
to be burdened with not too much parasol but just
parasol enough. About the nicest thing on the
lawn was a pale-pink clinging kind of material,
trimmed with velvet, described to us as Chartreuse
green. Lady Clark beat her Cup record with a
becoming costume of ivory-white silk and gold
work. Miss Janet Achurch was very noticeable
with a tragedy green-silk cloak flowing and blow-
ing around a simple cream sergy dress.
In the paddock Chicago appeared fat and ordi-
nary ;we put no bags of capital on him. Benzon
made no friends, and even Bravo struck one as
being not so blooming as he was at Caulfield. Our
footsteps naturally led us in the direction of Singa-
pore, a horse .whose victory we took for
granted because a certain loafer had tipped
it in The Bulletin. Carbine was one of
the last horses to leave the saddling paddock,
and his scant fringe of admirers was a satire on the
ohangefulness of turf popularity. Walking
towards the winning-post we fancied the hill lias
never shown such an aggregation of hats before,
although neither the reserves nor fiat were
thronged as they were last year. While the false
starts were going on we were surprised to miss
Lord Oarington from his usual place on the
stewards’ platform. He was away in the royal
box cutting jokes with the vice-regal ladies.
At last the horses were off and we calmly
waited until the field had made the final turn for
home and then opened our ears to drink in the
name of Singapore. Nothing can be seen as
the horses near the judge from behind the winning
post if you are late in getting there, so you must
just control your agitation until yon hear them
shouting. Last year they shouted Mentor as one
man : this year they were divided between
Carbine and Bravo until the black and yellow
diamond flashed by us on the “ all-over” side of
the judge’s stand, with a length to the good, while
the loafer’s last prophecy came lobbing in nearly
last.
Of the placed horses Bravo seemed the most dis-
tressed ; his victory was fairly popular, by the
way, but not more popular than Carbine’s “shop,”
whieh tempered the wind to many an otherwise
completely shorn lamb.
“ How about the Caulfield Cup now?” shouted
the boys after little -lack Anwin had weighed in.
This reminded us that Bravo was a Bulletin
tip for that race, and our feelings wore wrought
up to the stern necessity of backing the two last,
winners. Having thus in a measure rehabilitated
out battered reputation as a lucky backer, we
looked about for a proper racing coincidence on
the journey home, and discovered that a Bravo
was morally bound to make a “ splurge " on Guy
Fawkes' Day


WOLFE’S SGINAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
A Country Newspaper.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Wirrabundi Banner was for sale,
and I bought it. Never mind why, I did.
There was no time for inspection, Wirrabundi
was too far away, and the mortgagee was in a
hurry to realise. The editor was in the local
hospital, he said, had ’em worse than ever, had
’em on an average five or six times a year, had
given him every chance, but wouldn’t stand it any
longer. Splendid property, grand plant, circula-
tion fallen off a bit, brrt could easily be recovered
by a good man, “no end of jobbing,” and people
just crowding into the cemetery because there was
no room in the paper to put ail their “ads.” in.
And I paid him—well. I don’t think I could
even now bear to see the figures in print, but I
bought it, anyhow, bought it right out, and took a
through rail and coach ticket, and got to “Wirra.,”
as they called it, too late at night to see what
sort of a pig in a poke I had become possessed of.
The Banner office was a bark humpy on a
quarter-acre allotment, bounded on one side by
the dirty back yard of the public-house at the
corner, on the other by the dilapidated remains of
a two-rail fence, the missing portion of which had
long since been removed by the neighbours for
firewood ; at the rear by the playground of the
National School, which was handy for the office-
-Ik>3 7 s when they felt like having a rest, and in
front by a wide verandah with a clay floor on the
street level occupied by the town goats under the
leadership of a ferocious black “ billy.”
I noted these features before breakfast. At ten
o’clock I walked round to view the interior. A
long-legged, slab-sided youth came to the door and
said he was the overseer, and I could go in and
look round if I liked. Two boys—one a Chinese
half-breed—were “putting in dis.,” three large
kangaroo-dogs were stretched at full length in one
corner, and a mongrel cur was worrying the lye-
brush under the press. The latter was a venerable
Columbian relic coated with candle-grease, and*
the runners propped up with a brandy-case in lieu
of a stanchion. Stereos., blocks, brass rules and
quoins lay scattered around in wild confusion ;
ink, kerosene and grease were daubed as high as
human hands could reach ; fragments of old, mil-
dewed and torn posters adorned the walls, scat-
tered piles of mutilated exchanges littered the
floor, punctuated with chop bones, dry tea-leaves,
and an old slipper or two. A foolscap jobbing-
press stood on one side of
the door, and a piano-
case on the other; the
latter, fitted with pine
shelves, did duty as the
editorial desk, and was
about the most perfect
thing on the premises and
objactionable only be-
cause it was fixed in the
one spot where, somehow
or other, you became most
forcibly aware of the
proximity of “Black
Billy.”
Just then a passing
blackfellow looked in to
enquire if “you bin see
’im Susan that fellow gin
belongin’ to me, that bin
go long o’ river belongin’
to wash ’im shirt and me
bin lose ’im ?”
His mangy dogs bore
him company, and before
any answer could be re-
turned to the query the
whole establishment was
in the street. The kan-
garoo-dogs led the way
with a- furious rush, the
1 toys followed, each with
a handful of dis., and
the overseer also went to
see his pets get fair play.
At the end of a quarter
of an hour the fight,
which brought all the
school children over the
fence and through the
office, terminated in
favour of the attacking
party ; the happy family
resumed its several occu-
pations, and the leggy
youth remarked as he passed in ;
“ Well, mate, you’ve had a good look round. I
hope you like it ?”
“Can’t say I do. It scarcely comes up to the
seller’s description, but as I’ve bought it I must
make the best of a bad bargain.”
“You’ve WHAT !”
“ Bought and paid for it. Here is an order for
delivery. ”
“Holy sailor! why, the boss ain’t dead yet.
And what’s to come of me ?”
“ Remain where you are, if you choose, and the
boys as well. There will be no paper this week,
and the plant will be moved into another house as
soon as I can get one.”
* # #
In six months’ time it prospered, and was
quoted by some of its big brothers elsewhere on
subjects beyond their ken. But there had been
months of hard work and of many troubles. The
Chinkie-Irish boy was the only member of the
original staff left, and Sam was smart at case and
a great favourite.
About two months after the purchase I had an
early morning visitor in the person of the senior-
constable :
“ Af you plaze, sur, the police magisthrate Sint
me up to ask if may be you was a J.P. ? He do
be. tlunkin’ its your name he seen in the Jisht.”
“ Yes; for the last three years. Why?”
“ Well, then, there’s a cattle-shtalin’ case cm in
the coort to-day, and he’d be obliged to you to sit
wid’m, bein’ as the other two magisthrates in
town can’t attend.”
“ Give the P.M. my compliments, arid say I
will be there.”
Half the business people and all the town -
loafers were in court to hear the evidence against
Robert Forster, alias “ Silky Bob,” long watched
for and caught at last, with the hide of a ueigh-
Irour’s steer planted in a shed, the brand cut out,
and the meat newly salted in a cask. He was a
thorough rascal, but his manners were pleasant
and his voice soft, which earned him the name of
“ Silky Bob.”
Plenty of indirect evidence was forthcoming,
backed up by the harness-cask and the stale hide
on the floor of the court, but it was open to grave
doubt whether there was enough to have him sent
the District Court at Yarranilla, where all cases
of committal had to be sent for trial.
The P.M. thought there was ; I held the op-
posite opinion. Everyone knew what a lot of
evidence it took to sheet home a case of horse or
cattle-stealing to the satisfaction of a Yarranilla
jury. Their detractors quoted the peculiarity in
support of the truth of the old adage about fellow
feeling making us wondrous kind.
The pros and cons of the case being discussed
by the Bench in the small building, our individual
leaning were no secret to the prisoner or any other
listener. The P.M. gave way in the end and
agreed to my suggestion that it would be better to
sentence him there and then up to the legal limit
(on his consenting to plead guilty to a minor
charge) than to commit him for trial for stealing
with the risk of his getting off altogether under
a verdict of “Not Guilty.” Six months’ hard
labour in Yarranilla gaol was accordingly entered
opposite Silky Bob’s name, and the next coach
carried him off into retirement.
* * *
The clay had been one of blistering beat,
and a busy one, for it was within a week of the
annual races. The office thermometer stood at
117, having fallen about two degrees since four
o’clock. All was quiet in the printing room which
adjoined the office and monopolised two of
the French lights opening on the verandah. The
boys had gone to tea and left me the sole occupant
of the building. I was sitting in the dead
oppressive silence which characterises the out-
skirts of a bush township at such a time, and the
new Banner office was some distance from the
busy part of it. I dozed and woke, and dozed
again, and in fancy I heard the soft tones of Silky
Bob’s voice saying :
“ You won’t never know who done it, will you,
Mr. Banner? and Bob will be a-comirv up the
road with his swag when the traps meets him and
says, ‘ Hullo Bob, are you back again ? ’ And you
gave him six months on the mill, didn’t you,
Smarty? Yes, and Bob done it like a man,
and now he’s a-goin’ to pay it back, and six
months will be a fool to what ”
By Heaven ! it was no fancy. The report of a
pistobshot woke me, and there—on the verandah
facing the open door—stood Sam roaring for help
THE REASON WHY.
LARRIKIN (after throwing stones at the tiger) : “ THIS BRUTE DOESN'T SEEM TO TAKE ANY NOTICE OF ME.”
KEEPER: “NO, HE’S JUST EATEN HIS FILL OF CATS-MEAT.”
and imploring me to come outside quick.
Silky Bob was in the old familiar lock-up again
within the half-hour and with a broken collar-
bone ; a Yarranilla jury had no sympathy with
that class of crime and gave him five years solid.
That time expired long ago, and if this should
happen to meet your eye, Bob, it may be some
satisfaction to you to know that I bear you no
malice.
“ How did it happen?” you say. Simply enough.
Sam came back from his tea before the others.
Came in at the back door and through the print-
ing-room with bare feet, as was his custom.
Heard a voice on the verandah, peeped out, recog-
nised Silky Bob and grasped the situation at a
glance. Stepped back as far as he could get for a
clear run, lowered his head, and in a few swift,
noiseless strides rammed the enemy between wind
and water, gave him a clean drop of four feet over
the verandah and lauded him on his head. The
pistol went off, but the ball only made a hole in
the galvanised iron overhead.
Arid Sam ? Oh, he was immensely pleased with
himself. The townspeople got up a subscription
and gave him a watch and chain. I doubled his
wages and he sent his little sister down the country
to a boarding-school. He loved her better than
his life.
“MANTIS.”
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies’ man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and good-looking ladies in
a suburban train .yesterday : —First Lady : “ That s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason?” Second Lady ; “ Don’t you know? Its
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Boer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.”
Dear Bulletin, —In the good old days,
now long gone by, when William Fitzherbert (the
“ sturdy beggar ”) ruled the roast in the Welling-
ton province of the land of the Moa and the Maori,
one Henry, surnamed Bunny, was Provincial
Treasurer and right-hand man to the aforesaid
Fitz. The Provincial Executive had floated a
loan, and Fitz., like most great men, had a weak-
ness for “splurging” borrowed money around
unfettered by parliamentary control. So he did
not bother about calling the Provincial Council
together, but crowded on full canvas and sailed
merrily ahead. Just before this a vacancy occurred
in the provincial auditorship, and Fitz. and Bunny,
having “collogued’’together, determined to ensure
having a pliant auditor in office and not one likely
to trouble about any necessary votes and proceed-
ings pf Council prior to endorsing payments from
loan-account. So they recommended for guber-
natorial appointment a callow youth, bight “Bob”
M'Alister, who, being young, would, they
thought, prove pliable. Contracts were let with a
lavish hand, his Honor the Superintendent (Fitz.),
authorised the usual monthly payments on ac-
count, the Provincial Treasurer (Bunny) pre-
pared the necessary vouchers, when 10, and behold,
“Bob’’refused his certificate. In vain Bunny
expostulated; to no purpose did Fitz. swear. The
“ Executive ” pointed out that the credit of the
Province was at stake, that contractors must be
paid, but “Bob” curtly minuted the vouchers :
“ This expenditure is unauthorised. R.M.” —or,,
“ The Provincial Treasurer will kindly quote Vote
of Council for this expenditure. R.M.” Bunny
then served him with a notice from the Provincial
solicitor, threatening all sorts and conditions of
pains and penalties. “Bob,” on his side, con-
sulted leading counsel, and snapped his fingers at
the futile threats. He could not be removed from
his office except by vote of the Provincial Council,
and that was the last thing likely to happen,
because his sole reason for so persistently
“blocking supply” was that the Provin-
cial Council had never been called together.
‘ ‘ What are we to do ?” expostulated Fitz.,
and Bunny—“the public creditors must be paid.”
“ Call a meeting of the Council,” replied their boy.
And Fitz., the Superintendent, and Bunny, his
henchman, had to do even as they were told. The
Council was called together, supplies were voted,
and the youthful auditor obtained a lot of kudos
for daring to beard the “sturdy beggar” in his
own particular den. Why this furbishing up of
an old yarn ? you ask. Because, on taking up a
Sydney daily recently, I came across a “card,’’
notifying that one “R. Maealister” had started
business in the “big smoke” alongside the
“ Beautiful Hai'bonr.” — Bakblox.
Here is a sample of Meston on his hind
legs “on top of Mount Bellenden Ker, N.Q.”
Meston, by the way, is the man who has volunteered
to hunt down Bunya Bill if the authorities have
no objection to his shooting that gentleman on
sight:—
We were 5200 ft. above the sea, and the tree-tops stood
clear of all obstructions to the view. And what a view !
For some time not one of us could find a voice. All was
distinctly visible, in the perfectly clear atmosphere, in a
radius of, at least, 100 miles in all directions. We were
silent in the awful presence of that tremendous picture
that had lain there unaltered since Chaos and the Earth-
quake painted it in smoke and flame and terror in the
dark morning of the world ! It was a hall of the Genii of
the Universe, the Odeon of the eternal gods with its im-
mortal floor paved with the green mosaic of land and
ocean, and overhead the arched bine roof flashing in
diamonds and prismatic radiance to the far sky-line on
the edge of the dim horizon. Eastward rolled the calm
Pacific, visible from the Palm Islands in the south to the
vicinity of Cook town in the north. The white surf break-
ing on the Barrier Reef was a long white line on the lovely
azure of the slumbering ocean. The towering peaks of
Hinchinhrook looked down on the cone-shaped islands of
Rockingham Bay and the valley of the Herbert; behind
t hem the dark-blue serrated ridges of the Cardwell Range.
To the north Cairns nestled in calm seclusion on the
shores of the beautiful hay, a white oasis in the desert of
blue haze. Green Island, Fitzroy, High Island, and the
Franklyns, were as emeralds set in the lapis lazuli of
unruffled ocean, the bleached coral beaches girdling them
with a white zone on which the dying waves expired in
long ripples of snowy foam. Between ns and the ocean
was the valley of the Bussell, with its reed-covered plains
and mysterious lakes, and the river winding in sinuous
curves like a vast silvery serpent through the dense dark-
green tropical jungle, down to where it joined the Mul-
grave, ending in the beautiful plains beneath the long
evening shadows of (lie cone-peaked Walsh Pyramid.
From ,where the range dipped into the sea at Double
Island, north of Cairns, away west to the hills on the
head of the Gulf waters, and south to where the eye lost
itself in distance, was a vast indescribable panorama of
hills and valleys and mountains of every conceivable
shape, and to the west the wavy sea of magnificent
country on the Horherton tablelands, the future garden
of Australia, with its regular rainfall, rich scrub soil, and
glorious climate. The site of the volcanic lakes was
marked by their covering sheets of snow-white mist. In
all the ravines along the face of the coast range were
blocks of beautiful amber-cloud, reposing there like white-
winged birds weary of tossing to and fro in the combat of
warring winds. Mount Sophia and the dark north peaks
of the Bellenden-Ker stood facing us in gloomy grandeur,
in that dread silence which is more terrible to the soul
than the crash of thunder, the roar of breakers, or the
diapason of the cannonade. South-west, Immediately in
front, stood the majestic form of Bartle Frere, divided
from us by a chasm 4000 ft. in depth, and four or five
miles across from peak to peak, a wild and dismal solitude
peopled by the storms alone. Deep abysmal gorges,
gloomy ravines and caverned mountains dark as the
realms of Pluto, grim rocks in unimaginable shapes ; far
down through the immeasureable gray void the subdued
rush of falling waters, weird echoes rising from the depths
below as if one could hear “ a march as of the earth-born
Forms arrayed against the ever living gods ! ” and around
and over all, in one dark green wide spreading mantle,
the wonderful tropical jungle, infinite in its shapes and
hues, the robe of Nature woven in sun-bright colours in
the looms of God ! And then there passed before us a
scene such as we never saw before and may never see
again. From behind Bartle Frere there came slowly
drifting towards us a vast white sulphurous storm-cloud
charged with thunder and lightning. It entered the
abyss between us and Bartle Frere, hung suspended there
at least 2000 ft. helou' where we stood, and we looked down
from our own lone tree-tops in voiceless amazement at a
thunderstorm ranging in uncontrolled madness far be-
neath. Lightning shot out in awful flashes downward
and upward, followed by appalling thunder. Detached
fragments of spectral cloud came drifting up from the
storm and shot athwart the mountain top, rushing by us
with a weird “swish” like a column of cold damp' fog-
driven by a sudden blast. And then the winds from the
south-east turned the storm away alon"- the valley to the
north and the “ Lion of the Skies ” vanished slowly in the
distance, his deep-toned voice making the mountains
tremble, and his fierce eyes flashing electric fire. We
camped all night on the summit. What wonder that in
such a place, “ obscurely through the brain swept awful
thoughts,”
Which through the deep and labyrinthine soul,
Like echoes through long caverns, wind and roll !
We were denizens of the upper air. With Goethe we
knew the “ Stars silent above us ; Graves silent below us.”
The fauna and flora of this strange mountain, according
to De Vis, are the oldest on the Australian continent. It,
is the Ararat of the Pacific. Here are plants found hither-
to only on the summits of the Himalayas. Ah, heaven!
why cannot some fossil relate to us the story of the
vanished Ages from the death silence _of his stone
mausoleum ? I gazed on that storm, and in imagination
saw “ a Spirit with a dreadful countenance check his dark
chariot by the craggy gulf,” and some Idsean Ganymede
pour out his celestial rain of wine from an exhaustless urn
upon the grateful earth ! Round the base of this moun-
tain once roamed the giant Diprotodon and the colossal
Notothcrium. Iguanas 30 ft. in length crawled through
the primeval vegetation on the plains below, and the mar-
supial lion, Thylacoleo, crunched the bones of his her-
bivorous victims in the dark secluded caves. Around us
was the silence of departed Time, of voiceless Eternities,
of worlds beyond the morning stars ! I seemed to see the
shadows of the unborn Centuries reflected on the azure
mirror of the night, and the shadows of the past vanish-
ing like misty spectres in the impenetrable gloom. In
the tree tops we heard the wailing of the “huge winds
that sweep from Ursa Major to the tropics and equators,
dancing their giant waltz through the kingdoms of Chaos
and Immensity.” And they played wild Meumonian
music on the mountain’s grand old -Cohan harp of pines
An athletic N. /.
Evangelist, since his fall
from grace, repeats with
great unction a conversa-
tion he had with a pious
Evangelist who said,
“Oh! dear brother, you
think too much of money ;
I labour for souls.” “You
can have all the souls,
dear brother, ” replied our
athletic friend, “ only
give me the spondulicks.”
This saint is too vinously
outspoken to labour long
in the vineyard.
Mount Morgan gold-
mine has paid yet another
monthly dividend of
£100,00(1 this being at
the rate of £1,200,000 a
year. The company get
£lOOO worth of gold an-
nually from the sweep-
ings of the reef and the
dirty oil rags alone. Since
July, 1880, Mount Mor-
gan has paid in dividends
£1,133,000 —this year the
manager hopes to pay
£1,200,000. To secure
this result there must be
a return of £30,000 per
week, or over £4OOO per
day. Despite the geologi-
cal formation of the
Mount, and the wear and
tear caused to machinery
by the gems associated
with the gold—the cost
of extraction amounts
only to £2 3s. per ton.
The average yield in the
year 1887 was 4ozs.
lOdwts 13fgrs.
Says the Penny Illustrated Pater, in
dealing with working-men leaders :
Broadhurst, typical chief of the labouring class, has
completed his triumph over his enemies at the Trades
Union Congress. Broadhurst and Burns are compared to
two different kinds of working-men politicians. Broad-
hurst is the Trade Unionist pure and simple—the steady,
business-like, unimaginative Englishman. Burns- Scotch-
man as he is—reminds one more of the old Chartists -
Henry Vincent, with his simplicity and earnestness, com-
mon-place but ready rhetoric, and Thomas Cooper, with
his enthusiasm, his fine face, his strange voice, his bursts
of wild and pathetic eloquence. Not that Broadhurst
cannot speak eloquently enough. Among his own class,
when he is not fettered, as he is in the House, by fear of
making slips, he can give himself play, as he did the other
day at Dundee. But Henry’s role is business management,
in which he excels. Punctual, industrious, shrewd, re-
served, he is far and away the best representative Trade
Unionism ever had, or is likely to have. In particular,
you never get secrets out "of Mr. Broadhurst, who does
a little work for the Scotsman. Broadhurst is (he best
and simplest of good fellows. “Downy” he is, hut he
is not spoiled by being rather a favourite with both
parties. He sticks to his pot-hat, his homely little house
at Brixton, and docs hot sport a dress-coat. His favourite
spot is Cromer, and his recreation is golf. He is a genuine
working man, has been a stonemason, and helped to build
the Norwich post-office. He is a (rifle too diplomatic, hut
he is a good fellow. A very different type of man is John
Burns. I have watched him closely through the strike,
and I confess 1 think that in the sturdy engineer (lie prole-
tariat has at length found a great popular leader. 1 am
not sure that Burns will he a great figure in the House.
His political education is still new, and, though lie
learns very quickly, 1 am not sure that another year’s
training will do him any harm. But in the con-
duct of an agi tatiou he is unrivalled, and because he
is really a genuine specimen of the son of toil. Mr.
Bradlaugh has as fine a voice as Burns, and a far more
subtle and varied range of knowledge; hut Bradlaugh,
though sprung from the people, is really a middle-class
politician, with strong popular leanings. But Burns is
racy of the soil. There is a Celtic touch about him, too,
from which he gets his humour, his air of good-fellowship,
his quaint turns of speech, and hursts of unprepared
eloquence. Ho resembles Mr. Bradlaugh in one respect,
and that is in his immense physical strength and courage.
Ilia brother, Alec. Burns, has been in the prize-ring, and
failed, said the cynics, because lie was too plucky for the
average flghting-man, whoplaysan unnecessarily cautious
game. Burns’s pluck is unlimited. When he was in Paris
a few years ago a ruffian insulted his wife. John knocked
him down fof his pains, and kept a whole legion of French-
men at hay. Then there is a delightful simplicity about
him. He is proud enough of his success, hut he is really
not spoiled by it. And, what is very significant, the work-
ing-classes are beginning to make of him a hero, and even
something, too, of a saint. And that is why, in my
opinion, we are witnessing the rise of the most remarkable
loader of labour in the century—not excepting the chiefs
of the old Chartist movement.
Everybody should use Pcmell’s latest best Snow-wfiitt;
Patkst Holi.rr Flock. It is the greatest success of the age.


BOOKS for COUNTRY READERS
—AT—
20s. for TWELVE MONTHS.
40,000 VOLUMES TO CHOOSE FROM.
The large LENDING LIBRARY (40,000 volumes) of the
Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arls
SDeoially Reduced Kates.
l A large Catalogue, of 850 pages, giving titles, authors,
and dates of publication of all the
forwarded to any address, post free, for 21 penny stamps.
Pull particulars as to Subscription and method of e\-
ehlnlriM bSk” etc.,will be sent on receipt of stamped
addressed envelope, enclosed to the Secretary, Sydney
Mechanics' Schoolof Arts, ‘276 Pi tt-s treat, Sydney.
CYRIL HAVILAND, Secretary.
Use Batho’h Baking Powder.
Fvervbodv should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whitr
Patrnt Rwlw Fw»r*. H'» the greatest sn«*M of the
ge-
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel. Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. 1 torses and buggies for hire.
The
Marvellous
1 Or. HA
IoS. Oil.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most cerebrated manufacturers of Watches In Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than .
well-made Swiss one. . , , , ,
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turn
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidb
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently, m tact,
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers. , , ~,
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with et ery one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19b. 6d. (Is. postageX hwe one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfaotorj after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <3c SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET. SYDNEY.
F. W. JONDON, PI I man's CcrtllMted Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lemons -Fee
42„ Henortinit Style or Finishing Lessons successful!)
given by post—Course of IS lessons. 215.. or 2s. per lesson.
Fees is Advance.
Personal Items.
Erckmann now speaks of his ‘ former
friend, Cliatrain.”
Judge Windeyer has been told off to try
Mrs. Batts for baby-farming.
A Sydney man is going, shortly, to lecture
on “ Governors I have known.” Gaol governors .
Mr. Coghlan, the N.S.W. Government
statist, has gone to Melbourne—to gather stat s-
tic«, it is said.
At the present juncture it is interesting to
reea’ tire fact that Captain Cook was married to a
woman named Batts.
The dark-skinned journalist, J. J. Thomas,
who out up Fronde’s “ Oceana ” in a work called
“ Froudaoity,” is dead.
The Western Champion (Q.) doesn’t like
Elijah Egeson, and courteously refers to him as
“ a Sydney charlatan.”
Dick Turpin has turned up again, this time
as a bank-robber in a South African town. ” 0
presume he stole his name.
According to the single-taxers, Henry
George will get no money, but only travelling
expenses during his Australian visit.
Amongst the old colonists who returned to
Australia last week is the pensioned Mr, ex-
Justice Faucett, M.L.C., who has been enjoying a
holiday in Europe.
Mr. Kinnaird Rose is the pressman who
had his whisk -rs chopped off by some cowardly
rascal in the refreshment-room of the Queensland
Legislative Assembly.
The body of Ira Payne, the clever Ameri-
can pistol-shot who died in Paris, the other day,
all along of iced beer, was shipped across the
Atlantic to.be buried in “ God’s country.
Edmund Yates, in the World, gives some
reminiscences of his friend, Wilkie Collins.
Collins was a hopeless opium-eater, and would
take enough in a day to kill 30 ordinary men.
Old Monahan, the lately-deceased Vic-
torian millionaire, has been resurrected. We are
told he came out, in 1839, from Ireland, a poor
emigrant, and that 90 of the passengers died on
the voyage.
The Cobar (N.S.W.) Herald proprietor
has imported a real, live editor for his organ. In
his introductory remark«the new scribe announces
his scorn of subserviency, a condition lie would
refuse to accept “ even if we died a pauper’s death
to-day and begged our bread to-morrow.
Mr. William Redmond has challenged
Edmund \ ates for an attack on the 1 n-iiichiu-s.
William, who, by the way, has already been
wounded in a duel or something of the .sort,
should take example from Parnell and learn to
keep his tern per. Yates is old enough to be his
father.
In the National Reformer of a late
date Charles Bradlaugh says “ Unfortunately I
have been unable this September to take my
usual fishing holiday ; my flying visit to Scotland
has be n for work only.” As we write it is caolea
that he is battling with an illness which threatens
his life.
William Westgarth, the well-known
financier and writer on the colonies, who was an
early pioneer of Victoria, and recently re volted
Australia after an absence of 35 years, has died m
England from injuries received through falling
from a window.
Sir Graham Berry has been attending a
London Salvation Army meeting. Graham, who,
though according to latest advices, he has not ost his
bold, bad eye, must be a much better boy than he
was when that nasty parliamentary committee sat
at Geelong to enquire why he gave his pa-m-law a
Government billet.
Sir Alfred Tennyson has written to Lord
Henry Parkes in acknowledgement of Lord
Henry's congratulations on his brother-poet s 80th.
birthday. Tennyson states that though he has
been compelled to advertise in the Times his in-
ability to reply to all the kindly letters he has
received, he felt compelled to acknowledge Lord
Henry’s letter to show that his antipodean friend
was not forgotten.
Wolseley is to visit America as British re-
presentative at the unveiling of a Virginian
statue to General Lee, the Confederate leader.
The Yanks, won't like this much, for Wolseley is
continually puffing up the rebels and has made an
absurdly exaggerated estimate of General Bee, as
absurd as Lee’s depreciation by Grant, who
ranked his great rival below General Joe Johnston.
G. R. Sims thinks Jack the Ripper is
altogether too clever for the London police. He
says: “The illustrious Jack will in all human
probability take his secret with him to eternal
bye-bye, and it is quite possible that, dying m the
odour of sanctity, a not too modest tombstone
may record his many virtues and inform cemetery
visitors that he was a loving husband, an affec-
tionate father, and that of such is the kingdom of
Heaven.” .
J L Sullivan recently took a benefit in
New York. Says the N.Y. Herald Who-
ever has heard Sullivan speak in public will never
foraet it. He has a deep, mellow voice, as reso-
nant as a cathedral bell, and the very faint Irish
accent he has inherited lends a charm to it. He
spoke without effort, but could be heard in every
corner of the house. It is safe to say that should
lie ever enter tin 1 legislative halls in Washington
there will be no voice to compete, with his. Many
an actor would give his all to possess one like it.
Another little reminiscence of the bate
Ready-Money Robinson. Before investing his
shekels in New Zealand, he travelled through the
Provinces of Canterbury and Nelson with a pack
on his back, spying out and clearing exes, as he
went along. There was another reason for adopt-
ing this plan. It allayed the suspicion of the
squatters then in possession of the land. Had
they suspected him of being a land-buyer, he
would have encountered some opposition in ac-
quiring his estate.
A Mr. George Russell, cousin to that
colossally-wealthy London landlord, the Duke of
Bedford, having written a very pointed article in
advocacy of the “ New Radicalism,” the Duke
wrote him as follows ;
My dear George,—l have read your article with groat
interest, and with much admiration for the ability it dis-
plays. Your talent for literature is marked, and as the
possessor of such brilliant powers as thes ■ has a sure and
profitable career opened to him, you will, I am sure, agree
with me that there is no longer any reason why X should
continue the allowance I have hitherto been glad to make
you, and T have accordingly given directions to my
solicitor that the usual quarterly payments to you should
be discontinued.—Yours atfeotionally, Bbdforu.
A walking-stick having been handed to the
Queen by a few loyal Taffies, she “thanked them
in good Welsh ” —at least so said all the English
papers. But a Welsh editor rises to explain.
Says he; —
It is rapidly becoming a popular fallacy that we Welsh-
man are governed by phrases. The advisers of the Queen
are mortal, more or less, and were taken in by the
prevailing opinion of the hour. A magic phrase was
to convert a turbulent tithe-riotous people into loyal and
peace-loving subjects. But alas ! for the fallibility of
human knowledge, though it originate in the altitudes
where Privy Councillors dwell. The Court Circular
perpetuates the answer of the Queen at Llandderfel, and
she is reported to have said, “ Diolch fawr iawni,” which,
being interpreted, means, if it means anything, ‘ Many
thanks to myself.”
Says a Conservative American paper :
John Burns is a powerfully-built man, with muscles of
iron. lie is five feet ten in height, broad-shouldered,
thick-set, and strong-limbed. Ills hair is as black as a
negro’s, and he wears a grizzly beard and moustache.
Hairs grow all over his cheeks, and stick out straight like
bristles. He has a voice of tremendous power, which he
has developed by howling in the open air. Ko man ever
addressed a crowd in London who has as powerful lungs
as Burns. He is a born demagogue, and he is successful
in sowing discontent and planting the germs of revolu-
tion among the ignorant masses of the London workmen.
This is only the other way of putting it. Please
remember this when you find the Argus de-
nouncing a man as “an irresponsible agitator
and the Sydney daily papers suppressing his
speeches.
“M. Damala, the husband of Sara Bern-
hardt, says a French contemporary, was in no
sense either an honour or an ornament to the pro-
fession. He lived off it very much as certain
women do who make of it an advertisement
of their merchantable charms. He could not
MR. ROBERT ANDERSON.
(A Veteran Police Inspector.)
act, but he could ‘ mash,’ and he ‘ mashed
the divine Sara. She, was nearly twice his
age when he married her, and she adored him
as only a woman old in spirit, if not in years, can
adore a young man. He requited her devotion by
cleaning her out to the last stiver, and wasting
every sou of her money on women of varying
degrees of immodesty and venality. -t hen hara
cast him off, and he began to break down and
drift into the gutter. At last, in a revival of her
old flame for him, she took him back to hei toi-
giving arms to hold him there till he should die
fn peace, physically sapped by his own vices, as
he had been morally broken long before, it ha.
been said that great artists are above the rules of
ordinary social life. Certainly Madame Bern-
hardt has set herself above them. She has had
the courageous confidence in herself to do w hat
she pleased throughout her career, defiant of the
laws made by Mrs. Grundy. 1 he Datnala episode
is only one of many in her eccentric history, about
which, in time to come, romances will bo woven
as they have been woven about the legends of
Cleopatra and of Semiramis. But extravagant
and often ridiculous as her ebullitions of whim-
sicality have been, one cannot view her Damala
period without feeling a certain sentiment of pity
and regard fur the chief actress in it.
Some men are born rich, some achieve
riches, and all have breeches forced upon them.
The imported kanakas on the Herbert
River (Q.) are indulging in tribal fights with bows
and arrows, but very little harm has resulted. By
the bye, when they thoroughly receive the gosp* 1
and learn to fight with bills of sale and promissory-
notes at shixty per shent interest wrth forty pe
cent, premium for renewal, some people will
hurt. ,
The syndicate who bought land bordering
on the Yan Yean reservoir, with the idea of
forcing the Victorian Government to buy it back
in the interests of public health, &c., seem to be
left with a white elephant. Duncan (tilhes has an
appearance of going perfectly straight over this
SaSion. Nevertheless, it is not quite clear
why the syndicate were ever allowed to acquire
the land, and we suppose the imhappy country
will ultimately be required to bleed a trifle.
POLITICAL POINTS
A e-lance at the names of recent Western
N.S.W. selectors raises strong suspicions of
colossal dummying.
It is said that Evangelist Yarley will run
at the next general election on the temperance,
social purity, and Orange ticket for a N.fc .'v.
constituency.
It is currently rumoured that Premie 1
Atkinson will shortly resign and take the post o
N.Z. Agent-General. Capt. Russell is talked o
as the coming man.
The Hawk denies that Sir Hercules
Robinson is a hot Gladstonian and Home Ruler.
It says that he is “ a strong Conservative with
Liberal tendencies.”
The N.S.W. Parliamentary Public Works
Committee has just spent close on £BOO on one
pleasant little picnic to the Darling, &c., to in-
spect a proposed railway route to Lroken Hill.
Crispi has received a demand from Kal-
noky begging him to expel Kossuth from Italy.
Crispi dare not obey for fear of public opinion
being against him, and he dare not disobey tor
fear of giving offence to the “ Triple Alliance.
Premier Parkes to Premier Gillies
“ Permit me, in conclusion, to say you place too
high an estimate on my individual influence it you
suppose that the accession of New South W ales to
the Federal Council rests with me.' Hie days of
pliant majorities are going.
Victoria has 2017| miles of railway open
for traffic, N.S.W. has 2171. Victoria has 8(,8
miles in course of construction, while JN.KW . just
now Las only 10, but will shortly let large con-
tea ,ts. The V ictorian
railways pay 3.70 on the
capital; N.S. Wales pays
3.14.
So long as the inter-
ests of Foreign-trade are
held by the dominating
i . tion of N.S. ales to
1„-of greater importance
1. i.in those of local indus-
-1 y, Victoria will stand
jinn as a rock against any
fmu of A ustralian unity
1 !;ely to jeopardise the
im! icy of Protection
against the outer world.
--Lea dku.
In his lecture at
1 vuuccston (Tas.), James
J .rams said that there
v\-re now only two or
t.iree members in the V ic-
-1 ~lan Legislature who
might be called out-and-
(,,ii Freetraders, but there
v ere a few who called
themselves so in the pry,
for the simple reason tin y
did not care, after 3;>
years’ fighting, to admit
they were on the wrong
side.
Hungary is becom-
ing Socialist. In addi-
tion to the “zone tariff
on its railways —a tariff
designed to benefit the
poorerclassof travellers —
there are to be State
’buses, State hotels, and
State restaurants. In
fact, Hungary developes
for peace a service of transport and commis-
sariat, such as States hitherto have developed
only for war.
The Princess of Prussia wrote in 1000
upon the marriage of the Princess Royal of Eng-
land with the late Emperor of Germany May
God bless this union for the beloved children, for
our families, and for the poor German fatherland,
which can only raise it-elf from its present posi-
tion in a natural manner by an alliance with
England. ” }
Jawbone Neild declares that I aikes
scheme for a Federal Parliament is a “feeble
plagiarism—a mere fragment of a fairly complete
proposition which, more than six years ago, 1 sub-
mitted to the people of N.S.W. One thing is
certain—Parkes’ past history proves that if there
is anything new under the sun the great scissors
statesman is not the man to find it.
A Protectionist correspondent of a daily
newspaper takes up a Sydney Morning Herald
of a recent Saturday and finds 775 advertisements
of premises to let. In the Argus (Melbourne) of
the same date there were 257 similar advertise-
ments. In the Age of same date he found 012
“ situations vacantin Sydney Morning Herald
138, including servants, needlewomen, improvers,
&c.
Leighton Bailey is standing for a Victorian
constituency, and in his election-address boasts
that he is the originator in Australia of Sunday
journalism. When he made a similar boast to
Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazette, the latter
is said to have replied, “That being so, Mr. Bailey,
you are an enemy of the human race.” Not, mind
you, that The Bulletin therein agrees with Mr.
Stead.
Chronicling the arrest at Hong Kong of
Madame Vine (alias Francoise) the Melbourne
Age calls that populous colonial possession
and Imperial naval station a “ Chinese treaty
port,” and learnedly discourses on the rules for
treating arrested persons under the “extradition
treaty” the operation of which it informs its readers
does not extend to Shanghai (which is a “ treaty
port ”). Is it possible that in “ Imperialistic v ic-
toria ” a journalist exists so badly taught in the
geography of the “ Empire on which the sun, &c.
A Welsh parson says, anent the Queen’s
visit to Wales :—-
The Tories throw their hats in the air, and boast that
the reception which the Queen received was a complete
answer to Mr. Gee’s attempt to prevent the expression of
loyalty by the Welsh people. If Mrs. Maybnck had
visited Bala, great crowds would have been attracted to
see her, and shout for her. As good blood courses through
the veins of Mrs. Maybrick as through those of Victoria.
It was curiosity alone which brought the people together.
The Bible teaches that of one Wood God made every
nation of men ; and the Welsh people have consequent.y
discarded the Pagan notion of monarchy.
The following specimen of N.S.W. Par-
liamentary eloquence has been printed in circular
form and largely distributed in t ydney by some of
the Calico crowd : ,
I don't think he is a man—l think he is— l know eyeiy
hon member will admit that the leader of the Opposition
_inv friend the leader of the Opposition, is a strong
man'. And he is—he is—l know hon. members will—l
know hon. members will admit he is a—a strong- he is a
stron" and determined man. 1 never saw I don t think
I ever saw 1 don’t think 1 ever experienced -I know it is
a well-known fact-that the leader of the Opposition
would face—would be known to—would even face- lace
would face everv one opposed to him with an amount ot
courage which-with—as well as—with an amount ot
courage which would—which —which would remind one
of a lion.
The ex - Congregationalist parson, anti-
poverty Pentecost, now a deist, perhaps an
agnostic, who seceded from the George party some
tune ago, declares in his paper, the Iwentimh
Century, that in one sentence winch speaks lor
itself and requires neither explanation nor argu-
ment he has found the remedy for poverty, oay*
lie —“ It is not the common ownership of land. It
is not the abolition of private property in lend. It
is not the Single-tax. It is the abolition of the
ownership or control of vacant land. T went land
must be unconditionally free for use by anybody
who wishes to use it. This, I believe, is the key
that will unlock the next door that be
opened in the Palace of Liberty. That this
would be largely beneficial cannot be doubted ;
that it would be a poverty-removing influence is
scarcely likely. It is a mere expedient, just as
is the Single-tax.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Sir Theodore Martin will probably succeed
Tei myson as Court jxiet slobberer. H ere is a 1 risk y
((notation from his last volume, “The Song of the
Bell,” a translation entitled “The Jovial Priests
C nfession ” :
>Tis no such very easy thing to keep one's nature clown,
And not to feel a little queer in looking on a gown, sir,
Ksueeiallv when in it is a maid of nutty brown, sir ;
Young flesh and blood must needs break out, though
saints may frct’and frown, sir.
Set man within a fire, will the flames not singe him .
Who can live in this vile world, nor let its vtleness unge
When Venus plants on every side her traps and shares to
twinge him. , , „„
And rosy lips, and sparkling eyes, and sunny locks un-
hinge him ?
In a tavern 1 slia’l die, unless my purpose misses,
With old wine upon my lips to cheer me with its kisses ,
And when the angels come to take my soul away to blisses,
Thev’ll say, “ The Lord be merciful to a toper such as
this is!”
Another version of Giraldus Cambrensis :
If I must die, let me die drinking at an inn ;
Hold the wine-cup to my lips, sparkling from the bin ;
Then while angels flutter down to take me from my sin-
“ The Lord have mercy on this sot!” the cherub will
begin.
Mention of “ Led Astray ” (at Melbourne
Royal) recalls the gorgeous vision of Helen Barry,
who used to take the leading female character in
London. The fair Helen is probably the finest
woman ever seen on the modern stage—a nobly
proportioned creature of about six-feet-two, with
a face like a bright mid-summer day. She first
entered the pnrfesh in a five-line part—the Amazon
Queen in “ Babil and Bijou ’’-and drew £2O a
week from the memorable failure. At that time
Helen B. was generally about in the company of
the Hope-Johnstones—two brothers even taller
than herself. The elder of them, Major Hope-
Johnstone, had an ugly scar down one side of his
handsome phiz, to mark the spot where a dastardly
young bill-discounter struck linn from behind
with a decanter. It occurred in a Haymarket
night-house, and the inevitable woman was at the
bottom of it. TheMajah had cut out the Oriental,
and the latter tried to spoil his rivals beauty,
for which sport he paid a heavy compensation in
hard cadi. The Majah was a man about town ;
he wanted no scandal in the newspapers and he
took out Ids vengeance in specie. It is a well-nigh
forgotten story of about 20 years ago. Helen
Barry came out as a full-fledged actress to play
Arkwright's Wife and such characters M Edith
Dombey. Then she married a starchy little old
man named Major Holies, and even poor London
Pvxc u concocted a decent epigram in celebration.
“ Sweet Helen Barry, so they say.
To marriage vows thou turnest:
Resigning minor i dles in play
For Major Holies in earnest.
It suited the epigram to say “ minor r6les,”
although the lady never appeared in other than
star characters. Helen soon left the little Major,
who died two or three years ago. We believe she
is married again, but married or single she is a
remarkable sample of physical perfection. NV hen
a love-lorn idiot goes into raptures over some
commonplace slip of a girl he should be recom-
mended to see Helen Barry and die.


A/f fyruce- fay fa
/ / fajefafaourn e/& /yqu,/re /yfa rfe
Jrvr/t/fiar Y Zocafa (fa-
f(?/'/} 'fact.y>/>S'
a/ upSf /(V?cl fo
ò
/fr y. OTwferfis
fatnf 7f /Vf/hurff
/e /fs/>fcS tff
off/ce -
e/fry fa****,'
/#o
y*7£/j//y£'* -
” Strange to say," observes our reporter
wiring from Melbourne, "there n not a Sydney
visitor who comes here but is seized with a kind
of griping pain across the stomach. All have
had it, and even a popular bootmaker has been
laid up with it."
There must be so/ue-
■iLing peculiar about Tan Yean water.
yaj drey
/y&frr ?.-
7?an Wjt-"'?f a ' r '
jhrfp “7*?s V
%
%
(I u
X
%
Tperfs M* / aed fa V e 9 /
TausefMcyWccy W
THE CHANGES IN THE MOON.
Mr. H. C Russell, the Government Astrono-
mer, writes This (Tuesday) is the first
evening that the portion of the moon said to
be undergoing change has been visible. The
cloudy weather at 6m and then the new moon
prevented observations. Last evening (Mon-
day > the sun rose on Plinius, bin the part in
question wne still in shadow and, therefore, in-
visible when the moon set. This afternoon at 4
oc oca i looked ht the moon and 1 saw indis-
tinctly, owing to the sunlight, two new central
craters. At (1 p.m. the sunlight had so far faded
that it was possible to see the changes very
distinctly with magnifving powers up to 400-
u BOO, "' bich shouid have shown more
I 1 Jfi but the a ir. though clear, was not steady
a power. The best drawirici
,2a!r' cnptroo of Pliniu ' l . h aa miles m 4
[ lsSrV’ o ! 1 w * tb n 0 craters ineide, but instead two
Jjf ■ <iefin6d central mountains. Nasmyths
.Bdftuttful photo of this, model of ‘ the moon
Shows the same -formation— that is, two con-
spicuous" central mountains and no small
craters. Now all tins is changed, the two
mountains have disappeared, and in their places
are two conspicuous craiers, one of which Is
one mile and threc-jnarit - in diameter and the
other rather larger, while beside these is a I
third and ration smaller crater, and on the I
Other side what I think U a fourth eraser.
One of the larger new craters is surrounded
i 7 » »er.T white Wall, as if freshly thrown
up. \\ e were unable to mhj auy of
proplton going on, that is, as of flames I
ejected matter, but there was more than a
suspicion that the wall of one of the craters
got larger during the evening. However, this
must wail conflrmation. ' ’ I
fanmthers 'look kussr//, /s Tf/S 7k<ue? ~ /r
~7?u ss<°/) kV?// /As - //~s Off/C/A/. <Z?yfi?£> 7 '
Ou/k Coa'J AANT ff£A D£/<~ /- mH /? re . /f c c
/f no(A ; you fiact ayy /j/cfare uoau/
Pa/W? '/* a tyffy*’-
o/cc tyu'/i /Va aA? u'*'''/<> /abacs'a.
eg ryocA fo//aay /' uC~AL‘ ,
Olla Podrida.


An Obstacle to Federation.
NEW SOUTH WALES: “ I SAY, OLD MAN, WHY SHOULD THERE BE A FENCE BETWEEN GOOD NEIGHBOURS LIKE YOU AND ME? LET’S KNOCK IT DOWN
AND THE OTHERS WILL SOON FOOLOW SUIT.”
VICTORIA: “ NO FEAR ! NOT SO LING AS YOU KEEP THAT THERE PIG TO THREATEN MY CABBAGES.”


m
ing6o
’JTCeubr^ted
y» G^
erjy St/ b'
’ -b
•f
be
>0
I.
OD
3U
\
3P
="SS
'
mfjamoJMM
High Art Photography.— For artistic .
and effective lighting, combining softness wit
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMONI
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Cafington “By Appointment.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Buildinp sites, Perth.
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathuret-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
o
(yyox>\o
ITMIO ■
yrsor)i oxwrwcp'* woj
d
$
>foV -tlcyl t t axtc^
'ytftcieoixC* *(
F. B. WHEELER CO.,
»U 5 ('liirenrc (Sired,
H
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITMD,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
Ttr -fi fTf of New Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway. Erard, TTebd, FenricK Lipp, Ronlsch, Bluthnw, Collar and other
AYE Jrst Opined a Magnificent; Lot £4R and Eatoy organa. No such Variety
Also of the wonderful victor
Society
News comes from New Guinea that Rev.
E. B. Savage, of London Missionary Society, has
been murdered “while at prayers.” This is the
effect of the British savage going abroad to pray
for fat and prosperous niggers, while London dock
labourers, of his own blood, can’t get work at five-
pence an hour, and their wives and families fight
for offal at the back-doors of fishmongers, whose
charity is discounted by the fact that they substi-
tute the stomachs of the poor for the stipendiary
dirt-cart. St. Savage was killed while preying.
* # *
It is related of a young Anglican clergy-
man—a superb specimen of the masher clerical —
that he was accustomed to import the “ haw-
haw ” of the fashionable promenade into the pulpit
and that the passage, “ He that hath ears to hear,
let him hear,” was always rendered -“ He that
hath yahs to yah, let him yah.” The fame of this
youthful sky-pilot has, however, been eclipsed by
a worthy Queensland ecclesiastic. Bishop Webber
lately visited Bundaberg, and while there ad-
dressed an audience of children in a local church.
To the ordinary colonial youth a bishop in his
mystic and gorgeous paludaments is a weird joke.
The rising hope of this beastly country cannot
divest himself of a lurking suspicion that under
“them duds” a pair of wings may lie concealed,
or a clown’s tight-fitting su : t, or a horn and tails.
Young Mr. Banana Cornstalk M‘Gumsucker
knows that something must be concealed, else why
these elaborate trappings. The awe naturally in-
spired by the presence of a real live bishop was,
however, discounted by his Lordship’s lisp.
The discourse was of the usual order—spiri-
tual sugar-plums ad. lib. for the good little boy;
an awful indefinite something (Anglican divines
appear to be rapidly dropping the brimstone busi-
ness) for the bad little boy. The text was :
“Fear not, little flock.” One little boy, in parti-
cular, seemed to be much edified by the good
bishop’s discourse, and returned to the parental
roof spiritually strengthened and comforted. On
being asked the text he replied to the astounded
home-circle, “Flip, flop, little frog !!!”
Many and venomous were the growlings
vented over the bad quality of certain ammunition
supplied to contestants at the recent N.S.W. rifle-
matches. This is only a mild phase of one of the
contributory secrets of England’s greatness, which
the national modesty strives continuously to keep
in the dark. Away back in 1788, Governor Phillip
wrote to the Home Secretary that most of the
tools sent out in the first fleet were “as bad as
ever were sent out for barter on the coast of
Guinea.” And the descendants of those same
shoddy contractors grew and multiplied exceed-
ingly and made fortunes out of tinned offal and
“devil” blankets supplied to the troops in the
Crimea (where Tommy Atkins had to be fed by
the Frenchmen) and wherever else the “dear old
mother country ” started in on the rampage with
the Bible in one hand and a fire-stick in the other.
And their descendants grew to be lords and some-
times gentlemen, and even to this day when any
one of them sees a chance of dumping a cargo of
rubb sh into the free port of Sydney, he opens up
another aspect of the Freetrade blessings which
make life worth living for N.S.W. importers.
# * *
“May,” used usually as a sub-name, was
the most popular c .gnomon for baby girls at Syd-
ney Infant Show ; next came “Ethel, “Mabel,”
and “Edith,” while the Melbourne favourite,
“ Irene,” had few wearers. One babe rejoiced in
the ghastly appellation of “Boun.ie Coralie.”
The boys were mostly plain Bills, Jacks, Bobs,
and Tom •, though one small dude’s chance of a
prize was extinguished by the burden of Bertram
will this suit Mrs. Campbell-Praed ?
# * #
Thus a London paper :
Soma Antipodean journalist having succeeded in button-
holing Lord Kintore, got from him a lot of gush about the
pleasure with which he h ard that his friend, Lord Hope-
toun, was going out to Australia. With a superfluity of
adjectives, the Governor of South Australia describes
Lord Hopatoun’s “beautiful” place, his “priceless” works
of art, and his “ charming ” wife ; dwells on the “ample
wealth ” he derives from mines and extensive landed pro-
perty ; relates that ha is a sportsman, and kseps a pack of
harriers, and how, as High Commissioner of the General
Assembly, he “ won goldan opinions by ability, courtesy,
and open-handed hospitality.” This song of praise was
hardly friendly, for poor Lord Hopetoun cannot by any
possibility live up to it when he gets among the Austra-
lians, and all-round disappointment will be the conse-
quence.
Sold again ! There is always some financial milk
in the lordly gubernatorial cocoa-nut. What
flats the people are who believe that British lords
come to “govern” us in this beastly country at
the expense of their own bank-balances ! Govern >r
Thisor Governor That may ormay not (he generally
doesn’t) spend his official income in the province
which he is privileged to bleed ; but you may be
sure of one thing—that the average swell Governor
usually leaves England either because he wants to
escape from some social entanglement, or because
he desires to retrench and so “ get rid of the
J ews. ”
# * *
On the eve of the departure of the Soudan
Contingent the members of a Sydney suburban
church presented a distinguished officer with a dia-
mond bracelet, bought “on tick” at manufacturer’s
price, for his wife. Since then the jewellers were
compelled to place the collection of their account
in the hands of a solicitor, and the matter came
within a few days of ca. sa. hearing, when the
parson, now called to an up-country sheep-fold,
sent down the bare purchase amount and thus
stayed proceedings. The firm are now worrying
the boss-deacon for the amount of legal expenses
incurred in collection. His excuse for non-payment
is that one of the chief promoters of the gift is
now “ doing time ”in Darlinghurst. Of such is
the Kingdom of Heaven.
* # #
A Tasmanian parson, who was wont to
roam the Cataract Hill at night armed with a
bull’s-eye lantern with which he unearthed loving
couples, recently disturbed the wrong man and
received an unmerciful hiding and a pair of black
eyes before he could commence his stereotyped
reprimand.
# * *
Some time ago a father and son carried on
business in New Zealand and were very successful
—mainly through the son’s brains and activity.
The father married a second time and, after making
a will in favour of his wife, departed to the Better
Land. The wife soon followed him. and, as she
left no will, the property went to her next of kin—
her brother—leaving her stepson, whose activity
made the money, penniless.
* # *
Did anyone ever before read anything half
so nauseous as the proceedings at last meeting of
the Lady Loch Testimonial Committee in Mel-
bourne? Town Clerk Fitzgibbon was declaring
hatt he had subscribed out of the depths of his
NOT MUCH AFTER ALL.
LAWYER (to Chines witness): “DO YOU KNOW THE NATURE OF AN OATH-
HAVE YOU ANY CONSCIENCE?”
CHOW: “YES, ME HAVE ALLE SAME MUCH CONSCIENCE AS YOU.?
great, loving heart, when Herb in \V illder stung
him and the Snobbiculi by calling the fudgy testi-
monial “foreign.” But it was a meeting of
Tabbies, and at such times the men all go off
their heads.”
*& * '
Louise-Fife wGdniGnt lib.£ not incr6B-S6u.
the harmony of the royal circle. Edinburgh has
German leanings, Beatrice is annoyed at the
satisfaction so freely expressed'by the press over
the discomfiture of the petty German princes,
and her Battenberg, finding Fife a serious rival in
the smiles of Mamma, treats h.m, when possible,
with as much high-shouldered hauteur as kilts
will permit. And now, to make things worse and
more complicated, our dear old friend, Edin-
burgh, has angered Wales and Fife by setting on
foot a little intrigue to have the Act of Settlement
so altered as to provide that the Crown is to fall
to himself and his children in the event of Wales
sons dying without issue. As matters now stand,
the Princess Louise, as eldest daughter of our
coming K.,” and her children will, in the latter
event, ascend the throne.
# * *
A Boston paper speaks of a dentist’s wife
whose massive jewellery is made from the gold
extracted by her hubby from his patient s tooth-
plates and stoppings. More gruesome was the
declaration of a Sydney undertaker’s assistant to
the present writer, s me years ago, that his boss
continually robbed the dead of their false teeth
disposing of the teeth to the dentists and the gold
to the working jewellers, who “made wedding-
rings out of it.”
# * *
Lady Loch’s presentation diamonds are
expected to arrive in Melbourne on the anniver-
sary of “Tummy’s” nativity. What a loyal coin-
cidence ! And, by the way, Sir B. Benjamin, or
Benjamin B. —whichever way you put it he must
still be Benjamin—has mysteriously hinted that he
intends to pay the duty on those diamonds him-
self. The which should surely involve an earldom
at the very least.
* * *
It was the fattest baby at Darlinghurst
Show, and it was a proud mother who noticed the
interest taken in the juvenile Daniel Lambert by
a heavy masher. “A beautiful child,” quoth the
masher; “may I enquiahwhat you feed him on?”
“Smith’s food and fresh cows’ milk,” rep.ied the
gratified mother. “Then, if you take my advice,
madam, you’ll lose no time in adding a little
‘ rough on rats,’ ” was the polite and sympathetic
rejoinder, as the dignified masher moved on to the
next “exhibit,” followed by a crushed mother’s
withering glare.
# * *
This affront to the English language and
outrage upon the human understanding formed
part of the “ Little Lord Fauntleroy ’ advt. in
Melbourne dail es : “There is veiy little of sad-
ness in it, the pathetic not being attained by play-
ing upon the cords of emotion by pictures of
affliction or sorrow ; on the contrary, happiness
and good cheer shine forth at every turn, giving
comfort to those who live in the hour, being with
the characters, and yet at the same time so touch-
ing their hearts, that unconsciously the lump rises
in their throat, and the tear comes to the eye.”
Unless Williamson, Garner, or Musgrove calls
round at The Bulletin office to offer some ex-
planation of this unspeakable muck, the matter
must be placed in the hands of the police. We
cannot allow the Victorian ! ducation Act to be
thus trampled under the “ Firm’s ” feet.
* * *
That most solemn personage, Sir James
M‘Bain, last week invited the “ di-tinguished ”
money-bags of Victoria to banquet in celebration
of His Excellency’s gracious return to the fag-end
of a fat billet, and when the gorge was nearly com-
plete Mac unpacked his old constitutional soul
with words. On this greasy occasion Mac sur-
passed all previous records in the butter-making
line. He heaped eulogy on every living Australian
possessed of a handle to his name, and even re-
ferred to Parkes as “the Nestor of politics in
N.S.W.” He blessed every Governor, living or
dead, and prayed aloud for the Federal Council.
He pointed out how this hemisphere is in-
debted to “the Earl of Carnarvon, the Earl of
Rosebery, Lord Brassey, and other men of litera-
ture !” He drew comparisons between Sir Henry
Loch and Gladstone to the dire disadvantage of
the Grand Old Man. Finally, the knight fell to
patronising his pet idols in these word's ; “ Gentle-
men, without saying more, His Excellency and
Lady Loch leave us on the 16th or 17th of next
month. I desire that they may have as happy
and distinguished a position and home in South
Africa as they have had in this colony.” Let it
never more be said that Scotchmen are incapable
of making a joke. M‘Bain “desires” that the
grovel of Victoria shall be repeated in South
Africa. Are the inhabitants of that scorching re-
gion listening? If Loch and his everlasting lady
do not occupy a happy and distinguished position
j will be contrary to the desires of M‘Bain.
# # * .
We have received the following interesting
announcement: —
Talari. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, 16id Zulul, 1889.
Danotabiir Volapiikik. A. W. Bateman opotob danotis
valemU selaneles tefii koluns taliinik e tefii N.S.W. pato.
Oirepiikob siikes do tedam e dins difik topa at. If flam
anik, kcl no spodom nelijiiniko, ovilom tedon boso ko
flams taliinik, osiikob flamis topik kels oviloins spodon
volapiiko. Viidob volapiikanis seliinik yisitol Sydney
penrin obe. Pdsods lifbl in seliins kels osiikoins danotis
de ob, osotoms poton otiipo obe suami franls bals u makis
iol u suami leigik me potakomit u, if atos binos nemogik,
me noiits ume potamakis milik de net aikelik. Oisteifob
sedbn danotis kuladikiin e nulikiin. Ladet oba calik binoni
~A. W. Bateman. Box 810, 0.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., Aus-
tralia. Ladet plivadik —A. W. Bateman, Manly, N.S.W.,
Australia.
* * *
If hut half of what we hear about the
dismissal by honorary justices of that charge of in-
decent assault at Parramatta be true, the affair
only serves to offer one more illustration of the
utter rottenness of the “cheap-beak system.”
Smith, whose backyard commands a view of Jones’
backyard, is not the right man to judge Jones
when the latter gets into the police-court.
* * *
A popular clergyman has just protested
against loud yawning in church. The congrega-
tion explained that they meant it well —they
didn’t like to snore.
* * *
Reuter cabled : “The funeral of Louis 1.,
the late King of Portugal, passed off quietly.”
Surely nobody expected the deceased potentate to
kick up a disturbance.
# * *
The Sydney order of things is reversed in
New Zealand. A boating accident happened in
Wellington harbour on 23rd Oct., in which two
men lost their lives. The only other occupant of
the boat was a young woman named Speckman,
who sat on the overturned craft from 7.30 p.m.
until 12.30, when she was rescued. r ihe men sank
from exhaustion.
# # *
The “old couple” removed from the cor-
ner of King and Elizabeth-streets, Sydney, by
order of the police, are comparatively a newly-
married 1 pair.
* * *
A new departure in the N.S. W. Criminal
Courts. Capt. Lessing, on his trial for man-
slaughter, was, at the conclusion of the first day,
allowed out on bail, while the jury were locked up
for the night.
# # *
A military expedition, under the command
of Major Gudgeon, has silently left the N.Z. main-
land in the flagship Hinemoa for the Chatham
Islands, there to—enforce the payment of the dog-
tax on the refractory Maoris. The N.Z. service is
evidently going to the dogs.
*= * *
There is much grumbling in Melbourne
over the expenditure by the City Corporation of
£60,000 on the St. Kilda Road. St. Kilda is a
dead-and-gone suburb, in which no buildings are
going up; all the progress is at Toorak and Haw-
thorn. But then St. Kilda Road leads to Govern-
ment House.
* * *
The latest device for raising money at the
charitable British bazaar is the “ Slave Mart,
where ladies are elevated on a dais and knocked
down to the highest bidder, whose only possible
return for the expenditure is an introduction to
his purchase, that concession being largely de-
pendent on his eligibility.
* # *
For many years a Melbourne newspaper
proprietary insisted on paying for the admission of
their reporters to the Melbourne theatres. This was
rigidly carried out, with sati.- factory results. If
canvassers, accountants, clerks, and all those
people wanted to go they had to pay. Managers
did not then come down threatening to withdraw
a three-and-sixpenny ad vertisement unless their per-
formances werecracked up. Nowadays, the average
journalist pays to the pit, while the canvasser and
his family flaunt as deadheads in the dress-circle.
What is the quid pro quo for the free admission !
Favourable notice, of course ; puffery, butter,
slaver. The critic’s aim is to get his notice cut
out by the manager, and put in as an advertise-
ment, so he screws up the adulation higher and
higher. A Melbourne manager declared he had
120 gentlemen of the Press at his show one night
to see a lady gymnast, and the outcome next
morning was a total of nine lines notice in all the
papers. This is the other side of the picture.
Melbourne Telegraph avers that facts
have come to light relating to a so-called murderer,
executed some time ago in the Melbourne Caol,
which make it “ almost certain ” that m this case
the executed man was innocent.
A white young woman has been discovered
among the Maoris on the West Coast of the North
Island. She was lost in the bush when a child in
1874, and has been recently found in a native
village, married to a Maori. She knows not a
word of English—save a few sultry expressions she
were better without.
The Encore Fiend.
As one whom no sight or sound ere escapes
In the circle of earthly rounds,
Though the earth be pervaded by grisly shapes,
And vocal with gruesome sounds,
Yet w T e swear by the point of this good steel-pen,
In the light that research hath gleaned,
That the most discordant fowl that breathes
Is the gluttonous Encore Fiend.
The applause that a mummer’s effort paid
Is about to die away,
And another performer, be’t man or maid,
Is prepared to advance the play,
The insatiate demon at once gives tongue.
And the faint ones ’gainst wing who leaned
Must leave the shelter to which they clung.
At the yell of the Encore Fiend.
He stamps, he whistles, and claps, he bawls,
He considers not youth or age,
He thinks but of self in his rude recalls—
He’s the tyrant who rules the stage.
That the mummer is subject to Nature’s laws
Is a weakness—they must be weaned—
And all must respond to the wild applause
Of the torturing Encore Fiend.
B.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 - KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits:—
3 Years ... ... 9i per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
G Months 7l per cent.
3 Months bl per cent.
B per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid m addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
Ohnsral Manager.
scorn
EMULSION
OF PURE COD LIVER OIL
AND HYPOPHOSPHITES
Almost as Palatable as Milk.
So disguised that it can he taken,
digested, and assimilated by the most
sensitive stomach, when the plain oil
cannot he tolerated; and by the com-
bination of the oil with the hypophoa-
phitea is much more efficacious.
Remarkable as a flesh producer.
Persons gala rapidly while taking It.
SCOTT’S EMULSION is acknowledged by
Physicians to be the Finest and Best prepa-
ration in the world for the relief and cure of
CONSUMPTION. SCROFULA.
GENERAL DEBILITY. WASTING
DISEASES, EMACIATION,
COLDS and CHRONIC COUCHS.
The great remedy for Consumption, and
Wasting in Children. Sold by all Chemists.
lI(>BERTSOFS \\ H ISK Y.
£2OO PRIZES.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of £5 each, 25 £2. ami 70 ii
Pamphlets from tin* Ajfents, AXjlj'-L’ &:
CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYLXEV
Shearers and Ronseabouts—a Social
Problem.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The object of this sketch is to draw atten-
tion to the anomalous social distinctions existing
in this democratic community. We all have heard
of Dickens’ barber, who drew the line at shaving
coal-porters, and it is daily made certain, in every
line of life, that men are not equal in social status,
or before the law. Even in Little Bethel or any
of those gospel shops where the holy and haughty
congregate, there are different degrees of respec-
tability and, mayhap, sanctity, varying according
to the rent of the pews or the glossiness of the
raiment and “ nail-canister” of the orthodox.
Now, if any calling is calculated to eradicate
hereditary or acquired snobbery that of the Aus-
tralian swagman is the one. Yet at this moment
mates who have been on the wallaby-track for
years together are estranged and separated by a
gulf as deep as that between the broughamed and
villa-ed ex-publican’s wife who has the entree at
Government House and the less fortunate Boni-
face’s spouse who is still forced to tug away at the
threepenny beer-engine.
'* * *
How can the hard graft of the shearing-
shed foster this awkward line of class demarca-
tion ? Simply by means of the pride of pelf, filthy
lucre, or whatever you like to call that which
“gilds the straitened forehead of the fool,” and
leaves impecunious genius to wallow in the gutter.
» # *
The working-men of a shearing shed are
paid either by contract or by weekly wages. The
first-class includes the shearers and the wool-
pressers, the latter being few; the second com-
prises the “yarders-up,” the wool-rollers, “pickers-
up,” &c., and all come under the generic term
“rouseabout.” The squatter finds the latter in
food, which he can provide at first cost. To the
first class he sells rations, and it may be here noted
that the present Australian Shearers’ Union was
called into as much by the extortionate
rates charged for rations as by anything else. The
wool-king who inhabits a lordly mansion at Toorak
or Potts Point, and who occasionally astonishes
Belgravia with a grotesque display of wealth, was
not above charging the shearer and presser extor-
tionate prices for their flour and mutton, prices
against which the conscience of the bush store-
keeper would revolt. The squatter, like other
monopolists, made the most of his opportunities,
and those who associate the Shearers’ Union with
paid agitators and unscrupulous demagogues should
remember that the station agreement precluded
the shearers from dealing at any shop other than
that kept by the feudal sheep-owner, that anti-
podean counterpart of the British peer whose
ancestors came over with the Conqueror.
* # #
On this account it is found convenient on
most stations to board and lodge these differently-
paid workers in two buildings known as the
“ shearers’ hut” and the “ rouseabouts’ hut.” These
domiciles must not be confounded with the “ men’s
hut ” occupied all the year round by the regular
station-hands. This circumstance alone estranges
shearers from rouseabouts and several others tend
to widen the breach. One class earns far more
money, and being paid by contract is virtually in-
dependent of “gaffer ” and “ boss ” law. Then,
again, a great change has come over the shearer of
late years. Formerly he, like the rouseabout,
came principally from the “ swagman ” class, but
in most instances he has lately settled down on a
selection and developed into a full-blown ‘ * cocky. ”
As those “ ringers,” who, instead of saving their
money, “ knocked down their cheques like men,”
are dying out, their places are taken by selectors’
sons, young sturdy Australians who have never
know bad times, and are, consequently, inclined
to look with contempt on the “ whaler.” The
shearer of this breed is altogether unlike hifj pre-
decessor. He does not approach the station foot-
sore and weary to ask the boss for a job and the
evening dole of rations. On the contrary, he has,
like an ordinary business man, written to the
squatter and secured an engagement months
before, and, should ho decide to shear in more than
one shed, his dates are arranged with a nicety
worthy of the smartest commercial traveller. His
arrival is expected and proper accommodation pro-
vided for himself and his horses. When his last
sheep is shorn he squares up accounts and rides
off, but not to “ blue his stuff ” at the nearest bush
shanty. There are other calls on his time and
money, and as fast as his nag can carry him he
scuds across plain and scrub to his little home in
the Goulburn yalley or the Wimmera district
where the corn is fast ripening and the harvest
close at hand. All these things naturally tend
to produce a kind of ill-feeling between
shearers and rouseabouts, and if the former
looks down on the latter, he is in turn
cordially hated and despised. The shearer for
the most part regards the rouseabout as a home-
less vagrant ; the rouseabout looks upon the
shearer as a mean varlet who has acquired a home
by parsimony, and if the latter finds fault with
the quality of the station rations, his rival reminds
him of how “cookies” are forced to live on
’possums during the winter.
* * #
As at work, so at play there is much differ-
ence between the men. The shearers talk politics
and maintain warm debates over the land-question
or the merits of Protection, and the papers are
eagerly scanned to ascertain what is going on in
oPai’liament. The rouseabout, if he takes up a
journal at all, searches for the latest news of
Sullivan or Jackson, Searle or O’Connor. While
the “big-cheque” man is ruminating over the
crops, the other enjoys himself to the full, and in
the rouseabout’s hut a concert is sometimes held
which would shame those amateur entertaiments
got up partly for charitable or vain-glorious pur-
poses. Many a voice mingles in the chorus of a
shearing shed which has thrilled fair hearts in
fashionable drawing-rooms at the other end of the
world. When Ouida’s novel “Under two Flags ”
was publi-hed a few years ago the critics agreed
that it was very clever, but extravagant, im-
probable, &c., <&c. “It is ridiculous,” they
said, “to suppose that a luxuriant guards-
man could for years pursue the life of a
common soldier in the motley Algerian army. ”
Yet in River in a there may be found at the present
moment more than one rouseabout who has been a
garrison swell of the first water. After all, truth
is stranger than fiction. We once knew—such are
the vicissitudes of the aristocracy—a dashing
bank-clerk, who was the idol of an English market-
town and whose popularity among the fair sex
necessitated an expenditure in jewels and other
decorations which sent him to prison and subse-
quent exile. He is now on the Mnrrumbidgee,
happy in the possession of a double blanket, a
A SENSATION ILLUSTRATED.
A few blows from the feet of a couple of policemen in attendance sufficed to put the
fire out, though a little damage has been done in that the mutilated papers form part of
the records of the court. —Sydney Daily.
billy, and a second shirt. Many an old “ whaler ”
would not care to travel in company with so
slovenly a mate. Excepting the distinction we
have spoken of —all men on the shearing-boards are
equals. The broken-down swell rubs shoulders
with the Woolloomooloo larrikin, the liberated
gaol-bird, or the runaway sailor. Such is life.
# * *
Even on small stations, where there is no
separate accommodation for shearers and rouse-
abouts and where both consequently sit at the
same table and sleep beneath the same roof, this
bitter feeling is not allayed. In such cases the
squatter charges for the total mess bill, but deducts
the share owing by the rouseabouts who are
engaged on weekly wages and “tucker” terms.
The shearers believe that they pay the profit which
the squatter makes on rations supplied to his own
men, and they are naturally discontented with the
arrangement.
# # *
When the shed is “cutout” and all are
paid off, the “cocky” shearers mount their nags
and see no more of their fellow-workmen until
next season, unless a few of the latter decide after
the cheque is swamped to earn the wages paid by
the despised “ cooky ”in the harvest-field. Those
who have no horses are not always forced to walk
to the nearest bush town. By the way, it is
always easy to tell whether a bushman approach-
ing a town holds a cheque. If he does, his record
will equal that of Perkins or Joe Scott. On the
other hand, a match between a penniless swagman
and an able-bodied snail should be a good betting
event. When a shed is “cut out” the nearest
hotels usually send out their wagonettes and busi-
ness touts, and though they travel in the same
vehicle, more deference is shown to the horseless
shearer than to the nagless rouseabout. Even at
the shearers’ ball the same snobbery prevails, and
many a belle from the local Chinese camp turns
up her nose at an otherwise eligible partner
because he is only a “ rouseabout.” The swagman
who is a shearer despises the swagman who is a
rouseabout until the shearer has been shorn and
the rouseabouts “lambed down,” and when rum
and “ tanglefoot ” have been replaced by billy tea,
then only will they drink out of the same panni-
kin. Tims the shearer and the rouseabout are
reduced to the same level by the leveller only
second to King Death - i e., Drink.
THE BIG IRISHMAN.
The prisoners at St. Helena (Brisbane)
prison have lately struck work as a protest against
the bad porridge served out. Apropos, the escapees
Clarke and Farrell said that the cook was “the
king of Geelong gaol. ”
The insurance companies are hauling the
sunken steamer Centennial (the old Albion) off
the bottom of the Beautiful Harbour, in order
that they may hand her over to the owner, Mr.
Ellis, with their compliments, as good as new.
M‘Namara, Kelly, and Murphy were cap-
tured at Creswick charged with dynamiting the
£l9O-holding safe of Ballarat Auctioneer O’Farrell.
Despite their names, it may be wagered that their
policy was “ More Fiscal than Popery.”
It is a bye-word in the Melbourne licensed
victualling trade that the Customs Department
employs Inspector O’Connor at about £4OO a year,
Expert Analyst Smith at another good round
figure, and two respectable expert informers at
good screws too, all to advertise Kennedy's
brandy. Every week, in the District Court,
there is a batch of cases against pubs, for keeping
brandy in the wrong bottles, Hennessy’s label
over equally healthy, but cheaper spirit, which is
not Hennessy. Now this game costs the Victorian
Government about £lOOO a year all for the
glory of Hennessy. This is too much of
the monkey. If the public were being poisoned,
or injured, it would be another thing, but the
saying is—Let Hennessy pay for the protection of
his own trade interests. Suppose a publican got
his customers to pay for water as beer, why should
the State step in? The thing, indeed, amounts to
a scandal. If every tradesman were protected
and advertised gratis in the same way the State
would go insolvent. There have been about 100
of these Hennessy prosecutions, all purely at
Government cost, and it is time the nonsense was
stopped. No other firm is similarly favoured.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Eiffel revives the project for a steel-bridge
over the English Channel. The bridge would only
cost 35 millions sterling, while the tunnel can be
done for 75 per cent. less. It would be done, but
for the English alarmists, headed by Cambridge
and Wolseley, who emulate the stupidity of
Palmerston, when he blocked the Suez Canal in
every possible way, as a blow at the British
supremacy in India.
Says ‘ ‘ Protestant ” in the agony column
of a London paper ;
“ See how dexterously Dr. Manning secured precedence
of the Lord Bishop of London ! Observe the cheers raised
by the agitators for the titular Archbishop of Westminster,
and the denunciation of the Lord Archbishop of Canter-
bury, and note the presence of 40,000 Papists among the
strikers. The consciences of these men are in the keep-
ing of Dr. Manning’s priests. They are puppets who may
be let to strike, or to return to work at once at the
bidding of the priests. We are face to face with the
Jesuit power- our malignant and hereditary foe. And
now mark. Last year the highest civic honours in the
city of London were conferred upon a Papist, and further
honours have been, it is said, destined for the votaries of
idolatrous Rome.”
You can’t muzzle the “ yellow dog.”
An Insidious Foe.
The recent report of the President of the Central
Board of Health on the subject of Typhoid Fever,
is a revelation that will startle the most careless,
and throughly arouse all who have the public
health and well being at heart. Between the
Christmas holidays and the time of the President’s
report, fifty-two cases of Typhoid Fever were
reported, more than 50 per cent, of which proved
fatal.
Dr. Rose, is reported by the public press, to
h ive said at the same meeting that if all Typhoid
oases were reported, it would be found that the
percentage of deaths was much larger. He
believed that at least 75 per cent, of the cases
ended fatally. Typhoid Fever had many phases
which were frequently mistaken for other diseases,
In all cases the same poison was at work con-
centrating itself on the iveakest organs of the subject,
but that all cases were preventable.
The “London Lancet’’says the death rate for
Typhoid throughout the Australian colonies is far
higher than in England. In Queensland, of late,
being eight times as fatal.
While there may not, as yet, be any immediate
cause for alarm, it is impossible to avoid anxiety
on the score of the appearance of Typhoid Fever
in our midst. Typhoid, in a mild form, or induced
by exceptional causes in individual instances, is, of
course, always with us. But in its aspect as an
epidemic, it becomes a grave and serious matter
indeed ; and that there is danger of its spread in
this relation, is unhappily apparent. It is the
part of wisdom, therefore, that people should be
on their guard, and that every care should be
taken which sanitary science suggests to fight back
the foe. The purity and cleanliness of our habit-
ations, and their surroundings are imperative
matters. All deposits of offal, dirt, and the like
must be carefully prevented. Disinfectants should
be used freely. Milk should be boiled ere it is
consumed, and water well filtered, or still better,
distilled. But these precautions are not all
sufficient. If we would escape contagion, move
unharmed in the midst of an epidemic, our blood
must be pure and healthy. Now, whether from
one cause or another, there are very few people
whose blood is pure and healthy. The habits of
our daily lives, indulgence in the pleasant vices
of eating and drinking; the inhalation of impure
air, not to speak of the peculiarly debilitating
effect! upon the human system of the recent
changeable and trying weather, all tend to the
demoralisation of the circulatory system, and the
disintegration of its chemical constituents. The
phosphates are diminished in quantity, and
weakened nervous energy is the result. In this
condition the system is unable to avoid contagion,
or to throw off disease, if infected. No person is
safe whose blood is poorer corrupt, and it behoves
everybody who values health and life to remember
this.” Yet it is remarkable how few do so, until
stricken down; the more so that it is so easy to
keep the blood, and the organs upon which it acts,
pure and uncontaminated. A regular appeal to
Warner’s safe cure and safe pills is all that is
needed to guard against the insidious poisons
which surround us; remembering that these
agents have been instrumental in saving thousands
from infection, and that they have faithfully
stood the test of experience. Thus fortified, the
blood is invulnerable to the influences of disease
germs. The constitution, when restored to its
original and natural state, is impervious to disease,
and it would seem that tliis serious fact is one of
those lessons of Providence which have been laid
down for our guidance and warning. Health,
then, is the essential; and health to the blood,
and, therefore, to the who’e system can be, and is
to be accomplished, by an application of the reme-
dies to which reference has been made.


Goddard, the veritable man - eater of
Broken Hill, who recently chewed up Owen
Sullivan, the ex-local champion, has another job
on at Broken Hill, on November 14, when he
meets Charlie Dunn. From accounts of the God-
dard-Sullivan fight it would appear that no one but
a really scientific man will have any show with the
powerful and smashing, if unscientific, Goddard.
We are afraid Dunn has taken more on hand than
he can successfully get through with.
A Sydney advertisement: —
IVTEW south wales bush missionary
SOCIETY.
Wanted, an earnest Christian Man for the above.
Must be well acquainted with the bush and accus-
tomed to the management of horses.
The earnest man acquainted with horses as a rule
can only be excelled in his choice of language by
the ardent person who is accustomed to bullocks.
o
o
ò
/UenITS .
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3&«5 Barack 3tr^t.
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 5, 1889.
UNDERH FOR PUKLIG WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Roads Department Annual Stores,
1890.
Deposit of £5 required for each
contract.
Drain Pipes
Engineers’ Stores
Timber
Tents, &c.
Brushware
Bridge, Hunter River at Elderslie,
Ironwork, Contract No. 1
Ditto ditto ditto, Erection, Con-
tract No. 2
Bridge over Box Creek, Road
Balranald to Ivanhoe
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Warialda
Bridge, Jiggi Creek, road Lismore
to Jiggi _
Bridge, Fairfield Creek, road Gun-
daroo to Yass
Concrete Lining, &c., Potts Hill
Reservoir (fresh tenders)
Removal of Rode at end of Wharf,
Cundletown, Manning River
Bridge, Hunter River, at Hills-
borough
Bridge, Myall River, at Bella-
delah. Erection (fresh tenders)
Mortuary Hospital for the Insane,
Newcastle (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Narone Creek, road Mill-
field to Wollombi
Bridge, Byron Creek, 2nd Cross-
ing, road Clunes to Byron Bay
Bridge, North Arm, Brunswick
River, road Tweed River to
Brunswick River
Caretaker’s Cottage, Newcastle
(Water Supply)
Bridge over the Parramatta River,
at Hospital for the Insane
Bridge, Byron Creek, Ist Crossing,
road Clunes to Byron Bay
Pipe Laying, Chatswood to St.
Leonards, Ryde to Hunter’s
Hill, Contract No. 64a, North
Shore, W.S.
Richmond Bridge, Redecking
Broken-hill Gaol, Erection of
Broken-lull Post and Telegraph
Office, Erection
Court-house, Junee, Erection of
Coraki Post and Telegraph Office
Bridge, Warrego River at Gum-
ball, road Bourke to Wandamig
Custom House, Newcastle, Re-
pairs (fresh tenders)
Little Bay Hospital. Additions
Repairs, Court House, Armidale
Police Barracks, Deepwater—
Erection
Court House, Inverell—Fencing
Technological Museum, Drainage
Wednesday,
Nov. 20,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday
Dec. 4,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Business Announcements.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic We(), Grindery, «Vy.,.
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
fJIHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
JACK JEM" THE BOX.
Saturday, November 9, THE GRASSHOPPER.
Admission —55., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
||ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Eignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OE
The Grand Military and Romantic Drama, by
William Gillette, Esq., entitled,
UESZeIcA Toy tlie Enemy.
Cox Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
jg«CHOOL OF ARTS.
Every Evening at 8- MR. SNAZELLE.
“ An Incomparable Performance-”—London Times.
MR. SNAZELLE, A TRIUMPH.
Mr. James MacMahon has the honor to announce the
Complete Success of the famous Mr. Snazelle (specially
engaged in Europe, together with the whole of his
entourage, by Mr. F. E. Hiscoks) and who will present
nightly his unique, beautiful and fascinating entertain-
ment,
MUSIC, MIRTH, SONG and STORY.
Incidental to which will be exhibited a series of marvel-
lous pictures by an entirely new scientific process, which
have proved a revelation to the Sydney public. This
department will be under the direction of Professor
Huddlestone and staff, who have accompanied Mr. Snazelle
from England.
PRICES—4s., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson & Co.’s Music Warehouse.
OWN HALL, YOUNG
(Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 16-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
or off at will.
Terms on application to
W. 3W. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mai ne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.40.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
T-H-E S-Q XJ I-R B.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Dion Boucicault, Jun.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9,
D I P L O 3&s: A. o 7ST.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
R
OYAL MUSEUM
AND
PALACE OF
■O OYAL MUSEUM
AMUSEMENT,
Immediately opposite Town Hall, George Street.
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon.
A GREAT SUCCESS!
Five Splendid Floors Full of Attractions!
THE DAILY RENDEZVOUS!
Amusements and Exhibitions of all Descriptions!
Concert Room ! Freak of Nature Room !
ILLUSION ROOM!
Mechanical Moilrl Koom! Variety Room!
One Shilling to all. Children Sixpence.
otis Elevator. electric light.
NOVELTIES ALWAYS ENGAGED.
HAROLD ASHTON, Manager.
G A I E T Y THEATRE.
' < • EVERY - EVENING AT 8 O’CLOCK.
The Coiiliuoiiliil Id dorado Fiitertaliiment.
Professor W. Feri'on.,
. ’ . ' . —AND—
-1 Miss A-da, Fitzroy,
1 < THE ANTI-SPIRITUALISTS.
• Prices, 35., 25., Is. . :
T. V. TWINNING.
U O N D I aquarium:
The Most Popular
PIGNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS OP AUSTRALIA,.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid. Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4<l’,.
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
GETTYSBURG CYCLOKAIWA!
What is it?
The grandest, the most instructive, the most
realistic in every detail of beauty and subli-
mity ; unquestionably the most perfect exhibi-
tion ever presented in Australia.
Have you seen it ? Have you seen it ?
Opposite Kedfern Railway Station.
Admission (10 a.m. to 10 p.m.), 25.; Children, Is.
Special —Next Sunday, 3to 10. Half-Price.
c
Y
C
L
O
R
A
M
A
Shipping.
JQIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
Carthage .. 5011 C. E. Baker .. Dec. 21 [Dec. 27
Victoria . .16268 G. F. Cates ..'.Jan. 4 Jan. 10
Vaietta . .14919 R. F. Briscoe ..I Jan. 18 )Jan. 24
0) T 3
NovlS
Dec. 2
DeclG
Dec 30
Jan 13
Jan 27
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
For all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. - Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Maoquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OP DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
Steamer.
Kaiser Wil-
helm 11. ..
Elbe ..
Leave
Adelaide
Sema-
phore.
1889.
Dec. 11
Jan. 8
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street,
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and Sajg Francisco evep' four weeks, sailing as under: —
Eadusteamer carries a duly qualified surgeon. .-
These steamers-are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship . Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland” free of-charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu’de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
tion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
Furniture, &c.
E W T O y~AN D ~TTi b;
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room-side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON T4RTE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock
Patented.
CHAIR
m
This chair adjusts, itself to any position, from
sitting to reelin’'ng and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to bo used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. Gd. extra.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
O' CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
o
TALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
mm-u
Ui
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
o
ED STEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
ò ò
SPRING MAI-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
13. Gd. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. Gd.; Washstands, from 1 ■’
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes,!
80s. ; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar bi
boards, from £3 10s.-; Clothes Horses, from
10s. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from o •
Cl ARDENT SEATS, 10s. Verandah Chairs,
)T Indian Long-arm Lounges.- NEvvioi
and LAMB. .
T3ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
Li 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from •
Gd.. etc.; special designs, extra quality. J-NEW
-and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring
O’Connell Streets. -
BEDSTEADS, nil sizes, at Lowest Price 3 ’
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O Conn
Street. -
ewton and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND _
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
N
SPRINf
Show Rooms and Manukaotory ;
[NO and O’CONNELL STREETS-


/"COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, &c.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of —
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes,
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to —
-A.. 3VI. Mlarlts & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney,
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
o
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN”
3rT rift fi R of an
OU, A n, Tobacconists,
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS.
o
Wholesale Agents: A, M. MARKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYDNEY
•ao/VH
«iAimd„
am
THf
piD
THE
“PLUM”
1t.4/OR,
\1 '' just received a further shipment of these celebrated Razors, and all Orders standing’ over
; ' vl *‘ be executed forthwith. We desire to thank those Mho have waited so patiently for this
shipment, and beg to say that we have made such arrangement as will prevent us running out of stock
in the future. Price—Single Razor, 10s. Gd,; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £l Is,
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 &c 682 G-ZEOIR-G-IE STREET, ZDZCsTIEir.
JOHKT BUCKHAM,
449 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Drav and Waggon Covers
(greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottles, Coolers, Whim
Buckets, Horse Rugs, Nose Bags, Oiled Loin Cloths. Send
to or call at
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
(Oldest Established House iu the Trade).
SURVEYORS TENTS A SPECIALITY.
3
r'Jgf'A
■» : «aI3:V
wu
NH
r*M<
-
■sass
v^ite
m
*»■
I
£
yy
BbH
"ll’MJte
nn
SH4
r\r yp v <y ? y
i K: j : jj :i,: rs ~s i
[y.f9 (Tinian imßt cfiNDirft d
ml ptNomo
Vsai’ugw*iaia
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE ACENTS
a 5
fyy
l*:
BAYLEE & CO.,
.‘it# rollin' NtrfH, M<-|i><>iiru*.
SHEVILL & CO.,
Corner Queen Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
o
Branch
omw
f 32 Chapel St.. Prahran. •
V 2 Albert HU. Windsor. .
Branch
Omm
; care
are
Selected with the greatest regard for Purity,
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
and for the
SOOTHING and BENEFICIAL EFFECT
which they impart to the Skin and Complexion.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.
DR. SCOTT’S
CRE MINE ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC BELTS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSETS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC HAIRBRUSHES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC FLESH-BRUSHES
DR. SCOTT’S
_ ELECTRIC TOOTHBRUSHES
DR. SCOTT’S
_ „ ELECTRIC INSOLES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC TEETHING NECKLACES
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC HAIR-CURLERS
DR. SCOTT’S
ELECTRIC CORSETS AND BELTS
arc universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption, Diar-
rhnea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Dropsy, Paralysis,
Loss of Voice, Hysteria, Cutaneous Diseases,
Nervousness, Backaches, Indigestion, Palpitation,
etc., and have cured some of the most obstinate
and distressing oases after all remedies (so-called)
have failed. Send for Illustrated Circular and
Price List, sent free to any address on application.
Pall Mall Electric Association,
62 Margaret Street, Stdnet.
P.O. Bo* BSI
LANDLORDISM AS A MONOPOLY.
There are probably more evictions in London
yearly than there are in Ireland in five years, and
it is certain that the evictions of tenants by land-
lords in New York city are much in excess of
those in the Emerald Isle. Eor in the year 1855-6
there were ejected in Ireland 2088 families, aggre-
gating 8817 persons; in a similar period in New
Wirk 22,801 families or 121,020 persons, on the
estimate of five persons to each family. There are
many large buildings in the capital cities of the
world where human beings are huddled so closely
that each building, the property of one landlord,
contains over a thousand souls, and it is said that
jn a New York block 2500 men, women, and chil-
dren eat, sleep, and work. That single block witli
its 2500 inhabitants would be reckoned a fair-sized
town in New South Wales.
Ihe life endured by people thus crowded
together cannot be conceived by the happier
folks who have their homes in pleasant parts of
the city, while even the neighbours of the evicted
have little time to note the worst distresses of
their unfortunate neighbours. An eviction is no
new thing to them. They have seen too many to
think about the latest one that is taking place on
the third, fourth, fifth, sixth floor. Some new
family will occupy the vacated room next week ;
and if they don’t pay rent promptly they must
also go.
(So the family get moved to another apology for
home, and life is re-commenced, but on a lower
scale, and each eviction gives them an ugly push
down the Hill of Difficulty. The father gets
locked up for drunkenness, and his unfortunate
wife cannot scrape together enough money through
washing and scrubbing to buy food, far less pay
rent. Thus the family descends lower and lower ;
the inexorable “pay up'or go ”of the landlord for
ever driving them forth to wander homeless
among a wildnerness of miserable homes.
Until 1882 a tenant in New York could be
ejected after four hours’ notice; now five days’
notice is obligatory. As,the law is now working,
the tenant in 80 cases out of every 100, after mak-
ing things as disagreeable to the landlord as possi-
ble, either move 3 or pays up before the five days
have expired. If he pays arrears and a small fine
to the Court he gets two days more time, and in
case of sickness a stay of two days ij also granted.
Force is used in less than a quarter of the cases
where eviction papers have been obtained. When
thedispossessment is by violence, it is generally due
to the tenant’s ugliness or drunkenness. In 70 per
cent, of the evictions, drink and shiftlessness are
said to be the chief causes. The landlord always
regards the non-payment as due to one of these
two curses of the poor, the court officers are so
informed, and, consequently, the condition of the
evicted often fails to attract the pity it might
otherwise receive.
It is thus made apparent that evictions are com-
moner in large cities than in the agricultural dis-
tricts of Ireland j and that farm rents being paid
yearly, while house rent is paid weekly, it is more
rapid, and of more frequent occurrence to the same
unfortunate family.
Things in Sydney have not yet reached this un-
fortunate position, but they are gravitating in
that direction. As yet we are not cursed with
tenement houses ; large barracks, unhealthy, like
stranded wells, overcrowded with a freight of
human lives ; but their erection is contemplated.
It wants but this to fill our cup of misery brim-
ful!. What is the cause of this evil? you ask.
In brief, the only answer is—the monopoly of
landlordism. Its remedy ? you inquire. Here we
are puzzled. Land Nationalisation, the Single
Tax is the usual answer ; but these remedies are
not yet among the prescriptions of the govern-
ment quack-doctors, so in a common-sense way
we should say to individuals, the only way to
make sure of avoiding this misery is by the pur-
chase of a home of your own. This luxury most
people cannot afford by ordinary means, and
therefore purchase by means of deferred pay-
ments may be introduced to their notice. By this
system land is acquired with immediate settle-
ment, and paid for by monthly instalments, spread
out over 10 years’ time. A long time you say.
Yes, but also a long time to pay rent for what is
no nearer to being yours at the end of the time.
The Land that at present is best fitted for pur-
chase is named Harcourt and is distant six miles
from Sydney, in the immediate neighbourhood of
t iat flourishing suburb, Burwood, and within a
stone s throw of one of the stations on the ahout-
to-be-oonstruoted loop-line to Liverpool.
Two hundred acres of rich, black soil, gently
moping down towards Cook's River, high ami welf-
orained naturally, thoroughly cleared of timber,
>a\e been cut up into block for sale by a system
, deferred payments. The property has
> f 'cn intersected by carefully kerbed and metalled
loads of <)i)ft. and Cfift. in width, bordered by dry
mid wide footpaths and lined on either side by
umbrageous trees of endless variety.
furthermore, in order to stimulate buyers to
cany settlement, the sum of £lO,OOO sterling (ton
thousand pounds) will bo divided among the first
' apportioned in accordance with the date
ft, td the value of buildings. Not only
1 'bidding Bonuses be distributed, hut punctual
payers will pirtieipate in the sum of Three
thousand Pounds (UfOOO), which will lie distri-
"ut. d during the first three and-a half years after
purchase. Then, in purchase by this system,
lore need lie no fear of forfeiture. For should
euytlnng prevent punctual payment, on applica-
tion to the vendors, the owner will he allowed a
Period of Three Months Grace in which to regain
'us pecuniary equilibrium. From this system the
extortion of intrrrH on ha Inner <inr has been wholly
e iin mated. There are many other advantages
“Ppended to the purchase of Harcourt Kstate that
cannot here lie detailed. Intending buyers will bo
given Free Railway Inspection Passes, descriptive
Pamphlets, tables of terms, plans and maps, on
explication at the Company’s offices, while the
imrwood agent will drive them over the estate
end make everything clear to them. The address
fit the Vendors is Phillips k. Co.. Austral Banking
end Land Proprietary Co., Carrington Chandlers,
h * astlercagh street, Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
W. Wilson”: The revenue from taxation
''_ as 108. sd. per head in N.S.W. last year, and £2
ii a' at. , I , n . yudpria “ Dunedinite ” : Many thanks....
.it (Armidale): It may do, but will have to be
entirely re-drawn “E.J.0.”; The red rag is, we sup-
The Bulletin, and the bull is John Bull
a oooAS’ : ,?. le Population of London in 1888 was
4,282,921.... A.W.0.”: No, thanks. Brown-Sequard’s
hypodermic discovery will for the next six months afford
humorists of your type an opportunity of re-hashing all
the ram-lamb-donkey-pig-goose-monkey yarns of 20 years
ago told concerning the transfusion of b100d.... “ E.VV.” ;
T|)? r ® is no paper in Australia, except The Bulletin,
which has “ twice the circulation of any other paper.”.
Smith ” (\\ agga Wagga); (Sketch capital, handed to
artist.... “ Inverell ": We agree with j'ou, but unreason-
ing public prejudice is as yet too strong in the matter....
| John Watt” (Drake); Stamp received. Will send you
A Golden Shanty” when published “Ballarat
’ : Cold top of the H.G. brand ought to be g00d..,.
L.J.D.” : So far as can be seen on close inspection, all is
fair and square...Warrigal Jack”: .Many thanks.
Your present contribution contains some passages of
which we may yet make use.. “ Mem Mit.” : Many thanks.
•••>“ O. N. Lovell ” (Hobart): Duly forwarded. “ Jas.
Osborne”; Don’t know what you mean by our “Jack
and the Beanstalk” picture. Nothing but brutality can
result from brutality. Thanks....“ Maldon”: Better
Crick’s bad language than the cowardly suppressions of
the daily press. The biggest liar, Tennyson to the con-
trary notwithstanding, is the man of silence.. . “ Tinten-
bar ” : Thanks.. ...“Baby Show”; Flapdoodle
“ Edward Jamieson ” (S. Melb.): Your argument is
merely this—Murderers should be killed because if kept
m gaol their labour interferes with free labour ; people
should be choked to suit the immediate necessities of the
Trades-hall “ A. 8.” :We print your blank verse—
why, we don’t know :
“ What is Love? said jesting Dootor, nor waited for an
answer.
‘ Why ! ’Tis the intercommunion of the souls of two
young donkeys.’”
.... “ Acrostic” :We thought it was a riddle “ Peter
Simple”: Your intentions are good, we feel sure, but
your penmanship sits on your muse like undigested pork
on a sleeper’s chest. Never heard of M‘Kenzie
“Geo. Adamson ” (Uralla): Sorry to say you’ll have to pay.
You have signed their ordinary cast-iron contract against
which verbal conditions will not avail. Never sign any-
thing without reading it through. The form of contract
appears not to bind them to deliver the parts at any par-
ticular times. Whether you take delivery or not you will
bylaw' have to pay all the same after the parts have been
tendered to y0u.... “ Free Land”: If evidence were needed
that the ordinary political Freetrader has no sympathy
with the Single-tax movement and only uses its advocates
for his own selfish ends, it is furnished in the following
sentence by Henry George:—“Since the publication of
‘Protection or Freetrade?’ I have several times been
offered large orders for the circulation of that book if I
would consent to print an edition in which the
parts showing the connection between the tariff
question and the land question should be omitted.”....
“Banana Jimmy”: Your tip has been ours for years....
“Jas. Saunders”: Engine-cleaners get from 50s. to £3
weekly in America. Sawmill fireman, £8 per month and
found, according to ’Frisco Morning Call “H. Camp-
bell”: There is only one humorist in England that we
know of, and he is the fellow who writes “The Office
Boy’s Diary” in the Pink ’Un “Totter Along”:
Thanks “J. A. Brown”: Obliged for extract. You
ought to send to J. P. Abbott a sample of your splendid
caligraphy as an ideal for State-schoolmasters “ D. G.
McGee”: The Sr. James’s Gazette needn’t worry itself
about the dock-strike funds. Its adherents contributed
none of the money.... “A. G. Walton”: Yes, Henry
George was arrested in Ireland as a suspect “Swag-
man ” : Soliloquy wants a good deal of patching. Glad to
have from you something a little shorter “Arthur
Oswald”: If the farmers use glacialine to preserve the
milk they send to town, and if glacialine over-alkalises the
milk, then the adulterators should be prosecuted
“ Kaiapoi ” : Sorry to say there is no chance just now. ..
“F.D.” : It would never do to print verses about a man’s
(lead ma, no matter how long she was dead “ Danger-
field ” (Brisbane): Thanks. But, curiously enough, we
had anticipated your suggestion. [Many letters held over.]
A CHAPTER OF MYSTERIES
It has been said, and with much truth, that one-
half the world does not know how the other half
lives. It is a mystery to many how some of our
present representatives ever managed to find their
way into the House, and to others how they manage
to keep there. Again to many it is a mystery how
some of our so-called politicians and statesmen
manage to get certain much envied letters of the
alphabet tacked to the tail end of their names.
Jones wonders how Smith can keep his head
above water, while Smith cannot comprehend at
all how it is Jones manages to cut it so “flash.”
Brown cannot understand how he could be so
foolish as to have lent Robinson that £lO
note, and would like to solve the mystery
as to how he can get it back. To those
holding I reetrade views it is a mystery how
so many people, apparently sane enough on other
points, can possibly be so deluded as to think as
they do, whilst their friends with Protectionist
proclivities think very much likewise of them. To
the uninitiated it is perfectly marvellous how—
true as an arrow—the master-mariner guides his
craft from shore to shore over the boundless ex-
panses of the ocean; or how a conjurer, as, for
instance, Professor Perron, at present with us, can
so easily succeed in deceiving his audiences, their
eyes open and every faculty awake, keenly
endeavouring to penetrate his mysteries, or how
his fair coadjutor, Miss Ada Fitzroy, after being
lashed and hitched up as if the very life of those
binding her depended upon the security of their
knots, in less time than it takes to tell, is free and
“manifesting,” and in as short a time is back
again into her bondage, the knots apparently
intact. Vertex, it would never do if all the fairer
sex could make as free with their matrimonial
bonds. To the uninitiated it is astounding how
the astronomer can calculate, to a fractional part
of a second, the next eclipse of sun or moon, or
when some long-lost comet may be expected to
re appear, and on what portion of the globe’s sur-
face these phenomena will be visible; how the
chronometer-maker can manufacture clocks and
watches which scarcely vary from one end of the
year to theother; or how it is that St. Jacobs oil will
relieve and cure cases of chronic rheumatism and
neuralgia, or stiffened limbs, cases of years’ stand-
ing, after having been treated by learned and
eminent physicians, who have finally been obliged
to relinquish them in despair. Yet the facts re-
main that the mariner does find his way unerringly
from land to land, Miss Fitzroy does escape her
bonds, the a-.tronomer does faultlessly forecast
eclipses of the heavenly bodies, the chronometer-
maker does manufacture almost exact timekeepers,
and St. Jacobs oil does cure the most stubborn of
cases after all other remedies have failed, as thou-
sands have testified of all classes of the com-
munity.
THE PARSON’S ADVICE.
He was a clergyman, and hailed from England,
and this is what he said to some friends in the
smoking-room of the Tarawera on a very recent
trip: “Yes, I carry a Waterbary, and have
always found it quite reliable. I’m fond of fish-
ing, and often wade a great deal when playing a
salmon or landing a big trout. Every time 1 used
to get my watch wet formerly it cost me twelve
and sixpence to put it right' again. I bought a
Waterbury, and although it has often been under
water, its accuracy has never been affected ; so
I have ceased to carry any other for the last two
years.”


Please note the Address —
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barbers’ Supply House,
>BO and 682 GEORGE ST R E ET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Agentx for the rcUhrntcd
“PLUM” RAZORS.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 9C.Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow 7 .
Nota Bens ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hockings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 0 0.,
° CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
EARL fXG IIARBO UR,
WOOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ax.
AUCTIOBTEEBS.
GrJEI-Ajnxr S^X-3E3SnS^i:3E33Sr.
DR. sr*EIEIK.’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 York Stroet.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New 7 Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other w 7 ords, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any w 7 ay interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box,
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m.; 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
<e
°>CTii
&
TO ITOUMG 3MC 3E5 I<T.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r PHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
L found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OP MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
....... 11
.lift-,--!——l*
,+-*.'!• ».m ■ v-.-.
■' T~ J *SH«»™«nia: jff- ' .:“
I ■ . .' 1 ' '_,«3
F; f r - if • -rh
j" _X
m
*
.■ ■• ■•'■'■A.-J.
■ u
• V -
ELkCliilC PHOTO ENG. CO.. 8 BRIDGE S! i SYDNEY
rhe Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... Proprietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK! JUST LAUDIUG-.
F arlelgn, KTettlielm, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
XO x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents Ur the aboV* Ur New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY 1
IMPORTED LEATHERS, Ac.; and of the following Si-kciat. Links: IVrrlrss «;ioss, Sailu |>ol|«|i,
marking Tanners' Tools and Materials, Indents Executed on Lai Durable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
ROOM 5
ltiw
CONSU
sgapwarws
D« RICHARDS
C
\m\
Mil
m
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning ox-
smarting sensation, Headaches, Dx-owsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On i-eceipt of Gd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wx-apper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
hook will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you he perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cui’e of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a b'st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their eases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Oft Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
UKjgPBUTIOX Jilt EE.
The Largest Saloon
IN THE
Southern Hemisphere.
[See Illustration.]
Ordinary visitors to Sydney pass by many of her
chief attractions. Some do not know of their
existence, others are ignorant of their locality,
whilst many lack the desire to inspect novelties
when they go out for a “ real good time.” These
“pests” ot our day—“political economists” —
prate of the “division of labour” and other
cognate subjects in such a style as to drive the
ordinary mortal almost mad. The gentle experi-
ence of the ways in which Amusement is divided
is more to our taste as we skim through a few
pieasant memories of our visit to the “ great
smoke” in Port Jackson. Near a theatre there
will be found a “ pub.”—near a pub., a tobacconist
—near a tobacconist, a barber —near a barber, a
fruiterer —near a fruiterer, a confectioner, and so on,
and so on. One’s business hangs on that of the other;
the whole is a necessity. Beauty’s daughters,
whilst gratifying their soft emotions at one or
other of these, dearly like their beaux to have
their own little indulgences also. Hence the
caterers for the pleasure to both males and females
go hand in hand. It suits people. Now, lay
yourself out for an evening’s amusement in
Sydney. Do it, of course, in your own sweet
way, but this is how we did it.
We were a small country party—my two lady
cousins and myself. We had an early dinner, and
the girls wanted their “hair done” before going
to the theatre. Strolling leisurely from the Rail-
way Station along George Street, a little on the
General Post Office Side of the Haymarket,
and right at the foot of what is called “ Brickfield
Hill,” we came upon THE POTOSI HAIR
DRESSING SALOON, conducted by Messrs
CRAIG and AITKEN.
My cousins were shown upstairs to “THE
LADIES’ ROOM.” The Tonsorial attendant on
the Ladies was politeness personified, without one
trace of that officiousness and flippancy one is so
often treated to in some places. The girls said
they’d be half-an-hour, so I thought I’d have a
shave and get my hair titivated, and went into the
large GENTLEMEN’S SALOON. I had no
notion there was such a place in Sydney. Luxur-
iously fitted up, and. with some ten or twelve
barbers hard at work, I secured the only “ vacant
chair. ” What a chair it was, too ! —a chair and a
footstool, and goodness knows what else combined.
It was the very essence of comfort. The attendant
lathered me and then deftly removed my stubble
in a way that was a new experience to me. “ How
do you like the PLUM, sir ?” said he. “ Plum!
Plum ! What Plum ?” I queried. “ It’s the name
of the razor, sir,” he replied. What a funny
name to give a razor, to be sure, but
it must have been a plum of a razor,
for I never remember having had an easier shave
in my life. Then the hair-brushing afterwards.
What pleasure is there in life equal to the lazy,
dreamy enjoyment you feel as the barber toys
with your hair ? It is a sensuous delight, a fore-
taste of paradise. But all good things come to an
end, and receiving a check I leave the saloon to
wait outside for the girls. “ Lead us not into
temptation ” might well be prayed by all who enter
here, for there, amongst such a selection of WALK-
ING-STICKS as surely exists nowhere else in the
colony, stand the very sticks you have promised
yourself—if you only knew where to find them ;
and then PIPES and POUCHES of every con-
ceivable and inconceivable shape, size, and price.
TOBACCO cut and in the plug—rare in flavour
and of undoubted quality—is there in profusion.
Local industry you will find encouraged by the
enterprising proprietors who tell you that
broken pipes are doctored in a few minutes
at a trifling cost. In the next shop is the whole-
sale department and the counting-house of the
firm. As we are finishing our rounds and com-
pleting our modest purchases the swelling notes
of an organ proceed from the upstairs region, and
one of the cousin’s voices i* recognised singing
“When other hearts.” I query the proprietor
and he tells me that the instrument is kept in the
LADIES’ SALOON, for the convenience of any-
one who might wish to play whilst necessarily kept
waiting. Such a comfortable easy way of arranging
for every want ought to be known far and wide,
for we certainly, each in our own way, enjoyed
that evening—the theatre afterwards being some-
how more enjoyable after these little adjuncts,
and we all voted another visit to “THE POTOSI”
whenever we go to Sydney again.
INFORMATION.
“Sonny, how can I get to the railway station from here?”
“ Have you got a carriage?”
“ No, iny little lad.”
“ Oh, then you’ll have to walk! ”
(Disappears ichistling a very popular melody.) -Ex


Beale & Oo.’s New Warehouse.
;; fy -
m&i
OUR NEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES!
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
may be the judges,
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
ALAR GER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
liigh as 170 degrees ; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobin is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy's tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all bo stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
o- fells, braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods anti stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
HAny of these performances will he shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children's clothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special word for husbands: When the day's
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of tire room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have knowh some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain u first-
class machine, that which will he the greatest of all helps
♦o her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why, it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost 1 If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expense* will not he en-
larged, hut ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
should far more than pay for Itself during the time yon
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
. ailed a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cask or Easy Terms. Price Lists and Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
*B2 A. 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
■ THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GfEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus;—
*
#
XJSIE
liebig- COMPANY'S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
M‘Nab’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
f, "‘wh^V
I
p
p
i
1
\
E
/“
“ SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
ts- SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE ta
—or—
CAM KRAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
Ami all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY,
CHEAP
):(
AIMAITBUPI
OUTFITS.
Business Announcements.
THE WINNING NUMBERS.
BRITISH PLATE
A SHEET CLASS,
m
-pr
Cj
Cr>
U~>
MERCHANTS
o{ii
m
□ NJ
o
&
%
€
4
“*Sr
'
&
w
0 CWM&
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORATORS.
THOMAS MGREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Eiley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate,
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
T!
LARMER’S
CELEBRATED
TONIC
CURES
Nervous Debility,
Sick Headache
Bilious Complaints
Fever and Ague.
Sleeplessness,
Liver and Blood.
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet
offered to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution
at the same time acts as a Strengthening
Restorative in all cases.
BOTTLES at 2s. 6d. and ss.
Post, Is Extra.
Prepared only by—
CAINS & CO., Chemists,
78 KING- ST., SYDNEY-
Cor Sale by nil t'lieiuists.
M. W. i Co.
COLEMANE&SOHS
tes
THE TREE OF LIFE.
rtßEgSlfert^g-
EuCALYPTE. Oiusa.
Victory Ointments.
The only pure Eucalyptc in the World,
A WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CVRE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
•bids, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs *, also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundua.
Sydney Wholesale Depot—2sl Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
o
ò


nomjEnnjvr and co nvc pany,
NEXT ROYAL ARCADE, OPPOSITE CENTRAL MARKETS,
POE PEETTY DEESSES! POE SWIE IE T ZE3I .A. T S AEE BOEIsrETS!
pr- EOE CHAEMINTG- PAEACHIJTESI POE LOVELY G-LOVES I
lip ox* ci.ll Is, im d s of IKE oli d a y -YA. ttir e (IF* ashionatole a>ix«l IK£. easonabl o)
YOU CANNOT EQUAL
Edaßlßl and COMPANY, 48@, €-88, 490 Sydney,
Next Royal Arcade, right opposite Central Markets.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD..
(Late Gamsler’s Cafe)
ITS Pitt Street, Sy dney,
WISH their former Patrons ami the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will give
their new cusine a trial. JAMES 0- MARQUAKD, Manager-
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE COMING COLONY!
Everyone should Invest a Few Pounds in Land
in ‘
The CAPITAL CITY OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Compared with other Australian Cit es the Price
is Very Low.
I’h ! Coal, Gold and 'Fin Mines are attracting
much enterprise and capital to the Colony.
CITY BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
From £1 per Foot.
BUILDING- SITES adjoining the CITY
From £lO Each.
Small Deposit. Ea y Terms. Discount for Cash.
Ea di Lot guaranteed good Build ng Land.
Land in Perth will increase greatly in value during
the next few years.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Pamphlets, Marked Plan', and full information
posted to any address on application to
The !nteroolonial Inveitat Co,, Limited,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
AGENTS WANTED in every town to Sell
Australian Natives Association's
N itional Fete and Art Union Tickets.
£9OO in prizes ; Is. each, or 23 for £l. For further
particulars, apply to SECRETARY, 119 Swanston
street, Melbourne.
mXi
N\lT
kAAM
• I •.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
:
»
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wfioi.KSAT.K Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
I2:tl .Clarence Sirect.
First Prize~MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
ó
Hydraulic
Leathers.
ô
Tangye Pump
Leathers.
All goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted to
give satisfaction, or may be returned at our expense.
ffice and Factory: 163 Clarence-St., Sydney,
Between King and Market Streets.
CHUBB AHD PRAEGEH,
EMPIRE PHOTOGRAPHIC GALLERIES,
BEALE', S CHAMBERS.
482 Sc 484 George Street, opposite the Markets.
FOR High-class PORTRAITS the Sydney
Public are respectfully invited to pay a
Visit to the above Galleries, which are now ad-
mitted to be the Finest and most Complete Set of
Apartments devoted to Photography in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
Note the Small Charge now made for Photos
of the Best Quality and Finish.
TAKE ELEVATOR.
ISOYAL HOTEL,
41 Esplanade,
ST. KILDA, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths. Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY - - - - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED. I
Telephone GB2.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
to YOU WANT TO KNOW
HOWTO DISPLAY
YOUR ADVERTISEMENTS? WRITE TO US
F. T. WIMBLE & CO., Advertising Experts, 1J Bust
Oiliec ChnmLcrs, Sydney,
FOTOSI HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
]XT ine First Class A. ssistants.
LARGEST IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE,
Agents for the Celebrated “PLUM” Razor. Clippers sharpened. Razors ground and set,
■m ■
... a
SVJWSra
m
mKs*iS ■^v^'
v,. 1
IP
■f .
H
'4fite
rora
;- . ■
'- \ ’ ~.
■ ■ - '..- /.. -A ■ ’■* * J.»V :
_ ;
I
iSsiJ
: •
!®&IS" r: “'"' !sMwstrk m
■ ifciisf;
Hp SH
\ 9
m^W
M&f&sm
gapp>s
H 81 r > -
i«*£
SBft£
■iter Jl
: l‘"“
'•. ‘fife v' j :’ ■ illlr#1:
Vi
m
-
-• JF
5 ;
■• -E
wft |
V ;<
tiHi
•’•> *7v% 1 «•? v •■•r-a
■■■• V ;•**
* fmm
-“%7 r
W
**
V.:< :i
mmum
• fc fi .7)'• - ■ •••, v ■ •■ • mil ;•,>• I - / \'r r v&\.x&tfimiA&
Mmmmmmrn
*rv. --4?y* ■ ■•
m
Trade Supplied with every requisite. Competent assistants engaged for
Town and Country.
AIT
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET.
isf Between Liverpool and Goulbirn Streets, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Wool.
WINOHCOMBE, CARSON & CO.
Offices:
Wool Stores: CENTRAL WHARF; Produce Stores : CIRCULAR QUAY;
4 g MACQUARIE 9THEET NORTH,


Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
-A
III;"
I
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled, fifteen days’ srrace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt Si King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
S-t. Kilcia,, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and. One Minute from ESPLANADE and. BATHS.
MUB. KONCi MENG ... ... ... Proprietress.
WILLIAM FLEMTN (i.
Merchant, Sydney and Melbourne.
First Award;
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGGIES, FHITONS, B mm,
PONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express & Lumber Waggons*
—% —
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
X
1
Melbourne Olllce:
No- 2 St- James' Buildings, William Street-
Sydney Office:
22 & 24 Clarence Street
V -\ 1 I 7 /
v PhOTOG(V\PHIC
v \ \ VILWS
TRAITS
m; sajsuws
«*■ 316 %«*>
EMPIRE BUILDINGS,
Collins Street West, MELBOURNE
(Near Scott’s Hotri,).
WE beg to inform our Friends and the
Pdblio that we have Opened these
Grand Premises as an
OYSTER SALOON
AND
Continental, Dining Rooms.
PRIVATE DINNERS provided on Shortest Notice.
- Modkratk Oiiarobs—
I 3XT I
& K
PBOPKIBTORB.
-A. T Z,
"irR w. D. WOODHILL u authored to
IVB canvass and act for Th* Buixitin News-
paper Co., Limited.
—FALLON’S—
CELEBRATED
ALBURY WINES.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
J]DWIN G. GOERTY,
Stock and Share Broker,
IPIZUrAZDsTCIAIIL AG-EIsTT,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Stock Exchange.
DA.3XT. SULLIVAN
(Late of Brisbane Caf6),
Has bought MATTE RSON’S HOTEL, opposite
Lassetter’s, George-street.
Extensive alterations and improvements just
completed. Recollect DAN’S OLD REPUTA-
TION for the best brands in the market.
DAN. SULLIVAN
Has a nice cold collation with salad, between one
and two o’clock everyday.
THOMAS ROBB,
TOBACCO A CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Comer of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llnvannah Clean, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor tie Bouito
Brand of Cigars ami “Empire fisrnrelles."
Medical
\x
-s\
u
&
Vi,''
<
/
Jr
<s
»//)>
Vvr
//
t
iy-j-j
-<6^/
A Skin Without Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
and pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticuba
Soar, an exquiste skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuba Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor-
turing, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
I have been afflicted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sore for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticuba
Remedies. I used one box of Cuticuba, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all my own work.
Mrs. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticuba, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
XSCif- Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 60 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
ö
Skin, scalp and hairpreserved and beau-
tified by tne use of Cuticuba Soap.
I have suffered all my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Cuticura Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using six bottles of the Cuticura
Resolvent, two boxes of Cutictiba, and seven
cakes of Cuticura Soap, and the result was just
what I had been told it would be —a complete cure.
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, G.W. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond/Va.
Have just used your Cuticura Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on her head and body, and the hair commenced
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she has only used one box of Cuticura,
one cake of Cuticura Soap, and .one bottle of
Cuticura Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement.
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which I
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
Mrs. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
PIM
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
1 oily skin prevented by Cuticuka Soap-
Address: E. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Anglo Scandinaviaii
Cold Medal
Condensed
Milk.
Acknowledged
The Best
K
or 1?™
will
tjm
. <l» W
all"
li
*:>
mm.
<s\vir.
mwk
wm
0K
■ ■<
OSa
miiiiiiiiiiv;
Ml]
•i *.
m.fA'’
m
o -*y 4
mw
Guinness’ Extra Stout*
FIRST QUALITY.
, , , .v .
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian Exhibition, London,
(By Special Appointment.)
wholesale Agents: Ealcliin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M. B. FOSTER & SONS. LONDON,
“ BUGLE” ZB IR A IST ID ALE AIsTD STOUT.
)(
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles wMI
skillfull// forged labels have lately been palmed < ff on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and t • state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER ft SONS to this colony bear their name and address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be “Foster's Bool® Brand ’’ offered
for sale without these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have i astro*
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds.
A Liberal Reward mil he given for information loading to conviction of the offender*.
BAL.OHIM, JOHNSTON & 00., Sydney,
Aoknth roa Maaeas. M. B. Fosxsa ft Sons.
Aek for KuppevHi Blberfteld Lager Boer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
“If God had formed a Commission to
create the world, the world would not exist yet.”
—French.
It is whispered in Sydney that one of the
oldest and most-respected N.S.W. horse-breeders
has been foreclosed on.
Cadet Moran, of Sydney Grammar School,
has won the cadet first prize of £2O at N.S.W. Rifle
Association matches We commend this to the
notice of Haynes and Wise. It bears on it, the
impress of a Jesuitical conspiracy.
Gladstone is up in arms again over the
Turks — recalling the old time of 11 years back,
with the celebrated Bulgrocities. When he burst
forth, to overthrow Disraeli, everyone thought he
had retired for all time to his Homer and wood-
chopping. It is ten years since he undertook his
winter campaign in Midlothian, and his physicians
■ 1 ° , i ,• , ~ , £ , i -tin-i, u.
were unanimous that it would be fatal. W hile he
is above ground ft lB never safe to leave turn outer
the tipping for another. How much younger is
be than a prig like John Morley ?
The N.S.W. wool-clip last year was worth
£9,120,868.
“Jack the Ripper” is now suspected to
be a mad woman. There seems to be something
in that idea.
An American writes concerning the Prince
of Wales’s family while traveling :
The baggage of the royal household was peculiar. For
instance, who would have expected to see among the-
pieces a great case, as big as a Saratoga, labeled “ H. R. H.
the Prince of Wales—newspapers ” ? Another surprising
thing was the fact that all the pieces of baggage were
labeled with the initials of royalty thus: “H. R. H, the
Princess Maud,” “ H. R. H. Princess of Wales,” “ H. R. P.
the Princess Victoria, P. B.” They are very modest,
ordinary-looking girls, very bony, very broad-shoulder d,
and very tight-laced ; very much lacking in bust measure,
and very plain featured, and H. R. H., their papa, alwa s
calls one of them “ Jack.” By the way, I cou.d not re-
strain my Yankee curiosity when I read P. B. on one of
the pieces of baggage. There were a dozen men in quiet
livery handling, the baggage, while a tremendous flunkey,
also jn black coat and cap, but also in supreme command,
hoverednear and chatted , with the royal conductor, who
wore as much gold lace as ah admiral in the Haytian
navy. I asked them all what P. B. meant, and they a 1
said, Blessed if I know,” till I came to the tremendous
flunky. “ Pillow-bag, of course,” said he. “ Why, of
course,” said I, for I had lone before noticed that when-
ever I rode first-class about England somebody was
certain to shake a small, white -pillow out of a tight
muslin-bag, and afterward put the pillow behind her head
against the back of the high car-seat. The only difference
in this case was that Miss Victoria Guelph, being a prin-
cess, carried enough pillows to fill a box the size and shape
of an apple-barrel.
MY UNCLE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My uncle never drinks a drop,
He’s “ steddy as a jedge, ”
And yet each day as it comes round
He duly takes the pledge.
He takes it more than once a day—
Beginning with the dawn;
He pledges takes from morn till night—
And keeps them all in pawn.


READ THIS! Two Pounds’ (£2) worth of these preparations sent free to any part of the colony.
Armstrong’s Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood. An aperient effervescing salt. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Blood Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandelion, lodide
of Potash, &c., for all impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Sugar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
troublesome complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &o. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Anodyne liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye' Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is 6d; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. 2s;
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic, for loss of appetite,
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &c. 2s.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges.' 3s 6d.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth and Nux Vomica, for
chronic indigestion. 3s 6d &ss6d ; 30s & 58s doz.
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
pleasant aperient. Is 6d; 15s doz.
Armstrong’s “ Arabian Ointment.” For healing all sores,
old wounds, burns, etc. (in pots). Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Corn Paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, for
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Resin, Carbolic, Zinc, Blue, White and Red
Percipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;5s doz.
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c,, from the hair. Is ; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring grey
hair to its natural colour. Is 6d; 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Arabian Insect Powder. 9d ; 6s doz.
Armstrong's Indelible Ink, for writing on linen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz.
Armstrong’s _ Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz. ’
Armstrong’s Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &Is6d ; 6s 6d & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Sore Back Ointment forhorses. 2s; & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, for cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is6d ; 8s & 15s doz.
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment the best remedy for
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for horses
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz.
Armstrong’s Gold Paint, Copper, Silver and Green Bronzes,
for decorating your home ornaments, statuary, &c.—
all ready mixed. 6d ; 8s doz.
INVENTED, MANUFACTURED and SOLD ONLY by H. C. ARMSTRONG, George Street NORTH (Near Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Trusses, Belts, Supports, Elastic Stockings, Knee Caps, etc., at English Wholesale Cost. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
_ F ° R DRUGS ’ CHEMICALS, PATENT MEDICINES and DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES, SEND FOR SPECIAL PRICE LIST (POSTED FREE).
Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Cuarantee Company ,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL
£500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
> mey Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
Three Months 6 per cent.
Twelve ’’ ... 8 ”
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 ]>er cent. 6 months, per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
Manager.
RUSSELL MARSHALL
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company's Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares. —Fdnns of Application for the
Company s new issueof 20,000 Shares, at par, authorised bv
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon app.ication to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, Wit.)
CAPITAL
£200,000.
Sydney Office: 301 PITT STREET
AGENCIES 111 London and throughout Australia.
Immediate ad\*hnces granted. Bills discount <1 daily
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest a..owed on Fixed
Deposits:— it yeans, 10 percent. ;12 months, 0 per cent. ;
fDnonths, 8p i 1 cent. : 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
Of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
% —THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATE
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works; CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office; 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors ;
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Bnrhers), Sydney ;
D. Merton, Ounningar Works, Harden; Ghari.es
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
T.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
Sold hitherto known to exist it* refractory ores
mt unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will iupply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide' the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise , the moat modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
The British and New Hontli Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office: 246 PITT STREET.
T>ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
■*' Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
8 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... !> per cent.
6 Months .... 8 per cent.
8 Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renew als of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W, M’DONALD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
THE AUSTEAL BANKING AND LAND PEOPKIETAET
GPIEXXXjIILIjPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account .... .... .... £250,000
Reserve Fund .... .... .... 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities .... .... .... 311,431 10 10
Head Office .... .... Sydney, N.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
fN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
[Victoria: Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O ;
n per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Cowoll*
IVXazxager.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xi. BEBITASCOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
jP, sheoedee
LIVERY, BAIT, LET OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
s
n
KYES
$
rn
is.
i
q$ER7>
* C°
D
• >
a a C_l
■A\\- #\4Ww\\W
ROBERTS & CO.,
—W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers, Iron and Machinery Merchants,
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracechurch Street, Loudon, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF-
Bailway & Bridge Contractors’
Plumbers'
Iquatters’
Requirements
•IN
Great i Variety.
{TM PORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths’
Conchbuilders’
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Kortint’s Gas Engines -The best and cheapest) yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
=*£•??- '■
A Certain and Immediate Relief
in all Coses of
ItlicninntiNiii. Neuralgia,
Sciatica,
Sprains and (Cruises.
lieintf used at Victoria Barracks,
( Jeneral Post Office, and by the
Sydney Omnibus 00.
Invaluable in the Stable.
Hundreds of Testimonials as to
iI s efficacy. Everyone should use
SHARK OIL.”
Sample Bottle tent Post Frrs for
Three (S') Penny Stamps.
Price.
25., at all Chemists, or from dio SHARK OIL MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
Post Office Chambers, Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
Medical.
D R * SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
PULVERMACHER'S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica.
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “ Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy,” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST & SHIPHAM
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strekt West, Melbourne.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
«fec., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
P. C. NICHOLAS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings;
736 George Street, 738
HA YMABKET.
Stkam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, Sc c., Made to Order.
—AUSTRALIAN—
goIIer Jlour and grain gtorca,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“ Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Eoual to New, at
-I . srLh I V A N’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydnrt,
bet ween
Liverpool ,i: Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLIi, J STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Mannfactureraof all k nds of Tins for Confectioners>
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved maclrnery.
A. Trial Solicited.
MUSICAL.
■pATKKT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. (id. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s. Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted-Stationers.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
(L
EUREKA
y
ELECTRIC BELT*'
A j \\\ . - w w w— V
' V
to
A V EVER FAILING)- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
npwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
■elves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
•Ten the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a2d stamp for
Address
VOLT A.TC BELT COMPANY
Box 916* G. P. 0., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN —
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET-
(between Swanston <t Elizabeth Sts.),
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
.4 Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
‘‘Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “The Otto Publishing C 0.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpms valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very
neml and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highlv
recommended by the leading Oculists.
4“ Inn T ■*’ he Pu hfi c are requested to notice the
Wd, U. WjLUJU I words, tsr Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
M you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
S*'" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Jf EBVOUS DEBILITY.
FRETS, personally, or BY POST HERR RASS-
“USSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
arc a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. fid. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Musscn, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
OT. FERRE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Rioheliao.
Agent In Sydney:
E. DOUBLET. 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR.
Oawe oi a Private and Confidential Natan in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hows of ConnUtaHon:
9to 11 a.m .; 9to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
64 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Bead
(opposite UniverrityX
» 'SET 33 HOT 33 TBT.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
- hi— m •mmmrnrnm
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box fori bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, 'sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, bushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will giv e relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing- any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording- to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. *They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkciia.m’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. fid. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Pull directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T, SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
CONSULT
i
GORE & KIOGG
THE EMINENT
_ SPECIALISTS,
On aTI Diseases cffthe Genlto-Urlnary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, comer of George
and Elisabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.SULTATIONS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
Rn« ftfl 0.P10.1 Book sent on receipt of Si. stamp.
Hotels.
A?
T
MS
37c>cn
LU
* *
iWOINS
:-'OM
HOTtl
J
BOWUEUXT’S KCOTBI,,
Elizabeth S'kbkt (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C BO •' OEM .. ... Proprietor
WSSTEBM HOTBL,
Warrnambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and. Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a Firbt-Olash Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. ASS' Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
ILivery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.
Business Announcements,
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Read. ! Read ! Read !
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland) la. 3d.
Wholesale Agents ;
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ For Framing a Picture Heal and Well.”
y x : x
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-j-t., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Fotel), is acknow;edged to be the and
Cheapest in ihe Colonies. I hotos., Engravn gs,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gi ding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
ø
£
•lAHUPACTUMER#
i IMPORTERS OF
«. . I
HATS CAPS*.
438 CEORCE ST
3VDMEY %
0/npoiiCe LtusrtCerj
$0
UlttUUll .
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFAILTHE
INEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
o
ò
u
JB>
W
i
ONIXV
r JT :
»
!%■?
v»X
'iuj;
v;?-
SW"?
i
nyj
ii.-.
Business Announcements.
T
HE THREE GREAT LIGHTSI
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
New Era Portable Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over COOO Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. SMITH & CO.,
494 Kent Street South. SVOVI.V ;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
Send for Price List and Circular!
ADTIMATIC
“NO TENSION” SEWING MACHINE.
NOISELESS-LIGHTEST RUNNING.
Most Beautiful and Durable Work.
AND DOES NOT INJURE HEALTH.
Beehives and Supplies, Incubators and Brooders,
Patent Extending Trellis, Stoves for Wood, Coal,
Gas or Oil, Mangles and Washing Machines,
Carpet Sweepers, Preserving Jars, Ice Chests and
Refrigerators, American Eg-g Cases with Portable
Fillers.
HEBBLEW HITE «5c CO..
416 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper.] t
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE Cl
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT 4. COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating,- Machine-, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
It* Effects are Marvellous!
Keen's Patent Unbreahtle Saddle Company
LIMITED,
Factory and Office: 327 Csstlereagh Street,
(Late 245)
SY^ZDTsTIEYr.
New Style of Tree.
The Company is now prepared to manufactnre all kinds
of Saddles. P.i be £3 and upwards. Any infringement of
the Patent will be prosecuted. No Saddle genuine with-
out our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,C^ lOOßS * Paints.
Wallpapers from z°*oll
P/Al
529 George BathurstSt,
Br/ckf/eld H/11.
WALTER XTO IE 3 IE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Order*
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
CIPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
kr Tasmanian Edition Publisher*, FITZ-
GERALD BROS, subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launoeeton, or from the
Runners In the street.
PRINCE OF WALKS’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke-at-,Eaat, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situ ted.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
x
£S" Porpoise ’lide wears twice as long 1 as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
liondon Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MAfJGI. BROTHERS,
m
LIMITED. '
263 to 269 KENT STEEET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to .the.
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS A SPIRITS,
, " and' general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Rale Ale.
IMPORTER OF
■WIUES, x SPIRITS, x BEE 12- S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s Rob's and VOsk s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Kartell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (6, 10, 15 and 21 years o.a).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled b<j PM.L
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. 0f All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by jnonthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
anti Single Bnttic Dppartnipnts, anil VS4 I^anpjgE-st.,
a r»TI T Torn
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-GLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS i’RKET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD, OPTICS : G-IPFS STPEST (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
o
o
UNTIpIW
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10*000 Bedsteads,
’ From XOs. 6cL- "to £35-
ftSft? BROWNS
OSTDH
mMesst
wm'
<s:r.
skfM
ss'mlßi
|“ XADIES,
1 :
mm
I
TBUNKStft-CaC
nrshw^jt*
BQSTO^J
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOB —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Atvarded highest honours at
Phila.,
Benin,
Baris,
1876 Melbourne, 1880
1877 Frankfort, 1881
1878 Amsterdam 1888
Bew Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
am one soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing. _
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchant*
and Dealers. B p BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgs.
blessing in every family.
TrniT.OWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
U There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes » grandmedicmes have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the oramary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action ia at onoe
recognised Fullest directions are supplied for _ their use
In evm disease. IF YOU SUFFER TRY THE|h Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxfoed-st., London. Pur
eWrs should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pot*.
H thl address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, they are
spurious.
Free prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Ldglit and liife,’’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —■
S. WARD '& CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
|>(mTIAST», VICTORIA.
John Skelton - Proprietor.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the. Laig. Dining Hall. i.vsides having a most rcr/uiyJic
Dinner votfcah enjoy from the balconies the magm,,cent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here* also vou can have rood company, good wine.- in fact, everything that can (KissiUly inuke pile
comfortable can be found at this really mst-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. 1 « )U ’
de Jlote at One o’clock daily and Sundays._ No expense is spared by Mrs. Kii.minsti.u to make hei
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
UVCxra.
Tg~T' r ■iM'T'to Clarendon Hotel,
inu vpi?
axr uv a nrr ant.y.
T OM’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the- Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites First Class Sample itouius.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
—-i: y
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
SW
i
AIR
ROWLANDS’
TACASSAR
OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces, a.luxuriant and glossy
growth : also prepared in a Golden Colour. - Ja
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO,
A PURE, NON-aum'Y T9OTH Powder. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to -he breatn.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying tht
plexion. Removes Freckles Tan, Sunbura Eoughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
MDS’ ESSENCE
Brown or Black.
i Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
OF TYRE dye* Bed or
Ask Chemists and Perfumer* for ROWLANDS
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H-P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CEMPUGAL PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Xjatb.es.
DM MACB.NES.
Jto., *a
&
w*
v lV a J
ay
Haymarket, Sydney,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
noumi asm |
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting-
Vertical Boilers.
Muliitubular Boilers.
EABN1HH llOll-B**.
?. i.*. d *». requiring
ery (if nny ■. M, -* *V' "t ttJtttSSS**
Visitors, whether buyers or nt, are always welcome to inspect the mmnutu nt l^ u _ SYDIiTBy.
,na & 135 nrv sr a i-n eia t, ujv vm aiikbt. ,XDM
