

Aak your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.”— Lancet.
Everyone should read “ The Bulletin’s”
»
ARTHUR GAYLL.
1
By “ The Bulletin’s ” well-known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL. MAY.
Price - One Sliming»
Per Post, is. sex.
MAY BE HAD FROM AGENTS, OR DIRECT FROM “ THE BULLETIN ” OFFICE.
Agents:
Victorian A. BENJAMIN, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
Tasmanian FITZGERALD BROS., George-street, Launceston.
Queensland J. H. THOMPSON, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
hhrthrgdfgj
LIEESI&
TTSE
EXTRACT OF IV1EAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
WI 31. X-1 .A. MS »
KiT IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
Tea Cafees, Betstry, &o. 9
AUK
Light, Wholesome and Digestible-
WHEX MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. SoM ill Tins at 6d. the Half-PoUlld.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
Ml
I
OIXSON^SONS
*
*
C 3
O
37
o
X
Tt.
v
?oo>:
SIR ROGER
so
y/
3:
a
M
DIXSONS
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
88. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
AIIC
LEA & PERRINS'SAUCE
SH Consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAIfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pem'ns
Aave Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bottU
hears their Signature thus-
4
without which no ,bottle of the. original
SAUCE is genuine .
'sk forLEA and PERRINS’ Sauce, and see Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Croese and
y a tr9ndon % &*c tt (stc. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughput the IV Of Id.
Tciglopfiro 5
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
Coeoa
MAY BEWTflWEO’iN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
WILLIAM -- CARGILL,
Photograph Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
Me now imported in bottles and used in treat-
IS??. t . of - CrfRON,C GASTRIC catarrh, hyper-
LIYER » GALL stones, chronic
CONSTIPATiON, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
"OUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBAD SPRUOEL- SALT
In small and frequent doses Is an efficient
APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, In doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
- I» LdlBaolved ln water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM A ROYLE, 92, Farrlngdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
nw! vi
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERT7E. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATicxjsrsoisr’s
Ean de Toilette de Londres.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and soften*
ing the skin, and an exceedingly choice
Perfume for the Handkerchief. An en-
tirely new article, prepared exclusively
by the Inventors.
Ofatt Dealert and of the Manufacturert—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24,' OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Trade Mark—“ White Kose" on A
Lyre,” with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,620
Deposits Received
Advances Made ..
Total Income
93,581
123,243
200,106
Year ending
Oct., 4888.
£5BO, (HH)
251,015
1,128,940
625.826
2.048,951
Deposits received at following Rates
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
A iimiAA « ■ ■■■ f nn a To persons who desire to put by
SAVINGS BANK BRANCH. 8m j, l!1 , suins . V f amount,
and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at, a Fair Rath;, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMaIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per cent, per Annum
upon their Dailv Balance.
Ample Funds for Borrowers.
Terms Inberal.
m
NNU
asa
nmi i
Ssh
< „ ,
&
!! 11M
MIIH
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue, of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con-
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
-> : J.
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
'M'.
Klim
i
a
ft
"
the FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE,
CORNER OF——
TSL± ns* and Collins Streets, Melbourne,
Containing Five Hundred and Sixty Rooms, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES OP ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
Special Dining Saloon for Ladies, mtnpt iiovshj furnished, with Cuisine and Table Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL on GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Mean, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING & RECEPTION ROOMS.
Hot, Cold and. Shower Baths.
Night Porter always in Attendance. Telegrams and Letters promptly attended to.
George Co lx on - Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10-No. 489.
SATURDAY, JUNE 29, 1889.
Price, 6d.
ZOX.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
Vt 24 Pitt-strkkt, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSGEIBEBS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum
Half-yearly nr (t
Quarterly (Job
Cheque*, Drafts. etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclf.od, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. 1.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and ackiunvledge in tne
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tiro columns in
length, or say 0000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such M SS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Billetin' Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare Tin; Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere .
T^e'^xxlleiz/Ji.
SATURDAY, JUNE 20, 1889.
Secretary Pulsford’s Latest.
Great wits are, sure, to madness near
allied ” wrote Pope. This is a metrical pro-
verb which will not bear inversion. 44 Mad-
ness is, sure, to great wit near allied is not
a formula which commends itself to the sense
of mankind. Yet the mania of Mr. Puls-
ford for divorcing tables of figures from
their qualifying companions in statistical
compilations, and drawing from the isolated
fragments conclusions ludicrously strained,
lias caused the Secretary of the N.S. W. I ree-
trade Association to be almost as provocative
of mirth as though he were a wit of the first
magnitude. Mr. Pulsford’s latest caper is
perhaps the most fantastic of all those gyra-
tions which have, during the last couple of
years—wdiich we think is about the term of
his residence in Australia—enabled him to
convulse society with merriment and amaze-
ment. He has “ specially prepared for pub-
lication” a document which consists of a
declaration that inasmuch as the people of
New South M'ales have sent away a larger
value of commodities per head than the
people of any other country in the world,
they mad be happy, especially as their wage-
rate is also, if Mr. Pulsford is to be
believed (which he isn’t, of course, but his
blank unconsciousness of that fact is part of
the joke), the highest earned anywhere.
Such trifling considerations as what is re-
ceived in return for the commodities parted
with, who gets that return, and w hat propor-
tion of the population receive the nominal
rate of wages do not trouble Mr.
Pulsford when he has a statistical joke on
the stocks. Niceties of that kind would
hamper the free flow of his unconscious
humour. 44 One should never read a book
which one has to review, said Syd.ney Smith,
‘ 4 it is so apt to prejudice one.” Mr. Puts-
fohd follows seriously the system propounded
by the wit. Having a building to describe,
he picks out a brick from the wall and in
the most earnest vein gives the fullest par-
ticulars, generally wrong, about that brick,
and cannot in the least understand that the
reception given to his performance is other
than one of serious appreciation.
* * *
In the present instance, this entertaining
secretary whom (he N.S.M . Freetrade Asso-
ciation maintain in the most generous—w r e
might almost say, magnanimous—spirit, for
the benefit of the Protectionist cause, and
the entertainment of the public in general,
has presented Sydney newspaper readers
with a column of side-splitting matter. Me
know no other man who can impart to
figures, ordinarily so dry and ropollant, the
diverting qualities which Mr. Pulsford con-
fers upon them, or who can deduce from
such unpromising material such a fund of
grotesque inconscquencies. 44 M e have only
a million of people in New South Males,’
says Mr. Pulsford solemnly, 44 and yet we
send away twenty millions worth of
goods. What a wealthy people we must
be, to be sure! ” It does not in the
least suggest itself to this mirth-pro-
voking gentleman that the premises are
at all inadequate to support the conclu-
sion. It does not occur to him that a pro-
position so limited might with equal accuracy
have been made by the French at the con-
clusion of the war with Germany. We have
sent away such and such a number of mil-
lions, they might have cried. But they would
scarcely have claimed the envy of the
world on that account. There is another
half to such a transaction which must be
considered before the party concerned can
know whether to congratulate himself on his
luck or to bemoan his hard fate. The French,
for example, got nothing in return for their
export. It happened to be a war-indemnity.
New South Wales has no war indemnity to
pay, it is true, but before she throws her cap
up in the air about her big export it will be
necessary for her to know amongst other
pretty numerous considerations what she
got for it. Another gentleman, who shares
in some degree Mr. Pulsford’s hallucina-
tions, Mr. B. R. Wise, once informed the
Economic Society of New South Wales, in a
paper read before that sedate body, that all
imports must be paid for in exports. In
which case, also, a few rather material ex-
ceptions were lost sight of, as, for example,
the instance of France just cited. We are
tempted by Mr. Pulsford’s latest to believe
that his beau-ideal of a happy and prosperous
country is a guano - island. There the
value of exports per head of the
population exceeds anything that the rest
of the world can show. * 4 According to
Mulhall” (or was it Joe Miller ?) the sta-
tionary population of the Chinche Islands
consists of one aged mulatto with a wooden
leg, and a spotted dog with an abbreviated
tail, and these islands export annually pro-
duce to the amount of over thirty thousand
pounds sterling, which is just about fifteen
thousand pounds a head each for the
venerable mulatto and the docked pup.
According to Pulsford, the twain should be
the happiest and most prosperous community
on the face of creation. According to the
most recent and reliable accounts, however,
they are not. The mulatto owes a heavy
score for rum to every ship which trades to
the port, and the dog is disturbed in its
mind and in uneasy circumstances because
the mulatto monopolises the entire import of
salt pork, and while the monopolist is fat, he
ttlie dog) is nearly starving.
* * *
It would be difficult, were it necessary, to
treat seriously the announcements of an in-
dividual who thus exposes himself. But it is
not at all requisite. We may, however, take
a fresh departure on our own account, and
see what lesson, if any, is derivable from the
returns relative to Trade and Commerce of
N S. M ales, just issued by the Government
Statistician. In so doing wc shall not exceed
our warrant. We shall not emulate the
merry man of the Freetrade Association by
pretending that two and something else make
four, without ascertaining whatthe something
else really amounts to. By confining our
consideration strictly to the matter before
ns, we limit the area of deduction, but we
may be able to extract some inferences really
sound and useful. Starting, then, with the
circumstance that the exports for the year
IHBS amount to about £2O per head of the
population, it will assuredly repay the
trouble if investigation be made as to what is
the character of the commodities which serve
to make up that sum, and to what extent
their production tends to support a popula-
tion. In other words, what proportion of
the exports of N.S. Males partake of the
nature of the guano of the Chincha Islands,
and require but to be scooped up and re-
moved, and what proportion is constituted
by articles into which labour has largely
entered, and which, therefore, may be re-
garded as indicating the existence of sources
of employment for a numerous and flourish-
ing nation. The result of this inquiry is not
pleasing. One would require to be a fool, a
man alien from Australian sympathies, or
else Mr. Pulsford, to find reason for gratil-
lation respecting the character of the expor-
tations. The greater bulk is of absolutely
raw material. A very small proportion con-
sists of articles which have sustained some
simple form of preparation. Of goods de-
manding high skill and mechanical or artistic
culture there are practically not any.
# * *
It will bo found that of the £2O per head
which represents the value of N.S. Wales ex-
ports, about£lslos. is made up of goods which
require the minimum of labour for their pro-
duction. There is coal, for example, which
requires but a single operation before it isready
for transmission. One-twentieth of the N.S.
M ales whole exportation consists in this natural
substance. Of mineral substances generally
the Foreign - trade colony exports, in
round numbers, to the value of about
three and a-half millions. That is to
say nearly one-sixth of the total exports con-
sists of substances‘Which furnish during their
production the smallest conceivable amount
of human employment, and in which, conse-
quently, the amount of labour embodied is
the lowest possible. But when wc speak of
(he total exports, it must be understood that
not all of the twenty million odd pounds'
worth which enters into the returns are com
modifies produced in New South M ales or by
the labour of the people of the colony.
Nearly one-fourth consists of goods which
are re-exported, and which do nothing what-
ever to provide employment, beyond the
more operation of handling for tranship-
ment, and perhaps to some extent ol un-
packing, assorting and re-packing. These
do not even benefit the colonial shipping.
For N.S. Wales has no shipping engaged in
intercolonial or extra-colonial conveyance.
Since the A.S.N. Co. was 4 ‘re-formed,’’all her
conveyance is done in foreign vessels. If a
N.s, Welshman travels to Victoria by sea,
he voyages either in a British or a Victorian
steamer. If he proceeds to New Zealand
it is a British hull which is under him. If
he starts for Europe, it is in a European
steamer; if for America a Yankee-owned
vessel hoisting the Hawaiian flag conveys
him. If he chooses the Torres Straits route,
he has the choice of an English steamer or
of one owned jointly by British and by
Chinese proprietors.
* * *
Thus it will be perceived that of the 20
millions worth of so-called exports during
the past year, nearly one-fourth had as little
influence on the prosperity and progress of the
producing classes as though they had never
come near the country. They mostly paid no
duty to the State, and they gave no returns
to the railways. Hence it follows that the
proportions of the remaining articles of ex-
portation differ from their apparent rc’ation
to the total. Coal constituted, notone-twen-
tieth, but one-fifteenth of the real produce
exported. Minerals generally constituted,
not one-sixth, but nearly one-fourth. Wool
simply shorn from the sheep amounted to
close upon seven millions sterling, and with
washed wool, which required two rough pro-
cesses in lieu of one, exceeded nine millions
sterling. If we take similar commodities,
as skins, hoofs, tallow, flesh, and to these
add live stock, which require only tending,
and, once fencing is provided, not even tend-
ing, we have a total exceeding 12 millions
sterling out of the total of 15 millions of
actual colonial produce.
# #
It is difficult to see where the jubilation
comes in, regarding the matter from the
point of view which desires the spectacle of a
national life complete in all its parts, and of
which the higher functions prevail over the
coarser. How any man not merely fantas-
tical can pretend to discover in the mere
amount of these exports grounds for believing
that anything connected with their magni-
tude is due to the fiscal policy which prevails
and has prevailed in the colony is a specu-
lation which transcends all reasonable
hypothesis. There are in New South Wales
natural grasses, and people feed stock on
them. There are coal and ores of gold, silver,
tin and other miuetals : people hew them out.
There are sheep : people shear or slaughter
them. Poor Mr. Puls ford has got it into his
unhappy noddle that should a Freetrade sys-
tem of Govermnentbe departed from, the ores
would sink out of reach, or the stout
arms which to-day dig for them would
be struck with paralysis. It is now nearly
three years since another of the Freetrade
cult, Mr. George Reid, discovered that the
increase in N.S. Wales’ flocks of sheep was
attributable to Freetrade. Mr. Reid has not
repeated the announcement of that singular
discovery, but here we have Mr. Pulsford
blandly and unconsciously incorporating it
in his own wonderful creed and going one
better by insisting that it is much to the
credit of Freetrade that sheep have fleeces
and that cattle have flesh. Here we lay
down our pen and abandon ourselves to the
enjoyment of a protracted smile.
Wanted: The Primrose League’s
Balance-Sheet.
The Primrose Leaguers of Great Britain, it is
cabled, held a meeting in London last week, at
which high compliments were paid to their agent,
sent out in the track of Messrs. Dillon, Esmonds,
and Deasy “to correct the false impression”
created by the speeches of those gentlemen in this
poor, ignorant land of Australia. The Leaguers
in command of this delectable meeting “ referred
with great satisfaction ” to certain letters signed
“ Unionist ” published in certain Australian
papers, the assumption being that we over here were
all being led astray until “ Unionist ” shed a new
light upon the proceedings, and so enabled us to
totter into the right way. Public opinion in Aus-
tralia, however, has not been considerably in-
fluenced by the literary efforts of the Primrose
League’s emissary, and to 99 men out of every
100 it will come as news that his hired elo-
quence has been published in the certain news-
papers referred to at this London meeting. In-
cidentally we may suggest that writing any
Unionist letters to bur Tory daily press—in which
articles, paragraphs, cablegrams, and false reports
of meetings, all intended to discredit the Irish
National movement, are as plentiful as black-
berries—was very much the same as sending coals
to Newcastle.
# # #
It is as well, however, that we have got this
frank platform admission of the ways and means
adopted by the Primrose League to advance the
Imperial ends of dukes and duchesses who pull the
strings on behalf of their Gracious Queen. It is as
well that we should understand that the Sydney
Morning Herald, Argus, Age, and similar
organs have been significantly silent about the pre-
sence in our midst of this missionary from the
Primrose League, whose arrival was perfectly well
known to them. The missionary aforesaid appears
to be one Mr. Kirkpatrick, barrister-at law, who
was sent out from London with £5OO and exes, in
his Unionist “kick ” to lecture on “ Loyalty ” and
the beauties of Irish landlordism in opposition to
Mr. John Dillons party. Thus far the name of
Kirkpatrick has not become a household word in
these colonies, and in his original subsidised capa-
city his failure is beyond question.
# * #
But before Kirkpatrick’s £5OO is quite used up.
he might as well throw over the lost cause and
labour to “ correct any false impression ” concern-
ing the precious Primrose League itself. We are
tired of hearing aspersions cast upon the financial
conduct of the Irish Land League, an organisation
which can point to the great political work it has
already accomplished, and to tin* greater work
now on the eve of completion, by way of answer
to the stereotyped Tory question —“ what
are they doing with the money ?” In the whole
history of the world,, perhaps, no organisation
ever did so much work with so little money as has
been done by that for which Mr. Dillon is now
raking in the willing dollai's. If Kirkpatrick
came over with a.n> idea that he would let off this
old “chestnut ” at his unheard-of lectures, and
thereby burst up the Home Rule agitation at one
fell blow, he-has discovered his mistake ere this.
His only chance of creating a splash in these parts
will be by answering the appalling conundrum —
“What does the Primrose League do with its
money ? ”
# #
First of all, what is the Primrose League, which
sent Mr. Kirkpatrick 10,000 miles to “lecture?”
A London paper states, on the authority of one
who knows, that this simple little League was
meant for little else than the working of a com-
prehensive system of bribery, corruption, intimi-
dation, and boycotting throughout the United
Kingdom, a system that relieves the Carlton Club,
in some measure, of the political drain upon its
vast Tory resources. At a passing glance the
Primrose League seems like a mei’e collection of
ladies pledged to keep the memory of Beacons-
-ITELD yellow by dropping their floral emblems on
his grave and hanging them round his statue once
a year, but the pale little primroses are merely
poetical devices for covering up a state of things
so rotten that the stink arising therefrom quite
overpowers the fragrance of those blossoms
that the cynical Hebrew Disraeli is falsely sup-
posed to have loved.
* # *
The Primrose League, with our old friend Lord
’Arris as chief business manager, is a scheme for
extracting money from wealthy middle-class
women by appealing to their lamentable passion
for shaking hands with members of the aristo-
cracy. Clusters of duchesses, marchionesses, and
such roam round Great Britain forming Primrose
Lodges or Habitations, or any other term indicating
a sort of female Freemason, in which everybody
joins hands in a good cause. The flattered wives
of plain Brown and Jones don’t quite understand
what the Primrose League exactly means, nor
does anybody else, but it is sufficient for them that
a duchess frisks into their drawing-rooms and asks,
them to become a Dame of the concern, because
she (the duchess) is a Dame and can’t get on with-
out them. Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Jones having
been carried into the Primrose League on a whirl-
wind ,of satisfaction, from that time forward it
depends upon the amount of subscriptions and
their zeal in introducing other middle-class
women into the aristocratic web spread for
them whether they shall he decorated with a
special service merit clasp at a Grand Lodge
meeting. They have to pay for the merit clasp,
and the oonfei-ring of these honours is a large
source of profit to the League, like as the Salva-
tion Harmy does a rousing good trade in poke
bonnets and uniforms. The paying of any very
large sum of hard cash into the League’s bottom-
less coffex-s entitles the victinx to the Honoxxrable
Distinction of the Grand Star, another gewgaw
for which honourably distinguished females shell
out three times as much as xt cost. And, ixx this
coxxnection, it may be observed that Lady Borth-
wick, wife of the ennobled sxxob who owns that
pestilent Court rag, the Morning Post, had he p
Grand Star set in diamonds. A little thinking
over that fact will convince any intelligent mind
that Her Gracious takes a lively, affectionate
interest in the Grand Star business. Queen—
Morning Post— Lady Borthwick. Why, it’s aq
easy one.
* * *
In this inveigling of Dames and distributing of
prepurchased distinctions of the tinpot we have
the whole organisation of the Primrose League, as
far as membership is concerned. There are
nominally 800,000 Leaguers at the present time,
of which the grea,t plebeian majority have shelled
out a terrible lot of hard cash, although the
duchesses and max-ohionesses have doubtless got in
“ on the never ” and never dreamt of paying fox'
their Grand Grosses. What does the Primrose
League do. with all this nxoney ? It has a big
Loxxdoxx office, a large staff of clerks, and other
costly machinery for disposing of money, but
what does it mean, anyhow ? The gorgeous
fx’ee feeds, kxxown as “Little Teas,” given
by the vax-ious “ Habitatioxxs ” before the last
general election, were mostly paid fox' by the
gulled local Dames out of their husbands’ pockets.
The great Primrose League contented itself by
advising the faithful to give Little Teas and darn
the Grand Old Man, but never met the expenses
with anything more solid than Grand Crosses
(sold at sinful profit) to the Dames let in for most
Little Teas.
# # #
Beyond a small issue of pamphlets there was no
outward visible indication of any Primrose League
expenditure (barring £7OOO a year in office and
salaries) until Mr. Kirkpatrick, barrister-at-law,
was voted £5OO and exes, to come out to Australia
and lecture. In the sacred name of Grovel, then,
let the duchesses’ emissary lecture upon “What thu
Primrose League is Doing and How it is Done,”
The Imperial Parkin.
Just as St. Augustine, hearing of the barbarism
of the Britons, determined upon their conversion,
so Mr. Parkin, upon getting a hazy notion that a
sturdy National sentiment was growing in Aus-
tralia, made up his mind that his mission was to
win over this continent to the precepts of Imperial
Jingoism. He modestly declares that he has oorne
to “educate” Australians, and, with further
humility, asserts that the inhabitants of a cold
country, like Canada, are stronger and more vigor-
ous than men of a warm climate like our own. As
he is a Canadian, this assurance must infallibly
carry conviction. In some respects he is admirably
fitted for the role he has assumed. For his
assurance is immense, his lung-power tremen-
dous, and his flow of language like the
stream from an artesian well. But his plat-
form tricks and habits—we really can't say
manner’s —are of phenomenal atrocity. When he
desires to be particularly emphatic it is his custom
to turn his back on the audience and lower himself
till his coat-tails draw nigh unto the ground, and
his more jocular remarks are accompanied by a
nasal giggle which is unique in its inanity.
He probably was chosen as rnissioner to this conti-
nent on the strength of the British proverb that
“anything is good enough for Australia.” Yet,
despite all that, his mission has been effective in
recording the pulse of Australia, for his much-
advertised first meeting in Sydney was, in truth
and in fact, the flattest of fizzles ever achieved to
date. Six Ms.L.C., eight Ms.L.A., a Lieutenant-
Governor, a judge, several of the Calico contin-
gent, and a few of the gentlemen whose solo
renown is that they possess many shekels were
on the platform, and in the hall some 200 or 300
persons were seated. Of this audience about
one-third were favourable to the cause ; the re-
mainder, being opponents, had come with a


generous desire to make things pleasant for the
lecturer. They knew that Imperialists would not
be found sufficient to crowd the place, so they lent
their presence and listened to 105 minutes of
natural gas from the Parkin well with, all things
considered, surprising patience and admirable
Courtesy,
* *
Of the matter of the oration itself we need hardly
add to what is written in another column. There
was only one tiling remarkable about the lecture,
and that was the admirable skill, approximating
genius, with which the Imperial delegate avoided
anythin o- directly bearing upon the question. How
national” unity ' was to be accomplished, how
the Australian spirit is to be effectually smothered,
or in what manner Imperial fetters are to
be forged and fastened when the Parkinian
ideal shall have become an accomplished fact, was
not even suggested. The whole time was occupied
iu relating the all-round majesty of everything
British the surpassing smartness of the Canadians,
and the phenomenal acuteness of Mr. Parkin
himself “ Gao-s ” which were wormy from age
when the alleged” Marble Man was a youth, plati-
tudes which introduced patriotic toasts when
George the Third was King, and vague portents
of an undescribed and undated future occupied a
dreary hour and three-quarters which would have
been insufferably dull had not appropriate inter-
factions periodically capsized the orator’s apple-cart,
And he relying upon an absent pro-imperial
enthusiasm, unwisely invited speeches from oppo-
nents and thus enabled others to lire shots at the
Imperial balloon. And when the balloon had
collapsed the grey-headed collection of imports on
the platform tumbled over one another in their
hurry to get out of sight of an audience who had
no sympathy with Tummy, no enduring love of
the gentle primrose, and no direct connection with
the trade in imported shoddy. If Mr. Parkin
really and truly yearns to “feel the pulse of Aus.-
tralia” he will have already acquired the com-
Action that Imperialism lias gone hopelessly
bung in Sydney. “Imperial unity” is an un-
saleable drug in the Australian market.
“In Peacock’s Feathers.”
Home time ago a convention of Australian
.Supreme Court Judges was held at Melbourne.
There was plenty work for such a conference. Ex-
pense delay, and uncertainty in the administra-
tion of law, were rampant; in none of the colonies
was justice available to a poor man on equal terms
with a rich man. In none of the colonies was the
trial of cases speedy or certain. In all the
colonies just debts were defeated and delayed
daily, tradesmen were swindled, and creditors
robbed, by means of the mazy intricacies of the
law, as they have been from time immemorial.
But the Judges gave scant attention to these
matters; their minds were above such trifling
considerations; they devoted themselves specially
to the absorbing, all-important topic of—Dress..
They ai-gued and debate;] whether they should
wear full-bottomed wigs or the old regulation
“jaseys.” They set their ponderous legal minds
to work over the problem of whether or not knee-
breeches were the correct thing for a Judge iu
Banco, and whether it was “the cheese” for a
Judge at nisi prius to wear a lace choker round
his neck, and a gold chain over his stomach.
Having made a certain amount of progress with
these tremendously important questions they
separated again, and went back to their respective
co jutries.
# * #
The effect was soon visible in New South Wales.
The J udges came out on the first day of Term in
a state of barbaric splendour, gleaming with gold
chains and enshrined in their huge full-bottomed
wigs like so many owls in ivy-bushes. Each Judge
now has a crier, a man who runs before him with a
stick like a schoolmaster’s pointer, and cries
“ Silence ! ” as the great man stalks from his
chambers to the court-room. The public, the
meek, harmless public who pay the piper for all
this gorgeousness, are hustled out of the courts
altogether and only allowed to look on from the
;galleries, the body of the court being reserved for
the lawyers and the cheap-labour commissionaires,
who keep order and add to the glory of the scene
by their uniforms. All this is a vast change irom
the days when Sir Alfred Stephen and Sir James
Martin were on the bench The “dignity” of
such men did not need to be supported by a crier
at a pound a week going before them. Their
intellectual abilities won universal admiration
and their personal presence was full of dignity.
They wanted no adventitious aids, no gew-
gaws and outward frippery to impress the
populace. Their native inherent abilities were
sufficient for them. Why is it that the Judges of
the present day, iu New South Wales and else.
m here in Australia, are going in for these foolish
.decorations ? Is it that they are wanting
an intellectual power, and must clothe then-
heads in horsehair to conceal it ? Have they to
wear flowing robes to give themselves a spurious
dignity ? Is it that they think the public are like
black savages who fall down and worship a
medicine-man when he has a scarlet blanket and a
Jot of oxtails on ? Of a truth, they give ns the
scarlet and the oxtails nowadays to repletion. But
tin- day has passed when Justice could only make
herself respected by outward pomp and show. The.
savage of old prostrated himself before his
medicine-man when he had ’em all on, but the
populace of the present day are of different calibre.
“Neve? mind your horsehair, never mind your
gold chain and your crier,” say they, “give us
good law, speedy and certain, and we will look up
to you and venerate you.” And the public find
that the gold chains do not prevent Darley’s de-
•ci sions from being upset with monotonous regularity.
And even the proposal that he should wear knee-
breeches cannot make the Western population
•of New South Wales bow down in adoration of
Judge WINDRYER. The day of padding is past:
people now-a-days weigh the worth of a thing, not
by its outward pomp and show, but by its intrinsic
merit. It is a pitiful spectacle, this, of a man
clad in gaudy x-obes, topped with horsehair,
■dressed up to look like some forgotten monstrosity
of the mediaeval ages, waddling in the bi’oad day-
light of the Nineteenth Century to a judgment-
seat to listen to a lot of other rnexx clad ixx black
robes and horsehair. Away with such nonsense.
If they are not good enough to appear as ordinary
citizens but only as jackdaws, then no amount of
fine feathers will make peacocks of them.
# * *
It is hardly to be supposed that the Judges
went in for all this ceremony, or even that they
retain the old stupid forms, with any definite view
<>f impressing the public, or adding to their own
real dignity. No doubt thex-e is a considerable
satisfaction to a small-minded man in having a
crier going before him with a stick ; and the wear-
ing of scarlet and ermine robes may, to the vulgar
and to the Judge’s relations, bring a great joy which
would be wanting if they wei’e dressed in tweed and
broadcloth. But the Judges of all the Austx-alias
would never give any attention to the matter of
dress for the sake of dignity only. In fact, to do
so is tacitly to admit that without their horsehair
and robes they do not feel sufficiently dignified for
their billets. But there is a deeper sentiment and
a more potent reason at work. Australia has
now reached that stage in its development where
the road divides. To the one side lies the track to
democratic institutions such as those of the United
States: Judges without horsehair looking quite like
ordinary men ; barristers and attorneys and advo*
cates all lumped under the ofie comprehensive
term of “lawyers” and dressed as suits them;
everything reeking of the people. On the other
side lies the road to imperial and monarchical in-
stitutions such as those of England; where the
few ax-e privileged at the expense of the many;
where titles are hereditary, and where a successful
lawyer may hand down to generations of his chil-
dren the right to a voice in the councils of the land,
though his children may be fit only for the idiots
asylum ; where the sole fount of honour is in the
hands of a single woman swayed by a few heredi-
tary counsellors; where there are always rewards
waiting for those who have great talents and will use
them in the way to suit those in power. England is a
land of traditions and memories. An English Judge
has his clothing marked out for him by centuries
of precedent down to the very colour of the clocks
on his stockings. He is not called upon to assert
his dignity or show himself worthy of his honours
in the broad light of day. Hedged in by formali-
ties, set up as it were on a pedestal, his glory is
great and his magnificence boundless. The
American judge, on the contrary, has no such aids
to greatness. Ho has to maintain his dignity by
his native strength of character. No matter
how good a lawyer he may be—and America
has produced some of the greatest lawyers
ever born—he can never hand on to sons a
title which they are perhaps wholly unfitted
to wear. There is little wonder then that our
judges, perhaps unconsciously, feel themselves
drawn to the Imperial development. For
them it promises so much better things than the
Democratic. Once on the bench they can gain
nothing further in the way of emolument? ; their
thoughts turn naturally to the glories of their
English brethren with their titles and their
honours, and they seek to follow as far as possible
in their footsteps. This is the reason why the
Judges at Melbourne, instead of discussing abuses
in the law, discussed —dress.
# #
Public opinion luckily is setting very strongly
a ainst these Imperialistic notions. I,t is a curious
taiug that almost all wealthy lay colonists after they
have taken a few trips to England begin to spout
about the glories of Imperialism. The reason
with them is the same as with the Judges. For
them the democratic colonies have little to offer
a seat maybe in the Legislative Council with an
Honorable (within the colony) tacked on to it.
Such things are far from satisfying their wishes, so
they intrigue and work to get themselves into the
British Government’s notice. Let them only be
made Sir Long wool Ty i.i.owfat, and they will
die happy. In England a blind superstitious
veneration attaches to titles and this veneration
we of Australia who know not the old world can
never share. The average Englishman . would
sooner be kicked by a Lox-d than caressed by a
plebeian; and the successful colonials long for a
little of such homage. In the colonies they are
nobody after their work is done. They can spend
their money, no doubt, and purchase a little grovel
in that way, but it falls very far short of the Eng-
lish article. They are jostled on one side in the
fierce push of enterprise by men who have their
own way to make, and who will not stand in the
rear ranks while they can force somebody else out
of a front place. Colonial democratic life is one
constant restless struggle for front places, and
compared with it the Imperial style of things with
its lordly languid ease of a title and perpetual
honour holds out strong inducements to the average
successful Australian when once lie lias breathed
the Imperial atmosphere.
# * #
We may see this sentiment at work in the late
proposal to fetch a lot of British soldiers to our
country. If they can bring out the red-coats with
their pomp and show, with their officers living on
the fat of everything, courting, racing, taking things
easy, they hope to instil an admiration of such a
life into the Australian mind. They hope to pave
the way to the introduction of a similar system
here, so that those who attain wealth, and posi-
tion may forever be placed above and apart
from .the common herd, as they are in England.
But there ai'e too many men in the colonies in
whose breasts is implanted a bitter hatred of the
class tyranny and unfairness of the English aris-
tocratic -system : in whose minds is well-rooted a
detestation of the idle governing class which the
English system has developed. They may dress
up their Judges as superbly as need be, and then-
warriors may clank about oitr towns to their
hearts’ content—the public' can see too well that
under it all lies the anti-democratic spirit; and the
great force of public opinion will draw ns day by
clay more into the paths of democracy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The West Australian Squatters.
The prospect of Western Australia escaping from
dear old England’s immediate control is causing
the Argus to feel alarmed for the future of the
squatters in that far-off region. “It is to be
feared,” says the Melbourne journal, “that the
people of the towns, following the example set
them in the eastern colonies, will not be willing to
afford the squatters that liberal legislation which
is necessary for the first settlement and improve-
ment of the country. It is only too probable that
they will be guided by theories of land nationalisa-
tion, or by the desire of creating small holdings at
once, or by the prejudice against large runs.” The
contemplation of all the:e probabilities is distinctly
cheering, and moreover we may contemplate them
without any lurking doubt that squatters will
thrive in Western Australia, under constitutional
government, as they have managed to do in those
eastern colonies to which the Argus makes plain-
tive reference. There is no reason, indeed, why
Western Australia should not lure settlers within
her borders and yet maintain a hold upon every
inch of newly-opened territory for the common
benefit of a future population. No theories of
land nationalisation, and no amount of prejudice
against large runs (meaning the perpetuity of
private ownership in large runs), need prevent
a new State from offering men fair induce-
ments to squat upon as -much virgin country as
they have means and energy to turn to useful
account. Our allotted span of trouble here
below is three score years and ten, or thereabouts.
If, then, the adventurous young pioneer were
granted a 50 years’ lease of a tract of bush country
at a peppercorn rent, he might live and die in the
full enjoyment of liberal legislation not inconsis-
tent with the doctrines of Henry George. The
pioneer (an individual who is beslavered ad
nauseam by our Tory press) would have an excel-
lent chance to become rich long before his 50 years
of tenure expired, and even a pioneer can a.sk no
more from his country. When he had converted
his bush into desirable property he could sublet it
in small holdings, or do anything save alienate it
from the State that gave him his 50 years of abso-
lute possession. The terms of his lease should be
easy as regards the amount of country to he
cleared each year, and if he died before reaping
the fruits of ins labour (an accident that may be-
fall a townsman, by the way) he should have the
satisfaction of bequeathing the balance of his
lease to whomsoever lie chose, It is an artful Tory
fallacy that a State cannot encourage settlement
without relinquishing the fee simple in its lands,
said fallacy being based upon the argument that men
have no personal desire to extract Wealth from the
soil unless their children can become landed pro-
prietors after they themselves are mouldering in
the tomb. To understand the absurdity of this
hoary fiction we have only to remember that
three-fOUrths of the merchants and shop-
keepers in Australia are content to build up
their pile in leased premises. Many Of the
richest shopkeepers in Sydney and Melbourne
to-day hold a lease of the first premises built
upon the land they occupy, and when it runs
out they will retire, leaving somebody else to pay
an enormous rental for the new building dest’ned
to be reared upon the old site. Squatting is a
business, like softgoods-dealiug or ironmongery.
The squatter makes his fortune not out of the dirt
per se, but out of what is grown upon it—for sheep
can’t eat soil and thrive. And, although tem-
porary possession of the Earth’s crust is essentia!
to the maintenance of a shop, the Argus hasn’t
enough barefaced impudence to assert that free-
holding is necessary for the first settlement of a
pub. or a grocery-store. Should Western Aus-
tralia obtain a Constitution it is earnestly to be
hoped that the people of the towns will be guided
by theories of land nationalisation, and that
they will make up their minds to support
the cost of government without falling back
upon absolute sales of “Crown” lands, the
real title deeds of which are preserved in
Heaven. A large area of the colony might be
brought under cultivation of a more or less ad-
vanced character, and that speedily by lease-
holders of the soil. Capital is always attracted
by the prospect of making large profits, and the
peppercorn renters would not wapx for bank
assistance. If five-sixths of Western Australia
were in possession of a syndicate for 50 years that
syndicate could have no dearer object than to
make their property as valuable as possible for
theipselves firstly and then for the State. Let as
many folks as can become disgustingly rich during
those first fifty years. Tlie townspeople will also
get rich in the meantime, the Government will not
want for revenue, and the State w ill b e extremely
opulent when the source of wealtp revei’ts to
its rightful owner. There ypp have the rough out-
line pf a scheme pf land nationalisation whiefi
would encourage settlement and improvement of
the country from the start, and l;>e a good thing
for everybody for all tinjie. By making residence
on the soil compulsory upon leaseholders the
absentee landlord would be an impossibility.
Married Women’s Rights.
A ne\v and improve# edition of Rousseau’s
“Social Contract” is now badly wanted. Nut
alone the business relations between man and
man, and man and woman simply, but those also
between man and woman as husband and wife,
require new definition and new legal recognition.
As an instance of the blind unreason or criminal
tyranny which holds sway in this last sphere—
that of the commercial association of man and
wife —a case occurring in a Sydney Court last
week may be cited. One Cameron bought a
terrace of houses in Waverley from one Jones
fqr £1750. One of the terms of sale appears to
have been that Jones would continue to occupy
one of the hoqses as tepant at a weekly
rental. Jones, as ,it (transpired, entered into and
completed the’ transaction without informing Ins
wife, and soop after receiving the £1750 dis-
appeared, leaving his wife and a family of
children utterly unprovided for and totally
ignorant of Ids transaction with Cameron. At
the end of nine months the sale was sprung upon
her, and on her refusing to pay rent or quit the
house she occupied, an ejectment summons was
issued, and finally, a question of title being raised,
the Supreme Court was called onto enforce the
purchaser’s rights. These rights were at once
acknowledged by the Court, and Mrs. Jones was
accordingly ejected. It is not said that Mrs.
Jones directly contributed to "the fund out of
which Jones built or purchased his teri'ace of
houses, although had she done sober position in the
eyes of the law would not, merely on that account,
have been one whit better. But it is clear that
by the very reason of being his wife and
living with him she indirectly contributed
to whatever he owned. Putting the case gene-
rally, a man and his wife are on all grounds
of justice and equity partners as respects worldly
goods. The control the man exercises is, properly
considered, only the control of manager or director.
Reasonable latitude is enjoyed by both, but if
either acting underhand materially makes away
with the common property an offence is committed
against the other. That view is, we say, in ac-
cordance with the plain dictates of justice and
equity ; it is moreover in accordance with the
law which in ordinary commercial life renders
liable to imprisonment as a felon the man who,
being in business with another, appropriates
to Ins own use the property of the co-partner-
ship. It is not, however, in accordance with
existing law. By the law which has prevailed for
centuries, and which exists to-day, all a wife owns
is her husband’s and all ho owns is his own solely.
His wife may stand at his side from her twentieth
to her sixtieth year, helping him in as far as her
position permits to build up a competence or in-
dependence, and at the end of the period she can
bo legally denied the right of interfering in
the disposal of the property. The law empowers
him to render her practically destitute. It em-
powers him to give or bequeath what should
be regarded as bis and hers to whomsoever he
pleases. The only claim the law gives her on him
after her life of service is a claim for the neces-
saries of life. That is criminally inequitable;
it is a disgrace to civilised man. There
is now before the New South Wales Parlia-
ment a measure which proposes to enlarge the
claims and powers of married women, but it does
not go far enough. By this measure the married
woman will own whatever property she as an in-
dividual create?. That is, if she carries on an
industry on her own account the profits will be
hers and her husband will not have the power of
pouncing on them and diverting them to his use.
The step is one in the right direction, and it has
already been taken by the Parliaments of Great
Britain, New Zealand, Victoria, South Australia,
and Tasmania; but it takes no notice of the
fact that a wife who devotes her time solely
to her husband and his welfare should be
as much an object of legal protection as
the woman who devotes part of her time to her
husband and another part to millinery, school-
teaching, or literatures. This is the higher view of
the married relation which it is incumbent on the
present generation to recognise and enforce. The
old law which treated woman as a chattel must be'
erased to the last letter. The Hon. Dr. Bowker
declared the other night in the Legislative Council 5
of New South Wales that the small enlargement
of woman’s claims contemplated by the measure
before that body, is “ unsoriptural. ” The question
to be considered is, is it fair? If it is, no Scrip-
ture can prevail against that. Is the further
enlargement we argue for, fair? Does it strike
instinct and intelligence as a desirable reform ? I f
it does, opposition to it may be sanctioned but
cannot be sanctified by Scripture.
Atonement in Cash,
The moral of the Tranter v. Callaghan breach
of promise case, heard recently in Sydney, appears
to be that, however bad a woman’s character may
be made to look in Court, her legal claim upon the
man who, under a promise of marriage, has trifled
with her affections, is likely to awaken the sym-
pathy and secul'e the supp.rt of jurors-. The Chief
Justice, who tried the case, while stigmatising
both plaintiff and defendant as persons “ of in-
famous lives,” described the woman, on the sup-
position that even one-half of the sworn testimony
against her was true, as among the vilest of her
sex. The jury, however, considered that Cal-
laghan, by refusing to carry { out his con
tract to marry her, had damaged her to
the extent of £200. Society is a strangely -
constituted institution. It hangs together on
any but idealistic principles. The solemn union
of two persons, officially pronounced infamous, is
'not a consummation devoutly to be desired; yet.
because one of them declines to amalgamate and
consolidate, Society mulcts him in £200! The
recusant in this case may not have declined from
lofty motives, but the fact is there all the
same. As it is, few grudge the woman the money.
Men who promise marriage, and under 'that
cover injure a woman in her iporal esteem, and
shuffle along for years without fulfilling tile con-
tract, expose her to the worst evils, and are not
entitled to demand her to exhibit a heroic sense of
virtue. That is tire lesson the verdict of the jury
teaches. If a certain class of men’will take it to
heart the story of “ two infamous lives ” will bear
goqd fruit, although the telling of it .ruffled his
Honor’s temper, and although as aii action io:
breach of promise of marriage 1 i.t was'a disgusting
burlesque; " ' “ " 1 ■ ■
The Sheffield (England) Independent
imagines that New Zealand and parts of Australia
are overrun with swine, “ who roam about in vast
herds, destroying crops, devouring farm-yard
stock,” &c.
Parkes paired against the N.S.W. Pay-
ment of Members Bill. The old man would like
no politician to be paid except himself. “When
a membah is hard up he is moah amenable to party
discipline.”
From the frequency with which the term
“a villainous-looking man named So-and-so” is
used in the police-court reports of a certain Sydney
paper, it’s pretty clear that the proprietors must
think themselves perfect angels to look at.
“Jack Want (at a recent municipal
gorge) said he “hoped that every alderman would
look forward to entering Parliament.” What have
we done to deserve this ? The latest man of alder-
manic mind elected to the N.S.W. Parliament is
Mr. Dale—politically as commonplace a person as
the late Mr. Linsley, M.P., whose death caused
the vacancy. The difference between the typical
alderrnanio politician and the man who ought to
get into Parliament is exactly represented by the
difference which exists between the ideal barrister
and the actual attorney.
Mr. J. Creer, one of the members for
Northumberland, had a fling at absentee property
owners one night last week in the N.S.W. Par-
liament. There are, it is understood, close on 140
Democrats in that Assembly. At certain times
they roll up and with tire in their eyes assure the
Speaker that the days of the plutocrat are over
and that government of the people by and for the
people shall henceforth be the law and the prac-
tice. When Mr. Creer read his motion, however,
and declared his intention of taking a vote on the
necessity of compelling absentees and absentee
companies to contribute a portion of their revenues
towards the government of the colony, the Speaker
totted up the members present and announced
there was no quorum. Greer’s motion seemed to
have simply knocked the bottom out of Democracy,
The Anti-Irish Englishman.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Then who is he who would efface
His country’s love of liberty.
Who calls coercion no disgrace
And Mitchelstown a victory?
Not one alone, a clique there be,
Approving yet the tyrant’s plan,
To much we hear, too oft we see,
The anti-Irish Englishman.
Where'er he goes he but prolongs
The civil strife—his only bent
To ’gender thoughts of former wrongs
And foster present discontent;
Were Erin crushed he would rejoice
As quly dupes or tyrants can—
In “Jingo” triumph raise his voice,
The anti-Irish Englishman.
When alien landlords cross the sea
To leave less barren Erin’s Isle,
Her sons from sordid tyrants free
Shall reap the fruits of years of toil,
Unfettered by the wretch whose greed i
Long placed her children ’neath a ban,
Who proved himself in word and deed,
The anti-Irish Englishman.
If patriotism means but hate,
And treason love of fatherland,
True Irishmen will link their fate
And join the hateful traitor band.
Nor heed who widens yet the breach
That love and justice only span,
Who “might, not right” would ever preach
The anti-Irish Englishman.
And who has not the story read
How Erin’s sons stood hand and heart,
ith British heroes—fought and bled,
For England’s honour bore their part ?
Full many a British battle shows
How Irishmen oft led the van,
He counts them all as England’s foes—
The anti-Irish Englishman.
\ et, .Erin, hope the dreary reign
Of Tory puppets soon will cease,
The tried old pilot once again
Shall steer thy bark to calm and peace.
No Unionist shall then confound
True union with disunion’s plan,
Nor, Erin free, will then be found
The anti-Irish Englishman.
WILLIAM E. IMESON.


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., &c„
SUITA BCR FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Siiortkst
Notiuk and at Modkratk Rat'ks. jagr - A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including Frrncii Notk Papkrs and
Envki.otks just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard StreetX
[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, June 26, ISB9.
My Dear Moorabixda,—
Sydney Driving Park Club held a well-attended (rotting
meeting at Moore Park on 20th inst. when a crowd ol the
superior sex, with merely a, sprinkling of vifomen, occupied
the grand-stand, But under existing conditions what
Yjfouyrn wonjd tn\st her pretty frock there ? Tim grand-
i gtund is merely a, small,, vicketty “ bush-township, ”-kind-of
Structure, with a strip, of lawn in front as wide as a sash-
ribbon, upon which bookmakers of all kinds deafeningly
shout the odds. The stand itself faces the setting sun and
woe betide the woman who has left the faintest trace of
pearl-powder on her nose ! Taking things “by and
large,” as the sailors say, it appears that the S.D.P.C.
don’t pine for the refining influence of womankind.
It has. been arranged that at the coming Sydney Hos-
pital bazaar (which Governor Carington is to open on 12th
September) ail the stallholders are to wear the flowing
costume of the hospital nurse, which is about the most
•Impressing attire possible, though as a means of keeping
the motive of tire Pair well in view it could hardly be ex-
celled. And it has yet another virtue. We may he spared
the sight of mature maidens with coarse yellow wigs,
loudly-frescoed visages and thickly-powdered noses, posing
in the “ gaudy light of, noon,” in theatrical costumes, be-
lli nd their gimora-ks. Why a girl who, on ordinary occa-
sions, shuns the rouge-tablet even as she should shun the
seven deadly sins, lays itop with a trowel whenever a “sale
of work” looms on the horizon has ever been one of the
many things utterly beyond yours truly.
A pretty Melbourne girl whose lover was ac (dentally
killed a week before their marriage, now feels inclined to
die, too. About three months before the accident her
ji'ancre told tier he had made his will completely in her
favour, and as he was a man of considerable property she,
wlien he had, died,’ looked fqrward to benefiting. Now,
however, the will cannot be found, the property has l>een
divided, and life is a euchre to at least one disconsolate
young woman.
Another instance of the general awfulness of our hand-
maidens. In a Sydney suburban court the other-day a
rash employer sued his big and burly cook (who came into
court, by the way, in a green silk dress and a husband-
heater) for breach of contract. The “ misthress ’’ was first
in the witness-box, and after taking the oath, proceeded
to unfold her tale of Miss Brannigan’s perfidy in th-
matter of certain potatoes and her dark villainy in comic- •
tion with a joint of roast veal. These things Bridgit
heard with every expression of pious disgust, at the
conclusion of which Mrs. de Vere Smith sat down, and Miss
Braimlgan entered the box. The clerk, of course, handed her
the same Bible as her mistress had sworn on, but, with a vast
and scathing sneer the Brannigan produced from a crimson
plush hand-bag a gorgeous copy of the same sacred work,
remarking, in a voice shaken with emotion, “Oi’ll take me
oath on this wan, if yez plaze. Beggorra, yer warshup
Oi’d rather lose me case than put my lips on the same
hook that craythur has touched.”
Speaking of servants reminds me that I came on a
friend’s baby the other day wildly endeavouring to choke
itself with a small steel instrument. Of course I shook the
infant up and sent for the nurse, who hurriedly came upon
the soene remarking: “ The naughty boy! It’s always
the way, he will have my skate-key to play with.”
When I went and saw the wonderful feats of strength
performed by the gentle members of the Silbon-Stirk
troupe at Sydney Exhibition Building I was consumed
with a wild longing to find out how on earth women—a
noun so often synonymous with physical weakness-could
ever have attaints! to such muscular perfection. Wouldn’t
you think that years of careful dieting, combined with a
long coarse of severe study at the hands of som e agile
professor, were the means to the end of lifting cannon-
balls on your little finger ? But they're not. Miss Si 1 bon
the “ leading lady” of the company—assured me that the
only course of training she had ever undergone was on a
home-made trapeze in the parental horse-paddock—her
only instructor a brother, who would occasionally throw
in a hint as to which was the simplest way to hang by her
eyelashes, and her diet has been green apples, jam-tarts,
bull's-eyes, and anything else she fancied. In short, to
quote her own words, “ as with a child's lessons so with
trapeze-work. If the pupil is going to learn she'll learn ;
if not, she won't.” Miss Silbon assured me that “if one
really has an earnest desire (at the age of seven —she began
at seven) to develope muscles as hard as nails, the only
accessories required are a prop from fence to fence and
the prayers of the congregation.” Wonderful, isn't it ?
In an excellent lecture given by Miss Whitesides in.con-
nection with the Ladies' Sanitary Association at Sydney
Y. M.C.A., the lecturess discoursed on “Invalid Cookery”—
a thing the average woman knows very little about. Miss
Whitesides allowed that the best nursing and doctoring
might fail if “ kitchen physic” were not practised, and I
quite agree with her Fancy placing a convalescent
dyspeptic liefore a suet-dumpling; or putting a butter-
omelette in front of a bilious attack ! Another thing im-
pressed uiKjn us was that everything given to an invalid
should lie diminutive, for the reason, I suppose, that the
average patient is fractious, and if he (1 only think of
nursing Ac’s, you see) imagines there isn't any more will
peevishly insist upon another spoonful until he discovers
the trick. One more item worth remembering is that
food should not he left by the bedside, hut instantly re-
moved, as the sight, of a squad of house-flies fighting
amongst the ruins of the custard isn't calculated to
facilitate digestion. There was a large attendance of
ladles at the lecture, which was followed by practical
demonstrations of cookery.
The Elite Kink, Kedfern, expands into a most gorgeous
■sialvei about 21st July ; a lavish management aver that
they are going to excel everything ever seen, or die in the
endeavour. The Sydney Reunions hold the third of their
enjoyable dances on 2nd prox. at Need's rooms.
Mr. and Mrs. O. B. Payne, of Glenburnie, gave a most
successful hall on 20th inst., when over 50 couples glided
over a perfect floor. The dresses were very stylish ; two
sisters from Melbourne, the one in pink silk with gold
braiding, and the other in white silk similarly adorned,
were much admired.
Jennie (“ Jo ”) Lee has arrived at Melbourne, where she
Siortly opens in the lachrymose drama for which she is
famous. By the by, a massive Melbourne solicitor is
understood to be curling his hair and ordering gardenias
f>r his coat to grace the opening night. In the remote
age when Jennie last visited ns he was her signal victim
mind you, she couldn’t help it—and would throw over-
whelming bouquets with a sigh that caused the d.c. to
hold its hair on. Since then, however, we have had the
Gaiety girls and—well—men are very perfidious.
Miss Frances Saville (Mrs. Max Rown) intends shortly
to hold a concert in aid of tfiqt painstaking and gifted
little Australian-born musician, Miss Bessie Doyle, now
studying at Leipsio. A committee of ladies will help the
kind-hearted organiser to make the affair go swimmingly,
and Governor and Lady Carington accord their patronage.
I notice that a “ leading ” daily paper, which often goes
out of its way to be very nasty where musical matters arc
concerned, states that Miss Saville’s scheme had been
forestalled by one of the muscial societies which had
arranged to move in the matter. If so, the public were
certainly unaware of the fact. Miss Saville’s concert will
he as great a success as the one recently organised by her
on behalf of a charity, and if the society will give another
concert to supplement the funds I am sure everyone will
be delighted.
Apropos of music, Baritone Santley commences his
Sydney season on the 4th July. The initial concert will
he under vice-regal patronage, and society will un-
doubtedly swarm the hall and class the singers according
to gubernatorial precedent observed on the spot. Yes,
Apropos of the culinary art I am told that “ over 1400
girls attend the London School of Cookery,” and, as in a
glass darkly, I see a vision of 1400 strong men daily offer-
SHE: “DIDN’T YOU PROMISE ME NOT TO DRINK ANY BEER TO-NIGHT?
HE: “ HIC— NEITHER— HIC— DID I.”
SHE: “AND WHAT MAKES YOU COME HOME IN SUCH A STATE?”
HE: “WH —HIC !—ISKY! ”
ing up silent prayers for help oufside the dining-room
door.
A person signing “ Watchman ” wrote to a Sydney
paper recently to complain that show criticism didn’t go
deep enough now-a-days to suit him. He objects that—
“ At present you and your contemporaries tell us all
about the plot, and thus enable those to stay away who
deem the plot objectionable. But in those cases where
the clothing of some of the actresses is ostentatiously
‘ scanty,’ you are strangely silent, and, as I and many
others think, hlameably so.” Just imagine it! The writer
of the large daily would then conclude his report on the
pantomime with the awful crusher:—“The leading lady
wears really nothing but a wisp round her waist and no
shoulder-straps, though (lie chorus, the manager vows,
have quite a yard of tulle lavished on each,” or—“We
do not think much exception can he taken to Miss Blank's
gowns, though her ball-dress in act two is ci t very low at
the hack, revealing quite six notches of her backbone.”
Pshaw ! Ido hate, by the way, to see a woman show her
backbone if she has knots on her vertebra as big as cook-
ing-apples. I sat behind a little fragile woman at “My
Partner ” the other night and counted four or five knobs
on her spine each as large as a duck-egg—
Oh, these very modest men who would dearly like to read
How often ballet-kickers in immodesty exceed !
Ami in show-reports, concise, would like just a pinch of
spice
To sip their eoffec over saying, “ Very sad indeed ! ”
Perhaps it’s very wrong—and perhaps I should he glad
That men should rise with high desire to shun the low and
bad ;
Yet—perhajis they wish lo find something naughty to
their mind.
Nor wish to part “admission ” till they know what's to he
had !
A story is going the rounds that a woman is at tlie bot-
tom of the Samoan difficulty. It seems that Princess
Tanpepe—daughter of Malieloa—is the acknowledged
“ daisy ” of the group, and both German and Ameri-
can officers worshipped at her shrine after the
violent manner of their brass■ I>uHoned kind. About
(he time the first disagreement aroae between thn
Powers, the Princess was invited to a ball on
the German warship, which she, not “cottoning” to
the officers, instantly refused ; but the ’Murkans, giving
a ball shortly afterwards on their vessel, she joyfully ac-
cepted, and was the life and soul of the hop in her gentle
barbaric way. This, of course, made the susceptible Ger-
mans thirst for “ rache !” and so it is that the home papers
seriously believe that a tan-coloured Helen with a shark’s
tooth in her nose was the real cause of the quarrel between
America and Germany ! Sonic people will believe Anything.
the Crystal Palace Skating Rink management gave a
Coupon to every purchaser of a ticket the other week
entitling the holder to draw for a valuable prize. The
drawing eventuated on 15th hist., when the successful
number was 13,704, which entitles the holder to a prize.
If this person mysteriously refuses to claim his own the
management will forward a cheque the value of the prize
lo the hospitals.
What a lot the haggard, brain-racked decootor of the
gaudy shilling shocker has to answer for ! Only the other
day a boy scalped his sister under the ilnpression that he
was an Indian brave. And recently, at a Sydney police-
court, a “ reverend gentleman,” who had endeavoured to
defraud a woman—by buying £3 worth of stamps in a
rather ingenious way—admitted that he had “ read about
the trick in a novel coming from England.”
Sydney Hunt Club met at Gladcsvillc on the 15th for a
run to Eastwood at the master's invitation. A large field
resulted, including two ladies, two M.’sL.A., and a naval-
lieutenant, while the spills were simply awful, many a
gallant huntsman arriving there quite a considerable time
ahead of his gee-gee.
Miss Dallas-Yorke, now Duchess of,Portland, wears six-
and-a-half gloves. But then she's five feet eleven high.
A “ Home ” mail-boat which left Sydney recently carried
two bad married men over (he waving wobbly who ought
to blush to he in their own pitiful company. Their two
confiding, loving little wives hadn’t an idea that their
respective husbands meditated a trip to London enyarcor ,
beca s if they had they would have smiled ominously
and packed up, and probably i( was for this reason that
their legal protectors made it a moonlight flit. Be that as
it may the first intimation their wives received was a tele-
gram announcing their departure after the steamer had left,
and the last sight her passengers saw in Sydney was two
infuriated women shaking two damp umbrellas off of
South Head.
When I remarked recently that hair worn d la Grecque
would be greatly affected this season I quite forgot to
warn the snub-nosed serapli against the innovation, which,
if she’s wise, she will avoid as she would wet paint. Only
those favoured women with straight profiles—Myra Kem-
ble, for instance, who always dresses her hair that way—
should adopt it, though, since it’s fashionable, the poodle-
faced girl won’t he able to restrain herself, I suppose !
What are we having? A gashing Adelaide society
scrihess recently alluded to Lady Kintore as “ourgraceful
and charming vice-reine ! ”
Apropos of Greek fashions, the rage for these has
brought in the armlet, a broad band of gold worn just
above the elbow. It is the ugliest fashion the Maid of
Athens ever handed down to us, because when worn tight
enough to stay in place it leaves an angry red ridge above
and below it. On a skinny arm it looks simply ridiculous.
Have you heard about the new cork bonnet invented by
a London milliner? The shape is made wholly and solely
of cork-tree bark and needs comparatively little trim-
ming to make it look extremely chic. But how such a
“ swellable ” material would behave in a drenching
shower, if one had, left the husband-heater at home, is
more than I can say. Talking of (hose beloved “heaters,”
too, it seems (he handles will probably he as long, if not
longer (linn ever, next summer. The very short, thick
stick, expected lo have come into vogue by this time, is
still a dream of the distant future.
1 hear that Mr. Montgomerie, the Melbourne brewer
who smuggled a £7OO necklace for his wife across the
border and was subsequently “ had ” for some £4OO duty
and fine, is tearing his hair to think that he didn’t send
for Mrs. M. to come over to Sydney and wear (he unfor-
tunate diamonds before making the return journey. Had
she done so (hey would have been legally qualified to
enter the Protectionist colony duty free.
That “Queen’s Fund,” which dear Lady Loch started by
way of a Jubilee demonstration, is ignored and forgotten
by all except the Melbourne creme de la creme. They held
the second annual meeting of subscribers last, week—in
Melbourne Town Hall, of course—but not fifty people
turned up. There were the Government House folks, the
Benjamin Benjamins, the Macßains, the O’Loghlens, Ver-
dons, Nicholsons, Clarkes—in fact, half the meeting had a
handle to its name, and the rest just about consisted of
parsons and the inevitable Town Clerk, So, being a snug
little family party, they moved, seconded, and carried
Unanimously that a sort of Queen's Fund Sunday should be
established, at which every parson in Victoria would
preach a sermon about the fund (rather a dry subject, my
dear) and take up a collection for it. The Town Clerk said
it would remind the people of the blessings which they
owed to Her Majesty’s beneficent reign, but I think that
it ought to remind them that a hundred charities want
booming more than the Queen’s Fund, and that there are
not enough Sundays in the year to go round. Besides, I
call this robbing the poorer paid parsons, who can’t afford
to miss the weekly opportunity of sending round the hat
for themselves. Eh ?
My Hobart correspondent tells mo that Cardinal Moran
strongly disapproves of the lavish display of hare flesh
Usually indulged in by ladies when in full dress. A prize-
giving entertainment held at the Presentation Content,
Hobart, during the Cardinal’s visit, was patronised by
Lady Hamilton, on which occasion her ladyship appeared
in evening dress with an opera-wrap shrouding her shoul-
ders. The Cardinal, who sat near her, at first seemed
very attentive to Iris fair neighbour, and they chatted
together quite like old friends, until the heat of the room
caused her ladyship to dispense with the aforesaid wrap,
after which she received very little attention from His
Eminence, for he scarcely glanced at her, even when
courtesy compelled him to converse. As Lady H. has
beautifully plump, white neck and shoulders and is not
particularly delicate about showing them, the ladies pre-
sent (especially those with prominent collar-bones) drew
their own conclusions as to the Cardinal’s change of
manner.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPMO SMIFH
Answers to Correspondents.
“ A.W.G.” : We don’t print the rhyme because
we don’t know the facts on which it is founded.... “Frank
Chandos”; Thanks; next week, probably “R. 8.”.
Thank you “L.A.”: To print the candid criticism
of a blackfellow on the son of a great statesman would
cost £lOO,OOO “ Subscriber”: The valuation is no doubt
based on the original subscription prices of the pictures.
The name of the trustees affords some guarantee of the
honesty of the concern. Anyhow, you mustn't look a gift-
horse in the mouth “W. E. Syme” : One thing is cer-
tain : that Irish servant-girls in their own country are as
moral on the average as their English sisters, and in saying
this we keep well within the mark. A similar statement
may be made with respect to the Irish servant-girls of
Australia and elsewhere. The women who employ them
have not all the money and all the virtue too.
The figures concerning illegitimacy at the Ashfield Infants’
Home cannot be made to support your conclusion....
“A. Evans”: He is an Englishman born of Ger-
man parents, and you couldn’t get nearer than that
to an exact definition if you haggled for a week...
“0.5.”: Yes ; the publishers indicated are thieves. (2.)
You can’t legally make a man sell under such circum-
stances, as it is always open to him to quibble “A
Victim” ; Thanks. However, it's hardly worth while to
say anything further on the subject “ W.L.” : Who is
the Peepholes’ William?. ...“A.L.J.” : To seriously dis-
cuss, at this date, the advisableness of paying meml)ers of
Parliament for their Services would be an insult to human
intelligence. The earth is round ; members of Parliament,
should be paid—the two propositions stand on an equally
stable basis. The argument on the subject, as carried on
in N.S.W., is merely between those who know payment to
be just and right and those who regard payment as inex-
pedient from a Tory standpoint. Ninety-nine out of a
hundred of the men who oppose payment of members would
favour abolishing manhood suffrage and support the
giving of additional representation to bricks and mortar..
“Radical” (Launceston): Thanks for clippings..
“Thos. H.” (Limestone): Thanks “ J.Mac.” (Walgetl) :
Thanks....“ Quod Dixi Dixi ” (Mackay, Q.): Communi-
cate with the Registrar of Patents “J.D.S.” (Auck-
land): Received “M.N.D.”: Thanks. Will consider.
....“Unemployed” (Brewarrina): Sample of the black
sugar doled out to unemployed at Brewarrina received.
We like black sugar in our tea ourselves; but we iuusl
admit that yours is the blackest we have ever seen...
“E.A.”: The Sydney legal shark market is glutted with
English solicitors, many of whom drag out an existence
on 30 shillings a week. The solicitor's clerk is about the
most miserably paid of creatures living—or starving -on
from one to two pounds a week “ A.J.F.” : Excellent.
“W.A.C.”: The term “colonial” means an Englishman
or other person who has emigrated to Australia. Aus-
tralian means a man born in Australia, or an Englishman
who has come here and never talks about the beastly
“kawlinies.” “E. J. Carton” : Don’t you think that, if
you were a policeman on night-duty, and were not allowed
a revolver officially, you would buy one of your own and
put it in your pocket ? “ Subscriber ” (Campbell!own) ;
Shall be obliged for a few particulars “ A.C.P.” ! Von
had better inquire of the librarian of your magnificent
Public Library “Max.”; Very good idea. We must
make the suggestion “Possum”: Will consider.
However, we have of late printed a good deal in a similar
strain “Cecil W. P.,’: The sketch was a good literary
thing, but it could hardly he published. It adorn
the prospectus of a quack-doctor or the illustrated cata-
logue of a chamber of horrors. At least that is what (he
censorious would say. Tub Bulletin can’t afford to deal
much in that kind of thing. It is the “pious” paper
which is licensed to print the ungodly par.... “ Kookara
bookra”: You aren’t a poet. Stick to hammer and drill
[Many letters held over.]
What’s in a name ? A Miss Lawson, alias
Foster, alias Parnell, got two months at Sydney
Police Court for “ righteous.”
The Sydney Post Office clock would have
been finished long ago had the authorities been
braced up with Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.


MR* FRANK LINCOLN
(America’s Greatest Humorist)
WILL COMMENCE
A SHORT FAREWELL SEASON
AT THE
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
—ON—
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
JUNE 20.
(Full particulars in daily papers.)
MANAGER L. J, LOUR.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
, SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal .' ;.. “ Run of Luck.”
Her Majesty’s .' “My Partner.”
Opera House ... “ The Beggar Student.”
Criterion “Money”
Gaiety “Two Lovely Black Eyes.”
Exhibition Building ,'. Silbon-Stirks.
The .CJyqLoRAMA The Battle of Gettysburg.
School or Arts . Frank Lincoln.
Darlisgiiurst Skating Rink Darlinghurst.
Elite Skating Rink Redfern.'
Crystal Palace Skating Rink York Street.
Trocadero Skating Rink Newtown.
Metropolitan Skating Rink I Ultimo.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Bells of Haslemere:”
Princess’ “ Dorothy.”
Opera House “Old Curiosity Shop.”
Alexandra “ Crimes of Paris.”
St. George’s Hall Rickards Company.
Victoria Hall Frank Clark’s Company.
‘ ‘ Money” fills Sydney Criterionat night, and
is disgorged over the bank-counter with pleasing
regularity each morning as the last stroke of 10
ceases to vibrate, arid the Warlike howl of the
banana-man begins to impede traffic. Results
other than, mere pecuniary gratification to B.
find B. are Ibo'iliirig out df the crowded Condition
of the d.c. Girls ate, learning wisdom from the
patrician imbecility of Georgina Vesey, While
feelings of uneasiness are being generated in the
shattered intelligences qf somq of their admirers
ou the subject of Sir Frederick Blount’s palpable
efforts to imitate their style. A benefit matinee
has been ordained for Saturday afternoon ill favour
of G. W. Anson, who has done his best to’ deserve it.
* * * *
No pre-arranged plot for the latest edition
of “ Black-eyed Susan ” has yet been discovered,
and this enables Captain Crossgrain and his pirates
to carry on much as they pleased at the Gaiety;
Plots are but common-place necessities at the best
of times, and more than often stupid; the moral of
which observation is seized by the people who
show their preference for the crackling of thorns
under a pot to the wisdom of sages, and crowd in
to chuckle over the excellent fooling of the bucca-
neer policeman, the loves and dances of William
G. and Susan Edith, the banjo trio, or the songs
of Mother Shipton. They might go and listen to
the parliamentary debates, but they don’t.
# * % &
Judged by the unattainably high standard
of moral law as laid down by the early fathers,
“ My Partner ” at Her Majesty’s leaves little to be
desired. The approbation of the gallery for every
lofty sentiment contained in it is peculiarly touch-
ing tjJ the wretched man whose appreciation of the
depths qf pathos has been blunted by a long course
Of comic opera and skating rinks. Ait ecceritfiO
Chinaman, suffering from a perennial thirst, per-
vades the drama—which, by the way, gives place
ro “ ..Vmo’s Clark ” on Saturday—With the happiest
results, and outside the halo of sentiment which
enshrines this modern replica of the loves of David
find Jonathan Mr. J. W. Sweeney revolves
Major Henry Clay Britt in a little world of His
own into Which the Sydney critics have not yet
penetrated, and, with Miss' Posie Pentland, "he
remembers the artless ways of the nation that
owns him in' that lonely canon of the Sierras. Joe
Saunders is a sufficient answer to the taunt that
George K. is nowhere without a real rain-storm or
a tank of city water; but Josiah Venables is the
worst kind of an exasperating idiot, who doesn’t
know enough to hide a blood-stained shirt where a
drunken Chinaman can’t find it. By the way,
there were four Chinamen, all fat, and all great
swells, in the dress-circle on Monday night. They
had evidently come to see Wing Lee, and they
didn’t smile once during the whole performance.
Charlie Saiidown renewed his acquaintance
with the Royal full of friends, and the gallery
packed with the admirers of sterling virtue on
Saturday. There are so many of the estimable
qualities of the British yeoman type to be jammed
into a small compass and slopped oyer in “ A Run
of Luck,” that it always excites public sympathy
and makes the check-takers’lives a burden. On
this occasion the horses from the Bligh-street
stables are a great feature, and the way they are
ridden is another, though, perhaps, an unavoidable
one; the substitution of lime-light for trams,
whilst favouring a justifiable deception, not being
a sufficient inducement to any intelligent Sydney
horse to show his best paces. ' When once the in-
volved relationships of the past and present are
definitely mastered toward the close of the second
act, you have time to realise that one of “the
Isms that haunt us” has not yet been un-
veiled ; you note the progress of civilisation
and the state of public morality in the
groans excited by Captain Tieror’s cold-blooded
Villaiirea, you share Harry Copsley’s love for
Daisy, and you exult over the discovery of a groom
In a training-stable with some of the best charac-
teristics of a Sunday-school teacher as depicted in
the police reports. But Bland Holt utterly de-
stroys all the newly-awakened impulses of your
better nature. Charlie Saiidown raises the old
Adam that submits to genial vice without veneer,
and you arc once more out in the cold world at
11 p.m. with no better protection than a last year's
overcoat. The present “Run of Luck” is for six
nights only, at the end of which time the “New
Babylon ” will be exhumed.
Jli m
The world goes merrily along on its
rollers, and the faces of the rink-managers expand
as the Mercury steps back into the bulb. “ The
1 >roper study of mankind is man ou wheels, not
to mention lovely woman when the penny iu the
slot combines with the family Bible to give her
away in the details of weight and age, and her
“ lastings ” conceal the skates from view until she
sits down on the floor in the middle of her wild
career to wonder what she is doing there anyhow.
The Darlinghurst fancy-dress carnival lias
been repeated with much bliss. The Elite has
had Mai thy, and assiduously cultivates social
tone. The Crystal Palace makes no extra change
for putting its patrons on terms of rolling freedom
with suburban cricketers and other equally good
and great men. The Trocadero shares its elegance
and its open roof with the infant prodigies who
wore horn in skates, and Manager Higgins picks
up the glove on behalf of the Metropolitan with a
stern determination to suffer no rivals.
* * US »
Like a deserted hut in the back-blocks,
the Opera House had passed from the memory of
all but its owners when the tuneful Simon
Romanovich came along on a prospecting tour,
and decided to camp there. The enterprising
vagrant bottomed on payable dirt in his first shaft,
took up the whole country and is now about to
put dowu another. Winch means shortly, that
* The Beggar Student ” is a bright and cheery
piece of devilment to’ comfort the wilted heart
withal y; a revelation Of tnfe passions clad in purple
and fine linen and set to rollicking music, with
Kowalski on deck and Sydney at the feet of
Johiinie SoPlmon. The B.S. will next Tuesday
Re replaced by “ MoUstique ” with Flora Graupner
ifi the name-part.
# , # * # ...
The “(jrreafcest Combination in the World”
fills Sydney Exhibition Building every time the
lights are turned on, and the Silbons and the
Stirks, the Girards and the Dales cleave their way
through space to the martial music that may some
day lead Eosauquet’s warriors into worse trouble.
The bpnelessness of the show is painfully impres-
sive, and its members look harmless, but neither
your early recollections of Sampson, nor later
memories of the succulent Onion boiled in new 30
oip. Queensland rpm—the only certain cure' for a
cold —fills the aching void with a comparison by
which you may estimate their strength. The
double-somersault in mid-air in now being exten-
sively practised in the suburbs, and a young lady
of some seven summers has been rescued from a
rush of blood to the head and partial impalement
on the Belmore Park railings in the effort to imi-
tate Ida Silbon by hanging on to nothing in
particular with her tootseys.
These are the changes in Melbourne pro-
grammes for Saturday. At the Royal a first Aus-
tralian performance of “ The Bells of Haslemere,”
at the Opera House more “ Old Curiosity Shop,”
and at the Alexandra another sanguinary revival
of “ The Crimes of Paris,” They all start fair and
Nicodemus will probably take the hindmost. '
* * ill
The present periodical visit of Rickards to
St; George’s Hall, Melbourne, appears to have
Caught the fickle public in a remunerative frame of
niind, and the erdshings of this golden opportunity
yield such resmts that the management has to
rush into the cold night air with an announcement
that the whole qoiicernis “full.” A odttple.of new
Murphys, also’human! marioifettes, and a nice girl
or two, are partly responsible for all this joy, While
a large song, of tragic interest, terminated by
’Arry plunging into the orchestra and drowning
his sorrows, assists the situation in a vast measure.
Meanwhile the withers of the Victoria Hall show
are unwrung by this opposition, which is a Shake-
spearian way of insinuating that Slade, Murray
and Co. are still getting along ikey. And if the
figure of speech doesn’t fit in as supposed, the bear-
ing of that remark lies in the application of it, and
the reader must form his own conclusions.
* *-
Melbourne theatres, however, are strug-
gling along just now in the condition of Dr. L. L.
Smith’s young man who doesn't feel very well. At
the Opera House, indeed, Miss Katie Putnam is
taking “Fanchon ” through a second week to fair
business. Her shadow dance and a general mad
Whirl round a May-pole, produce a vague impres-
sioh that “Fanchon” is an opera houffe, until
somebody bursts up this notion by reading a
beautiful prayer, carried about by Miss Putnam
oil the end of a string; This, according to adver-
tisement, is the “ Prayer of a Pitre Maiden,” who
says, “look down and watch over my child.” The
ad. goes onto remark that it is “ a Simple Prayer,”
bitt The Bulletin regards it as a pretty deep
mystery, arlyway. “ Fanchon ” moves faster than
at first, and the evidently earnest Miss P. is better
in' several respects. But the PrOifd Laundry re-
mains a ludicrous spectacle, and from an artistic
point of view the shoA might just as well he
something different. A change of hill will he
due on Saturday.
“ Pointsman ” is just finishing at the
Royal, and “Madame Midas’’also comes to 1 a lame
conclusion at the Alexandra on Friday night.
The last hour of this illiterate shilling shocker
have been saddened by the arrival of a lawyer’s
letter threatening Mr. Alfred Dumpier with an
action for damages. The aggrieved party is Miss’
Alice Cornwell’s lesser half,, who has much reason
for feeling hurt in his tend crest feelings, but seems
to be sooliug his solicitor on the wrong man. Why
not go for the London publishers of “ Madame
Midas ” and get rich at one fell swoop or
else spend the wither , of his life ill throw-
ing hoots at Phil Beck? A revival of
“Pinafore” at the Princess’s was so’ roughly
noticed that Mr. William Elton took ill with acute
something or other and retired from the cast almost
immediately. When the daily press, at rare
intervals, administers truth instead of taffy the
perfeshun is .sure to develope pronounced symptoms
of an aggravated character, then fore taffy ought
to he made compulsory by Act of Parliament.
When in doubt the Triumvirate always play
“ Dorothy,” and Miss Nellie Stewart is announced
to reappear in that placid production to-night
(Thursday). It should last six nights, after which
Jennie Lee in “Jo.” Which reminds us that
Jo-Jo loaves Melbourne for Sydney very shortly.
-*■ -;|c- -* -in
“ Hands Across the Sea ” have been
stretching themselves out with wonderful activity
at the Adelaide Royal. Charles Warner has
become an immense favourite with the denizens of
the saintly town, and the company is held in high
respect. “ It's Ne er Too Late to Mend ” will be
the next piece, hut for three nights only, and other
productions will follow in rapid succession.
Tommy Hudson lias been doing satisfactory busi-
ness at Garner’s Theatre with his burlesque com-
pany iu “Little Monte Christo.” This gives way
to “Dick Whittington.”
Antediluvian James Hogan, Opera House
super-master and Oirish Kimmedyan, is gone for
ever. One time he said to Harry Power, “ Harry,
me Dili, 1 expect soon to go shifting clouds. In
me box there's me manyuscripts of me vallyablo
Oirish Drammers. I’d turn in me grave if that
v igahone Long Andrews got a Would of ’em. Blaze
see to it.” But Long Andrews went shifting
clouds long before Hogan.
* * Hi
The firm of Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grovc have wetted the bosom of the Age with
their repentant tears, and the organ of David
Syme will doubtless acknowledge this change of
front with plentiful gifts of the best butter it
keeps in stock. Not so long ago the Triumvirate
were darkly conspiring to cheek the Age for not
supporting their shows in a more generous
spirit. And now they give hold advertisement
to a gushing paragraph from that same journal.
Hallelujah !
ill it" ill ifi
A certain little Melbourne man is afraid
he will never get his Great Australian Drama pro-
duced. You see, managers are so stingy. The
author introduces a team of twelve real working
bullocks, with dray, loaded up for the diggings.
Real bullock-driver ! Real whip ! Real swearing !
“ Como’ee the way, Poky !” “ Get up, Strawh-erry!
Doctor !” Then a punch in the ribs with the whip-
handle. But the author says the stage would have to
he strengthened with extra props, and there's the
rub. This cheese-paring policy ! So his drama is as
unlucky as poor old Deorwyn’s “Joshua Haggard”
was. Papa' Deorwyn used to go about with two
MSS. copy-books. One was “Joshua Haggard
the other had all the critiques on “My daughters,
sir.” “Just see this little thing about Alice.”
“Observe what the Herald says about Con-
stance.” Well, Mrs. Chas. Holloway and Mrs. R.
Stewart, junr., are excellent actresses, though we
aee nothing of them nowadays.
* * *
Reverting to'the great sensational drama
“Joe Thompson, or the Leviathan King of the
Ring,” there is the thrilling scene of his first land-
ing at Sandridge, washed ashore in a barrel—fact.
All rights reserved. Twenty-four-sheet posters,
streamers, snipes, &c.
» * *
0, R, Johnson’S accepted design for the
flfeW Melbourne Bijolt Theatre shows a house of
great size—three, tiers of circle, and stalls under
the dress-circle, as well as all over the floor.
0# # *
It is stated that Letty Lind has settled
down to married Miss in’ Chicago (with her Aus-
tralian “ silver king,” aatfd derotes her
Sunday afternoons to teaching a) Chinese class.
The silver king, We are open to wagef, did not
marry Letty that she might pass her long calm
Sabbath afternoons in talking goody-goody to a
parcel of nasty Chows-—and we don’t believe this
yarn, anyhow. They’ll state anything in Chicago.
#
The Australian Mining Standard points
to the fact that the “ petrified rhafl ” has a bunion
on his foot. He must, therefore, have had a shoe
which pinched him. Nothing can marbleise trader
1000 years, and granting this to he true, it is cleat
that as people who lived 1000 years ago didn’t
wear boots and didn’t suffer from bunions, the
marble man has a modern foot. The Standard
says that the figure “is a marhleised cast taken
from a model. The tube through which the model
breathed during the operation of the artist has left
its mark in the mouth of the ‘ petrified ’ man, as a
glance Will show any person, especially an artist.
The extraordinary size of the head of the figure is
accounted for hj v the fact that that of the model
was supported by a pillow o? block round which
the clay has closed loosely, thus allowing the cast
to-be made large. At the same time we confess
we are puzzled as to how the cast has befili mar-
hleised, and Wfe are willing to believe that the
artist is in possession of a scientific secret in ad-
vance of the times. More we cannot say.”
-;jj .fi
Miss Yon Fiukelstein, who is in
.Queensland, has been wielding the sword of the
Lord" and of Gideon with deadly effect, choosing
Townsville as her base of operations. Of all tin®
public halls dotted over the extensive territory
between Thursday Island and Wilson’s Promon-
tory the School of Arts in the Northern
capital is the worst. Yet because our modern
female warrior and prophetess leads cap-
tivity captive by attracting c rowded audiences,
the committee resolved to make her pay the same
rent as if she were a full dramatic company.
“She is the finest actress 1 ever saw," said the
Mayor, President of the School of Arts, in justifi-
cation of the blackmail levied by his committee.
To be classed as an eminent actress, still more to
he rated as a complete corps drarnatique, so enraged
the fair-haired daughter of Zion that she publicly
announced that she would not lecture again in
Townsville. Whereat the newspapers teem with
sympathetic letters breathing out threatening®
and slaughter against the School of Arts com-*
mittee ;, deputations of black dragoons collected
from various regiments to implore the persecuted
one to re-Cousider her determination ; the prayers
are complied with, and on her return from Charters
Towers “the Sara Bernhardt 6f the platform”
makes her triumphal re-entry with such l a blowing
oftrumpets and sounding of loud timbrels as has
not been heard since the time of Miriam, sister to
Moses’ brother. It was a very pretty quarrel,
and Miss Von Fiukelstein decidedly scored. When
the last mail left the lady was still lecturing in
Townsville. P.S. —This par. reads as if written
by the Much Travelled.
* * *
At the Myra Kemble benefit the other day
Sheridan aired his latest, a parody ofi “ Queen of
my Heart, ” in which he appeared as a drunken-
faced old Woman in a brown shawl and white
stockings, which latter hideous articles he liberally
displays. The song-words are about wife and hus-
band-beating, a subject in which the gods revel,
and which seems not uncongenial to any British
audience as a whole. The ditty struck The Bul-
letin as being like a Hkvenin’ NoozE assault-
report set to slow music.
The Londoner who is writing a life of
G. V. Brooke.must not overlook Brooke’s remark-
able farewell speech at his last performance in
Australia—Theatre Royal, Melbourne, May, 1861.
The play was “Virginius.” Brooke’s speech was
none of your stereotyped theatrical “guiver.” It
came straight from the heart, and went to the
heart. There was a strange latent prophecy of
disaster in it. The swoid appeared to be hanging
over him.
i\i * #
Madame Melba, says the cable, has en-
gagements to sing in Monte Carlo, Venice, and
various cities of Northern Italy at the rate of £250
per night. What do they take us for ? Nilsson,
in her prime, used to sing two nights a week at
Drury Lane for £2OO a night, and Mrs. Armstrong
is not quite a Nilsson, anyhow. She may get
something approaching the alleged figure for a
special engagement at Monte Carlo.
As an acknowledgment of Mr. George
Riguold’s brotherly love in producing “Julius
C.esar " at a Sydney theatre, Mr. G. 0. Miln will,
it is understood, revive “ Henry Voe ”, on a scale
of undreamt-of splendour when he returns to
Melbourne Opera House. The possible effects of
this move upon the other Handsome George are too
awful to contemplate. Another Henry leading
his excited soldiery once more into the breach,
dear friends, t) !ye gods ! It’s impious.
Two columns of Phil Beck's “career,” in
the Melbourne Herald, touches upon everything
theatrical connected with that overwhelming
young man, save only that particular period when
the unfinancial chrysalis developed into a golden-
winged butterfly.
During May and June, the London
“ season,” Irving gives maUnt'es only on Saturday,
so as to he at liberty to pass his evenings with the
dukes and duchesses whose adoration of himself
and Ellen Terry increases even as their days do
grow. The concluding words of this sentence are
cribbed from our immortal friend, W. Shake-
speare, deceased.
At Poverty Point.
Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels are storming Christchurch
(N.Z.)
It is alleged thatsomeoneis touring N.S.W. provinces with
a version of “ Hans the Boatman,” the sole colonial rights
of which are now vested in Mr. W. H. Leake.
Mr. Eille Norwood, one of Brough and Boucicault's im-
ported stock actors, has a natural gift of musical composi-
tion, but does not know a note of music. He has com-
posed some very creditable songs, which -have been pub-
lished, one in particular—“ In Distant Days being very
pretty. He never takes a “ snifter.”
Joe Ryan, the Irish comedian, late of the Federal Min-
strels, is now running a skating rink at Charters Towers
with heaps of luck. The pretty creatures rink vigorously
at the Towers.
Tlie Arthur Vivian Dramatic Company, including W. G.
Carey as leading man, are reported to have done good
business throughout N.Z. up to latest dates.
Heloise and Rosalie Duvalli keep up their prosperous
dancing academy in Melbourne. Heloise has a charming
daughter. The exact Heloise we worshipped 20 years ago:
Musical-critic Plumpton, in Melbourne, sets backs up,
hair On end. Why this discord ever amid musical pro l
lessors ? Plumpton composes like his victims. They say
he is at work on a new Samoan can cantata, “ The Milk in
the Cocoa-nut/’
Ellen Terry swings at the side-scene in a hammock.
Mr. F. E. Hiscooks has three new companies cn route
from England. His London Pavilion Co. left that city per
Cuzco last Thursday, together with the American Midgets.
Another big novelty is on board of the Garonne, headed by
a clever performer named Snazelle—the fellow who once
punched Carl Rosa’s snasal organ.
The sapient critic who slings sentences together for the
S.M. Herald and considers them dramatic critiques was
considerably “off” in bis condemnation of the naval
uniform worn by Mr. Walter Howe in “ The Union Jack.”
Geo. W. Anson will benefit at Sydney Criterion this
Saturday afternoon. Seats are being rapidly booked.
Frank Weston, the Wizard Oil Man, is running theatrical
companies at the Cape. He has journeyed twice to Lon-
don to engage people.
The poor Melbourne Bijou employes have had a ben. at
the Hibernian Hall with one of the rotteneSt programmes
ever known. Purves does not rush to buz-fuz for them ;
Miln does not rush to elocute ; Coppin does not rush to
hand over a dollop of (subscribed) sovereigns. Same old
world.
Jack Welch, the veteran Australian actor, who is ap-
pearing in a minor part in “ Money,” at Sydney Criterion
just now, created the part of Sharp when the same comedy
was first produced in Australia in 1854.
Chiarini, the circus man, was at Amoy, China, last
April.
The Melbourne amateur tenors whom Cowan fools
“ home” say that their patron is a much bigger man in
England than they thought.
A young Sydney lady, who calls herself Mademoiselle
Violette, has just started to emulate Miss Adelaide
Deletion.
Jo Jo in Melbourne precedes Lenny Lee Jo.
Madame Melba’s interview with the Pall Mall Gazette
opens up a huid vision of grand opera, great composers,
bags of sovereigns, princesses, kings, empresses, royal
boxes, colossal bouquets, pearls, rubies, diamonds, &c.
There are in London 65 theatres and about 500 music
balls, providing entertainment for 325,000 people every
night, or 100 millions in the course of the year.
Baldwin alleges that he netted £l3OO in eight weeks in
Northern N.S.W.
Frank Lincoln opens at Sydney School of Arts tins
Saturday night.
The poet Kelly, of Auckland, is collaborating with Prof,
Carl Schmitt in a colonial opera.
An American manager was approached by a cheerful
stranger, who said, “ Paul, I’ll let you in to see my show
to-morrow if you’ll let me in to yourn to-night.” The
deadhead was the county sheriff, and his show was a
hanging. Courtesies were exchanged.
Melbourne M‘Dowell was married to charming Fanny
Davenport in New York during May last, and the ladies in
that city expect to raise £3OOO for the purpose of pur-
chasing a bronze statue of dead-and-gone Lester Wallack.
What was the name of the person who traded off the
Cardiff Giant imposition on the American public ? How
old was he, what was his trade, and what country did he
oi iginally come from ?
The other day a man who should have known better en-
quired who was the author of the comedy “Money.”
When Creswick first played “Virginius” at the burnt-down
Melbourne Bijou, a pressman sent round a note to the
tragedian asking him the name of the author of the
tragedy. Creswick bitterly sneered at a man coming to
criticise a celebrated play without knowing the author’s
name. In Adelaide some years ego a scribe engaged upon
a bi-weekly sheet stated that “ His Last Legs ” was written
by Shakespeare. And yet another pressman in Brisbane,
when entertaining a company composed of theatricals,
quoted some lines from “The Lady of Lyons” and ascribed
them to" “ the Divine Williams.”
Simonsen’s Co. have been turning money away in N.Z
Flora Graupner is to sing the name-part in Kowalski’s
opera, “ Mou.stique,” the libretto of which, written in
1880, was Marcus Clarke’s last literary work.
There be envious “ pros.” about who say that a certain
column in a new Melbourne paper makes them tired.
They think the author might liven it up with the cele-
brated com-plaster story.
James Stevenson, of W.G. and M.’s new English Com-
pany, at Melbourne Royal, as seen in “The Pointsman,’’
is a very brisk, electric, thin, little man, on the border-
line between eccentric and low comedy. With a smack of
Fred Marshall he is much more mercurial. He also sug-
gests Jefferson, though the opposite to Jefferson in his
pungency, underscoring the points, and perhaps some
lack of ease.
Warner’s gross receipts in “ Hands Across the Sea ” at
Brisbane during six weeks were £7200.
Bertha Errington, one of the Gaiety Company, who
lately visited Australia, died of typhoid in New York.
That grand new circular building on Eastern Hill, Mel-
bourne, occupied by the Waterloo Cyclorama, will ulti-
mately become a circus. Pity Harry Burton cannot put
back the clock thirty years.
Miln’s voice is a compound of Varley’s self-hugging com-
placency, Coppin’s unction, and Dampier’s stridency.
Even Janjberoo craves for stage realism ! A lecture
“On The Horse ” was recently advertised up there, and
the local gum-trees were billed with the announcement
“ A Live Horse will be Exhibited on the Stage I ”
Musical Notes in the Argus state that “a formidable
list of singers have been engaged for the season of Italian
Opera which has been arranged by Messrs. Harris and
Rosa, the London managers.” It happened that Carl Bosh
died the other week.
Does anybody ever hear anything about the poor
Frenchies, Tessero's actors and actresses,who made such
an awful fiasco last year in Australia?
Alfred Phillips, the young comedian who came from
England with Charles Warner, has been laid up in Bris-
bane Hospital with typhoid. He was at death’s door with
the malady, but now happily is convalescent, and will
shortly return to Sydney. When ho regained conscious-
ness during Ins illness the first thing he inquired for was
bis watch.
The Cogill Bros, have not hit the Brlsbaneites very hard


A CHANCE FOR BARMAIDS.
milK Proprietors of WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
have offered a Reward of Fifty Founds
(JESO) for information that will secure convic-
tion of anyone
Filling Wolfe's Schnapps Bottles
and Retailing- same over Par with any other
Liquor. The Penalty under 28 Victoria 9 is
Two Years’ Imprisonment.
Diugman’s electric soap, a cleansing
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a.
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin do lanes, and the finest fabrics. It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of its powers
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Everybody should use Pemell’s Kites), best sxow-wiutk
Patknt Kolli-u Flo I'k. It is the greatest success of the
nsre.
Tlio grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilo-
ken’s Beaeonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, beini? 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
COLONIAL |>||>os|r !|,><i |,|s((>|v| BASKj
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Arcade),
Deposits received and Interest
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
All customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H. LIKELY, Manager.
allowed as follows :
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
3 per cent,
f* per cent.
Parkin’s Meeting.
A Tory Drummer Tries to Cajole us. —The
Eossils roll up for Imperial Federation.—
“Waterloo” Doesn’t Work; Neither do
Habeas Corpus and Magna Charta.—
“Cook” tells Parkin Something.—Eng-
land “ Gave Us Australia.”
On Tuesday night, 18th June, Mr. G. R.
Parkin, delegate from the Canadian Imperial
Federation League, addressed a mixed meeting at
Sydney Protestant Hall on the benefits of the
doctrine propounded by the association which he
represents. The platform remained empty until
just about eight o’clock when a solemn procession
filed on to it —nearly all the extinct and forgotten
identities which now comprise the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council were there. The Hon. Samuel
Aaron Joseph, M.L.C., was the chairman, and he
introduced Mr. Parkin, the lecturer, as “a
Canadian by birth, and, therefore, as a Briton, our
fellow countryman.” This fell dismally flat; the
audience were not Britons, but mainly Austra-
lians, and they proceeded to show it. Mr. Parkin
arose : a long gaunt slab of political misery, about
the fastest and most fluent speaker that ever broke
a reporter’s heart ; he simply raced and rattled
along, speaking with a curious nasal twang, half
Yankee, half Irishman; never at a loss for a
word, and occasionally becoming really eloquent.
He said he was pleased to address such an
intelligent “ oddience and he then waded in to
remark that some misguided people had a notion
that Imperial Federation was dead. “So it is,
dead as mutton,” yelled one of the intelligent
“oddience” aforesaid, and the sentiment was
loudly applauded, to the horror of the fossils
on the platform. The speaker paused, rather
“ knocked ” by this unexpected development, and
then he took a long breath and sailed along once
more. He said that Canada was not envious of the
United States, and a voice in the gallery yelled
“ The States will annex Canada ’’—which provoked
considerable mirth. Indeed, as the meeting went
on, it became evident that a grave oversight had
been committed in not having a good organised
body of “ chuckers-out ” in attendance to heave
into the road all who happened to have opinions
of their own. This is the ordinary custom at
public meetings in Sydney now, and was worked
with great success at the recent “Loyalist ” meet-
ing.
* * *
The speaker gave a vague definition of Im-
perial Federation. All the British Empire is to
be federated, each country having exclusive con-
trol of its own area and power to make its own local
laws, but the laws of commerce and international
matters and, in fact, the
general interests of the
whole, are to be under
the control of the whole.
Then Mr. Parkin tried
to show what a magni-
ficent thing this would
lie. He said that such
federation would enor-
mously increase the
strength of the Empire ;
that the English race was
scattered all over the
globe and controlled the
waterways of the world.
He forgot to point out
that a great number of
scattered states, most of
them poorly inhabited,
spread all over the world,
with immeasurable con-
flicting interests, and lia-
ble to attack on hundreds
of thousands of miles of
sea-frontage, would be
much like a scattered
flock of sheep. He dwelt
on the terror which other
nations had of England,
heedless of the fact that
most of his audience well
knew that England had
just been bulldozed out of half of New Guinea, and
would lie certainly not able to stand alone against
a confederacy of any two of the great Enrojiean
Powers either by sea or land. He said ; “ Look at
the German Empire, hampered with miles and thou-
sands of miles of frontier to defend !” But what
about a nation with hundreds of thousands of miles
of frontier to defend and less power to defend it
with? The argument was listened to with apathetic
silence. If the lecturer could have shown that tlie
mere protection of England would of itself secure
us from foreign dangers it might have had some
weight. But no one who studies the events of to-day
could believe such a thing. Suppose England be-
came embroiled with a good strong European
Power, and Russia declared war against England
and attacked us, where would we be ? Very likely
in the soup—unless we had managed to organise
our defences on a very different basis from thrtt on
which they stand to-day.
* * *
Then Mr. Parkin moved off his ground,
and started to show what a magnificent thing such
federation would be for our commerce and onr in-
ternational relations. He said that the life of
England was trade, and that federation would
greatly promote trade. He omitted to show how
it_ would work, if England, desiring to trade
with China, were met with a request that the
Chinese should be allowed to come in here. Out-
voice in a great Federal Council would be a very
small one, and we might find it decreed any tine
morning, against our delegates’ wishes, that this
country must allow tl\e Chinese to come in so as
to secure trade for England with China. The
life of England is trade, and to gain trade she
would hardly let the wishes of the delegates from
a few beggarly colonies stand in the way.
# # *
Those were his two arguments the
greater safety which we would derive from Im-
perial Federation, and the great benefits in trade,
etc., which would accrue to ns. And on neither
l>oint did he adduce anything in the shape of proof
to convince anybody. On the contrary, as the
time went on the meeting grew more and more
pronouncedly against him and he tried the “sym-
pathetic ” trick. He Said it was a great anniver-
sary, a day to be remembered wherever the English
tongue was spoken, and a day of all days to
promote federation—it was the anniversary of
Waterloo ! The audience didn’t enthuse worth a
cent. They knew from the number of Waterloo
veterans who have died in these colonies alone
that Bonaparte’s army must have been out-
numbered by twenty to one. Then Parkin chucked
Habeas Corpus and Magna Oharta at them, but
these are (to put it mildly) chestnuts and did not
call forth a cheer. Then he began in the words of
the vulgar “to got the spike,” and he said that
the Australian colonies did not know how insigni-
ficant they were. He said, “You are of no im-
portance in the world’s concerns—you have no
voice—” but right here he heard the voice for
several minutes saying, “The sooner we shift for
ourselves the better—we’re not afraid !” When the
uproar subsided he went on to say that the
aspiration of these colonies to federate with
fine another ;md become an Australian nation
was “ a beggarly aspiration compared with
the glory of federating with England ” —and
becoming a tenth-rate hanger-on of an effete and
moribund monarchy on the other side of the world.
He said, “ I hear the cry of Canada for the Cana-
dians, Australia for Australians, and I scorn the
words,” For several minutes he had to stop to
allow the hooting, yelling, and cat-calling to sub-
side. He was so obviously losing- his temper that
the crowd began a little mild chaff, and the chair-
man had to interpose. He said, “If the gentle-
men in the gallery who are annoying this meeting
by their presence would kindly go out the meeting
would be much obliged.” Rather neat from Aaron
Joseph to ask the great majority of the meeting to
leave the hall! Then the orator cooled down
somewhat and told us that somebody named Cook
(Captain Cook, probably) had once said to him
that he considered the man who was not constantly
thinking about Imperial Federation was (are you
listening, boys ?) a fiddlestick of the first water!
There now! Cook said so. It is "a pity he didn’t tell
us who Cook was. Then Mr. Parkin went on to speak
of Britain’s great ocean steamers, and a man in the
gallery, apparently a seaman, yelled out, “What
crew do they carry ? What crew do they carry ?
Lascars and Dagos, and Dutchmen and China-
men !”
* « *
Then the orator drifted into general topics.
He said that Canada was better than the United
States, because emigrants from all parts of the
world, low anti-federation people, no doubt, went
to the States, but not nearly so many to Canada.
He told us clearly that England was very much
afraid that the colonies would plunge her some dav
JACKASS v. JACKASS.
BRITISHER : “YOU’VE GOT ‘LAUGHING JACKASSES’ IN THIS COUNTRY ; OUR JACKASSES BRAY”—
AUSTRALIAN: “SO WOULD OURS PRAY-TO GET BACK AGAIN—IF-THEY WERE TO GO ‘HOME.’”
into a disastrous war, and he might have added
that the colonies had exactly the same opinion
about England. He rang in the old, dead, ex-
ploded, jumped-on, petrified argument that we
had been given our country by England. “Eng-
land gave you Australians this magnificent terri-
tory; the English people will never let you
alienate it from her.” That is to say that our
forefathers, who had the pluck and courage to
come out here and settle an unknown and track-
less wilderness, owe the land now to the sons and
descendants of those who had not the pluck to
come out here. The children of the men who
stayed at home own the country, and the children
of the men who came out (or were “sent out”)
must meekly deal with that country as their stay-
at-home children think fit ! If this argument
holds good, then England belongs to the Danes and
Saxons, because the English race came over from
those (ico) ilc and colonised England just as we have
come over and colonised Australia. He spoke of
the large amount of money owed to Great Britain,
and said she was magnanimous to lend it. He
said nothing about the fact that we pay, on un-
doubted security, better interest than can be got
in Europe by the usurers. The colonies are sim-
ply a blessing to investing capitalists in England.
Besides, England lends money to Russia, Greece,
Egypt—everybody. She is universal mortgagee,
but she does not seek to control all those countries
she only jumps on the weak ones who can’t
pay up, and we Australians once foolishly spent
half-a-million or so in helping her to cut the
throats of an insolvent set of niggers.
* # #
The next, sensation was expected to bring
down the house, Mr. Parkin read an extract from
the Nineteenth Century magazine full of long
words, poetical quotations and fire, and strongly
urging Imperial Federation. “Now,” he said
triumphantly, “ by whom do you think that was
written ?” The audience gave it up. “By no
less a man than (suspense)—“.Sir Henry
Parkes!” Roars of laughter. “Ho wanted a
title !” “ He’s swallowed all those opinions!”
“Billy Dailey dished him, and he had to turn
Republican I” Alas for Parkes and Parkin ! The
trump card failed, and Parkin sat down puzzled
and disheartened. He had evidently been
“ stuffed ” to expect great loyal enthusiasm, and
lie was staggered by the feeling he encountered.
* * *
There was a moment’s suspense, and the
chairman said that Mr. Parkin would be glad to
hear anyone who wished to speak on the subject, and
David Buchanan, the only avowed Republican in
the N.S.W. Upper House, advanced to the plat-
form. It is a pity that such an opportunity fell
into such poor hands. David had a grand chance,
as he had nearly all the audience with him, but he
merely said, “Ah say it is absur-r-r-d —ah say it
is ri-dee-ee-olnshe advanced no arguments
whatever, and kept on so long that his own sup-
porters began to yell out “Time! Time!” David’s
style of oratory was once well described by a
bushman as being “all spit and lather.” He
wound up with a motion against Mr. Parkin’s
views, and swaggered to his seat. While he was
speaking there was a good deal of interruption by
Imperialists, but the chairman did not request
them to leave the Hall. Then a big bearded man
in a heavy ulster ascended the platform ; the
audience brightened up. “Ah f this is Traill!
now we’ll hear a speech ! ” The chairman feebly
opposed him. Said he would allow no more
speaking. The meeting was called to hear Mr.
Parkin, and he declined to allow any more discus-
sion. The crowd simply sat still and yelled,
Traill! Traill! Traill! Traill! with monotonous
regularity, and the chairman had to let him speak.
He spoke well, and as he went on and carried the
audience with him the faces of the prospective
O.M.G.’s and Knights on the platform grew
longer and longer, and they began to silently slink
away. The daily papers reported Traill’s
spiech as follows : “ Mr. Traill seconded
the motion.” It reminds one of The Bul-
letin’s famous “ Miss Smith looked nice, as
usual. ” When he second ed the motion the chairman
refused to put it, seeing no doubt that it would be
carried by an overwhelming majority. Parkin
replied very shortly saying that he liked to hear
both sides, and then John Norton, the labour
delegate, made a short speech pointing out that
Sir Henry Parkes did not constitute the whole
colony. Then Mr. L. F. Heydon, M.L.0., arose
and said he wished to support Mr. Parkin’s views.
“You all know,” he said, “that I am a patriotic
Australian.” “Not in any sense of the word !”
shrieked a demon voice from the back seats. Mr.
Heydon is a Protectionist and ought’to belong to
the National party. Loud cries here rose for the
motion to be put. Mr. Augustus Morris, the Official
Assignee in Bankruptcy, came forward but was
insultingly recommended go ’ome and file his
schedule, and the air was filled with cries of “Put
the motion ! Put the motion ! ” The chairman
left the chair, and a man with a voice like the
great roaring Bull of Basham got on the platform,
and asked all those in favour of Buchanan’s
motion, and against Imperialism, to hold up their
hands, and nearly every one cheered and swung
his hat, and someone called for cheers for Traill,
cheers for The Bulletin, and cheers for the Aus-
tralian National Party, which were all lustily
given and amidst hubbub and uproar the meeting
surged into the street and another nail had been
driven home into the coffin of Imperialism.
Imaginary conversation (after Lanclor). —
Dying Friend to Mr. David Syme : “ David, do
you think there’s a Hell?” Mr. Syme: “Well,
that I can’t speak definitely about—l only know
that my paper doesn’t circulate there.” Dying
Friend (giving tip the ghost with a cheerful sigh):
“Then, there’s no Hell.”
Some time ago a N.Z. racehorse-owner
named Rutherford was disqualified in connection
with the running of the mare Princess Royal, one
Teschmaker being the chairman of the committee
that placed the ban upon him. The other day, in
accordance with the N.Z. land laws, Tesohmaker’s
pastoral run was put up for auction, and Ruther-
ford had his revenge for the horsey matter by bid-
ding Teschmaker “out of his boots.” The crowd
at the sale hissed Rutherford heartily, but that
worthy smiled sardonically and said he “only
wanted Teschmaker’s plot to bury the bones of
Princess Royal.”
On the staff of the Barrier Miner,
Broken Hill, is an enterprising reporter named
Alfred Hales. The outspoken criticisms of his
paper had rendered Mr. Hales a persona ingrata
to the authorities of the Junction mine, and the
manager thereof had threatened fire and vengeance
against any Miner man who dared to inspect -his
claim. Three months ago Hales got into the mine
surreptitiously at midnight, and since that ex-
ploit sentries have been placed at the various
openings. The other day, however, he descended
again m broad daylight, being incited to do so
by a reported discovery of ore, which it was said
was being kept secret. The reporter, who is
known by every man and boy at Broken Hill,
dyed his face and hands black, and, dressing him-
self fiashly, passed himself off as a nigger sport,
and was cordially shown over the mine by no less
a personage than the manager himself. Proprietor
Fenton has had his smart employe photographed in
his mine-inspecting guise and has sent the manager
of the Junction a copy. That manager is now the
maddest man between Rat Hole Tank and the
South Australian border.
Aboriginalities.
Rather a large party of horsemen had
wended their way along the worst and only road
leading from Madman’s Gully to Strike-me-blind
Creek during the recent rainy season in the Big
Scrub. They came to attend a Land Court at the
Creek, and Were wet and muddy and profane,
after the manner of travellers in these parts. Some
little difficulty occurred on this occasion about
liquid refreshments, for Von Dousterswivel, the
genial licensing magistrate, was of the party, and
Jimmy Edwards, hostof the “ Selectors’Rest,” had
not yet obtained legal authority to poison the
public. Appearances must be kept up, even in
these remote regions, wherefore M‘Dummy the
grazier looked rather deprecatingly at the L.M>
while ordering Jimmy to “bring that bottle o’
whusky he left wi’ him when last he cam’ doon
frae the Gully,” Dousterswivel looked thought-
ful about this mysterious order, but made no
objection, and the flowing bowl was accord-
ingly discussed. During the course of the
evening, little Paddy Murphy, emboldened by
the success of the former experiment, “remem
bered ” a bottle left by him, and requested
Edwards to produce it. This time Douster-
swivel reflected all over his scalp with cogi
tative finger-nail, but interposed no discordant
remarks to disturb the harmony of the proceed-
ings. At length deochan dhorris time arrived and
the worthy magistrate, rising as gaily as the lurch-
ing propensities of the room would allow, thus
addressed the meeting, “Gentlemens—ltinkit vos
right ve should haf von leedle nidegab before we
go to bet. Edvorts, mine poy, pring me here dot
bottle I haf forgot to leaf mit you shoost a while a
veek ago.” The company merrily surrounded the
whisky, sang a stave of “Die Wacht am Rhein,”
and retired to their respective Norfolk Howard
runs.
# * *
Normanton (Q.) is a town where they can
stand nearly anything. As a general rule it is a
tired, dusty, red-hot place, where everything is so
quiet that the inhabitants speak only in whispers,
and the mosquitoes when they light on a man fall
asleep and forget to bite him; but when any of
the bushmen from the neighbouring stations get in
there on the spree things assume a different hue.
Grog flows like the Niagara rapids, and the towns-
people, who have a fine eye for a cheap drink, can
be seen hurrying from all directions towards the
hotel where the spree is going on. There was a
vendetta there for years between two leading
residents, because one of them had succeeded in
getting one more drink out of a travelling “swell”
than the other. Once a man from the far back
came into Normanton on a spree. He hadn’t seen
anybody but blacks for
years, and he calculated
1 3 fairly turn himself
lx>se and to astonish
Nor man ton. Little did
ha know the contract he
had undertaken. He got
c imfortably drunk, and
t len he harnessed four
horses to an ordinary low-
sat Abbott buggy and
galloped them at full speed
up and down the main
Street. Did it astonish
the locals ? Not much.
The last sensation which
had tickled their jaded
palates was when a
man “in the horrors,”
stark naked, and carry-
ing an axe, had kept
possession of the street
for two hours in the
middle of the day, so they
were not likely to take
much notice of a man
simply galloping a four-
horse buggy up and down.
They didn't even come to
the doors, but languidly
looked through the win-
dows; he ran over a black -
fellow and a goat, but public interest languished.
As he got near the police-station the sergeant
appeared and the spreeist had a wild hope that the
sergeant might endeavour to take him in charge
and so cover him with glory. But the sergeant
merely said, “Goin’ for a droive, I see; can you
find us a match ?” and passed on. Then the
driver, filled with a wild determination to astonish
somebody somehow, drove his team on to the side-
walk and galloped them up the street on the
alleged pavement, passing inside the verandah-
posts and smashing all the wares exposed for sale
at the shop-doors, maiming some old women and
some deadbeats who were lying drunk under the
hotel verandah, and killing three or four kangaroo
dogs which were sleeping peaceably under the
shade of an awning in front of a fruit-shop. This
later atrocity aroused the somnolent inhabitants,
and the police took out a summons against him
for furious driving, &c. He drove to the court-
house the next day with his four horses in the
buggy, with black plumes and black clothes all
over them, and the buggy was all draped in black.
He arrived at a wild gallop, pulled up short,
dashed inside, was fined £lO by a festive magis-
trate, paid the fine and galloped back to the hotel
and shouted for all hands. He was satisfied.
He had astonished Normanton.
# # *
Jacky Campbell, the Queensland aborgiual,
who dropped dead at Eidsvold a short time ago,
was a character with a history. When young he
was taken in the train of a Scotch squatter to" the
old land, and, while there, was sent to school in
Glasgow. He learned to read and write with
tolerable accuracy and, like Quong Tart, developed
an unusual fondness for Scotch music. He also
stocked his head with Highland Gaelic. Camp-
bell, the squatter who thus embellished the ebony
native, introduced Jacky to Court, and the inter-
view between Jacky and Her Most Gracious was
at the time made much of in the English prints.
The present writer, who often helped Jacky after-
wards in making up stOre-aceounts i n't he Burnett
district, could never ascertain from .Tacky’s report
of Ids interview with the Queen that he (Jacky)


Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE.
At Mark Young's Pier Hotel, Franks ton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
JL.A.JST 13 .A-CS-lES 3XT 1* S,
Business Brokers I Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &e.
Printed List Businesses for Sale Issued Bally.
All Lists posted I’BEK on application.
was half as much impressed with Her Majesty as
she was said to have been with him. Jacky, on his
return from Europe married a lubra, a native of
Tasmania, and took her with him to Maryborough.
We remember, in a meeting with Jacky at Mount
Perry, obtaining the key to his ideas of social life
by the following questions: “Jacky, are you
married?” “Married? Of course, I am. See
here, it’s ever so much cheaper than living single.”
“And where is your wife now?” “Mary-
borough. ” “ Why not bring her about with you ? ”
“Me! D’ye take me for one of these common
backfellows? D’ye think I’d bring my wife into
the bush ? The bush is no place for a woman !
What society is there for her here ? No, I left
her in furnished lodgings in Maryborough, and
when I raise a few pounds I’ll return to civilisa-
tion. Take my word for it, there’s no one
lower in the scale of God’s existence than
the Australian native. Jacky was at that
time living by plundering his fellow-countrymen.
Their reverence for him Was a superstition. His
superior knowledge was employed wholly in vic-
timising them. The police of the district believed
him to be the prime mover in many serious crimes,
hut some untutored savage Was always stuck iu
the breach. Jacky’s life, after his return to
Queensland, always seemed to Us to demonstrate
that the aboriginal mind and modern civilisation
could not pull together, or if they did, pulled
towards a lower level than that of the blacks’
camp. Infidelity to his tribe may have been born
with Jacky, but there is no doubt that his career
iii the old laud, from the school in Glasgow to the
palace at Windsor, deepened the evil trait,
# # *
A theatrical company had arrived at a
thriving N.S.W. township not more than (50 miles
from Goulburn, and it included among its members
a nice-looking, red-headed girl, with a high colour,
who was immediately stamped by the Oscar
Wildes of the place-two bank-clerks and the
schoolmaster. _ The company had a dazzlingly
successful run in the township and stayed for over
a week. During this time the beauty with the
red head completely subjugated the leading store-
keeper, the leading banker, the leading butcher,
the leading editor —and even the one and only
undertaker. The women of the place (we mean
the ladies of the place—they are all ladies when
you go far enough into the back-blocks) assembled
and constituted themselves into a Vigilance Com-
mittee. They tarred and feathered the Beauty—
and the present writer found her with this simple
and picturesque garb upon her sitting on a log one
evening as he was riding back from a ploughiug-
match. It took three weeks, he has since heal’d,
to take the tar off her ! The queerest thing about
this anecdote is that it is a fact.
* * *
The late John Sheehan, who was for a
number of years Minister of Native Affairs iu
N.Z., was as much noted for his love of a good
joke as for his ability at the Bar. An expert
Maori linguist, his services were in much request
at the sessions of the Native Land Courts when
the conflicting claims of perhaps four or five tribes
to one block of land had to be sifted and adjudi-
cated upon. On one occasion Hoane Hehani—as
Sheehan was called by the Maoris—was retained
by the Ngatimaniapoto to represent them in a very
much involved case, and he appeared before the
court wearing an enormous pair of green spectacles,
which were somewhat of a novelty on the Waikato
frontier. Sheehan’s clients won and, Maori-like,
attributed their success not so much to the justice
of their case as to the powerful witchcraft of then-
counsel’s spectacles, and while the dancers of the
tribe danced a haka in honour of the victory an
aged tohunga improvised a wiata which went this
way ;
Haeremai! Haeremai! Haerema !
Chiefs of Ngatimaniapoto
List while I sing,
Though a son of Maui
And not a man from lielaid.
Of the virtue great
Of wearing green.
Of wearing green.
Oh! great witchcraft.
Oh ! great necromancer,
Hehani!
A smart storekeeper at Kihikihi getting wind of
the superstition imported several hundred pairs of
the “new witchcraft,” and sold them off to the
natives “like hot cakes,” and to this day when
the elders of the Ngatimaniapoto meet iu conclave
every man-jack of them, besides the huia feather
of rank, wears the green-goggles of necromancy,
* * #
There is now positive proof that the Vic-
torian police system is self-supporting. A man
was fined at Tungamah (V.) one shilling for being
drunk, and remarked that he had “just the bob
and no more; surely his worship would not take a
man’s last money.” The J.P. told him : “ You
don’t suppose that police can be paid and supported
on nothing ?” However, the magistrate “ shouted ”
for the prisoner immediately after the rising of the
court. They were both Scotchmen.
# # #
Rumours of an official visit float along the
three arms of the River Brunswick with the morn-
ing tide, giving timely notice to the brethren at
the base of Chincogan, at the Pocket, and Tyagra
Grass to limber-up for the deputation campaign.
The ex-animate township at the Heads begins to
show symptoms of returning life. Savoury odours
steal silently but firmly from the kitchens of the
opposition hotels, meeting in the person of a medi-
tative blackfellow, whose fine native instinct thus
leads him to the centre of sniff. The slumbers of
the ferryman have been prematurely interrupted
at eleven o’clock by the simple but effective means
of removing the cork from Ids boat. After noon
the settlers’ gathering begins. By road and river
come these Australian men of bone, sinew, and
resolution, bent on urging their demands at all
hazards. One gentleman, fired with just indigna-
tion at the manner in which his road has been
metalled, carries for exhibition a boulder as large
as his head and much more intelligent. He wants
a culvert, for two bullocks disappeared in a hole
opposite his yard last week, and have never been
heard of since. Four o’clock comes ; the Belvi-
deras and Juliets of his tribe have joined the
blackfellow, for these occasions are productive of
fire-water. By-and-bye it will lie necessary to
chastise the weaker sex with a waddy, but at pre-
sent all is fun and chatter. The shades of night
are beginning to fall, and whisky is taking a
conspicuous part iu the conversation, before
the welcome cry of “He is coming!” is
heard. ’ Whips crack, horses “git ” up,
and the"star, attended by the usual satellites,
arrives. A slight refreshment follows, and the
hero of the hour announces himself ready to pro-
ceed to business. He stands calm and courteous
in the dining-room, receiving the respective depu-
tations, each one accompanied by the boulder-
fiend. Demands are made for bar improvements,
jetties, railways, roads, bridges, culverts, and
punts. All these things must be provided forth*
with, on pain of our deepest displeasure, on pain
of Ministerial annihilation, on pain of secession to
Queensland. He smiles serenely, “ dallies with
Ids golden chain,” and rises to reply. Magnificent
district, rich soil, grand timber, fine rivers, bounti-
ful Creator, fortunate settlers, sympathetic Govern-
ment, speedy con _ animation of wishes. ” The man
with the road-metal sample, considering himself
affronted, prepares to hurl the boulder at the foe,
but is pacified and dismissed with a conditional
promise—let him brihg the hole for inspection in
the morning and the culvert shall be made. The
deputations bow their thanks and withdraw. The
great mail smokes his cigar On the balcony, ad-
mires the luminous flashes Of breakers on the bar,
and Wonders What dainty things Catullus would
have found to say about the Big Scrub and if
Sirmio was really much more picturesque than the
Brunswick. Front the camp across the river conies
a dismal wailing sound. The blackfellow lias
realised that drink is vanity and the waddy is
already being applied to his wife’s skull.
The Chinese are the children of the Devil.
Old Nick introduced original Sin into the world.
Sir Arthur Blytll has received no less than
230 English applications for the position of medical
manager of the Adelaide Hospital.
Another act of unreasoning savagery was
committed last week in N.S. Wales in the name
of law. A convicted garotter was lashed at the
triangles in Darlinghurst prison in pursuance of
a sentence which also included fourteen years’
penal servitude-.
It was tip North. He was old and she
Was young ; he was rich and she was poor. When
they had been married six months he died of the
jim-jams. They laid him out —he made a beautiful
corpse, which was no end of a comfort to the
young wife. When she went in alone to take a
last fond farewell, “Oh ! Patrick, Patrick, dear,”
she sobbed, bending over him, “if ye could only
open yer eyes and look at me ye’d know that 1
loved ye thrue and .” There was a wild, hys-
tencal shriek, and when they went in, the corpse
had one bright eye open, gazing stolidly at his
young widow. “Sure it’s nothing at all, dear,
but the shilling’s fell off,” said a nurse of DO years
as she set the silver on his eye—and again they
left her with her dead. “ Oh, Patrick, if ye could
only know Off jumped the piece of
silver again, and Pat’s left eye begged to
testify to the fact that he knew all about
everything, and once more a widow’s scream
was heard for a mile around. And again
the shilling was adjusted, this time the old
nurse suggesting that the wind must have blown
it off. And so it went on. Every time the poor
young thing was left alone with it the corpse en-
deavoured to look at her. At last they replaced
the shilling with half-a-crown, and all stood round
to note the effect. Five minutes passed in breath-
less suspense, ten—and away went the half-crown,
and Pat gazed up at them defiantly through that
left eye. “Go for the doctor and the praste, the
man aint did at all,” cried the old woman —
“ Mebbe it’s a trance lie’s in and he’s trying to tell
us not to bury him.” “Dead?” said the doctor,
“God bless my soul, the poor man was dead 24
hours ago!” They placed the coin in jiosition
and awaited the result to convince the medico,
Ten minutes by the clock and off it went, and
Pat’s eye was itself again very much to the con-
sternation of the little doctor. But upon ex-
animation the mystery was explained. It was a
glass-eye—yet even Ins bride had never known it.
Personal Items.
AH the sons of the late Joint Bright are
practical weavers.
Sir Grab anl Berry has persuaded Chelsea,
his native place, that he is the idol 6f the Vic-
torian working men.
Sir James Hannei'r, President 'of the
TiMKs-Pal'iiell Commission, is a vegetarian—and
has a uniformly gOod temper.
Memoirs ” have An immense
circulation ill the United States. Of course the
Tilton business is the explanation.
Ten years ago Madame Armstrong Melba
warbled in the choir at Scots’ Church, Melbourne.
Her father built that same church, by the way.
Lord VV’olseloy, in the Fortnk.htiA Review,
asks, “Is a soldier’s life worth living?” Yes, if
yoil’re the Only General. Otherwise, not much.
The mail who first invented rol er-skates
was a wood-sawyer. It took his last dollar t > pay
the patent rights, but lie is rolling in riches now.
Greenwood courageously shows how the
Sr. James’s Gazette was sold to Germany,
Napoleon the Third bought the Old London Moux-
ixo Chronicle, and this killed it.
The Russians say that the Duke Of Edin-
burgh had a “ tiff ” with the Duchess and that
his recent illness was much exaggerated for the
purpose Of “ bringing her round.”
The Yankee wife of Count Waldersee,
Commander-iii-Chief of the German army, is try-
ing to negotiate a war with Russia. She was Miss
Lea, daughter of a New York banker.
Sala, of Marble Man celebrity, is not
George Augustus Sala’s brother. George Augustus
himself is The Bulletin’s authority for saying
that he has no relatives of ids name in Australia.
AN UNEXPECTED RISE.
We read that copies of Premier 1 arkes’
first books of “poetry” have ms: been si Id for
from 20s. to 40s. each. This is strange. We have
seen a two-headed calf sold for fifty-times as much.
P.S. —This is a joke.
The baronet editor of the Waikato Times
(N.Z.) has his billheads ornamented in large type
with “ Dr. to Sir William Wasteneys,” etc. Lady
Wasteneys makes the souls of her bucolic lady-
readers glad by contributing social articles.
Edith O'Gorman, the Escaped Nun, has
been nigh killed in London. Every now and then
they cunningly provoke a shower of rotten eggs,
sure to be followed by a shower of coin. Chiniquy,
too.
A Southern journalist says that when the
Much-Travelled began with a small show, he used
to write the criticisms in the Melbourne papers all
himself and then bill “The Press for once unani-
mous !”
Alice Cornwell Whiteman, Madame Midas,
lias built a grand new mansion in Hotham-street,
East Melbourne, vying with Sir W. J. Clarke’s.
When is she coming from London to enliven that
dull neighbourhood ?
At the Victorian Speaker’s dinner Sir
William Robinson said lie had received a letter
from England “congratulating him upon being
appointed Governor of South Australia, because
Sydney was such a fine city.’’
Miss Chamberlain, the lovely American
girl who fell out with our Heir Apparent through
saying, “Jumbo, you eat too much,” is thinking
ot getting married. It is expected that Albert
Edward will be reconciled to her.
Walter Hall, Australia’s latest Croesus, has
for partners in various branches of his concerns
apart from Mount Morgan, “Jim” Rutherford,
6f Bathurst, and “ Frank ” Whitney, of CoombJ
ing Park, Carcoar. They are now both extremely
Wealthy, and were mail-drivers for Cobb and Co.
'over the Blue Mountains before Mr. John Whitton
completed his much-questioned master-piece—the
Zig-Zag. Both “Jim” and “Frank” are
Yankees, and possessed of the thorough go-a-
head tp rit of that country.
Listening to Dr. Bevau preaching one
always fancies he is saying “ thirty quid a week,
thirty quid a-week.” ft is like Paul Dombey listen-
ing to Dr. Blimber’s big hall clock, which kept on
ticking, “ How is my Jit-tle friend,” in imitation
of the Doctor.
George Fralicis Train, formerly of Mel-
bourne, has struck a new idea. He proposes to
abolish poverty and death by showing that a man
can live bn five penn’orth of potatoes and enecup of
coffee, provided lie takes a Turkish bath. Pcio'r
old George !
G. F. Watts, R. A., first husband of fair
Ellen Terry, exhibited 'a picture in the London
Academy as far back as 1837. One can forgive
Elleli for tearing her young self away from a
Romeo who must have been & rising artist teii
years before she saw daylight.
The Marquis 'of Lome’s commercial
brother. Lord Walter Campbell, 'died the other
day. He had endeavoured to turn au holiest
penny first in the tea-trade, then on the Stock
Exchange, and was “humming” around Natal
when the King of Terrors arrived.
The Mr. Larnach who was married this
month to a daughter of the poor old Earl Of Cork,
is a nephew of D. Mudie Larnach, late N.Z.
Minister of Mines. Young Larnach is a “ bitof a
sport,” and rode his own horse to victory at a
steeplechase at Edinburgh recently.
Rider Haggard, author of “King Solo*
mou’s Mines,” has a cousin, of his own name, on
the Week, in Brisbane. Mr. Haggard was
originally sub-editor ou that paper, and is himself
a story-spinner of no mean order. He is author
of fully a dozen romances and countless small tales.
When Spiritualist Peebles lectured at a cer-
tain Australian theatre one Sunday night, Charles
Bright was in the chair. He gave out a hymn by
Pope. Two constables—we ll call Murphy and
Houlaghan—were on duty in the pit. Says one to
t’other, “ What Pope’s that ? Not Pope Pius, I’ll
be bound.” Fact,
One of the biggest of the Melbourne land-
boomers was W. (1. Taylor, who w ent to England
resolved to get a seat in tiie House of Commons.
How does he stand ? • He promised the Congrega-
tional denomination £lO,OOO annually for five
years—total, £50,000 1 Nobody knows how he
has come out of the racket.
Henderson Africanus, Victoria’s dusky
Cromwell, wears shocking bad white belltoppere,
in commemoration of his third ambassadorship,
when he was near being sent to England with
Graham Berry to interview Premier Disraeli. A
well-known Melbourne journalist also used to
wear shocking bad white hell toppers. One day a
friend said to him, “The Governor visits St.
George’s Hall to-night and Henderson Africanus
is sure to be outside. You ought certainly to be
there.” “ Why, what the deuce have Ito do with
Henderson ?’’ “ Well—-whisper!— there’s a rumour
going about that you and Henderson only have
one hat between you, and therefore you ought to
be on hand to-night. ”
Judge Quinlan, of Melbourne, tells how
on circuit once they had a desperate Chinese case.
The interpreter could not make one Celestial
understand. Puzzled how to swear him, the in-
terpreter said, “He no swear by matchee, he
swear by rooster’s head cutoff.” Accordingly a
squawking rooster was fetched in from the care-
taker’s yard, and judicially was his head chopped
off with Mrs. Caretaker’s hatchet, while the inter-
preter jabbered, “ Yah kah how wah,” &c. Blood
galore squirted all over the place, but the witness
shook his head. Interpreter said, “Me make
mistake; him swear with matchee.” Box of
matches produced. One struck and held up.
Renewed solemn adjuration, “Yah kah how
wah.” Witness looked puzzled. Suddenly a gleam
of intelligence shot across his features. He pulled
out a little black pipe, put it in his mouth, and
lighted it with the match, exclaiming, “Yah, yah,
welly good ! welly good !”
Amongst the officers “retiring” this
month from the N.S.W. railway department is
Mr. J. O. Wascoe. The name will be familiar to
travellers over the Bine Mountains of a quarter of a
century ago, whether they “ humped bluey” or
drove in coaches. Before joining the department
Mr. Wascoe kept the hostelry widely known by
his name, ei’e the iron-horse crossed the moun-
tains. The old man boasts that he has had poli-
ticians of all shades of opinion under his roof at
one and the same time —that Anglican Bishop
Broughton and R.C. Archbishop Folding occupied
adjoining bedrooms without arising in the night
to slaughter each other ; that though Dr. Lang
and Father Therry shared the same breakfast-
table, the crockery remained whole during the
meal. The completion of the line to Mount Vic-
toria found Mr. Wascoe’s occupation gone, and he
accepted service from the source that killed his
business. An ungrateful Government, anxious to
propitiate the friends of a dead-and-gonc explorer,
even wiped Wascoe’s name off the railway-station,
and re-named the spot “Blaxland.” Mr. Wascoe’s
identification with the district still exists, as sign-
boards in front of the old homestead still show.
Mr. Wascoe is a nephew of Sir James Ovitram, the
well-known Indian general.
Colonel Cash, a noted American duellist,
once said that the man with the fewest syllables in
Ids surname always killed his antagonist, A few
months later Colonel Cash added to the record by
killing Shannon in a duel.
When you hear of a parson joining in an
anti-barmaid crusade pray don’t give him credit
for utter disinterestedness. The pint of beer
knocks the stuffing out of the holy threepenny-bit.


Things In General.
• Co I.ON I* (-
OFfhCfrT
W /
'O/>e/jrd y fi
y/Ytydet-ctyo'S
\ rtf' /#dy fh
/> *
■-" Ccc^'fi .,
M .
Jfof/f / V y/' Lr(
Nant.l l)rw a 'd' t J
.p nz
/#yal()F J efl / j
7/tsrfU/?
//k /ocu "your/arM/p, 7riff —«—- .
/tf/j rfyb 0f />uf~ -ojps ooop f T
r < y7 ' 7 Sr&u/d //fp ?% /ft* /&s£ /f(j///sp^
/ OCtJ Co6<yCc/~ -
f/y //. ~/Sapo 7X<o S/Z/f-fA
Ccrctj. 7#*s>#Pa /
• C a/-cCf Ccco &*'* V' -
A
// -rej? - ofpL
jC<~*f~c 4y S* ? s V”?
<C ou/~ S& /~tS/p£t/
StT. Jrsef years, Arrej f~cd/<>r
ujf%S' yrra/?>?,.> s; 4A<f? Apeifayf ' a / a
;hSk. fi/y /pccds? %T tjfr y&er?c*> /
r//S /<SWJ TrfAT s/y tS/VT (/}.
- (Tccs/-^>^y
7 our MJr rll iyJri '?
pri)Of>' ct f*. rfjLa</r s anutfsti
t'7 tfirxJz
f? 7 A tr^Z"
»f
O tfas ?^
you % /yy SaAc/for/^sy * ,


He Had to Do It.
"The Hon. John Davies, M.L.C., attended yesderday at the office of his solicitor, Mr. Burdett Smith, and accepted service of the summons issued by the Crown."-Darling Paper.
SENIOR CONSTABLE PARKES (loq.): "VERY SORRY, SIR VERY UNPLEASANT DUTY-BUT YOU SEE, SIR, INSPECTOR GENERAL BRUCE SMITH,
SUPERINTENSENT BRUNKER ANS SERGEANT CARRUTHERS INSIST ON MY DOING IT."


StfbM* *5 UMiCW* twflU*’
ChA c*> Soxco aiu^
-
ca^oclmll
d
(Mac Uit
4>c(A lu&'Ucci nt
t ficcffA
lio f e\y<i t&
V. B. WHEELER & CO.,
265 Clarence Street,
S Y ID ICT E Y.
bItT
I I
\H
365 George Street, SYDNEY,
CUI K v OUiCCV, W A « * ,
h ave s »a'■£££* *'orlis
Society
Even as a mere fat billet going a-begging
this question of the Sydney bishopric is of public
interest. Melbourne asks —“ Can it be possible
that Farrar, Moorhouse, and men of that kidney,
were contemptuously waved aside for a trinity of
Nobody Knows Whoa?” Sydney wants Farrar
more than Cape Colony wants Loch. But how
Undignified is all this creeping and crawling to
selfish churchmen, who cynically declare that
England and Ease is preferable to Australia and
Activity. You see, it is a positive disqualification
for a man to have gone through the Australian
mill. The qualification for Australia is 20 or 30
years in a London parish, like the commonplace
Bishop who is ludicrously incapable of coping
with Victoria.
# » *
The other evening Rowley Pickering,
sporting editor of the Sydney Mail, was on bis
■Way to the Heeald office to do some after-dinner
work. On leaving his place he overtook an old
woman who had staggered out of a house in the
vicinity beneath the burden of a large and heavy
basket of clothes. “Ah Missis,” said Rowley, in
his usual style, “you’ve got a big weight to carry
for this event. Supposing I give you a lift with
it a bit of the way?” “Oh, thank you, sir, it»
a gintleman you are ” —and then Rowley took hold
Of one handle and off they trudged together until
he had reached his destination, whereupon the old
lady, after many fervent thanks, continued her
jiourney alone. Next morning the copper-topped
sporting scribe discovered that the clothes-line on
his premises had been robbed, and that the back-
yards of his immediate neighbours had also been
most artistically “ snowdropped.” In other
words, R. F. Pickering, Esq., had helped to steal
his own and his neighbours’ washing. Moral:
Politeness is its own reward.
# * *
Speaker Davies, of Melbourne, was elected
for nothing whatever but his money. He began
by chickerting-and-charapagning the journalists.
The next move was the Garden Parties at his
sumptuous Toorak mansion. He engages Rosma
Carandini, Beaumont, and everybody, for the
music. The Speaker’s banquet, however, capped
all. It was Heliogabaluslike! No gabble. All
gobble. No time cut to waste in cackle. That is
for the green benches. Tuck up your napkins.
Moet, Chateau Margaux, St. Emilion, Burgundy.
Oh, we’re so glad that that miserably poor Peter
Lalor is dead. Damme, he could only give you
“Irish Stew Wan,” and stringybark. Murphy,
M‘Mahon, Duffy, all are distanced by Our Glori-
ous Speaker. Our months are full, we cannot
speak. Nice gilt wheelbarrows are provided for
everybody: “’N’r bodtle, waiter!” Hie. mo,
hooray for Mishter Shpeakhr !
« * *
Acting-Governor Robinson, of "V ictoria, is
a dreadful musical crank. He composes excru-
ciating songs, and makes Santley sing them at
Melbourne Town Hall. The worst of it is 2000
other people have to listen to them. They are so
awfully erotic and balmy that Lady Robinson is
quite jealous, don’t you know. (We may as well
have some fashionable intelligence.) ihe songs
bristle with Cupids, skewered hearts, dearests, and
all the fodder of valentines. Lady Robinson, they
* ay, insists on knowing. You see she has onlv
just returned from a long stay m England.
William protests that it’s all imaginary. His
Delias, Chloes, Chlorises, and all those pretty
creatures are merely figurative, my dear. Please
don’t do it anv more. Retire from business.
“Oh,” says Bill Sikes, “Vy don’t I get a hor-
gan?” Sir William A.B.C.X.Y.Z. Robinson
must keep one at home and not be torturing the
Town Hall one. His songs are on a par with Mrs.
Leo Hunter's in “Pickwick,” or with Parkes
“ Babv Boy,” impudently imitated from Mrs. Leo
Hunter. But the Melbourne musical world .
How it falls down and worships Robinson's music .
“You never did anything beyond it, Sir William,
never in all your life,” Surely he must see the
latent sarcasm in this. But even now he s com-
posing an ode to Sophonisba. Sir William Clarke,
Baronet, thinks Robinson superior to Sullivan.
Genius is ever jarred this way.
» * *
If an actor stands five feet seven inches in
his boots, and unless he has a face calculated to
send a baby into convulsions, Australian notices
generally describe him as tall and handsome.
When we come to think of it there are very few
actors of note in these parts whose height exceeds
five feet nine, and most of them are pretty darned
ugly Real good looks mean good London en-
gagements—witness the comely young men Irving
has about him from time to time.
* # *
One immediate result of the successful
prosecution in London of Vizetelly and Co. for
publishing Zola's works was that one leading
bookseller in the pious city of Sydney sold out his
stock of Zola’s “La Terre,”* published at three-
and-sixpence, at prices rang from 10s. to £1; and
one customer who was unable to procure a copy
actually paid five shillings for the privilege of
perusing the work ! There is nothing like adver-
tising.
* * *
Judge M'Farland, in sentencing a pri-
soner to 14 months’ imprisonment for stealing a
Gladstone-bag containing wearing apparel from
“ His Lordship the Right Reverend N. Dawes,
Bishop Co-adjutor of Brisbane,” dwelt upon the
enormity of stealing from the higher clergy. His
Honor may remember the remarks of a “ brother ”
Scotch judge, who, in sentencing a man to death
for stabbing a soldier, said :—“ Not only did you
thrust the knife or lethal weapon into this unfor-
tnnate man’s body—nay, into the very pericardium
itself, thus depriving him of life, which was his
own, but in doing so you did pierce through the
victim's regimental-breeches —which were His
Majesty’s.”
* # *
Only a year or two ago Dr. Figg and Dr.
Rose were great guns at the Melbourne Young
Men’s Christian Association. Good Dr. Figg, now
seventy-seven, worried over abortion cases scan-
dalising Williamstown, is a furious anti-Darwinian.
Of course he is a profound authority on embryology.
In the interests of religion he tackled Symes, and
would also go down and give the unbelievers fear-
ful knocks at the Victoria Hall of a Sunday night.
Had he only departed this planet twelve months
ago he would have got an Elijah’s chariot. Now,
whether he be guilty or innocent—alas ! alas!
Then Dr. Mannaduke Rose —oh, how dreadfully
he showed us up. Just on the verge of the Weld-
ing disclosures he lectured at the Young Men’s
Christian Association, warning the young men
ala Varley. He used to preach on Sunday nun t ■
at the Methodist chapels. You would see a
INCONVENIENCES OE TRAVEL.
PORTER: “LOOK HERE. YOU KNOW, YOU
CAN’T GO IN THERE. DON’T YOU SEE
IT’S THE LADIES’ CARRIAGE-AND
FIRST-CLASS TOO ? ”
ARTISAN: “I KNOWS IT IS, BUT I DON’T
MINI); I CAN PUT UP WITH ANY-
THING!”
placard out with - “Morning, Rev. J.
Soaper; evening, Dr. Marmaduke Rose,
M.L.A.” Good collections then —and
there would be good collections now.
# # *
In the N.S.W. Divorce Court
a judicial separation case cropped up
last week, but the parties came for-
ward and announced that they had
re-united. They had probably been
frightened into conjugal love by the
ZoTaesque stylo in which the evening
papers expose these little differences.
The persecution of the Melbourne fruit
hawkers, in the interest of the shopkeepers, is
simply outrageous. Here are just a few Mel-
bourne nuisances, to show how the authorities
strain at a gnat and swallow a camel; Publicans
are allowed to open cellar-traps in the middle of
the busiest footpaths ; bicycles are allowed to run
on frequented footpaths ; shutters brought out of
whops knock people down ; _ painting is allowed
in the busiest times; repairs go on at shop-
fronts in the busiest times, ana a stray ham-
mer may come down on the human anthill;
drays loaded with timber rake the tramway
dummies and kill people; telegraph wires are
conveniently hung so that people may be cut to
pieces jumping from the sky-windows of the
coffee palaces when the inevitable fire comes;
ramshackle buildings fall on jiassers by—yet
Magistrate Panton de Beerthirst says all depends
on putting down purveyors of cheap fruit for the
working classes.
# * ♦
Fashionable bonnets are to be made of
cork; but the housefather won’t find them come
much lighter on him.
# * *
The medical men of Wanganui (N.Z.) are
always in hot water, somehow. But at least one
of them must have no end of pluck, for he is about
to bring an action against his mother-in-law for
libel.
* * *
The Minnesota legislature have made it a
misdemeanour for a newspaper to publish any-
thing more about an execution than the mere
fact. From which we gather that the evening
press has very little influence in Minnesota.
# * *
In one case, at least, it is satisfactory to
find that to those who have more hath been given.
Mr. “ Billy ” Tobin, the well-known amateur
cricketer, who played with our representative
team in England a good many times, profits very
largely under the will of millionaire Monahan,
deceased ; and it is generally believed that the off-
handed William knows what to do with his money.
By the way, old Mrs. Keogh, one of the Monahan
family, once met a man on Quatquatta, and told
him the police were out after Morgan, the bush-
ranger. Shortly afterwards Mr. D.P.K.O.
(station brand) was galloping back on that man’s
horse and just sans culottes. He had made a com-
pulsory swap. The man was Morgan.
* # *
City Magistrate Call, of Melbourne, lent
his private room for the hearing of a case by other
magistrates while he was engaged upon another
case in court. At lunch-time these brother magis-
trates thought it would be convenient to move the
table, which was a small one. They were amazed
at its terrific weight, but tugged and pulled till
they got it’off the floor. In came Call, rushing
and furious, with his hair on end. In came all the
clerks from every part of the building. The well-
meaning beaks had torn up a complicated arrange-
ment of electric wires “ all over the shop.” Ihe
language was beautiful.
* * *
Here is a mine of humour in the shape of
a clipping from that classical journal, the Sydney
Hevenin’ Noose :
Every Christian citizen ought to read the Bible and the
newspaper (said the Rev. George Hodges, of Pittsburg,
USA) The Bible and the daily paper may seem strange
neighbours. Nevertheless, I put them side by side, afhnn
injr ithat the man who neglects one of these important
readings neglects an emphatic help towards the best mar-
hood. No intelligent citizen of this country ought to let
a day go by without reading the last edition of the history
of the world. This is even a religious duty if we believe
that the Lord of hosts is still the God of nations. God,
who has put us in this nineteenth century, and who in
these years, past and present, is working perhaps more
visibly and wonderfully than in any time since those re-
order! inthe Bible, wants ustoknowwhat isgoing on about
us. We can know the best from the newspapers. Study
your newspaper as a picture of God s world. Read in it
what vour fellow-men are thinking about, and are doing ;
what they are suffering, too, and what is being done to
help them. Rear! it to find what manner of time this is,
to keep yourself in the glorious swing and surge of it, to
make yourself the kind of a man which God wants you to
])C this year ; and then you will know not only what it is
to rear! vour paper for the increasing of your knowledge,
the broadening of your sympathies, and the bettering or
your mind, but even for the glory of God.
Yes, dear friends, study the Noose as a picture of
God's world. And when you have read all the
divorce and criminal assault reports just clip them
out and send them to the Reverend Hodges, and
ask him whether he has now anything to add
to his chaste remarks as above. Read the
Noose, dear brethren, and keep yourself “ in the
glorious swing and surge of it.” Yah !
# • *
You are not allowed to call Madame
Melba, “ Mrs. Armstrong.” You must always say
“Miss Mitchell.” We don’t know why. Yarraberg
hopes to hear her warble again, in Father Dave’s
fine house down by the tanneries. She will bo
jokingly calling herself Madame Smelba.
## * *
Little Signor Cecchi struts about in front
of Allan’s music-shop on the Collins-street Block
proud as Punch, because he grounded up Madame
Melba in music for six long years— as jiersevering
as the old prisoner in Penchole. And now they
want to make out that a Madame Marches! did it.
By Gar, you don’t steal Marches that way on
Cecchi. ‘No, by Gar! One of his friends will
write to the Argus, by Gar.
* * *
W. K. Thomson, of Melbourne, has pretty
well pullet! through his difficulties in the Insolvent
Court. His creditors have been extra bitter,
because the subscription of £lO,OOO was raised for
his family by his friends the canny Service and
the pawky M'Bain, and others. Thomson was
the model of a smart business man. If you had
asked at any time up to last year, “ Who is the
smartest man in Melbourne?” the reply would
almost inevitably have been “ W. K. Thomson.”
Everybody likes him. Never did a man financially
fall amid such sympathy. He was once the very
sun and centre of the vast ironmongery business
of Jas. M‘Ewan and Co. When the founders of
the firm of M‘Lean Bros, and Rigg left M‘Ewan’s
establishment, disaster was predicted for them.
But they have reared up a concern equal to
M‘Ewan’s in its glory. W. K. Thomson, with an
apparently assured income of £lO,OOO a year, was
a great entertainer in his magnificent mansion at
Brighton, not far from Chief Justice Higin-
botham’s, by the sea. In this case, it has not
been one of rats deserting the sinking ship.
Collins-street yet hopes to see W. K. again on Ins
legs. He is not old. With his native pluck he
ought to be as well able to grapple with life as
ever, and ultimately follow Coppin’s example-
paying off all his creditors at a general banquet.
So mote it be !
# # #
Jolimont, a very swell Melbourne suburb,
has not yet recovered from the shock of Fenton’s
big crockery warehouse being placed there.
The humour of the Melbourne medical
students finds expression in the singing of “Homtv
Sweet Home ” every time they pass the gaol.
* * *
There is a lurking idea that Morgan, the
flag-supplier, and Paton and Ronalds, the florists,
must “do ” weddings and festivities for the Mel-
b .urne society papers, for they loom up bigger
e.'ery time than brides, bridegrooms and such
oittle.
* * *
The Prince of Wales, it is cabled, says
there is a leper in the London Meat Market.
None anywhere else ? Just think. Look round
The Mormon Bible translated into Maori
has just been published by Henry Brett, of Auck-
land, The vigour with which the Mormon pro-
paganda is being pushed amongst the Maoris is
difficult to understand, unless it be that the saints
of Utah believe that they see in Maoriland an
ultimate haven to be entered when they shall have
been ejected from America. The Bulletin cal-
culates that they will be sold. There is far more
than enough Monnonism amongst the soi-disant
Christians of N.Z. to take of! the keen edge of th»
real thing as a novelty.
# * *
The senoritas of Callao—and what beauties
there are at Callao and Lima !—have just struck a
bright idea. They invited the officers of the
British war-ship Swiftsure to a church-bazaar and
openly took a poll as to who was the nicest of the
men m brass buttons.- The votes cost 20 cents
a-piece, and the most popular man, a major of
marines, scored 87 votes; the runner-up 86 and
the third 85.
# * *
Sixty-eight lodges of Friendly Societies, at
a meeting held in Sydney a week ago, discussed
the desirableness of employing only those medical
men who are members of one or other of the
societies represented. If the question be decided
affirmatively, it will become as necessary for
medical men to seek membership in some Friendly
Society as to obtain practitioners’ diplomas.
# # #
After a recent West Queensland race-meet-
ing half-a-dozen squatters rode into the adjacent
township and found, to their horror, that all the
grog in the place had been consumed. Not to be
wholly foiled, they went in hilariously for sardines
and lemonade. They say now that never previously
did they have.such “heads” on them as those
with which they awoke next morning.
* * *
The real English swell, always puts his
groom on the better horse. It is considered good
taste to seem careless of horse-flesh when one's
stable is full, ju*t ns it is considered the thing to
“ONLY A SHADE OVER SLIGHTLY.”
In a Sydney breach of promise case a wit-
ness swore that the fair plaintiff was “only
slightly under the influence of drink.” Cross-
examined, he admitted that she was “a shade
over slightly.”—
The very worst case ever “copped by a “ trap
And accused of behaviour unsightly,
While he, stretched in the gutter, delights in a
nap,
Why ! he’s only a shade over slightly.
When a man after supper-time staggers along
With a gait that is not at all sprightly,
And the language he uses is painful and strong—
Why ! he’s only a shade over slightly.
If a husband comes home after small chimes have
rung
And his wife has to lecture him nightly,
Wnile he laughs at the shafts of her “venomous
tongue,”
Why ! he’s only a shade over slightly.
When a fellow has got the jim-jams very bad
And from devils who don’t act politely
In frenzy he flees like a street-tyke gone mad—
Why ! he’s only a shade over slightly.
When e’en brandy as congou appears in the bill
Of a grocer who takes the thing lightly,
And the husbands their spouses find “nervous”
and ill —
Why ! it’s only a shade over slightly.
If a temperance lecturer pulls out his pipe
And then lights it at lamps burning brightly ;
O his boots mi the bedclothes commences to wipt —
Why ! he’s only a shade over slightly.
And so on, etc., etc.
We hear of marquises much mad,
Of emperors sans tonsils, throttle ;
And princelings gay, who never had
A tnought beyond a wench, a bottle.
We read of kings with withered arms, ,
Archdukes whose skulls are water-flooded ;
And princesses whose only claims
Lie in the fact they’re azure-blooded.
And so, we think, we scarce need stop
To sip this moral from Truth’s chalice,
That lepers shun the butcher’s shop
To court the precincts of the palace.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, KING STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits;
3 Years
12 Months
(> Months
3 Months
9A per cent.
8| per cent.
7h per cent.
5§ per cent.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
For I’roslrntiou and Debility
USE iiorhkord's acid phosphate.
Mr. W, FuiiFORD, M.R.C.P., and L.S.A., Wadebridge,
Eng. says : “It brought me from a state of utter prostra-
tion and debility, both of mind and body, to one of fair
convalescence, and that within fourteen days.”
QOLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.- A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OF
THE PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period , or m the event of Survival, FULL
PARTICIPATION IN TONTINE SURPLUS. ‘ ----- -
Branches in all tho Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
wear baggy trousers when one has twelve suits of
clothes in the wardrobe, and not a single tailor
on the job when he hears that you’re in town.
* * *
Ah enterprisiiig widow in the Hunter
(IN.S. W.) district got married the other day and
actually tried to make her second husband pay for
the dead departed’s coffin. The case was fought
out in court and dismissed on a technicality.
* * *
A Sydney girl has wl’itten a “ prize story”
lor a little Melbourne Weekly, and here is an ex-
tract from her two-guinea effort: “After in-
dulging in some rare old.wine and a cigar, Forrest
continued the recital.” Smoking witli rare old
wme is a painfully feminine notion. The fair
prize-winner is hereby recommended to submit her
manuscript to the committee of a respectable club
(or the barmaid of a respectable pub.) before she
turns out any more rare old rubbish.
* * *
Sorrows of the cross-eyed man : “ May I
I iave the pleasure of the next waltz with you ?”
Iwo ladies, eagerly rising, “ with pleasure.”
# *
Among the finest sights in the N.Z.
>v underland are the stalactite formations in the
( boronanga, Caves. They vary in height from 10
to o 0 feet, the roof and sides being covered with
great masses of creamy and dead-white formations
of indescribable beauty. One of them is a minia-
ture reproduction of the famous White Terrace ;
another the exact counterpart of a lady’s dress, the
tolds and pattern being exquisitely realistic.
* * #
A new book *s by Bishop Oowie, of Auck-
land, on “Our Last Year in New Zealand.” He
Writes that the wife of an Australian Governor,
not long ago, had to be sent home because people
rTv-n 0t vlslt with her - Comte Moretott de
Chabrillon came to Melbourne many years ago as
1 rench Consul. We fancy he was the first. His
< Vmntess came with him. She was said to have
been a circus-rider, and was, at all events, a star
of the cancan, in the Parisian Jardin Mabille,
under the name of “La Mogadure. ” That name
null stir some squatting hearts yet. Venerable
I allowfat is grey now, but when wool was
luxuriant he went to Paris, so he did. Reginald
I winkle has been to Paris, although he is a model
for a parson.
* * *
Big, fat, aristocratic boys, about 17 years
old, in Melbourne, are now put into short jackets,-
old Hinglish fashion. It’s a dreadful ternptatioit
for the democratic boy to kick the region defended
by copy-books against the Scotch College cane of
Dr. Morrison.
* # #
A Sydney Civil servant recently wanted to
purchase a milch goat, and so applied to the office
messenger (one Smith), who has somehow or other
always on hand anything required in the animal
or any other line. In this case Smith had just
the very thing. A deal was arranged, the money
was paid, and the following day two of Smith's
boys, followed by a large concourse of larrikins,
were seen dragging a refractory, miserable, horned
object to the residence of the C.S. On arrival
the goat turned out to be dry and worthless, and,
as there was no getting the money back or other-
wise realising the price paid for the goat,
its disgusted owner calmly sat down and
wrote to the authorities of the Sydney Zoological
Gardens offering to present to them a goat of the
famous Smith breed. By return of post he re-
eeived a foolscap-letter of thanks stating that
“Goat, Smith breed,” would be “sentfornext day.”
Next view. Cart and horse, two men, a lot of
blankets, wraps and a net for the safe-conduct of
the goat (“ Smith breed”). The animal (probably
reared among barrel-staves, and pipe-stems, and
nurtured on postei’s in the wilds of Wool-
loomolo) was conveyed in state to the Zoo.
The generous and public-spirited donor re-
ceived an acknowledgement of the safe arrival
of the goat (“ Smith breed ”) and more thanks on
foolscap for his valuable donation. It is not
known what has become of the common ornery
Smith breed goat, but an opinion has somehow or
other got round in the public offices of Sydney that
there are several things in Heaven and on earth
which have so far not entered into the philosophy
of the custodians of the Soudan donkey. By the
way, that donkey cost about £400,000, his life is
not insured, and he is all N.S.W. has got to show
foy her money. £400,000 at 4 per cent, means
£16,000 a year, and £16,000 a year means about £5O
a day. £5O a day means £2 an hour and £2 an
hour is Bd. a minute. We will sell the aforesaid
donkey to Imperialist Parkin for £250,000 and throw
the goat (“Smith breed”) in. The donkey will make
a fine sympathetic chairman for the meetings of
the Primrose League, and, as for the goat—well,
the Soudan donkey kicked to death the goat they
brought with them from Afrit r,
* * *
Accidents ai-e so frequent on the Melbourne
tram-cars that the conductors have a printed form
in their pocket-books for such cases. They take
the name of the person injured and all witnesses.
* * *
J. B. Patterson, as Minister of Customs,
talked some sense and a lot of nonsense to the Vic-
torian Artists who asked for protection against
European pictures. His most utter bit of non-
sense was a conjecture that if the Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly wanted his portrait painted
he would either have to employ (“commission ” is
the fitter word, but Patterson likes to sit upon art
and literature. He once stated that Australia
only wanted thinkers— thinkers like himself) some-
one on the spot, or import someone for the pur-
P®'” Which is absurd. We should think that
if M. H. Davies—a most magnificent creature in
his £2OO robes of office—wants to be done in oils
he needs but to cable the fact “ home,” and all the
great artists of the earth will rush over in a mad
scramble to do the deed gratis, or pay him for the
privilege. _ Otherwise, what did Patterson mean
by instancing the blessed Speaker in particular ?
The Samoan ladies tattoo the name of
their lord and master on the breast, and, in like
manner, the sign-manual is preserved by him. The
pretty native custom fis worthy of note in case
“ sassiety ” wishes to take advantage of the “ see-
more ” toilets now in vogue.
# # *
A syndicate has, it is stated, just been
formed in Sydney to build and run a skating-rink
in Sheol.
* * *
The number of N.S.W. Divorce Court
cases tried during the recent sittings at Sydney far
exceeded all previous recox-ds, and in ever// case the
plea for the untying of the matrimonial knot was
granted. Marriage is a splendid success —from the
lawyer’s standpoint.
# * *
Mr. Donald Wallace, of Mentor and Car-
bine celebrity, was elected to the Victorian Legis-
lative Council last week as member for the
South-western Province. The councillors ai’e not
a very sporting lot, so Wallace will fill a long-felt
want by giving them “straight griffins ” and mak-
ing the old boys giddy.
POLITICAL POINTS
There are white men. in Sydney who are
paid to act as runners to the Chinese Fan-Tan
Halls.
AT last election for Northumberland
(N.S.W.) an elector aged 102 recorded his vote
the first in his lifetime.
The endeavours of the Yankee brewery-
owners to sell out to English syndicates is said to
be induced by a dread of prohibition.
There are more persons of the publican
class in the Dunwich (Q.) Asylum for the Aged
and Destitute than there are of any other trade or
profession.
Henderson Africanus will be disgusted on
hearing that Graham Berry is endeavouring to
secure admission to that hot-bed of Toryism—St
Stephen’s Club.
The Victorian Government, under Fire-
Superintendent Stein’s impulsion, is coopering up
a measure to put the firemen under discipline like
that of the militia.
Hon. E. Barton, Q.C., M.L.0., ex-Speaker
of N.S.W. Assembly, has been chosen to act as
referee between the Newcastle miners and their
employers. Mr. Barton was built for a judge.
I LL
teutw tHE HARP
đ
my ere rry Louise
EfC
THE HOE HOES OE MUSIC.
Mr. John Sutherland, M.L.A., of Sydney,
is dead. In politics he had altogether outlived’
Ins usefulness. He started life as a builder and
worked hard and achieved commercial success. He
was a most genial old man.
Alfred Allen, M.P., has given notice in
the N.S.W. Parliament of a Bill to compel
N.S.W. registered vessels to carry oil for use in
bad weather. He ought to enlarge the scope of
the bill and hurry it up for use in the Assembly
when the Payment of Members Bill returns from
the Council.
Sir Henry Parkes laid the corner-stone of
a colossal pub. one day last week. A couple of
days after, he sat beside the president of a total
abstinence society, while Glover expounded the
sins of drink. Budding politicians who want to
head polls at general or by-elections should keep
an eye on how the old man does it.
The cable says : “ Lord Lamington urges in
the Times that a regiment of British soldiers
should be stationed in Victoria, as their presence
would be conducive to loyalty.” Yes, the presence
of soldiers was “conducive to loyalty” at the
celebrated Sydney Jubilee meeting. Australia
can’t be kept “loyal” even at the point of the
bayonet.
There is significance in thefacfc thattheS.M.
Herald spells “ Eminence ” when applied to the
R.C. Cardinal with a small “e,”and “Primacy ’’as
an adjunct to the Anglican bishop, with a big'“ P."
It is similarly significant that a Brisbane paper
spells “Queen,” as applied to Her Majesty, with®
small “ q,” and “ President,” as applied to him of
the States, with a big “P.”
David Buchanan M.L.C., has been talking
on the second reading of theN.S. W. Pirst Offenders’
Probation Bill. He believes “in acting upon the
Divine principle of hatred of crime and criminals.
They ought to manifest righteous hatred of crime. ”
This is good from a lawyer who has thrown more
haloes of sympathy (at from £lO 10s. to £52 10s.
per halo) round horse-thieves and other criminals
than any other man in N.S. W.
The Imperial Institute Commissioners
(with the Royal Family at their backs) intend to
Work another big “job” by selling what remains
of the gardens adjoining Albert Hall to builders,
and devoting the ground-rents, estimated to pro-
duce £lOO,OOO, to the benefit of the blessed hinsti-
tute These gardens have hitherto been regarded
as the property of the nation, but the nation
doesn’t count for much in such little arrangements;
The practice of “pairing” in legislative
bodies is coming in America to be regarded as an
abuse. A recent writer says “ What a vicioUs
practice is this of our politicians at Washington
pairing off ! As if one man who votes wrong,
going away, could excuse you, who mean to vote
right, for going away ; or, as if your presence did
not tell in more ways than your vote ! Suppose
the three hundred heroes at Thermopylae had
paired off with three hundred Persians ; would it
have been all the same to Greece, and to history ?”
Townsville is the place where, when they
wanted a flogger recently, they got him out of the
ranks of the local naval brigade-—from which you
may guess that there is a lot of “loyalty”
in Townsville. They are now going to eject from
the brigade aforesaid a man who says he doesn’t
believe in the Queen, to whom he has sworn
allegiance. By and by it will only be necessary for
Australian soldiers to swear that they will be
loyal to Australia. Even now, the Guelphs should
have no more claim on our affection than has the
King of Dahomey.
Safe and Sound.
The word “ .safe ” is from the Latin “ Saluare,’
to save, preserve. Safe indicates freedom from
harm or danger; sound, unscathed, undamaged,
secure, whole, as safe from disease,-
It is likewise regarded as conferring safety, to
b' relied upon. Its synonyms are secure', unen-
dangered, sure. “Salutary” is from the same
root, meaning health, safety. The term is defined
by lexicographers, as wholesome, healthful, pro-
moting health; _ contributing to some beneficial
purpose; salubrious, useful, advantageous, pro-
fitable, favourableness to the preservation of health
and prosperity.
How fitting the word, as applied to Warner's
Safe Remedies, which meet every requirement of
both materia medica and etymology.
Their use protects from disease, and is a safe-
guard to the entire race.
Warner’s Safe Cure has been extensively used in
this and every other civilized country, and is re-
cognized as the most beneficial remedy known to
man. It has long been recognized (though not
publicly) by the medical profession as the most
valuable compound for the general restoration of
of the human system, by putting the kidneys in a
healthy condition, as when these great organs are
restored to a healthy action then the poisonous
waste matter is expelled by the only blood-purify-
ing organs of the system.
Few are aware that the kidneys are the only
organs that can purify the blood.
Fancy the danger of poisoned blood continually
coursing through the body—6s gallons of blood per
hour, or 48 barrels per day, pass through the
kidneys, yet the unsuspecting regard them as of
little importance until they are stricken down.
Poisoned blood engenders general debility, pneu-
monia, lung and bronchial troubles, paralysis,
apopolexy, heart complications, rapidly falling
eye-sight, scrofulous and cancerous sores, and
other serious maladies, which might be averted
if the kidneys properly performed their work and
expelled the poisonous, waste matter.
When the medical profession will strike at the
root instead of hewing the branches, then we can
hope for a happy relief from many of the ills of the
present day. When diseases are called by their
right names, and the real causes of death are made
known, instead of death from symptoms of kidney
disease, it is then that the people will become more
fully aware of the terrible fatality of diseases
caused by imperfect action of the kidneys.
These columns have often been used for the
benefit of our readers to proclaim the merits of the
great remedy heretofore mentioned, which is daily
becoming more popular, and we can but repeat the
words so often used in their advertisements, which
are Very simple and very easy, and within the
reach of all our readers—viz., to ask your friends
and neighbours about it.


Amusements.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold, .
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.30. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
OF
M "ST P A R T N B 3Ft •
Box Offiee at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
/CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting-Manager . .. Mr. H. J. Magee.
Mr. Brough and Mr. Boucicault have much
pleasure in announcing
A GRAND PRODUCTION,
ofi a scale of magnificence hitherto unatt°mpted
ifl the colonies; of Lord Lytton’6 Comedy;
M oney! M o n. c y !
IN FIVE ACTS.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
ITJI HEA T R E ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Business Manager, Mr B. N. Jones.
Last Two Nights of Bland Holt’s Company in
A. HTJ3XT OF LUCK.
Admission—ss., 35., Is. Tickets at Maokay’s Hotel.
New opera house
King and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. John Solomon.
Musical Director Mons. Hqnri Kowalski.
Stage Director Mr. Henry Bracy.
Treasurer & GeneraLManager Mr. Joe Davis.
Mr. John Solomon’s English and Comic Opera
Company, under the Musical Direction of
MONS. HENRI KOWALSKI.
Last Two Nights of
Tlx© Beggar Student I
i?lan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s.
Admissioti —Dress Circle, 35.; Stalls, 3s* j Pit, Is.
Prit itle Boxes, £2 2s.
boors open 7.15; Overture at 8 ; Carriages at 10.20.
Tuesday Night, July 2nd,
Grand Production of MOUSTIQUE.
Manager for Mons. Kowalski, PulL Stuart.
A I E T Y THEATRE.
The wiLlard-sheridan English company.
bleat Siicce s of the Latest Loiidon Burlesque,
TWO LOVELY BLACK EYES,
oil,
tilE SAILOR BOLD AND THE SMUGGLER SOLD.
Smiles, Simjx r-, Grins, Titters, Giggles, Peals,
Shouts, and "Roars o’f Laughter.
JOHN IF 1 . SHEEIDAU
AS
THE BOLD SMUGGLER AND FOLEY.
Plan at Nicholson's. Prices, 3s. 2s. and Is.
Pemberton W. Willard.
■g XHIBITION BUILDING.
Under the direction of Messrs. Hiscocks & Macmahon.
THE CRY IS STILL THEY COME !
The Silbons An organisation The Shirks
The Silbons The Shirks
The Silbons tlickca^ ncnjof The Stirks
The Silbons and America, The Stirks
Special Trains leave Bridge-street at 7.37 and 7.45
nightly, returning after performance.
Band of Naval Artillery performs Nightly.
Prices—4s., 2st 6d., and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
NEXT GRAND MATINEE-SATURDAY, at 2.30 p.m.
QYCLORAMA.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama!
Opposite Railway Station.
OPEN DAILY ... From 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
SUNDAYS, 3 to 10 p.m.
Admission, Two Shillings ; Children, One Shilling.
Schools of 25 and upwards admitted at a reduction
of 25 per cent.
“ Every detail is true to the life.”
A Gettysburg Veteran.
CYCLORAMA.
TTOSPITAL BAZAAR and VILLAGE FAIR,
Under the patronage of Lord and Lady Carington,
—in —
Aid of the City and Suburban Hospitals.
EXHIBITION BUILDING, Prince Alfred Park.
Opening Day, I2(h September, 1880.
The honorary Secretaries would bo pleased to
receive the names of persons willing to assist the
ladies by promises of help with contributions to
the various stalls. Flowers, plants, &c., for the
Flower Pavilion ; presents of Dolls for Doll-Stall;
Hand-painted Articles, &e., for Art-Stall; Fancy
Needlework, &e., for Miscellaneous Stalls ; Per-
fumery and Cigarettes for Perfumery Stall; Gifts
of Cakes, Confectionery, Jams, Jellies Preserves,
Tea, Cocoa, Milk, Butter, Cheese Hams, &c., for
the Dairy and Refreshment Stalls. Contributions
of Prizes for the “Grand Art Union” in con-
nection with the above would be thankfully
acknowledged. The whole of the proceeds to be
devoted to this Hospital Fund. This object is a
noble one and worthy of true assistance.
Tickets, 2s. each, may be had at all the City
Warehouses and by letter addressed to
MRS. ALFRED ALLEN,
MISS JULIA BELISARIO,
Hon.
Secs.
Town Hall, Sydney
Amusements.
JJLIT E SKATING RINK.
This Rink has the reputation of being
Best-conducted Rink in the Australian Colonies^
Here you are sure to meet the elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission ... One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One Shilling; Private
Skates, Sixpence. Season Admission Tickets:
Gentlemen, 455. ; Ladies, 40s. Season Skate Checks
for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen, 155.;
Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever Clamp
Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate Ticket
included, Gentlemen, 355. ; Ladies, 30s. Roller-
bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £4 extra.
Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,. 17s. 6d.
Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station every five
minutes for the rink ; .patroijs carried free.
Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bedford-
street, opposite the Rink.
CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY
COMPANY, Limited,
Youk Street, Sydney.
The most popular Skating Resort in Australia.
Beautifully Decorated to Imitate
The ICE PALACE, MONTREAL, CANADA.
The Ice Palace of Australia.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
skating surface in the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
the well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 05
York-street, Sydney, . , .
Great Improvements Pitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of competent Instructors.
Good Music by full Band, under the superinten-
dence of Mr. George Vassie.
Exhibition in Skating by best Talent in the World.
A. F. Smith ... Manager.
WETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK,
HArris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Redfern Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. TEJi
GRAND OPEN-AIE PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.ni. Ladies arid Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, Gd.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, Gd;, Skates,
Gd.; Geritleriien, Is., Skates, Gd.
7.30 to 10 p.m. —Admission to all, Is.; Skates, Gd.
Double Ticket of Admission, Is. £d.
Weekly Tickets: Singly 35.; Double, 4s. 6d.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Manager ... D. W. HIGGINS.
fjl rocadero,
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete ami Elegant Skating Kink
in Australia.
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere ! The Open
Roof a Booh to Skaters !
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
Electric Light!
Skates Unequalled in the City!
TRAM-CARS STOP AT DOOR.
Look Out for
IXToveltie s I Noveltie s !
AND THE
Children's Carnival and Singing Competition.
Open Daily. Usual Rink Prices.
George Oughton ... General Manager.
JJAR LINGHURST SKATING RINK.
The largest and Best In the World. Remember—Seven
Times Round One Mile. Everyone Delighted.
Three Sessions;
10 a.m. to 12 noon, Ladies and Children only ; Admission
FREE—Skates, Cd.
2.30 to 5 p.m. and 7.30 to 10 p.m.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
Tuesday Evenings Ladles’ Special Night,
Season Tickets are Now Ready.
Terms : Ladies’ Tickets, 305.; Gentlemen, 355.
Floorage Tickets, 15s.
Special Prices can be arranged for Family Tickets.
R. J. AGINTON, Manager,
O N D I AQUARIUM,
The most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff Daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 0 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, id.
Miscellaneous.
S; FREEMAN SONS;
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
BATHO’S BAKING POWDFRB,
Orient Square Blue
Extract of Soap,
||inegar„ Blacking;
&0., &C., &c.
■ Steam Works And Brewery ;
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO ,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
JOHN BRIDGE & CO.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, &
DARLING HARBOUR,
W OOL BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kanr/aroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
ATJCTIONTEETJS.
S^.XjDE3£33Va:E3Kr.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturer of all k nds' f Tins for Confectioner*,
Tea Merchan 1 s, Bifeuit Makers, &c., also all kind*
of Tins round and square, Ur Pepper, S t ice and
Baking Powder, made by improved niich nery.
Trial Solicited.
ctozhunt s-A_nsrnDS ?1
T UKTIOKT,
for tnK Benefit of
The Hospital for Sick Children^
Glebe Point, Sydney.
. ~ , Trustees: ..
His Honor Mr. Justice Stephen; Hon. Geo. 11. Reid;
M U A • E. 1.. Montellore, Esq. ; Professor T. P,
Anderson-Stnart, M.D. ; C; Cecil Griffiths, Esq. ;
11. C. Kent, Esq. ,
MR. .tOHN SANDS has the h hour to
inf rm the AustraU.n public that be has
arranged to d ; spose of his very large and valuable
collection tf high-eLss
ENGRAVINGS, ETCHINGS,
PHOTOGRAVURES, &C„
By means of an Art Union officially tanctlmed
by the Hon. the Attorney-General.
25 Per cent, will be given to the Hospital for
Sick Children.
000 Tickets at One Guinea Each 5000
UNPRECEDENTED C 1 lANC E!
VERY TICKET WILL TAKE A PRIZE-
UNPARALLELED OFFER!
Every Prize Worth, not less than
One Guinea.
*l5O First F'rize. £l5O
f\ 11 consis*- of Twelve Magnificent Engravings,
Etchings and Photogravures,
all handsomely framed.
econd Prize, £100; Third Prize £5O; Fourth
rize £25; Fifth Prize, £'b> Ins; 3 at £1- He )
) at £lO 10s. ; 40 at £8 Bs. : 40 at £7 7s; 80 at
[i (is. ; 80 at £5 ss. ; 150 at £4 4s. ; 100 at £3 3s ;
10 at £2 2s. ; the remainder, 4133, at £1 Is. each.
EVERY TICKET TAKES A PRIZE!
the drawing
11 probably take place a v out the end of August.
The Prizes arc now on View at
HN SANDS’ NEW FINE ART GALLERY,
332 GEORGE STREET 323
rickets and Prospectuses may be had on appli-
ion to
J. A. STANLEY ADAM, Secretary.
brown*
pDunaq
m*.
? xadiis;
Children
TpUNKS» CIC
am*
BOWTON
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Pliila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort,, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd'm 1888
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other art icles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that, the blacking can he used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. T. BROWN & CO..
Boston, U.S.A., M’f'gs.
N
Furniture, &c.
E WTO N AND LA MB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
, WAREHOUSEMEN,
cabinetmaKims, Upholsterers
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
wAWs
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
PIANOFORTES, by R. LIPP and SOWN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NBUFELJ) and
other Celebrated Makers, at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGTATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
EDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW T 0 N an d LAM B,
F urni ture Warel lousemen,
SPRING AND O'CONNELL STREETS.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Wash stand,
with Towel Rail; Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
Newton & lane,
O’Connell and Spuing Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs Wardrobe 4 feet, witli
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back add Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached ; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, l(j guineas;
sizes.
O'Connell and Spring Streets;
NEWTON & LAMB,
ď
/ iAX V A S FOLDIN';
Vy COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
Led • light, strong, and
handy, Ills. (hi.
Newtqn ,& Lamb,
DlNl.\(i TAHIiKS. with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet lone ami up to 20 feet.
SUT’KHIOH WHITE BAMBOO BUNDS:
li x B,BxB, 0 x 8, 10 x 8. 12 x 8, at low prices';
đ
Austrian bent-
wood
1 U K N I T U-ll K.
A Vkuv Co m i’i, ktb
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamp.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, (5 \ 8, (is. (id. : 8 \ 8,
<)s. ; oxB, Os. (id. ; 10x 8, l()s. (id. : 12x8, 12s, (id.;
12 X 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
Spring and O'Connell Streets.
d
ERICAN PATENt
SHUT-UP
CLol'llES DkYKK.
135 feet of hanging space).
Very Cheat.
NEWTON and LA MR.
ď
ANYAS FOLD fMi
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and G ? Con_nkli. Streets.
LAWN and BARK SEATS, lift. long. K listic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. (!d. each. Newton
and La SIB. '
G4RDKN SEATS. IDs. Verandah Chairs,
Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
Tjfc ATTAN VER AN DA 11 LOUNGES, from
lAt 15s. ; and large variety of Chairs, from 12«.
(id., etc. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets;
BEDSTEADS, aU sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O'Connell
Street,
TgEDDiNG, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
N
Newton k Lamb, O’Connell Street.
TfTO N AN D
LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS.


astern Australia: the Coming Colony\
Now is the time to Invest your Pew Pounds!
To Reap very shortly your Thousands!
The eyes of the world are now on WESTERN j
GOVERNMENT (a certainity) it may, with truth, be
near the CITY OF PERTH or PORT OF ALBANY,
WEST AUSTRALIAN PRICES ONLY ASKED.
Discoveries of Gold, Coal, Silver, Tin and other Minerals have been made, and with RESPONSIBLE
-LAkSI SHE MOVES! 5 Be wise in time! Call oh the W.A. Agents (Cr. W. Dent & Co.), and secure an allotment in or
n e you can get it almost given you. Numerous Properties for Sale to suit Large and Small Buyers, Syndicates, &c., from £lO to £20,000
119 a Elizalietli Street, Sydney.
Kverybody should use I'emell's latest best Skow-wiiitr
Patknt Koli.kr KuoLk. It is tile greatest success of the
ago
Department of Public Works. Sydney,
.1 une 25, 18811.
I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Repairs, Ac., Police Buildings,
Wagga Wagga
Gold burn Old Courthouse, Re-
-1 lairs.
West Kempsey Gaol, Alterations,
Ac.
iniadulla Police Buildings, Re-
pairs, Ac.
Courthouse, Moruya, Repairs.
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia, Ironwork—Cont. No. 1
Bridge, Darling River, at Wil-
cannia, Erection -Cont. No. 2.
Brewarrina Post-office, Repairs.
Krection of Stables, Ac., Hospital
for the Insane, Newcastle.
Bridge over Barwang Creek, Road
Douglas to Harden
Renewing Window Sashes, Ac.,
Victoria Barracks
Supply of KMX) Tramway Sleepers
Supply of “20 ton ” Weighbridge
at Trial Bay
Additional Cells, Lismore Gaol
Iron Bridge, Red hour nebery,
Hunter River—Contract 1 (Ma-
terial)
Roofing Police Buildings, Albury
Flooring Dormitories, Hospital
for Insane, Parramatta
Additions, A<‘., Gaol, Balranald
Additions to Wharf, Seven Oaks,
Ma leay River (fresh tenders)
iron Staircase, (lovernment Print-
ing Oflice
Additions, Coast Hospital, Little
Bay s
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this oflice.
Wednesday,
duly 3,
at 11 o'clock.
Wednes lay,
duly 17,
at 11 o'clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Peulell’S S.NOW WHITK I’ATIWT lb'U.fc'k Kuu h i} the
best in the market.
In the presence of His Excellency Sir William
Robinson, G.C.M.G.
Electric Light! Electric Light I
Electric Light I Electric Light 1
on Thursday next, 4th july,
A. LECTURE
Will be delivered in
THE MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
fit
His Grace the Most Rev. Dr. Carr,
AEckßisnot of Melbourne*
The Right Wbrshipful the Mayor (Sir Benjamin Benjamin,
Kt.) will preside;
The Lecture will be illustrated by experiments. Proceeds
in aid of St. Joseph’s Home for Destitute Children.
KIP’” Tickets: Balcony, 2s. ; Body of Hall, Is.— at Allan’s,
Glen’s, Furlong’s, King’s and Stanley’s.
W. C. TOWSEY, Hon. Sec.
66 T3RETTY COOKEY; or, the Life and
JL Death. of a Terrible Elirt, ”by H.
Egbert. Particularly read Chapter 5, on Amend-
ment in the Criminal Law; 22, Patronage; 25,
Doctors and Patients ; 31, Marriage of Pique and
Spite; 32, Domestic Happiness; 26, Love, etc,
R. C; Knaggs & Co., Harris & Sproull,
Newcastle*
. ONE SHILLING.
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
manufacturers of
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT &, COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
—The only Genuine and Original-
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
1 o be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
FISH! FISH! FISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Pish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ARE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing 301 b., 151 b., and 101 b. assorted fish.
1 nee, 3d., 4d., and sd. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS 1 *
Blocks delivered free at Bailway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for i2s. 6d. per block extra. (
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are '
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed i
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt i
of Post-office Order for the Amount.
All orders to be sent to the Works—
HZerrsington St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE ... Manager.
& G
OIIITTE N B E R G
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence St . Wynynrd Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldim
d
JUDGE
FASHION,
FIT, and
FINISH T
FOR + YOURSELVES.
We Have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
The Fiaest Sand Sewn
Boots and Shoes
ď
AT PRICES
THAT
DEFY COMPETITION!
A Visit will prove the above Assertions.
Th.e Co-Operative
Boot Making Company
(Opposite David Jones and Co.),
3?6 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER,
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, »tc..
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
ows
ifr,\
if
ri
SOLO
EVERYWHERE'
3/6
KIBBLE & COMPANY,
—SIGN WRITERS—
AND
j ART DECORATORS;
22 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
4
MUSICAL.
: PATENT SCALE INDICATOR, for Pupils Learning the
j L Piano. Price, 3s. o<l. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. Gd., posted
i to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
BesU Cheapest
spjirent
UK. —» m v-
FOB, > Ids. 6d.
& AITKEN, 6SO and 682 George* Street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Have been appointed Genera.,Agents for the '
Sandhurst Monster Art Uuion.
ZFMr-st * -Prize, £1000; Seconcl. £5OO ; Third fonn
IX ALL, 600 PRIZES, VALUED .£2705. ’
SBUffD
See “
x FOR x TICKETS : x A.T x OKTCE I
To be Drawn at Sandhurst on 31st July.
Daily Telegraph,” “Evening News.” and other portions of this paper.
IJAwvon
DAWSON'S
Solo Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & CO.
(Opposite G.1'.0.)
A JOS Pin' STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN-THR
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT austbalasia.
The Referee
During the first match played in Sydney
by the Maori football team a little incident oc-
curred which is not generally known. One of the
Maoris kept forcing his way, when off-side,
through the N.S.W. men in the scrimmages, his
object being to break the formation. He kept on
doing this, and at last a N.S.W. “forward ” told
him not to do it, and the Maori replied that he
would please himself, and the N.S.W. man
answered that next time it happened he would
stop the Maori by bumping him in the face with
his knee, and before long the Maori came through
as usual, and was promptly “kneed” in the jaw,
whereupon he hit the N.S.W. forward with his
fist and assumed a fighting attitude, and the white
“drawed out” and hit him on the ear,
and then peace was made and the game went on.
The Maoris seem a pretty bad-tempered lot,
and curse each other freely during the game.
They curse the umpire a good deal and the other
side a little, but taking them “by and large ”
they play a fair game. The great Taiaroa is with
them; he was one of a previous team from New
Zealand, and the boys here could not get hold of
his name, so they went at it haphazard and
christened him Tambaroora which was near
enough for any practical purpose. He is a great
chief’s son, and is—ye gods and little fishes ! —an
articled clerk to a lawyer 1 Fancy the descendant
of men wlxo have eaten their enemies coming down
to issuing fi. fa. against them.
* # #
The second match between the Maoris and
N.B. Wales drew a large crowd. The first half of
the game was rather tame, close scrimmaging
alternating with appeals to the umpires and free
kicks for breaches of the rules. The umpires and
referee did most of the play, and the whistle to
call the ball back was constantly going. At length
some offside play occurred near the Sydney goal-
line, and the referee nearly blew his front teeth
out whistling for the ball to come back. The
N.S.W. men, however, rushed the ball away and
got a touch-down, which was allowed them, to the
great surprise of the onlookers, There is no doubt
the decision was wrong, and the Maoris were tre-
mendously disgusted and threatened to leave the
field. A goal was kicked under protest, and
the game went • on, but some of the Maoris
were so sulky at “ half-time ” that it
seemed quite on the cards they would re-
fuse to play any more. However, they came out
for the second half, and soon after beginning,
Otway kicked a goal for N.S. Wales. Then the
blood of a thousand generations of warrior ances-
tors boiled up in the New Zealanders, and they
simply charged the Sydney team down and went
through them as if they were paper, until they
had got a good lead, which they maintained to the
finish, winning by 16 points to 12. The Maoris
have an awkward habit of giving one another
hints and directions in their own lingo, which
gives them an advantage over their opponents.
For instance, sometimes when the scrimmage is
thick there comes a cry of “ Taroo ” or something,
and whether that meant “ heel it out ” goodness
knows, but they generally did “heel it out” at
once. After the play ceased there was great fun
caused by a lot of the public trying to run across
the ground, and the police trying 'to stop
them. Several men baffled the police, feint-
ing and dodging quite A la Maori. One
joker in a long overcoat was “ tackled low ”
and slung heavily on to his ear by a stalwart
“trap.” Then a row occurred before the grand-
stand, when a plain-clothes' officer tried to arrest
the wrong man for crossing the ground. Anson,
the actor, interfered, and a fearful crowd swayed
and surged about for a long time, and finally
Anson and his friend marched to the committee-
room, vowing to bring actions against everything
over two feet high in any way connected with the
Association Ground. Then two small street arabs
fought six rounds to a finish (one cried) amidst the
applause of about a thousand people, who ought to
have known better. While the fight was going on
(it was just outside the ground) some small
boys took the opportunity of heaving old lioots,
bones, dead cats, and such things into the crowd.
They got these missiles from a rubbish-heap there.
One man got hit with something or other, and he
charged at a boy and lifted him off the groun 1 by
the ears ; the crowd took the boy’s part, and there
might have been a row only that the timely ap-
pearance of Lord Carington in the distanee took
their fickle attention away. The sight of the foot-
ball struggle seemed to have set everyone off their
balance, and some of the Governors following, the
Hon. Uupertand Mr. Wallington and others, when
mounted on tiieir horses were decidedly off their
balance. They were togged up in their baggy
Knglish riding-pants, and they looked very horsey
men on foot, but very “ footy ” men on horseback.
* # #
The marble man is thought to have been
ft professional pedestrian, he is so extremely
“stiff.”
# # #
There was a race-meeting in the Melbourne
district nearly every day last week, and two on
Saturday at Klsternwiek and Moonee Valley
respectively. Fur meetings like these latter
special railway arrangements are made, but the
seedy crowd frequenting the little “pony” fix-
tures have to get down the best way they can by
ordinary trains. Their language and general
demeanour is disgusting to the outside public,
women are afraid to travel in their company, and
it is high time that the conveying of these knocked -
out “sports” to the scenes of their operations
was managed with due consideration for decent
folks. There how !
* * *
The V.A.T.C. hold a meeting at Caulfield
next Saturday, 29th.
* * *
Boase thinks that if he has to ride either
of the Hon. Jas. White’s exportations in next
Epsom Derby, his legs will be across Kirkham:
By the way, Lord Carihgtoh is alleged to have
taken a hundred to olie, in thousands, froin little
Lord Dudley that Mr. White annexes the English
event within 10 years. If he doesn’t win the bet
pretty soon the chances are that Dudley won’t
have £lOO,OOO left.
* * #
If Harry Boyle is successful in fixing up a
seventh Australian Eleven, with Murdoch as
captain once again, it will be the really strongest
combination ever sent “home,” To include
,®“! an d Bonnor in the team, however, would
rob it of its purely Australian character, for those
two long individuals are now Britishers by adop-
tioli, famihar to the “ home ” public and no more
suitable to play for Australia in representative
matches than was young Rocke, who learned his
cricket on the other side and had previously played
for his University against “Our Bovs.” Unless
Murdoch can muster 13 men, without Spof. and
the giant, the next tour is bound to result in a
mixing up of things. Neither of them should be
asked to take part in any Anglo-Australian con-
test, on one side or the other.
*, * *
Is Marriage a Failure? Spoff. is on the
wicket better than ever,
* * *
Giving his evidence in the Wood-Durham
Uial Major Egerton, official hanicapper of the
•JVxikey Club, stated that Sir Geo. Chetwynd’s
horse Fullerton had aroused his suspicions, and
that the “Jockey” ring consisted of seven, four Of
whom are still riding. This may give some hint as
to the real cause of a suicide which created a sen-
sation a couple of years ago. The reason then
given seemed rather “thin,” to use a sporting
term. &
* * *
’Arry Sampson (“ Pendragon ”) is about
! to add an Australian appendix to the “Slang Dic-
tionary,” of which he is author. Well, he’ll find
all he wants if he gets a file of the Sydney Rif-
RAFFAREE.
* * #
Old Jcm Mace is out with a challenge to
box any man in the world in three rounds for the
purpose of testing the new against the old style of
boxing. His challenge is not so ridiculous as his
years would imply. A few weeks ago Bat Mullins,
a lightweight of the past generation, actually got
into the final of an open competition for middle-
weights, defeating champions to whom he was con-
ceding inches in height, stones in weight, and at
least 20 years in age.
* * *
George Perkins, ex-champion sculler of
England, who lately visited Australia without
gaming much success, has recently got married and
settled down as keeper of a coffee-stall at the Lon-
don Docks.
* * #
Lord Marcus Beresford, starter for the
English Jockey Club, declares that the much-sat-
upon Charlie Wood is a scoundrel. The dapper
little jockey has the misfortune to look rather like
a scoundrel, but with £lOO,OOO to his name, we beg
to state that his moral character must necessarily
be above suspicion.


d
Business Announcements.
"•They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried.”
( Signed) Marie Rose.
THE
y&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
AVill not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
_ Corset stamped “Y& N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 110,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
jy Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
JOHN LAWLER
-A-hstid soisrs,
GOB, 610, 612 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Bedding and Wire Mattress
MANUFACTURERS,
UPHOLSTERERS
AND
CABINETMAKERS.
The Largest Stockholders
OP
o-zeunteie^^il
FURNISHING REQUIREMENTS
IN ALL AUSTRALASIA.
Telephone No. 66.]
[Established 1860.
Medical.
M
'cru
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferer* from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get a
clear insight Into their cases by sending for Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “ Nervous Complaiuta,” their
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to show
a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity in eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their train
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years m the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence of
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. Flet-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he dues undertake it, he is willing to
give a Whitten Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz., Dizziness
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, Sea., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same.
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
■nflerers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. Flet-
cher’s treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance:
D*.-H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence : “ Clonmel,” Waverley.
Tin. SMITH, XJ.S.A..,
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS;
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From J 1 a.m. till 4 p.m.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE in case and bu’k.
For full particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin
Office.
Paulin e
M
A
A
mm
..cz-
WJ
m.
m
• ,
m
mm.
m..
m
H
il
- g
-fSZ
izdm.
LOVE’S LABOUE LOST.
: “ See here, young fellow, the next time you make an appointment with
me, you want to remember that there are two spires on this church ! — Puck.
The tallest building in Melbourne will be a
new place going up on the site of the old E.S. and
A.C. Bank, corner Elizabeth-street and Blinders
lane. The plans show 12 stories, including the
attics.
Premier Playford, of S.A., is 6ft. 4in.,
and wears larger boots than any other Australasian
politician who has not been a policeman. In the
matter of length of feet Playford only bows to
Reader Wood, ex-M.P., of N.Z.
Pearls in the Mouth. White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtaind by the
daily use of Rowland s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowland, s articles
off chemists.
Special Advertisements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret Street
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot he re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL' DISEASES of MEN AND WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Spker, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
10 to II a.m. only.
“Eli,” asked Mrs. Potts, “what is it that
every woman wants and no man ever owns? ” In-
stead of dutifully giving it up and giving her a
chance to say “ahusband,” the wretch merely
answered, “the earth.”
Didn’t the man who wrote this know the
sex “ Edith—* Tessie, why do you lift your
dress ? It is not wet.’ Tessie —* That horrid man
ahead of-us is expectorating.’ Edithl’ll bet
you that Charlie is behind us. 5 And he was.”
When next you bake try PemeU's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillen, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hoc-kings of 410 Qeorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.
Special Advertisements.
E. C. ELEY
o
s»
s?
S'
s'
dr
<v
*
0*
S'
*
*2
&
&
&
o
O
v
*
£
O'
*
o
*
O
£
50
o
V'
<C^
O
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDHTHX.
r-
.
»
■
B
ii
-
WJL
c
' • i
si f£Xm PWU-EJU. 00-. 8 BftiDO£-ST« SmtK.
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Ppopkiktor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JUST Xj .A. ZEST ZD IXT Gr.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYD3STEY.
Solo Agents for tho above for Now South Wales and Queensland.
( x )
ALSO Importers ot Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in nil Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEA HERS, kc. ; and of the following Si’kcial Links: Peerless Gloss. Kalin Polish, Nubian
■Packing. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. (£ST Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
a®™
„ Lb
BOOMS
coNsuCrmG
n« RICHARDS
= =%
I Ilia
r
wATnißji
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably -
known Dispensary that now beats his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, ANT) SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invest!
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to Ids
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases wlc'ch probably cause more un
happiness than any other class of troubles tha>-
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dm ing
he day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
rregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
ba c hfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dream",
Gizzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow' or blood-shot eyes, impure
■kod, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hackng
cough, who ca'.not marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
anity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how r nil diseases of tHe private or
nervous system may be cured thoioughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence This
hook will prove a valuable c mpanion, and even
hough you be perfectly w'ell its general inform-
ion and prescription may assist you in restoring
tome poor friend to health even after ids case has
been pronounced incurable by Ins medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
nderstand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the.price of which isbut sixpence ; enclosed
,n the volume will be found a list of carefully-prc-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. Alt
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
V Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION TRUE.


Companies.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Is rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral Resources
are being opened wp , and property is hardening in
value.
Mate a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
The Capital City.
Allotments right in the City!
£33 Each.
Allotments close to the City,
From Ten Founds each Lot.
Good Land. Well Situated, East Terms.
Title Guaranteed Indisputable.
Pamphlets and Marked Plans Post Free to any
address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Co.,
LIMITED,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
the FEDERAL HELP COMPANY.
Wanted— General Servants, Cooks, House-
maids, Nurses, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices : 72 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(near Hunter Street).
J. Strafford Dixon ... Secretary.
Tobacconists.
“ Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmonds, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he ‘‘Can’t B Beat.”
Something New 1 Something New 1
The £2 Package. “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
BT Smoker’s Companion!
containing the following: —
lib, Williams’, ilb. blocks
lib. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatio Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
60 No. 1 H 8 Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 60
per cent, saved 1 60 per cent, saved 1 Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS,
"Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
GBD
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
• o
Wholesale Agents:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES^
WffiLACHRINCn
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO./
M. Melaohrlno & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
A ll the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and Continental Chibs
and Regimental Messes.
- Have the Largest Sale in the World !
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
warubw & ROWMT,
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette ... 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100-
„ No. 8 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Read,! Read I Read |
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The BULLETIN'S well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 6d. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents t
Victoria; A. Benjamin, S2l Little Collins-st., Melbourne.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, Qeorge-streefc.
Tasmanian; Fitzgerald Bros., Oeorge-street, Laun cestpn
Business Announcements.
Tmw.
THE PREMIER TOBACCONISTS.
OUR ONLY ADDRESS: t*t~
6 PARK STREET, SYDNEY
'off GEORGE STREET).
American Cut Tobaccos.
LONG CUT ...
R.C. RUBY ...
WHITE OAJC...
GOLDLEAF ...
2uy.fi., 9cl.
2ozs,, 9d.
2ozs., 9d.
2ozs., 9d.
MIXTURE ...
NAILROD ...
BARRETTS’ ...
CAVENDISH...
2ozs., 9d.
20/.5., Dei.
2ozs., Bd.
2ozs., Bd.
Colonial & English. Cnt Tobaccos,
FINE CUT (Dark) 2ozs., Gd.
FINE CUT (Bright) 2ozs., Gd.
CtOLDLEAF ... ... ... 2ozs., Gd.
LONDON SHAG ... ... 2ozs., 6d.
MIXTURE ... ... ... 2ozs., Gd.
BRISTOL BIRD’S EYE... 2ozs., Gd.
These Tobaccos Out Fresh every Day. Special Reductions for 11b. Parcels,
Note the Address : (j PARK STREET (ONLY).
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medieval Metal Workers.
It 01.1, Kit SKATES (any make) with ItKASS or WOO!>K\ WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices- 11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance*.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
ď
EVERY I Vl> V HER OWN DRESSMAKER
BY USING
MADAME WEIGEL’S C'JT PAPER PATTERNS.
! “ WEIGEL’S JOURNAL and CATALOGUE OF FASHIONS,” contain-
ing Illustrations of all the Newest Styles, sent to any part of the country
on receipt of (lOd.) Postage Stamps.
Madame WEIGrEL,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Near Tramway).
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
th
pro
THE
PLUM”
RAZOR
FOR PRIVATE USE IS UNSURPASSED.
Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use. Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each
Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10/6 ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is.
Send Post Office Order.
CRAIG & AITEEH, Potosi Hair-Cutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters Always Employed !
680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
\
m
4
Photograph
VilWS|/iPORTF\AITS
HhT SS./SUNOS
Lichtmr & Kilburn ,
318 a George Street, Sydney,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK IMPORTERS,
Late LICHTNER & CO,, 32 O’Connell Street.
T ICHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both Amateur
and Professional, of the late Firm that, having effected a change by the admis.
sion into Partnership of Mr. T>. C. KILBURN, and removal into more commodious
and centrally-situated premises at
INTO. 318 a OEORdE STREET,
(Between Hunter Street and the General Post Office,)
trust that they will receive as generous and continuous patronage in the future as has
been accorded for the past years. They also take advantage of this opportunity of
returning thanks to their numerous clients for favours bestowed, and will endeavour
to still deserve their kind attention in the future.
1 ~ 111 ■ f .
LICHTNER & KILBURN.
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
đ
d
m
m
Sporting.
Adam Bede’s
Benevolent Consultations.
“ AH, THE YEAR ROUND.”
Twenty years before the Public.
Melbourne Cup Programmes now ready.
One tenth of Adam Bedels commission on all
future, events will be devoted to charity.
o
NOW OPEN
Coronation Handicap,
Run at Canterbury Park, Sydney,
JUNE 29, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FIRST HORSE ... £BOO
SECOND HORSE ... 800
THIRD HORSE ... 200
Sitrters, £3OO ; Non-Starters, £400; tj be
divided amongst them.
July Handicap,
Run at Rosehill,
JULY 20, 1889.
SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
FIRST HORSE ... £lOOO
SECOND HORSE ... 000
THIRD HORSE ... 400
Starters, £OOO ; Non-starters, £800; to be
divided amongst them.
o
A-d Lam. Bede’s
Is the only fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no accounts whatever be divulged by Adam
Bede until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to ensure safe
delivery, and must enclose stamps and envelopes for
reply and result, and add Is. exchange to' cheques.
Address —
“ ADAM BEDE,"
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
ap
Square & Compass
CLUB. A
ss. Consultations. ss.
An unlimited number of members
at ss. each.
FIRST HORSE ... 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE ... 30 per cent.
THIRD HORSE . 20 per cent.
N. B.—The Square and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race - thus showing the
bona fides of the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
are posted can be visited by subscribers only. The full
results of every event are always advertised in the Sunday
Times and Referee following the races.
Motto ; “ Fair and Square.”
Look at the Dividends we have paid on the Don-
caster Handicap Russley, £95 3s. 6d. ; Plutarch, £7
2s. 9d.; Kady Kingsboro’ £l2 3s. lOd.
CONSULTATION ON EVERY EVENT.
Note the address of the original
Square & Compass Club
Care op M. Palm,
656 GEORGE STREET 656
COLONNADE.
TATTERSALL S”
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal racss through-
out the year.
Q
See Evening News “Brevities” for full par-
ticulars, or write to “Tattersall,” care if Geo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.
JACK THOMPSON,
Member of Tattersall’s (Sydney), and Victorian
Club (Melbourne),
Desires to warn the public of Australia that he
has NO CONNECTION with any advertised or other
consultation promoted by a person using the
name of “J. Thompson.” Previous warnings
have been given, but the swindle is still being
carried on successfully.
Books Open on Forthcoming 1 Events.
Country communications dealt with promptly.
N.B.—Jack Thompson’s ONLY Addresses are-
220 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
TATTERSALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention this Paper.]
HAWKESBUBY EIVEB,
SUMMER SEASON.
Sanitoriu m Hotel,
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors; gas through the house (a novelty) •
superbly furnished ; boating and fishing; three-’
quarters of a mile from the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See that you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &c.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.


PARMER EXCHANGE, ALBURY.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mer-
• chants, have already on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at AJbury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
I
JK
s
o
s
s
T*
O
u
7
/Scents .
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3&J Street.
Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
C3f
OUR SEW SHOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES'
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDN EY,
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What, is there Special (>hout it ?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
lagt ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of, work,is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether.above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes-
may be the judges.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
gewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. liVfact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease apd rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known.,
a good test .of the fi.pisjh of any mechanism is its
silence when iu rapid motion. ,
A LARGER RANGE OR APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement,
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate tip?
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
.cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees -; -thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure ow most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
THE BOBIN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bohin is full.
-The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the_ hoy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all he stitched liy the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will he shown and explained at our offices free
of charge.
With the wonderful BEALE Machine, whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
or fells, braid, stitch with chenille. Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave yoftr own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at the
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable Shirring or
gathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small cords in
hoods and stavs; do large cording; gather with or without
a band, and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. " You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do' crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only he accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine.
Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a bck-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing can be done so as to rip from end to end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’solothes
are intended to be altered.
We have a special word for husbands: When the day’s
business is over,’ and the evening meal is finished,' the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing. With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do-ALL the work with it. short of stitching on buttons,
which., is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the ladv of the house is anxious to obtain a first ■
class machine’ that which will he the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
.Why, it is the only article of the household' furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save tliat sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged, hut ought to he diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT. MACHINE. How, often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences? The Machine
- should far more than pay for itself during the time, you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or- saving money- as before. Is it not fairly to tie
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. • Price Lists and Samples
. ..... ‘ Free by. Post. . . .
Beale & Company,
482 4 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY •
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
A Judge and a Jury of Twelve.
(A SKETCH WITH A LOT OF HUMAN NATURE IN IT.)
Heaven forbid that it should ever come to
me again to be tried in New South Wales ; and
this prayer is offered up for two reasons : —First :
The Judges have nearly all been Crown Prose-
cutors; second; the average (bush) juryman of
New South Wales is a pig or an ass. These
expressions are strong, but remember the qualifi-
catives average and bush.
* * *
Concerning Judges-. Why should the step
from Crown Prosecutor be the rule ? Any man of
sense must know that a C.P. is the very worst and
most unfair man that could be fixed upon. The
reason is obvious. I remember a great criminal
barrister from Melbourne once pleading in another
colony and taking the J udge to task for arrogating
to himself the duties of prosecutor. “Once a
dog,” he said, “always a dog; once a Crown
Prosecutor always a Crown Prosecutor. ”
Again, take a case that occurred to me. I was
being tried for a misdemeanour. A certain docu-
ment was rejected as evidence by the Crown
Prosecutor, as it had not been shown to me.
Another document was tendered and I objected to
it, as it had hot been shown to me. What did the
Judge do? Reject it? No ; but he offered to re-
mand me till the next sessions, so that I might
have an opportunity of seeing it; that is to say, I
was to languish for six months in a Country Gaol,
because the law for the Ci'own is not the law for
the prisoner, according to that J udge.
Another item; A prisoner who (poor devil)
pleads “ not guilty, ”if convicted, is “dropped on
to. ” I use the gaol slang.
Judges ! Ought sentences to depend on tire
gout-twinges of a Judge ; or on his betting-book ;
or on the skill of a defence ;or on the hour of the
night"; or on the relationship of the prisoner to
an M.P. ; or on the fusel-oil of a pub. ;oron a
game of billiards lost by a J udge to a common
“ trap? ” Ought Judges to play devil’s pool with
policemen? We want gentlemen, whether natural
or hereditary, so long as they are gentlemen.
Now for the juries. I have told you before how
a juryman (a Scotchman, worse luck) stated after
a man had been sentenced to death that he never
did believe him guilty ; also how a deaf juror being
excused was told by another juror that it did not
matter whether he heard or not, as he had only to
bold up his hand,
# * *
Yon remember the celebrated Judas Is-
cariot case in N.S. Wales? For a wonder, after
all the vilipending of Judge Docker, I can tell you
that the Judge was right. I had it upon indis-
putable authority—the prisoner ■ who told me the
juror had been squared, and it was the J.I. in-
nuendo that frightened him into a true verdict.
I have heard a juror (a villainous-looking tyke.)
deliberately ask a judge to have the police ex-
amined as to whether the prisoner was known to
them. As if that had anything to do with the
evidence in the ease before them. Another juror.,
being challenged, made the audible remark —-
“ You needn’t have challenged me, you long-
nosed I did not mean to do you any harm.”
This gentleman, a “cocky,” had on a paget coat
for the first time in his life, and was angry at not
being allowed to parade it before Davy Buchanan.
# * *
Now, I’ll tell you how a jury was squared
in Bourke. The prisoner (cheque case) challenged
a personal friend, much to the astonishment of
everyone ; but before lie could lie blocked he had
time to sing out, “ Not that Ido not believe you to
lie just, Mr. Blank, but I fear your brains are not
capable of examining the intricacies of this case.”
This butter brought in “not guilty ’’from the
boobies who thought they had the requisite intel-
lect. Two fiasks of brandy in the pocket of a
stockman landed the prisoner safe in Wilcannia.
There was a nip for the acquitters and dry hash
for the “ guilties.”
#' * *
Only recently a juror told me that he
asked no questions because he was afraid of show-
ing his ignorance ; another confessed that he never
listened until the summing-up ; another that he
always said “ not guilty ” and stuck to it, for he
might be there himself ; another that he inclined
to “guilty,” for the police knew what they were
about; another that he went with the'majority,
and 1 daresay an examination could multiply such
trash, ad nauseam. For the benefit of intending
PANELS, I think they call them in Scotland, let
me lay down an axiom or two.
1. Committal means two to one on a conviction
without bail; three to one without a lawyer : and
the ratio is inverse for the converse cases.
2. Law has no connection with justice.
3. Tradesmen, book-keepers, squatters, and
private gentlemen are far more reliable jurors than
cockies, stockmen, or dummies.' Challenge all the
latter.
4. A crooked man, apeing respectability, is a cer-
tain “ Guilty.”
5. If yon know that the Judge has the gout bad
or has lieen drinking and smoking till three o’clock
in the morning, sham sick and get removed to
another assize.
G. In a gaol, without any money or an outside
friend, you are dead without a lawyer. The
authorities will place every obstruction in the way
of your defence.
7. It is useless to plead “ Not guilty ”if unde-
fended, unless you can get a wink from even one
juryman.
HIRAM ABIFF.
Mr. .T. T. Brown, a politician who for-
merly represented Mandurang in the Victorian
Assembly, is suemg The Age for having said, in a
leading article, that he was a Roman Catholic,
“ thus injuring his chance of election and making
him pose as a Catholic pretending to be an Angli-
can churchman.” Once upon a time, in Adelaide,
when the saints were stealing all the shekels, a
joker sent a writ for libel to a daily paper in which
he had been mentioned as a Sunday-school teacher,
“ meaning thereby,” so read the innuendo, “ that
the plaintiff was an odious hypocrite who sought
opiKirtunity for felony under the cloak of religion.”
Plaintiff Brown, in declaring against the Age
for calling him a Catholic, ought, as a
satire, to take a lesson from the man in
South Australia; Heaven knows the Age
people have of late given him plenty to work
on in that direction. McCarron, Bird and Co.
are also sneing the Age -for £lO,OOO damages
for comments in which certain of their canvassers
were accused of dishonesty. Then Ernest Bnttner,
lately released from gaol as an innocent man, has,
it is said, served a writ for £2OOO damages on a
Sydney paper for having, as alleged, stated while
he was in the condemned cell that he could not be
reprieved as he had previously been mixed up with
similar crimes, which statement he declares to be
malicious and untrue. In this case a most inter-
esting point of law will arise. Although Bnttner
has been “ pardoned,” the conviction against him
•till technically stands, and the question arises—
to what extent does a death-sentence deprive a
man of his civil rights ? And finally, there is a
first-class row in progress between the Sydney
Fkeeman’s-Journal and a certain prominent Syd-
ney lawyer in reference to a libel-action which the
paper retained him to defend. The newspaper
people have been in correspondence with the
Chief Justice, and will shortly lay before the
public the whole of the letters in the case.
Our picture of the “ Marble Man,” in cur
last week’s issue, was taken from a photo, by
Messrs. Kerry and Jones, George-street, Sydney.
There is a flood of new papers in Sydney.
Why doesn’t one of them call itself “ The
Elephant,” and at once claim to have the largest
circulation ?
. Miss Newcombe, a young Victorian lady,
sent on the Zenana mission for the Indian ladies,
has come back broken in health, but is going to
lecture. Lady Jersey, after a trip through India,
ridiculed the missions, in the Nineteenth
Centuev.
Away up North, an unfortunate debtor,
being in dread of a ca sa, filed his little shovel, one
of his principal creditors being a well-known J. P.
and ex-M.L.A., who has a “gent., one,” &c., who
acts as his legal adviser. This “gent., one,” in
consequence of the sudden demise of the local
C.P.S., is acting in that .capacity, and at the
Insolvent Court inquiry he acted as “Deputy
Commissioner.’’ What a fine old time the
“ shovel-filer ’’ must have had as the only appear-
ing creditor was the ex-M.L. A., his client !
Dear Bulletin, —My Lord of Armidale
says that an unbaptised infant is not a Christian
and ought not to be buried in consecrated ground.
Personally I object to being buried among soi-
distant Christians, in case the actual bodily resur-
rection is true, I told you something the other
day about one of the (Times) Walter family. I’ll
tell you another bit. I saw it. lie was not a
violently religious man, but he went to church
about the time of the Second Lesson. One Sun-
day he was walking up the centre aisle, accom-
panied by the frou-frou of his poim-eornitatug of
ladies when the parson stopped dead. Jock was
not abashed, but gave the command : “Go on,
Mr. J. ;go on with the service. No occasion to
stop when the acting-brigadier enters.” Next
week we got a shot at the parson. He refused to
bury a gunner who had turned R.C., but had not
been entered as such in the battery-books. I
planted the man in consecrated ground (are ye
A SET-BACK.
MR. SOFTLEIGH : “What, in your opinion, is the
limit to love? ”
MISS HARDY : “Matrimony.” —American Paper.
listening, Armidale?), and in the Anglican part of
it. .lock suspended the Rev..)., and he lost six
months’ pay- £OOO. But what troubles me is how
my poor gunner will face the music of the last
trombone. Hiram Aamv
Small Boy ; “ Can you help a poor boy, sir,
whose fadder has been dead for twenty years? ’ Old
Gentleman ; “ Nonsense ! How could a ten-year-old boy’s
father he dead for twenty years?” Small Boy : “He was
my ladder by me inudder's first marriage.”
Fob solid comfort, excellent table, cheerful, airy
bedrooms, a central and quiet neighbourhood, commend us
t> “THK LANGHA.M HOTEL,” Wynyard Square, Sydney.
T.ie Proprietress fully maintains the high reputation this
Hotel lias always enjoyed. The terms are very moderate,
and we strongly recommend visitors to the metropolis to
give it a trial.
The corner-stone of the colossal Australia Hotel
(to cost £220,000 !) in Oastlereagh-street, Sydney, was
laid one day last week. The ceremony was performed by
Sir Henry Parkes, who used an ostensibly silver trowel on
the occasion which he was told he might keep. If this
trowel is really made of silver it will show well on the list
of prizes in the next Art Union distribution of Sir
Henry’s “ sooveneers.” The corner-stone having been
lowered in place, after a good deal of grunting on the
part of the contractor and his assistants, Old Man Parkes
got on top of it and showed his confidence in Jimmy
Inglis, M.P. (of Billy Tea celebrity), who stood in the
crowd, by tossing him his hat to hold, and during the ad-
dress which followed the man of many tigers stood holding
t le head-covering of his once “ revered chief ” and gazing
p nsively down into its awful depths he bitterly thought
of Jack Want. Sir Henry said that “hotels were very
u icful to people who could not get into Parliament, and
were, therefore, deprived of the sweet boon of the refresh-
ment-room of the ’Oiise,” and also that he did not require
the umbrella that Dr. Garran reverently raised over his
(the orator’s) head at that juncture ; then the Doctor
folded up his gamp, wiped away a silent tear with it, and
then thrust it back down the leg of his trousers. The
speaker, continuing, declared that the corner-stone of the
“ Australia ” Hotel was well and truly laid, as he had done
it himself. Though he had not consulted any of his
colleagues in the matter, he could vouch for its having
been done constitutionally. Mr. Gladstone would have
done the same thing under similar circumstances. The
invited guests, about 150 in number, were then informed
that luncheon was ready (loud and vociferous applause),
but as the dining-room of the “Australia” is not finished
yet, nor will lie for a year or so, the table was set at
Cabarita, about four miles up the Parramatta River,
The procession (under the circumstances an orderly
one) marched down to the Floating Jetty, where
a magnificent sidewheel steam ferry-boat was pawing the
earth impatient to he off. Our reporter regrets not being
able to give the name of this craft. He asked several of
the passengers during the voyage up the river, but.no one
seemed to know. Some delay was caused at Glndesville
owing to the fact that the Asylum authorities came on
board apparently with the intention of holding a de lunatico
inquirendo. But pratique was finally given to the steamer,
which arrived at Cabarita some time during the course of
the day, where, by a judicious use of refreshments both
liquid and solid, the “Anglo-Saxon” Investment Com-
pany, os they were called more than once during the
latter stage of the banquet, succeeded in convincing
everybody that a'properly-conducted hotel was, on the
whole, preferable to the Domain,
The conservatism of medical men m all matters
relating to their profession is proverbial, and if they give the
seal of their approval to any advertised medicine it is \ ery
certain not to be to some patent mystery. This is as it
should be. For years the faculty have prescribed Kbusk s
Fluid Magnesia in cases of Indigestion, and the many i •
following in its train, and this fact is significant enough.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia can be obtained of all chemists, at
Is. 3d., 2s. (id. and 3s. (id. per bottle,.
Few people know where Tibooburra is, includ-
ing the Government. It’s, about 100 Q miles from Sydney
as the crow flies, but if any one wants to try his luck at
surfacing, and doesn’t mind paying a few hundred pel
cent, or so above the usual price for store-goods and
sundries, lie can reach the last of the timdish-tucker-
with-chance-of-a-coarse- bit-gold fields, by taking tram or
steamer to Adelaide (S.A.), 1000 miles, narrow guage to
Silverton (N.S.W.), 350 miles, and coach, ride, or walk ic
to Tibooburra, 270 miles, making a total trip ot io-u
miles. “Another way” is" to take a week s tucker and
blankets and get aboard the Transcontinental Railway at
Adelaide for Farina (S. A.), and wait for the great caravan
of camels going that way, and if you can sing a good song
in Afghanese you may get a lift over the interviewing 41a
miles on one of those “ ships of the desert. Tib. J”V e
neglected corner of N.S.W., being bounded by Queens-
land on the north ai|d South Australia on the west. our
member” is Mr. Wyman Brown, and warden, Mr. uaßei
Brown. The only links necessary to connect the imoo-
bunTtes With civilisation are telegraphic communication in
the first place and The Bulletin in the second. WeU,
they are agitating about the first link, and they have got
the second. The National Australian paper can now be
eb’ained from the local agent every Friday evening upon
arrival of Cobb’s coach. V. ; ■
The New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Company
have located themselves in a handsome factory building
at Cleveland-street, Redfern, Sydney. The edifice is five
storeys high, with a drying-fioor built above the_ root.
The premises altogether have about two acres ot nooi
space, and the machinery and appliances in use aro et the
most modern description. Indeed, the whole * °“ e _. 01
the establishment is redolent of “we’ve come arid mean
to stay.” The Company employs some hundreds of Bands
and the many intricate processes through which the raw
tobacco passes in its manufacture to the marketable article
render a visit to this splendidly-appointed factory
very interesting. The principal brands manufactured
are' of dark tobaccos, “Victory” (equal to the best
imported), “Cant B. Beat,” “ Bully,” Y 1 Fag,, (
and the popular “Youve hit or Target Biand.
This last is made exclusively for one customer, and
a number of gold and silver coins are placed an a
tion of the plugs, so that not unfrequently the patrons ot
this brand pleasantly realise that it does not always end in
e noke. Blight aromatic tobaccos are a special feature in
the New York and Brooklyn Tobacco Company. Ladies
Cmi fiiwby Twist and other brands too numerous to men-
tion are also made here, equal in quality and finish to tfie
best American,
To Messrs. reapes and Shaw Sydney is indebted
for one of the most marked of the maii>vmprovements
so noticeable of late in Qeorge-street. Their new veran-
dah is par excellence the grandest and most massive
in the colonies, and the interior from the ground-
floor upwards, presents evidences of the forethought and -
care—to say nothing of lavish expenditure in the fittings,
furniture, &c. —to promote the comfort of their customers
that must commend ( his enterprising firm to the public
generally. On the ground-floor are to be found the
tailoring, shirt, toilet ware, and mercery depart-
ments. Portion of the latter are 'displayed in some
very elegant show - cases once the property of
Messrs. Welch and MargetsOn at the recent Melbourne
Exhibition. Ascending by a stair-case of colonial beech
and cedar, itself a triumph of the builder's art, the
first floor is reached, and here you find everything in
clothing, from tennis and cricket clothes to theceljebrated
-“ Standard Brand*” ready-made suits ; also portmanteau
and steel-trunks of every description ; straw hats, &c.,
&c. A most interest ing portion of the premises are the
work-rooms, particularly the tailors’ and shirt-makers’,
shirt-making being a feature of the establishment. The
care evinced for the comfort of the employees in the large,
lofty, and well-ventilated rooms and the complete nature
of the sanitary arrangements, reflect the greatest credit
on the firm.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - - . - .£500,000.
Sydney Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Offices :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
(Next door to National Sank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices; Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of
interest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS ;
Three Months 5 per cent.
S, ix , „ ... 6 „
Twelve „ ... 7 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months,
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
BUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
<£he (Anglo-(Australian (Investment,
finance £ feand Company, Ltd.
Capital Paid-up ~ £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 60,000
Head Office: - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq., J.P.
Vita-Chairman : F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
London Office .. 31 Lombard Street, E.C*
Chairman ; Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
rpHIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
L result of wise and enterprising 1 management, has won
jte way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much tis the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly- within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
. Deposits received in Large or Small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AKU
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies' Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET.
Immediate advances granted. Bilts discounted daily.
■Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits 3 years, 10 per cent. ; 12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager.
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING 1 , AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; James A. Brown, Nentra;
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Bro hers), Sydney ;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Darden; Charle
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hans, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving o'
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ore
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process,
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies. • ,
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of test ing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the’latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
Por further Information, apply—
w. b. fletcher:
;v IKIIEIEUSPS
Patent Unbreakable Saddle •
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Factory and Office—246 Castlekbaoh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreakable
Saddles is now carried on at our
Premises, 245 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
where Trade Orders will receive prompt attention,
•ar None Genuine without our Trade Mark, lit
Caution, —The Sole Right of the above Patent
having been purchased by the undersigned, Sad-
dlers and the Public generally are cautioned against
any infringements of the samp.
Por Keen s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
Limited—
F. G. Hkdkmanm,
L. 0. HRNDRfeBON,
Trustees.
Miscellaneous.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Seller glour and grain gtored,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street),
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition,
1888-89.
T .BOMAE T 1 GrWYlff,
i - • . . 'V-
General Business Sc Hotel Broker,
No. 8, Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Q.P.O).
Nothing but Straightforward Business Done,—
No Sale No Charge.
<3-WY3J,
Miscellaneous.
Tbc ICritish and New South Wales In vestment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Stones- Office; 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent,
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
.By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
AS! GAS! GAS!
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages
waste, and overcharges.
Join the Gas Consumer’s Protective
Association,
No. 110 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
F. W. CURNOW, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to lon Saturday
EC olt & Winning,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTORS,
42 DOWN STREET, COLLINGWOOD,
o
MELBOURNE.
All kinds of Scenery made on the Shortest Notice.
Hotels.
Melbourne
TRAMS PASS
EYEtoT FEW MINUTES
sir
PMASg
ms
PALACE HOTEL
■i
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
■G.W.CLARE
}&? MANAGER
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURZE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is —
ca}s3r*ca3K3N»
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hundreci Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
SS" Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modern Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
VT TWO PASSEITG-EB OTXS LIFTS
M
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms*
-——
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, op
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook Si Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6d. per KTigHt.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
Full particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
rr
The Brighton of New South Wales,
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eta, are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchS
Dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country •
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6le at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstbr to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colpny.
Mrs. EXLiMUNTSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY..
JjONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites- First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOE N LON Gr - - Late of New Zealand.
Imfebial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
—{:'}■
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor! i , ,
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured!
The Greatest Success /
of Modern Times. \
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Diseases
\ are Curable.
MR. H. E. KUGELMANN,
CONSULTING ECLECTIC,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases.
OO WIJLL.IAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (KiiEß) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering' from any form of disease do not fail to
>btain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more;
[COPY.]
_ Glenhope, 19th July, 1888.
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, 1 did not
take any notice of t for about six months, when 1 com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and l
.vent into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
ivithout receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
ii Kyneton of considerable repute tor six months, and,
ilthough I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that 1 was in a most un-
icalthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating
me for five months, he honestly informed me that my case
was incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any
longer, and he advised me not to take any more chemists’
medicines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was
poison. I then pressed him for a true statement of my
case, and he very reluctantly informed me that I was
suffering from Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that
I was quite incurable. During the time I was attended
by the above doctors, I was not able to lie down in my
lied, and expectorated many quarts of blood and matter
from my lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this
time I savy your advertisement and decided to consult j'ou,
which I did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished
me by informing me minutely of the exact nature of my
complaint without my giving you any information, and
even without your having sounded or examined me. But
my astonishment was greatly increased when you told me
that you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite
agreement, which I gladly availed myself of. After having
taken your medicines for a month I was considerably
worse; expectorating very much, and throwing up several
pieces of skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of
my hand; but after this crisis I commenced to improve
very fast. After three months treatment the expectora-
tion and cough entirely left me, and I had gained over
two stone in weight, a result which my friends considered
little short of miraculous, as all expected 1 would soon
die ; and from that time (thanks to your most wonderful
skill and ability) I have not felt any return of my com-
plaint, and my lungs are as strong as ever they were, and
1 can do as good and as hard a day’s work as I ever did.
I am sure that people diseased and suffering should avail
ihcmsejves of your treatment, and not delay as 1 did until
I was given up to die.— l remain, ever thankfully yours
FRANK E. E. KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth dav of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Cubs
NOT BEING EKKECTEO.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Irig'ht and Liifte,**
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.'
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J- FERR E,
'Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Business Announcements.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE REO.
STUDY ECONOMY
° and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
BmcKKiKiiD Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool O: Bathurst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.
RO O 3XT E "ST and C 0.,
SAW MILLERS,
timber (Merchants # (Steam gainers,
TOWNSVILLE,
T ARGEST Stock of Oreo an Pink and Colonial Timber*.
Sashes, Doors, &c., in Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery a Speciality.
Country and Station Orders promptly despatched
F, C. NIOHOLLS & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks* I
City Buildings;
736 George Street, 730
HATMAEKBT.
Stkam Woeks ;
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET-
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
E P p sT^s
6EATEFOL---00MF0RTING
COCO A.


Sweet Boronia, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Mcyistujuia .” Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
Melbourne.
The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People’s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
PACKED ONLY BY
Jam.es Inglia & Otx,
4 AND 6 DSAN'S PtACK,
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
In a Studio.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY V.J.D.
I have always had a profound admiration for
Art. There is nothing peculiar in this. It is a
primeval instinct as old as the human race. The
Cave-man possessed it- and so did the creator of
“the Marble Man.” When our ancient progenitor
of the cave returned from his daily mammoth-
shooting (there was no close season for mammoths
in those days, which, no doubt, accounts for their
scarcity in these, to the great regret of all true
sportsmen and wild-beast showmen), the first
thing he did —after pitching one of the royal game
at his wife’s head, with instructions to roast it
whole and be exceedingly quick about the matter,
or he would smash the furniture and drink the
rent-money, and the time-payment man and the
landlord might go to the pre-historic devil —was to
sit down and scratch a rude picture of the slain
animal on a shoulder-blade of one of its own
species previously consumed. Had that grim old
autochthone, squatting on the softest part of the
age-enduring floor of his uncouth, unstuccoed, un-
numbered, and unknockered fuliginous dwelling,
any dim-groping thought in his dolocephalic head,
while he —oldest of old masters —made these
strange pictures of the pre-Adamite school that,
by so doing, he was in some dark way projecting
himself into the future, or was there a class of
palaeolithic humourists in those days who wrote
their jokes upon mammoth-bones for the benefit of
their fjdends and their far-off descendants, the
palaeontologists ? If any key to the language used
by therfi could be discovered, I feel convinced that
we should find the Mother-in-law, Bulldog-and-
Lover, Lover-and-Old-Man’s-Boot, Lost-Latchkey,
Loaned-Umbrella, and a number of other jokes
which are supposed to be the distinct., (and, in
most cases, only) property of the present genera-
tion of humourists, flourishing, but beginning to
show signs of decay, even at that remote period.
# * *
But this is merely a side issue. The great
fact is that the Cave-man, who exists for us as an
almost amorphous ghost, glimmering now and
then through the gloom of antiquity, was an artist.
Art, therefore, does not baok-shorten (so to speak)
its origin to the Egyptians, those ephemera of
yesterday in the history of man. It is older than
the oldest of old things in sociology—the joke.
Therefore it is eminently respectable, old, and—
like old wine, old lace, old sermons, android lies—
is esteemed everywhere for its age. Z: r
* * *
Next to Art in the Abstract comes the
Artist—the Interpreter. I salute him in all his
ages and stages. He has much of my esteem and
a little of my envy. What a delightful fate is his
—to do nothing all his life but reproduce beautiful
things on his canvas while the rest of his fellow-
men are fighting furiously in the dirt for the
means of keeping on fighting ! All of us have at
times seen beautiful things—dreamt dreams and
beheld visions, looked upon strange and glorious
sunsets, and with pensive, almost personal, sorrow
watched them fade oiit and die. But the man with
the divine gift of Art makes them live forever—or,
at least, for so much of forever as the odours
will last and the varnish keep from peeling off.
Anyhow, he thinks he does. But artists_ do
not seem to have made much advance since
the days more than two thou ■ nd years ago
—when Zeuxis painted a bunch oi rrapes so like
to nature tha a bird came to peck ..t them, and
Apelles painted a curtain so realistically that
Zeuxis put out his hand to draw it aside in order
to gaze upon the supposed picture behind. Still
some Advance has been made. Hogarth painted a
picture of John Wilkes sitting cheek by jowl with
a bull-dog, the “dead spit ” of him, which Wilkes
recognised to be so good a that he
threatened to break the ingenious artist’s head
the first time he came across him ; and I know an
artist in the city of Sydney who draws faces with
such beautiful accuracy that he has to go through
the streets in disguise for fear of meeting the
originals and receiving too warm an ovation
or his realism. Still these are but small
achievements compared with what tradition tells
of that curious extinct race, the Guanches, who
once inhabited the Canary Islands. The story
goes that one of them was taken away as a captive
m a Portuguese ship, and that one day ho asked
for a piece of chalk, and on receiving it drew on
the wall of the cabin, the figure of a boat—into
which he cal my stepped and sailed off and has
never been heard of since ! When our artists can
do this they will be able to snap their fingers at
creditors and treat the bailiff with the derision he
deserves. There is a large and new field here for
the Rider Haggard and R. L. Stevenson school of
writers to work in. I am condemned —principally
by a too sour and austere conscience, I must
admit —to confine myself chiefly to the hard field
of facts.
• * •
This is a pretty long preamble, but I want
the good-natured reader to give me his attention a
little longer while I relate a reminiscence of other
days.
Some years ago I dwelt for a space in a cottage
situated on one of the inlets of Our Beautiful Har-
bour, with no company but a lizard and a liver-
coloured dog who hated each other with a hatred
known only on the stage. It was a nice cottage,
too, as several gentlemen who are now “ pin-
nacled dim in the intense inane ” of periodical
literature could testify if they chose. The next
house to mine was about 50 yards off, and was oc-
cupied by an artist whom I shall — with a light
heart —call Morefrog.
Morefrog had a friend—a sturdy, square-
shouldered, grey-haired, little old man, who
looked like a Trold who had one fine evening
stepped out of Norse mythology and forgotten his
way back again. This was the marine painter of
Australia. Artists will know his name without
my telling them. He was to me a quaint and
curious acrostic for many days. Then came a
fatal day. I met Morefrog in town, and both of
us looker! fiercely and fixedly on the rum when it
was red (remember, I am shaking of years ago—
I’ve been converted to whisky since then) which
likewise did Morefrog’s friend. I left them in the
midst of a furious discussion concerning—if I re-
ight— the relative merits of water-colours
and oils.
* * *
Late that night whin I came out to see
what was making the dismal hooting at my front
gate I looked into the yawning blackness and dis-
cerned the dim outline of a Figure holding on by
the railings and swaying from side to side in time
with some doleful croon, the words of which I
could not distinguish, jierhaps because the night
was so dark. It was Morefrog’s friend—the
marine-painter the Trold —who, as soon as he
saw me, l»egan to state in irrelevant hiccups that
he “warn’t goin’ home till mornin’,” also that
there wan somebody’s grave in the vicinity that he
wanted to kwp green with his tears l»efore he died,
only he had lost the address. Morefrog himself
was standing just behind leaning against the solid
gloom. I asked them both in and opened a bottle
of a peculiarly truculent vintage sold in a little wine-
shop (the only shop in the place) over there and
filled up a tumbler for each of them. This fearful
mixture had one virtue if it took you by a short
cut to Pandemonium it kept you steady on your
legs till you got there.
Then I saw them both home —after delicately
hinting that, if they found any trouble in getting
in, there was a bed and a sofa (I have been affluent
in my time as well as others) at their service in my
place. Morefrog thanked me, but scornfully
scouted the idea that he couldn’t get into his own
house. “ They’ll (hie) have a hot supper ready
f’me ; you see’f they don’t,” he said.
As I have stated before, Morefrog’s house was
only fifty yards away, and we soon got there.
There was no light visible. “ Nev’you mind,”
said Morefrog, confidently, “I’ll soon make ’em
open the door.” This he proceeded to do by
knocking at it as if he were the field-mouse in the
fable come to visit the city-mouse and afraid of
awakening the cat.
But Morefrog’s friend was better off. He slept
in an old ship’s cabin a relic of some stranded
vessel, no doubt which had been set up in the
back-yard. ‘ ‘ K’rect thing, ” he chuckled, ‘ ‘ f’marine
painter to live in ship’s cabin - preserves th’ unities
and gives plenty’! insprashiin, y’know.” Then he
lurched suddenly forward and I saw no more of
him.
“ Insprashun,” said Morefrog, in tones of husky
grandeur, steadying himself by the back verandah-
post and waving his disengaged hand towards the
ship’s cabin—“insprashun licks h —1!” Then he
fell into the fowlhouse.
This was my last social evening with artists.
* _ * *
I have grown calmer, steadier, perhaps—who
knows—even older since then. But I have still re-
tained my admiration for Art and artists. This
brought me one day to the door of Mr. G. R. Ash-
ton’s studio in Collins-street, Melbourne. I begin
what may become a series of sketches (whether it
does or not will largely depend upon the
chance of the editor receiving this one before or
after dinner) with Mr. Ashton, for two reasons—
one that he comes first in order, as far as I know,
alphabetically in the list of Melbourne artists; the
other, that he is a representative figure-painter, and
I prefer figure-painting to any other branch of
Art—which reminds me that the finest figure-
painter 1 know of is in The. Bulletin .office, and
when he does justice to his own nobility of soul
and shakes himself free from the shackles of sordid
exactitude and false economy (as magnificently he
can when he pleases) I prefer his productions to
any others I have ever seen. I refer to the gentle-
man who paints the, figures on my cheques, [purely
he will rise to this..)
“Mr. Ashton Was in,” a nice little page in-
formed me, after I had sent in my card.
The ordinary idea of an artist —perpetuated by
their own caricatures of themselves, so they have
only themselves to blame—is that he is a being
with long hair, in which, when necessary, he ab-
stractedly wipes his paint-brushes; large, unearthly
eyes—like those of that other fraud (in caricature)
the Poet—round shoulders, a tasselled cap on his
head, a velvet coat on his back, and a pipe of a
preposterous size one never sees, except occasion-
ally in a tobacconist’s window as an advertisement,
in his mouth.
This is a mistake. It takes a trained eye to dis-
tinguish an artist in the street from any other
professional man —except, of course, a fireman in.
full dress, or a journalist full otherwise. But I
had seen artists before and expected nothing ex-
traordinary.
Mr. Ashton is not one of my ruined ideals.
He is stout in the old sense of staunch-well
set-up and wholesome to look at. His hair, in-
stead of hanging lankly over his shoulders, is
cropped short - so short that you can almost see
him thinking, which I take to be a mistake, as
some of his best ideas may become cold through it
one of these days, and ideas are, in my opinion,
like soup in one respect —they should lie served
hot, even if they are assimilated told. The hair
is inclined to be reddish but halts at a picturesque
stage of the journey, in deference,. I suppose, to
the wearer’s notions of what is sesthetic and un-
common.
* #, , A *
By the way, I knew a man once who
gravely held that anyone could think their hair
into any colour they chose by simply concen-
trating their minds upon that and nothing else.
“The roots of the hair,” said he, feasibly enough,.
I thought at the time, “ are in the scalp. The
scalp covers the skull. The skull covers the brain.
The brain acts on the hair more powerfully than
on any other part of the body. Example there
are lots of authenticated instances of persons
whose hair has been turned white in a single night
through mental agitation. If white, why not
black, or brown, or yellow, or red, by mental con-
centration?” “Or green, or blue,” I ventured to
add. “ No pigments in the scalp to do it,” he
said. This may or may not be useful to “ Persons
about to change the colour of their hair.” My
impression is that it will not. If they have to
concentrate their minds on the subject the initial
difficulty will be too great to overcome.
# * *
Mr. Ashton welcomed me very kindly,
and we talked for some time—he painting and I
(at his request) smoking a cigar he had given me.
Said he liked the smell of smoke even when he
wasn’t smoking himself—a touching trait of unsel-
fishness, I thought.
Mr. Ashton’s studio is a roomy and handsome
one. It also contains a handsome stock of the
usual artists’ “properties” displayed very effec-
tively. There was, for instance, a magnificent
claymore hanging on the wall, to which, I believe,
there is the legend attached that with it, and
none other, Macduff slew Macbeth. It looks mur-
derous enough to have slaughtered every Scottish
king since the days of the Piets who were (as every
intelligent reader of history knows) cut off to the
last man rather than betray the secret of making
good beer, a secret which, indeed, seems to have
perished with them. Near it hung a Japanese
sword, which no doubt, if it could speak, also had
its blood-stained story to tell of Daimios perform-
ing the Happy Despatch with it, and dying
with their noble lacquered faces wreathed in
that changeless smile which screen-painters and
ceramic artists have made so hideously familiar to
ns.
Guns, too, three of them, on the wall —all
modem and of the best make. When Mr. Ashton
takes his pleasure he takes it in the good old
English way by going but to kill something.
When he goes out in this fashion there is a general
understanding that it is the close-season for art-
critics. At any rate, it is the season for them to
keep close.
Fans, spears, rugs, spittoons, and other “pro-
perties ” are also on view. But the most piquant
—though in my opinion slightly sacrilegious-
object in the studio is a cast of the Venus Victrix
with a little black hat, adorned with a huge red
flower, stuck jauntily on her awful brow. Alas, for
the all-conquering goddess ! While Mr. Ashton
went on painting I wrote the following lines :
“ Why didn’t you complete the outrage,
Mr. Ashton, and put a bustle on her ? ” I re-
marked, knocking the ashes off the end of my
cigar into a chaste and elegant spittoon, that, like
the O’Rourke’s valley in the Irish melody, “ lay
smiling before me.” “I never thought of it,” he
replied simply and went on painting as if he were
possessed by the spirits of a dozen mad Old
Masters.
It was so novel —so altogether strange and
curious—an experience for me to see anyone so
fond of work, that I lay back in my chair and,
watching him through half-closed eyes, and a soft
blue haze of smoke, gave myself up to the full
luxury of it. I am only too glad for anybody to
come in and interrupt me in anything I am doing
particularly if it is something I should do at
onee. Thai 1 fling down the pen with cheerful
alacrity, draw my chair up to the table, set outthe
glasses (if, peradventure, there happen to be any-
thing to drink in the house), fill my pipe and —with
the rapture I used to feel as a boy when I could dive
into a deep doorway out of the pouring rain, and
-watch grown-up people scurrying by, and getting
(to me) delightfully wet through—settle myself
down in a state of slippered beatitude, and talk,
and listen, to talk about anything, no matter how
trivial, with an intense and fearful joy I never
know at other times. How is this, 0 profound
Psychologist? I think, for my own part, that
Poe’s Imp of the Perverse has something to do
with it, but that a far subtler and more potent
Imp the Imp of Laziness—has more. What
says the learned Theban ?
“That’s not how a reputation is made,” said
Mr. Ashton.
I looked up, but he .was plunging away at his
canvas as before. Evidently I had been making
some of the foregoing remarks aloud. “ Why,
you don’t mean to say you work for the lov§ of
working?” I observed, glad to notice that he was
not absolutely absorbed in what he was doing. _
“ But I do,” he replied quietly, making a little
dab at his palette.
“ And do you never take any relaxation? ”
Hi' nodded towards 'where the guns were hang-
ing up. Then he said : “ Whenever I take a holi-
day I have to make up for it afterwards. I have a
great deal to do, but ’’—turning half round and
looking at me over liis shoulder - with a glance of
humorous severity—“ I do it, and I never disap-
point anybody.” And he went on painting.
If Moses and Elias, prophets, had been sent
down to me for my own particular moral benefit
they could not have impressed me more than this
simple (compared with them, of course) artist with
his (to me) curiously-conscientious notions of re-
sponsibility.
And how long, may I ask, do you work on an
average every day ?”
“ From 9 o’clock in the morning till 6 in the
evening in the studio,” he replied, “ and then, as
a rule, for a couple of.hours more after I go home.”
“ But, great Heaven, man, you are killing your-
self,” I exclaimed.
“ Do I looklikeit ?” he said, with a smile, turning
half-round so that I could get a good view of his
chest and shoulders.
I had to admit—with reluctance, for it goes
against my theory of life to admit that a man can
be healthy at hard work that he didn’t.
“And is there no beer and skittles —are there no
oakes and ale about all this ?” I inquired with a
sweep of the hand which included the room.
“ Not much,” he said, “ I have grown out of the
beer and skittle period.”
Then he added, as though it were an after-
thought, “ Of course there are the Artists’ Smoke
Nights—once a month.”
“ And what are they like ?”
“ Have you never been at one ? You should
oome some night; we each of us draw something,
and ”
“ But, pardon me,” I said, “ do you never get
tired of drawing ?”
“ Oh, no ” quite simply.
“ But in the matter of pleasure otherwise,” I
inquired desperately, “ what do you do when you
go in for what the Americans call ‘ a high old
time
“ Oh, paint,” he replied.
I suppose he saw I was completely curled up by
this last, so he was good enough to add : “It is
the same with all artists worth their salt—the
pleasure of being able to express themselves is
greater than any otheryou give could them. Besides,
it’s a pleasant relief from black-and-white.” - j
He saw that this last remark was a dark saying
to me, so he put his palette and brushes aside, and,
after lighting a cigarette, sat down beside me.
# # *
“ Black-and-white work,” he began,
“means simply illustrated newspaper work. I
work for most of the illustrated papers in the
colonies, besides being Australian representative
of the London Graphic.”
Mr. Ashton then informed me that he was born
in Cornwall in 1856, began his career in an archi-
tect’s office, then joined the Graphic shortly after
it started, stayed five years in the “house ” (that
is in the London establishment of the paper). He
left for the Cape in 77, and until 79 wont through
the Kaffir war with the Mounted Rifles. He then
came to the colonies and joined the staff of the
Australian News, always keeping up his connec-
tion with the Graphic. In 1883 he married a
daughter of good old George Coppin. There you
have in a few sentences the outlines of the not
very eventful life of one of our foremost Australian
artists.
I asked him if he couldn’t throw in a murder or
two, or at least a bank-robbery, for my sake, so
that I might be able to make my account a little
more picturesque, but he said he couldn’t,
“ unless,” he added, after carefully noting the
effect of a thin curl of smoke from his cigarette
twining up towards the ceiling, “ unless you call
killing a few score Kaffirs anything.”
I said it wasn’t much, but it was better than
nothing, and I would use it.
* * *
“ How about models ?” I inquired.
“Well,” he answered, “ when I came here there
wasn’t a professional model in Melbourne.”
“ And now ?”
“Now there are seven—men and women. Six
of them are regular, one occasional. Two of the
women make a living at this alone.”
“Morals ?”
“ Unimpeachable—they have to be. No others
need apply. I put an advertisement in the paper
the other day for a model. There were 17 appli-
cants—all of them respectable and some of them
very good imitations of ladies if not the real thing.
Of course you know I have a ‘ life ’ class. We pay
our models half-a-crown an hour. In England the
rate is only a shilling, or at the most eighteen-
pence an hour. But in England a model will stand
m the most fatiguing position for two hours with-
out murmuring. Here they are tired and want a
rest after staying for half-an-hour in the simplest
of poses.”
“But have you never any embarrassment with
your applicants ?” I asked
“Well, sometimes,” replied Mr. Ashton, laugh-
ing. “ For instance, a young woman came to me
in answer to an advertisement some time ago. She
seemed so perfectly cool and self-possessed that I
naturally thought she knew all about the business,
so I requested her to go behind that screen,” point-
ing with his cigarette to a large Japanese affair in
the remotest corner of the studio, “and disrobe.”
“Well?”
“ Well, she came out in less than a minute. She
had simply taken off her hat and jacket—and
stood waiting for me to begin painting her. I was
never more embarrassed in my life. I believe that
I even blushed. At last I had to tell her some-
what lamely that for certain artistic reasons she
wouldn’t quite suit my purpose. She then asked
me point-blank if her figure wasn’t good enough.
I had to reply, of course, that it was perfection.
Then she wanted to know if it was her face that
didn’t come up to my standard of female beauty.
Of course, too, I had to say that her face was
faultless. But she wouldn’t be satisfied until she
knew what was the reason why she didn’t suit my
purpose. By this I had grown desperate. “ You
see,” he said in a tone as though he were making a
sort of apology to the absent girl, “she had
wasted so much of my time, and I had none to
spare just then.”
“Well?” I asked quietly.
“Well, I told her why she wouldn’t suit me.
She darted one withering glance at me, rushed be-
hind the screen, put on her hat and jacket and was
out of the door like lightning. I expected every
minute to see her come back accompained by a
policeman.”
“ What did you tell her, may I ask ?” said I.
“ I merely told her I wanted a model for the
nude.”
* # *
“ There are some models in London,”
continued Mr. Ashton, “ who have become so acr
customed to the work that they believe they know
what the artists want better than do the artists
themselves. There was one man, for instance,
called Davis - a fine-subject physically, but too
clever by twice. You would send for him and say,
let us suppose, that you wanted him to stand for
a picture of Julius Caesar, or Napoleon the Great,
or Duncan Gillies, or any other historical character
you happened to have in your mind as a subject
at the time. You would hardly hare the words
out of your mouth before he would throw himself
in attitude, and exclaim : “ Julius Caesar ” (or any
of the others) “ you want ? Ha !ha ! Here you
are.” You would as firmly as you could explain
to him that that was not the idea you had of
Julius Caesar just then ; you wanted him (the
model) to stand “so”— adjusting his limbs in the
attitude you desired. He would obey you with
much grumbling and not till after telling you that
if you made a mess of your picture—as in his
opinion you certainly would—you needn’t blamo
him for it.”
* * *
“I suppose like most artists you have
some curious orders given to you at times, Mr.
Ashton ?” I said, feeling that it was about time to
round off the interview.
“Well, yes,” he said, smiling. “A woman
from Gippsland came to me the other day and
wanted me to * dror a ship on glass ’ for her * pub. ’
And not long since a prominent man in Mel-
bourne who ought to have known better called on
me and said, looking at his watch as though he
were in too great a hurry to go into details —‘ I
want you to paint my dog. Which is dearer —
water-colour or oils ? Picture about that size (in-
dicating on the floor with his umbrella the size he
meant) say two foot.”
“And what did you say to him ?”
“I forget just now—but I think I asked him
what colour he wanted the dog painted, and if ho
wanted him painted so that he wouldn’t be recog-
nised again. Anyhow the old man went out in a
tremendous rage. But my unique order was
given not many months ago. I was very busy,
when suddenly there came a knock at the door,
and as I said ‘Come in,’ an old doctor—very
decent old fellow—entered. He was a shocking
sight. He had the most awful black eye I ever
saw, and —ho wanted me to paint it for him ! He
was in a dreadful state of mind because he had to
visit his patients that morning.”
“ What did you do?”
“ Of course I painted it for him, with pleasure.
The interview was at an end—and a very plea-
sant one it was—to me at any rate. I shook hands
with Mr. Ashton, and, nodding familiarly, but by
no means vulgarly, at the Conquering V enus with
the battered black hat on her bead, I passed out
into the sordid world again.
TO THE VENUS OF ASHTON.
O Goddess, great and fair!
O Venus of the Mound !
In dim halls underground
Where never summer smiles
(Pray don’t so oddly stare !),
Dost thou remember there
Those bright HCgean isles,
That blue ZEgean sea,
Where all men worshipped thee,
With lifted hands of prayer,
O Goddess, great and fair ?
O Goddess, great and fair !
Dead are thy rosy Loves,
Thy Cytherean doves.
Long ages since have flown
(Take off that stony glare !),
Have flown —no man knows where,
The pow’r has left thy zone,
Wingless, and lame, and old.
With quiver filled with gold,
Thy son sets now his snare,
O Goddess, great and fair I
O Goddess, great and fair !
Anadyomene !
Full hard thy luck must be
That thou, for thy rose-crown,
That shocking hat shouldst wear 1
(Be steady—have a care—
Or thou wilt topple down !),
Thou’st dull as Pallas’ fowl !
Drunk as a hard-boiled owl I
A spectacle ! —a scare !
O Goddess, great and fair!


Medical.
NERVOUS SEN.
x>
x;
UJ
/
o
ct
4*
H
UJ
UJ
---
tz.
n-
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
mud all weakness cause d by indiscretion. 1 ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage.
Address;— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 9X6, G. P, 0., Sydney.
Life Preservation,”
—BY —
Dr. J. D. LLEWLELLYN,
SPECIALIST,
10 LONSDALE ST., EAST, MELBOURNE.
THIS Work is a Medical Treatise describing
accurately, faithfully and concisely the
Functional Disorders and Diseases arising from
excesses, indiscretions, and other enervating
influences with their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men, with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
PRICE per mail, 3s. fid. (any Colonial stamps).
To be had of all Bo >ksellers, or the Otto Publish-
ing Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
A Wonderful Discovery,
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
O
T’HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
f The Public are requested to notice the
VC* U. UIULL ! words, Rose s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Bone) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
.581 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
ERVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addressed 4d. stamped envelope, forward advice
and his Medical Book Free. Address—
Hbrr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
MAGIC MEAL.
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials :
Report by Chari.f.B Watt, Esq., Latf. Government
Analyst
“I have tested a sample of the ‘ Magic Meal’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenio and have
to report, after a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified ,in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon “ I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them In good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. Bs. ; 141 b. ss. fid. ; 561 b.. 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
a HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
cJLfI
&
\P
%
PATENT
PILLS
jR
*
$
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to w r ork wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tesified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’k Cough
PiM/S a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
EuCALYPTE. OIL'S.
Victory Ointments
COLEIWOHS
*
THE TREE OF LIFE.
The only pure Kucalypte In the World*
WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consurapi ion. Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the < hest and
Lungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, sciatica,
etc. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eu a ypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypti Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
peop’e Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory—Co itamondra.
Sydney Who'esale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
" U S T PUBLISHED
A most Unique Wqrk on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
It contains information most valuable in Ner-
vous and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Ru es
are worth its weight in gold. Send your f ill
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next ~ix Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY Cleveland Street;
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
SUBJECTS.
CONSULT
I
H
OGG
GORE &
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases OT the Genito-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
2, CORBETT’S BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOt,f ULTATIONB FREE, PERSONALLY OR 8Y LETTER.
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in ad van e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements
£ 2O EUCKEOARD BUGSIES £2O
sT IN THE WORLD
for £2O.
fetkd
I'lte Largest roach*
Works in Australia.
No, 45- Ti iivout Seat—£3s.
COPE & NEWMAN,
ROGGO HOAD, SOUTH BRISBANE.
HARRIS’S Missii g Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 5S Sydney Arcade,
entr. nee Kin* or Geoige Streets (late of R. M.
Riley s Private l)e eciive Agency)
Evidence collected in DIVORCE. LIBKL
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF ROMISE,
and all <■ inds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
H arris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE,
“ For Flaming a Picture Neat and Well.”
*x : x
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
k-pecial attention paid School Drawings Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
n
&
MANUFACTU«£RJ
» OF
HATS CAPS*.
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY %
0/>/>oufe lattesrtCerj
r
w%>
Branch :
6 7 8 GEORGE STREET,
'BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
L[ g SOJI/S
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AUTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
■ *
r
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
IE?
>-
/\LfCH
INC
5<
PO
*
OT ,*K U s'
~y i_/AM£S CMANNOfr <J^artoirrS f t <J?‘ r^Mj
By
Sold
Business Announcements.
V . •
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
[?nfis
‘ X
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
A
SK FOR KUPPER’S ELBERFELD
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment
C
WALTER HOPE,
> General Merchant & Commission Agent, »
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY;
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
. received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.- — Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
T I >HE BANK OE NEW ZEALAND.
X Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000.000
Re«erve Fund... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky* Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &c
Cooperage:
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Mr-ket Streets.
FREE BY POST for six penny Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers h( w they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
See., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
Hotels.
rfi
H 2
* •
OWOCNSliMwiifit
HOItt
BOWDEKT’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Shiest (Near Hunter St ), Sydney.
JOHN C BO «DEiV Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near Opera House, Bourke Street, East,
This well-known Sporting Bouse is conducted
in Firbt-class Style. Every convenience Centrally
Situated.
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warrnambool, Victoria,
miHS old-established and well-known Family
JL and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
tupphed. asr Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It. is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’a Coaches. Th<
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
x
StS" Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
x
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Ijozidozi Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
;
wy*
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salk to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EA R THEN WARE.
WISES, BEERS <b SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
• Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Genera.
A. M E LVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
IMPORTER OE
WIITES, x S IPX DEBITS, x BEE IP S 7 x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES;
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunvillb’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hbnnessv’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
sotolßsale anil Single Bottle Departments, anil V#4t Denpge-st.,
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM k LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sous.)
-)x(-
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Barlmghurst Hoad.
HEAD COPPICE; GIPPS STREET (Ifrext Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
York Street, Wynyard Square,
S "5T 3Z> 3NT E Y ,
Now Supply the GENERAL PUBLIC as Well as the Trade,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
WOOL. 'WOOX J .
TEE HEW ZEALAND
Loan 8, Mercantile Agency
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Britige JS-t., Sydney.
Capital, £4,500,000 ... Reserve, £270,000
Wool lBBB-89.
Regular Sales of Wool Hold Throughout the
Season.
r PHK greatest care bestowed ! on the Valuation and the
Displaying and Protecting all Wools entrusted to
the Company for sale, whether f rom large or small clips,
jpw*"" Growem A dotted and Consulted with before Sales
of their Clips are miidS,
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, on Wool lieu
of Ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other Produce, whether
for sale in Sydney or shipment to London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Skins, Hides, Tallow, &g., Held Regularly.
J3T" Every Information Supplied on Application.
G. S. CAMPBELL, Manager.
SYDNEY WOOL & GRAIN WAREHOUSES,
Bridge and Loftus Streets.
G
ENGINE SWEDISH MADE
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. _A_. FALSTBDT,
SOLE AGENT FOE AUSTRALIA,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
EST” a BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grandmedicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. : Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
m~ iitspect this sw:e:et
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THB
Wertheim Sewing Machine Depots
IN
VICTORIA.
MELBOURNE
r Head Office : 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street,
-! New Coffee Palace, Bourke Street.
V 59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
66 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’a.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opp. Golden Age Hotel.
s
COMISxfoN
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grca e. It removes ]’■ telexes,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roi ghness of the Sk h; is
mot co ding and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is also sold
in a Golden Co our.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Hose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England.
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting*, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Rutotoer Works,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
SfZB
55*5“
de
f s»
Sr*
it*#
Tlie Best, Timekeepers in tlxe World I
Hare obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed.
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
iable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary fiat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Fa tory in Waltham, Mass., U.S.A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value U.S. Mint assay.
Waltham Chronograph®, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly-back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “ No. 1 Size ” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made.
Waltham Railway Watches are med upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and all the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Bold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
ď
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Building’s, Bona Street:, Sydney.
