

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIRST AWARD for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is by the Chaii'man of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Non-Magnetic Watches is recommended; —
“WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. — Non-Magnbtio Watches. —Having obtained further information and the results of some good practical tests of some non-magnetic watches of this
exhibit, I have now the honour to report further upon it. Question having arisen as to similarity of the balance of this watch and that of Palliard’s, the exhibitors obtained the opinion of an expert,
who examined one of the Waltham Non-Magnetio Watches, as well as one of Rotheram’s Watches .with Palliard’s non-magnetic balance. This expert (Mr. Kahan) reports as follows : —* I have received
from Messrs. Robert Beeston and Co., agents for the Waltham Watch Company, a non-magnetic watch, for the purpose of reporting to you whether the same is identical with those known as Palliard
and Co.’s. I have examined watch No. 3,292,923, lever escapement, keyless (Riverside). The balance (bi-metallie compensated), hair-spring (Breguet), lever, pallets, and ruby roller, are made of such
metals that are not liable to become magnetised, and consequently these watches are well adapted for the purpose for which they are made. The balance and hairspring are not identical with those
known as Palliard’s.’
“The exhibitors have also forwarded to me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lightings department. This
report is as follows : —‘ At first the watch had a gaining rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant, the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos.
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, 1 sing. I then regulated it so as to bring it to a gaming rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days, the watch was again used in the
dynamo-room, and without affecting the rate. I,have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact with dynamos at work, having a magnetic field which I think would have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day.’
“I have also a report of a series of careful experiments with one of these watches from Mr. R. O. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the result of which shows that these watches,
after bring laid on the poles of the large dynamos at ivork for one or two minutes, and afterwards regulated and then exposed again for twenty or twenty-five minutes, did not appreciably alter their rates. Mr.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery.
“In consideration of these reports In connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company be given a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
NON-MAGNETIC WATCH.
R. 0. J. ELLERY, E.R.S., Chairman.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions :
PHILADELPHIA, IS7S, Four Prize Medals j Ml, 1878, field Medal; 87SHBT, 1830, field Medal, with Two Special and Four First Prises i MELBOURNE, 1831, Two field Medals;
887 ORLEANS, 1388, Five Prise Medals; IPiNT® BEHIBf 111, LONDON, 1883, field Medal] MELBOURNE CEE UAL INHIBITION, 1883-3, First Award, Non-Mapeticf atches
Constituting a record unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology.
Extract from the London Horological Journal, July, 1889:—“The Great Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
Company for the use of the guards on the Scotch express.”
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.—GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
TENDERS having been called for the supply of WATCHES for use upon the New South Wales Government Railways for the ensuing year, the preference was given to the celebrated
RAILWAY GUARDS’ WATCHES of the AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. This is the Ninth Consecutive Year during which the WALTHAM WATCHES have been
chosen by the New South Wales Government as the best and most reliable timekeepers for railway purposes. WALTHAM WATCHES are used by the Government Railway Officials in New
South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines of the United Kingdom and the Indian State Railways.
A.MIERIC-A.Kr WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Sole Australian Agency: WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, 3Vl ocaLifxecJL Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
BONUS YEAR. —Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with a view to Distribution of Bonus.
Federated Squatters
-AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
CIBCTJLAB Q,T7.A.ir, SITIOICTIB'Y'..
WOOL and PEODUOE BEOKEES, STOCK and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers
KOLIEK SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Tires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
HAYING unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample,
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with every
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally good,
tod prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers.
SHIP TTfsl T~>THT?. LIBEBAL CASH .A.IDV-A-ZTsTOIEJ
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, heather. Grain,
and all Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Homehush and Corporation Yards.
E3T Luge and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Hombbush, Blaoktown, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
Wi ' . ' ■
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all further
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
STOCK! & STATION AGENTS,
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
ifl flfl/11l veer nmiriTiCf innrQQ.tnnfyl'O’ VA f.H EnoTish. Continental and American Manu.
we are preparea to
information on application.
Bead Office. 129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Office at DUBBO
Gj* r
°(/f
1
ft
if
T
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
409 KENT STREET (Two Doors from Market Street), SYDNEY,
HtG XX- C LASS I IDsT ZD I _A. IST & O IX X UST
TEAS
Packed in 20ib. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6d., Is. 9d, and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
[Saturday, October 12, 1889.


TOBACCO
W
m
DIXSOPSfM
£
*
a
o
so
o
o
V
SIR ROGER
a
liQ
mm
DIXSONS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into the
, Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
SB. RIDGE'S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“Can’t B Beat.”
‘CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New 1 Something NewJ
Tlie £2 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker’s Companion 1
containing the following:
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IBs Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Rediern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. _ Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent saved 1 Note the address;
MICK SIMMONS
“Can't B Beat,” Haymarkkt, Sydney.
B.
RITTENBERG & 00.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarenc« St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and Mouldings.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
ATKINSON S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Qf all Dmitri (tml of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON, I
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Mark-“White Rose” on “Gold
KV Lyre,’’ with Address In full.
T. LAWLESS, June.,
37 MAEKET STEEET,
SYDNEY,
WILLIAMS’
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
f&r IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: y
33iread, Tea. Cakes, Pastry, &c.,
ARB
Light, Wholesome and Digestible——
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder,
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold ill TIIIS at 61 tllS Half-POUHI
p
AuC
p
WILLIAM CAEGILIi,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
renar-gR
BALDWIN DRY AIR REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
I* SMOSiT SQUEEZERS, &0., &c.
Bros. <2z Bigg 4 , ILtd..,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,’
By ARTHUR GAYL.L.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
li. HOPKINS and FEU MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. 3d.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—Victorian : A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10- No. 504
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1889.
Price, 6d.
Kickleby Modernised. The Boy's Turn to Strike
"The “board-school children in Glasgow and Aberdeen are out on strike. They demand tree education, and the abolition of flogging and of home lessons."-Cable.
MAC SQUEERS: "HOW DO YOU SPELL IT?"
LADDIE (who kens more than the maister): "W-I-N-D-O-W, WINDER-AND IF YOU DONT'S LIKE IT, CLEAN IT YOURSEL'."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 2i Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 012 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc,, and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
I erse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound B ote, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
'1 his offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tire Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom wo do not wish
to interfere.
w
„
y/l VrVy' / /SI /vy
L4*LXj&Lsi/J{/»
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1889.
Mistress and Maid.
“ Todd, of Sydney, has written a letter
to the Standard, appealing to the ladies of
England to organise a society for the purpose
of sending out respectable domestic servants,
on condition that ladies in the colonies
guaranteed them situations and their passage-
money.” We don’t know Mrs. Todd. °A
single bone has, however, often enabled a
naturalist to name the animal to which it
belonged. Buffon alleged that with such
material he could do even more than that.
Give him a bone and he undertook not only
to name the animal but to tell its age and
size. Mrs. Todd’s letter, the cabled resume
of which is given above, is ample material
for determining her genus socially. She is
an Australian mistress. We do not desire
t o emulate Buffon by speculating as to her
age or size. Indeed, if we remember rightly,
Buffon in one celebrated case was found to
have gone very far astray in- pursuing his
subject into details.
* * #
The cable, then, represents the views of
an Australian mistress on the (juestion of
Australian maids. To an extent these views
are common to mistresses everywhere. The
local supply of servants is frequently said to
be limited in number, and often to be in-
different or bad in quality. In all civilised
countries now madam’s house is her empire.
Whether it is large or small there is room in
it for a throne and occasion for courtly cere-
monies. When she speaks, standing on her
own floor, her commands are ordinances,
proclamations, ukases. Her wishes, her
looks are edicts. Her husband is the only
Person possessing a legal and moral claim
to reign conjointly with her. He, how-
ever, does not count. He is generally
subjugated at an early stage, and goes
off to start a kingdom for himself in
Parliament or some similar place. If he
successfully resists subjugation, the result is
on the whole, the same. The duality of the
sovereignty is purely nominal. Thus the
mistress is absolute monarch. This being so,
it is not wonderful that in many instances
she displays despotic tendencies.' It would
not be wonderful if she tried to play the
tyrant oftener than she does. Sulla had
not more temptations, and he set himself up
as 1 erpetual Dictator. C.-fsar overturned a
commonwealth to put himself in a position
where his will would not be thwarted. If
the average legislator found himself any
night in the position in Parliament which a
mistress, by general admission and consent,
and with almost universal approval, occupies
in her own house, he would, before goino- to
bed, knock up some hatter to take °his
measure for a crown of gold and would try
to make Parliament kneel to him next daw
Mistresses are only human.
But when mistresses yield to a love for
domination they encounter their maids.
Bridget, too, is a living, sentient, thinking
mortal. In her, as in her mistress, stir in-
stincts for domination. She feels she is
cribbed and cabined. She is under restric-
tions in many ways, and these restrictions,
called her circumstances, she endeavours to
break through. She wants more laughter
than comes to her share. It sometimes
happens that she hears indistinctly music
which she longs to hear fully, and sees indis-
tinctly faces and splendours which she
yearns to examine more closely. But she
can t get out to them. When her mistress
is similarly cabined what does she do % She
fumes. Why, then, upbraid when Bridget
sulks ? A servant’s lot is naturally hard ;
many mistresses make it harder. The
baptismal font may have given her a
euphonious name, as Clytemnestra, or
Araminta, but when she enters service she
must drop the music of these syllables and
go about as plain Bridget or unornamental
Mary. Bridget and Mary were sweet
names once, and may be again when affecta-
tion is banished from civilisation, but for the
time being they are unromantic, and because
they are unromantic, mistresses keep them
in stock for their best-looking girls. It is
estimated that eighty-five out of every hun-
dred girls in service are named Bridget or
Mary. And a white lace-cap is also put on
the girl s head. There is not so much to say
against this. Bridget’s head-dress often
assists the visitor. It tells him that that
pretty girl walking along the hall is the ser-
vant, while the ugly one coming down stairs
is the real Miss T)e Boots. The ingenuous
visitor values a piece of information acquired
thus early. But to Bridget it is not always
pleasant. It sometimes makes her feel as if
service were servitude.
* * *
things are added. In some cases
Bridget’s whole time is supposed to be at
the disposal of her mistress. Her mistress’s
visitors may be a most irregular set. They
may come any hour of the day and may not
come for a month, but Bridget is always
supposed to be on hand. It may be that,
considering the next day would be like the
one before, she had made an appointment
with the butcher or the baker. The hour
and the butcher arrive—but at that very in-
stant the front door opens, and an afternoon
intended to be glorified with cooing is de-
graded with cooking. There is no doubt
that this is trying to the temper, nor is it
astonishing to find a piece of crockery im-
molated to the occasion. Bridget’s feelings
cannot be relieved at the visitor’s ex-
pense, so they spend themselves on what
is near. To minimise friction on this
account some mistresses forbid their ser-
vants to receive visitors—“ followers ” is
the inelegant matronly expression. A rigid
rule of this sort exasperates in many
ways. A young girl has her name
changed from lolanthe to Biddy, the
tresses which used to hang upon her shoul-
ders are rolled up or cut off and a white
cap set on the top of her head, and
she is now forbidden to speak to her
“cousin.” Unless the mistress have a
grown son or compassionate husband, the
girl, when young and sensitive, will be in dan-
ger of falling into lonely, if not melancholy,
moods, if the rule be successfully applied.
Nature, however, never gives her children
wholly up to the arbitrary rule of woman or
man, and hence lolanthe manages somehow
to maintain a healthy relationship with her
old world.
* * #
We say nothing about bad mistresses and
bad maids. Both exist, but they do not
concern us here. What we are indicating
hei’e is that in general mistresses’ dissatis-
faction with servants is owing to the fact
that they want too much. Servants’ dis-
satisfaction with mistresses has a similar
origin. The mistress cannot have every-
thing as she would just like to have it with-
out trenching on the unwritten rights of the
maid ; nor can the maid have everything
without leaving the mistress short. The
spheres of mistress and maid are intersecting
circles. Mistresses generally think that they
can be made concentric. Over and above
the question of duty, there are the questions
of female rivalry, female jealousy, female
ambition, and female vanity. Bridget will
show off, if her mistress shows off. She will
take holidays, if her mistress has them. If
her mistress conducts her affairs in utter dis-
regard of the convenience of Bridget,
Bridget will forget her mistress’s conveni-
ence from time to time. These are laws of
human nature. They are the same the world
over. At heart, Bridget is as desirous of
rule as is her mistress. When obstructed
she is as tempestuous and royally vindictive.
Her eye sweeps only a dining-room or
kitchen, her crown is only a lace cap, and
her sceptre a dust-brush ; but when some
cherished scheme is thwarted by her mis-
tress, Cleopatra, Agrippina, or Elizabeth
never felt more imperially mad. When
those persons wore driven into tempers, one
of them ordered a slave to be whipped,
another poured a drop of irritant poison into
her victim’s cup, and the third swore at and
slapped her minister in the face. Bridget,
with the same emotions surging within her'
stretches out a stout red arm and sweeps the
sideboard clean.
* ' * *
Substantially things are thus all the world
over. Mrs. Todd, however, cries with a
special vigour. She shapes for reform. She
\\ ill make the spheres of mistress and maid
at last concentric. In Australia, if she suc-
ceeds, the mistress will be not only absolute
monarch, but will hold unquestioned sway
over the entire kingdom of her home. Her
maid—even her maid—will bow clown. Mrs.
Todd, with genuine Primrosy
asks England to help her. If England helps,
it is assumed that all will go well. Aus-
tralian mistresses will send their orders to
London, in answer girls of the required
age and size and complexion and weight will
be despatched, as other softgoods are now
despatched, by agents, and the calamitous
colonial girl will get the run. That looks
simple, but we think that Mrs. Todd will
have to take the scheme back. It doesn’t
touch the philosophy of the subject or re-
cognise that English mistresses are also in
travail with the servant difficulty. Not so
long ago a number of English mistresses in
a fit of desperation or of folly as painfully
evident as Mrs. Todd’s, proposed to import
monkeys and have them instructed to do the
work of abigail. The proposal fell through,
but it should show Mrs. Todd that dear old
England is as badly off in respect to “ those
household spies whom we call servants ”
as her own Australia. If, however, a number
of girls came out under Mrs. Todd’s scheme,
what would be their condition ? Would their
contract of service be signed in England or
held for signature here ? If signed in England
there is little doubt that Parliament would
declare such contracts null. We are combi"-
to that point in legislation, and any
such step as importing servants under con-
tract would precipitate the question. If the
gills came here unbound a sufficient number
of them would shirk the obligation of paying-
back their passage-money to make it a dear
experiment for the mistresses. Only one
danger is to be apprehended from the
scheme. Out of it may come a resolve
in England to ship off large numbers of
domestic servants, leaving them to fight
their way on arrival. If the numbers were
really large the local market value of
servants would be reduced. Domestic
servants at present here would consequently
suffer. Unless it could be shown that Aus-
tralia would gain by the influx, resistance to
it should be made. It is to the best interests
of the country that high rates of wages
should be maintained over the whole field of
labour, and anything like an organised
attempt by parties outside the boundaries of
the country to cut down the value of labour
in any of its departments should be resisted
with the combined power of all. It is those
menaced who should lead the resistance.
However, to go clearly into this would be to
seriously pursue a portion of a scheme the
whole of which is best valued by lookbi"- at
it in half-earnest.
A Lesson Prom the Leper.
It is a well known and accepted practice of
■Evangelical Christianity for a minister, when un-
prepared with his discourse proper for Sunday, to
launch forth against the poor old Pope. The
seven horns of the Beast and the seven hills of
Koine the Scarlet Woman and the purple-
vestured cardinals—the triple crown and the three
blue devils of Sheol, are all refurbished and duly
spread before a gaping auditory. Ministers are
but men, and if their garments of woe be re-
moved and replaced by an ordinary tweed suit, if
ttiey cast aside the long-drawn visage and upturn-
! n ? es > a i ll d put on a stolid look of mediocrity
brightened up with a dream of intelligence when a
drink is suggested, then you have displayed the
average politician. His shibboleth, however, is
the Chinese, not the Pope. Whenever he lacks the
material for a speech, the member of Parliament
lias always the Chinaman to “go for ” Well
perhaps we ourselves have sinned a little on this
score, though it must be said the temptation was
very great, bo far as New South Wales is con-
cernect the Chinese question is now settled. That
province has only about 14,000 of them altogether
!!i.' nor t are ru, w , hile e ve ry Chinaman who
make, his little pile clears out of the country.
.During thepast six months it would seem that
about 050 Chinese have emigrated from the mother
cdony to the Flower Land, and 150 to the nether
'v or ' r *- Seven hundred Mongols in six months mean
fourteen hundred a year, so that starting with
fourteen thousand, not much calculation is re-
quired to see the end. In a few years Chinamen
will be as scarce in N.S. Wales as Laplanders, and
some day it will come to pass that an enterprising’
entrepreneur may find it profitable to pay the
£lOO poll-tax and exhibit a Chinaman, so that
young Australia may then know how looks the
race which once was an object of so much aver-
smn. W e therefore have no desire to raise any
further the mound of odium under which the
Chinese are buried. The matter we propose dis-
cussing is one of principle, of which the Chinese
question is but an incident,
* *
If asked his objection to the race, the average
Cabinet Minister, as well as the average spouter
would answer : he is so dreadfully immoral and so
cinty ; he belongs to an alien race; he is a leper •
we could not marry him to our daughter ; besides
this, he eats nothing but rice and fat bacon. With-
out doubt-the Chinese do very objectionable
things, though no crime has yet been committed
by one of the race which cannot be paralleled by
the performance of a European. Nor are the
Mongols the only filthy humans in Australia. As
to not marrying him to our daughters, it is just as
hkely we would take for a son-in-law, a filthy
Englishman, or a filthy Irishman, or Scotchman
or American. A good'many objections to the
heathens are sentimental and fanciful, and would
not be of sufficient weight to warrant the country’s
actum in hounding them out. The real objection
to the Chinese is strong enough to warrant almost
any course being taken in their regard, but it is an
objection which applies with almost as great force
to other people under whose whiter skin are nur-
tured all the traits which make the Chinese an
enemy to our civilisation.
* * ■*
We object to the Chinese not because they are
nnnituie-rnakers and market-gardeners, but be-
cause they are producers and not consumers—
because they make money and do not spend it.
We could ]>ut up with a tremendous lot of
heathenism, if they would only spend the money
t iu'y earn and live up to our standard. '1 his is
exaotily what they will not do, and is the re ao r
why they must go. Australia is instinrfP T
antagonistic to the yellow race, and this inSft
is just and salutary. In dreading thfcht "
our people are swayed by the universal prinS
i &e i f ' P a S f Vatlo \ aiKl 011 this they &
acted. But now the matter has been defin imi
settled, comes the day of the just y
Underlying much that is absurd, cruel anH^ I ''
real, he will discover the most solid and rational
grounds for the popular objections to the Cwl
race.. He will also find that the same industrial
blemish that makes the Cliinese unfit for 1, 1
trahan colonisation is found in others and it i '
short-sighted policy which considers the questhm
as one of race and not of industrial eptitude
# * *
It is a marked peculiarity of industrial life tint
Asiatics and some Europeans can accumulate
money here while earning wages on whichT
Australian would starve. We know the Oh\ n
<Io ». Out of the miserable * hiS, They
earn, every rag-gatherer, fowl-stealer, and coif
bage-gardener saves something, and evpnfnnii
turns his face towards China, there to spend whS
lie has industrially filched from the barbarian
Ihere are, however, more Chinese than come from
China—at least, Chinese by habit. During Z
past few years the Italian hawker has found out
Australia. He produces nothing, lie consume
nothing, except perhaps the Pickwickian banana
skins which Young Australia rejects. The rSI
fuiit-trade of Sydney is fast being monopolised bv
Italians who have no intention of making Am
tralia their home. They live as filthily and as
closely as do the Chinese, hoping in a few years to
sav e sufficient to enable them to return to Greece or
Italy, thereto comfort themselves like princes Tim
evil, of course, is now only in its infancy, but it is
one which may yet grow to alarming dimensions
Witness the example of Now York. In that great
city are to be found many thousands of Italians
Greeks Poles, Hungarians, and other aliens’
herded together in the most unsavoury quarters’
race with race. These have transplanted to the
Z™ 1 °y L l ,l hal, the social and economic diseases
that fester in the crowded cities of Europe. For
years America received them with open arms now
she resents their coming, not that there is not
room for further immigration, but because popula-
tion of this class is not acceptable. To their
bitter sorrow the American wage-earners have
found they are being deposed from the factory
the warehouse and the mine to make room for the
European. No American can work side by side
with the foreigner, as he cannot live on the same
wages. Hence whole districts and entire indus-
tries are monopolised by imported labourers who
have little more than the colour of their skins to
recommend them in preference to the Chinese.
* * *
To Italians and most other Europeans Aus-
tralia is still a far-off country, and now they are
being shot out of the United States, they have
turned their faces to the Argentine. To earn the
passage money to South America is the labour of
several years, and to come here is even more ex-
pensive. But times are fast changing and once
here, what a paradise ! In Europe the wage of
the class who emigrate would be fifteen pence per
day, and the cost of living something less. Here
the wages would be from six to eight shillings,
and the cost of their living a little higher than in
Europe. Ihe enormous margin enables the thrifty
Italian in a few years to save one hundred to one
hundred and fifty pounds which, in the coin of his
country, represents about 3800 lire and is a really
handsome fortune.
* ■* #
Hitherto all parts of Australia have been colo-
nised by Australian-born or people of British race
whose instincts are similar to the Australian. The
danger from the presence of a large element of
lon -class foreigners has not yet arisen, except in
the case of the Chinese, and with them Australia
has dealt in no uncertain fashion. Wise com-
munities do not await till danger conics- they
take care that it does not overtake them. The
evil of past supineness is now being felt in the
Eastern States of America, and the refusal to
receive any further shiploads of European paupers
has been the result. It is from America we should
learn a lesson. From many of the old settled
.mates comes the cry against the foreigner, who
thrusts the American out of the factories and
lowers his wage. Yet, strange to say, the majority
of those who own their own homes and have bank
deposits are foreigners. But, then, what homes !
Ihe houses are of the meanest and the appoint-
ments of the lowest type. Poor accommodation,
rude furniture and defective sanitation are the
ordinary features which mark the homes of the
working-man who proudly boasts himself his own
landlord. Nor need we go to America to see
examples of this truth. The wretched dwellings
erected in the deserted excavations of the brick-
hekls of Ashfield, in the swampy lowlands of
iVlarrickviJle, overlooking the open sewers and
permeated by their foul gases in all parts of the
city, or on the sandhills of Waterloo, are most
frequently the property of the occupants.
* # #
It may be laid down as an axiom that the home
ot the labourer who pays rent is greatly superior
in all things pertaining to comfort to that of the
one who is proprietor of his own dwelling,
the craving to own his home is, with the
artisan, in most cases a vice and not a virtue,
lo obtain the poor shanty lie longs for, wife
and children are pinched and their lives
shortened, the meanest comforts are denied them.
Irom a monetary point of view the saving
made at the expense of common comfort is a bad
investment. The truth is there is no margin
after the family wants are satisfied, for the best
class of labourers anywhere. There is no margin
for the better class of Americans in America
none for the German in Germany, nor for the
Italian in his own land. Here there is a margin
tor all, except, perhaps, the American, to save,
and, where there is margin to save, there is a
margin to face off when times are bad. . This the
employer will not fail to take advantage of when
the opportunity conies. There is no more wretched
mistake in economics than to suppose that saving
produces wealth. It is by consuming, not by
saving, that wealth is created. If everybody saved
who would consume and if nobody consumed who
would save ? Production and consumption are
concomitants. The man who produces wealth
and consumes very little—that is, who saves in-
ordinately is not to be held up as a model for
imitation, he is simply a danger to the community
even as the Chinese are. The less he consumes
and the greater his sayings, the more nearly does
he approach the Asiatic, whom our instinct "tell us
is a danger to the race.
* * *
i hesc are not the precepts of every-day philoso-
phj . If we were to listen to its behests, we should
see in the workman, who, after providing for tho
emergency of sickness and the loss of time, what
all labourers expect, spends the balance of his
earnings in making his family comfortable, an
erring spendthrift ; while in the man who, after
the toil of the day, spends a largo, portion of the
night erecting the house which his soul covets,


his Avife, perhaps, handing up the bricks and
mortar, avc should see the thrifty and model
worker. As a matter of ordinary arithmetic, it
may be proved that the former has all the best of
the deal. His life is longer and healthier than
the others, whilst his family life is infinitely more
comfortable. It is for the very vice of inordinate
saving that avc condemn the Chinese, though he
has the further vice of taking his savings out of the
country. We do not condemn saving per sc as
had, but we certainly think that for most persons
the game, apart from life-assurance, is hardly
worth the candle.
#’ # #
The class of men who earn three pounds a week
and keep their family on thirty shillings are estab-
lishing the possibility of wages dropping steadily
downwards towards the limit upon Avhich they
can live, to the detriment of the wage-earners Avho
require the larger sum to support their families,
ft is because the continental European labourers
are of this class, and can live in their oavh wretched
style on wages that are far too small for the Aus-
tralian that Ave object to him. He has proved a
source of grave peril to the Avorker in America,
and may yet prove as dangerous to our own people.
We have no sympathy Avith the hatred of foreign-
ers, as foreigners, which is so very English. Any
European—Greek, Frank, or Dane—Avho comes
here is welcome, provided he adapts himself to our
life. If, however, he designs to undersell our oavh
workman in the labour market, lie is not welcome.
His coming is a menace to our race. We have
taken our measures against the Chinese, not be-
cause of their yellow skin, but because of their un-
Australian habits, and we are not likely to tolerate
the same objectionable traits in others though their
skin be Avhite.
HENRY SIEBEL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Broker’s “Rights and Privileges.”
The Melbourne Stock Exchange received a “nasty
jar ” last week when J. B. Patterson sold a batch
of the late J. B. Watson’s investment stocks by
public auction. Immediately upon the announce-
ment of this coming sale, the sharebrokers passed
a solemn resolution to the effect that it was an
infringement of their rights and privileges—-in
short, a wicked scheme for robbing the hungry
vulture of his “pickings.” Then a deputation
Availed upon the offending auctioneer (or sent him
a memorial) explaining that stockbrokers, like
custom-house agents, must be allowed to bleed the
public for doing something which the public, would
gladly do for themselves if they had facilities put
in their Avay. Half-a-dozen reasons, each of them
hollow as a drum, were advanced to show that
selling shares by auction must be injurious to
the community at large, especially to that
non-producing and someAvhat noisy section known
as brokers. Mr. J. B. Patterson so far
recognised die vested “rights”, of the Stock
Exchange that he offered to give members ± per
cent, of his oavtx commission on any purchases they
might make. This concession was not considered
to be sufficiently liberal, so the leading brokers,
the big “bulls” and “bears,” decided to visit
their Avrath upon Patterson and the colony of
Victoria by not attending the sale. When the
blessed tidings of this intended “boycott” Avas
imparted to its prospective victims, a general
manifestation of great joy ensued. People saw an
opportunity for buying shares at the price for
Avhich they Avere to be parted with by the actual
holder, while the heirs and assignees of J. B.
Watson chuckled at the thought of obtaining the
prices paid by the actual buyer, less only certain
legitimate business expenses. The absence of
“leading brokers” Avas borne Avith patient re-
signation, and the total return from this auction
sale Avas about £5OOO more than could have
been obtained at current market rates. As
buyers Avere not throAving aAvay their money
just to spite the brokers, it may be fairly assumed
that the said £5OOO Avould, in the ordinary course
of things, haA c fallen to the boycotters, who as a
rule (avo have yet to hear of the brilliant exceptions)
religiously return their selling and buying clients
the highest and lowest rates respectively, snavelling
the diff. for their own blood-sucking selves. Pre-
sumably £5OOO more than met the auctioneer’s
charges, therefore both sides saved a commission,
and only the Stock Exchange, that pious body in
the gospel according to Stockbroker Palmer,
of Sydney, Avas left lamenting. .The upshot
of this strange miscarriage of justice Avill be
more sales of stocks and shares by auction
and more sorroAV for the poor old middlemen.
Perhaps in time some-level-headed Christian will
induce the richer public to float an Unprofessional
Stock Exchange Co. and build a big ball, open to
the world at threepence a visit or twelve tickets
for half-a-ci’OAvn. There buyers and sellers Avill
meet face to face, and not through a broker darkly
—very darkly. When that good time arrives the
professional stock-brokers, who number among
themselves too many shameless jobbers, Avill be
reduced to the necessity of doing something’ use-
ful to earn an honest crust.
+
Duncan G i llies has a thoroughly imperial method
of choking discussions on the “ free railway pass ”
swindle, in the Victorian Assembly, Some
months back a Mr. Kirton, one of the members
for Ballarat,, moved that military officers, secre-
taries of favoured racing-clubs, “ distinguished
visitors,” the Governor’s flunkies, and such like,
should no longer be allowed to travel around the
country at the country’s expense. It Avas by no
means a revolutionaiy suggestion, seeing that
even in the dear old mother country these very
people, who here SAvaggei 1 into first-class carriages
“on the nevei’,” have to pay their way. Mr,
Kirton, however, Avas laughed down, and his re-
solution, if avc remember rightly, lapsed for want
of a seconder. Last week he returned to the
attack by moving “for a return showing the num-
ber of railway free passes issued to persons other
than railway employes during the 12 months, end-
ing Ist July, 1889; also the names of the persons
Avhoreceived them.” Mr. Kirton‘s constituents are
actually shareholders in the Victorian Government
Railway Company. On their behalf he was as
much entitled to ask and be answered this plain,
straightforward question, as though he had been re-
presenting their interests in any private English
company conducting a railway service for the
shareholders’ profit. In the latter case the Chair-
man would be compelled to furnish his questioner
with some particulars. He might sneer, equivo-
cate, or lie, but he would certainly have to attempt
a justification of Avhatever had been done under
his nominal management. Mr. Duncan Gillies
doesn’t admit his responsibility to the half-million
or so of taxpayers Avho oavh the railways which he
is paid to control. So he shut up shareholder
Kirton by saying “ the best way to get rid of
this discussion is for me — for me, Duncan—to
move that the House do now adjourn.” The
House did not adjourn. Consequently, the names
df these illustrious deadheads Avill never be
divulged, and if poor Kirton isn't careful Gillies
will move that he is “ an insult ” (like the mention
of Home Rule) and request the Speaker to sling
him out.
+.
Says the Melbourne Evening Standard (in a
leading article): —
It is perfectly clear that mere imprisonment, indeed our
whole system of dealing with confirmed crime, is more
trifling; and until the oat is freely applied iu every case
of violent or daring defiance of the law, things will go
from bad to worse. To wilful and habitual criminals there
should be no mercy whatever shown. They should be
flayed with the oat-o’-nine-tails whenever they are caught
and they should be kept in chain-gangs till they had
worked out their cost of keep and restitution for wrongs
inflicted on individuals and society, living the while under
the shadow of the triangles.
Hie cat and triangles are all very well so far as
they go. But what about the rack, the thumb-
screw and thq scavenger’s daughter ? And why,
after all these have failed, should not the hardened
convict be kept in solitary confinement and have
the Standard’s leading articles ground out to
him in a strong Scotch accent ?
■— ♦
Says a cablegram :
The children attending some of the Scotch board schools
have struck.” They assert that they will not return to
school until their grievances have been removed. They
object to the enforcement of the payment of school fees,
the piactioe of home lessons, to flog-ging, and they have
paraded the streets of Glasgow and Aberdeen.
When children revolt against a social condition,
that surely is doomed. They have right on their
side, too; education is free in some enlightened
countries and should be free in all; flogging- is a
punishment which can be done without—and
“ home lessons,” in the opinion of most people
who are qualified to judge, are productive of very
much more harm than good. The Scotch children
evidently know a lot more than the dull people
who think they are teaching them,
♦
A MOVEMENT of incalculable importance has begun
m America with a conference held last month at
Washington of representatives from the United
States, Mexico, Central America, and the South
American Republics, on the subject of federating
the whole continent. Of course, quasi-British
Canada and Imperial Brazil stand out, but what
are they among so many ? They will be absorbed.
Surely Australia will gather up its skirts and not
be beaten in the race of federation by unwieldy
America! After the miraculous federations of
Italy and Germany, nought could be judged impos-
sible. The possession of Alaska by the United States
is an upper jaw to squeeze in Canada. There
are three parties in Canada ; 1. For an Indepen-
dent Republic. 2. Federation with United
States. _ 3. For Imperial Federation. The out-
come will be a compromise between the two first
parties and the squelching of the third. Narrow
protective ideas in the States stand for the pre-
sent in the way. Such lines must never stop the
unification of a continent. We don’t forget G lad-
stone’s statement that by this time next century
the United States will have 500,000,000 popula-
tion. The dominions of the European tyrants
will still be grovelling—no, Despotism will be
wiped out. The wheels fly round.
Rev. Orlando Knee, a Melbourne light of
Goshen, has just returned from England. He
used to dilate on the fondness of Young Aus-
tralians for pleasure, but he isn’t going to do it
any more, because his travels have convinced him
that the Australians are far more innocent in
their pleasures than the Londoners or English
generally, not to speak of the Parisians or Ber-
linese. Como, Mr. Knee, that’s honest. What a lot
of cant is talked about the working classes, the
lower classes, the masses being so addicted to
pleasure ! Of course, the upper classes alone have
a right to any, and, as for the clergy, they are
always gadding about pleasure-taking."' You will
never see a first-class steamboat saloon without
Rev. Mr, This and Rev. Mr, That, sometimes
with their families, more times without.
Says Brewer Toohey, M.P.; —
Accepting the contention of the “Knights of Labour”
that “labour produces capital, and produces all thimrs,”
yet he at the same time asserted that capital was a pro-
ducing power in the fact of the credit which it created
and maintained, and thereby increased its own value.
Still he did not agree with (ho contention of that body
that “labour creates all wealth,” that all wealth belongs to
those who create it, and therefore all wealth rightly belongs
to labour. (Hear, hear, and a voice: “ That’s all right."”)
Well, ho gave this reply to it: If all capital belongs to
labour they could hand all capital over to labour." The
labourer could then become the capitalist, and the new
labourer would make the same claim again.
This is pretty liberal for a capitalist, but Mr.
Toohey evidently does not understand that there
is no war between Labour and Capital, nor yet
between capitalists and labourers, but that the
cause of discord lies in the conditions which create
wealthy capitalists and down-trodden, starved-out
wages-slaves. Alter the conditions and the capi-
talist ceases to exist, nor can all the alchemy in
the crucible of commercialism revive him when the
environments necessary for his existence cease to
have place in the world’s economy. Spontaneous
generation could only be possible when matter was
unemployed; now that the various gases are all
in combination, spontaneous generation is ad-
mittedly impossible. So with capital. Wipe out
monopoly, throw open all the sources of wealth to
everyone, and capital will be so widely dissemi-
nated that even should someone acquire more than
his fellows, it will be perfectly useless to him as a
means of enslaving others,
The Abbe _ Faure, chaplain of the Roquette
prison, in his report on six years labour as a prison
chaplain, informs the Minister of the Interior
that he believes the penalty of death to be neces-
sary. But, then, no gaolers and hardly any gaol-
clergymen have ever done anything to minimise
their own importance. Meantime, says the Pall
Mall Gazette
In connection with the abolition of capital punishment
a movement which has received so much force from the
Mayurick case—the experience of Switzerland, the politi-
cal laboratory of Europe, is instructive. By the Constitu-
tion of 1874 capital punishment was abolished throughout
the Confederation. For five years the abolition remained
absolutely in force, and we have not heard that any
epidemic of murder was the result. In 1879, on the ground
rather of cantonal rights than of the indispensability of the
scaffold, the Constitution was revised, and except for poli-
tical offences, capital punishment in the cantons became
optional. Since then eight cantons, it seems, have re-
established the Death Penalty in their codes ; but they
have done so, say Sir F. O. Adams and Mr. Cunningham,
in name only, for no execution has taken place in any of
these Slates since 1879. Some few years ago a man who
had brutally murdered his daughter in Lucerne was sen-
tenced to death, but the Grand Council of the canton
commuted the sentence to imprisonment for life. A
criminal, said the president of the Council, was dead to
society, and should he left to divine justice and allowed
time to repent. Similarly in Zurich there have been
attempts during recent years to revive the death
penalty, but since 1885 it has been abolished by the
popular vote. The authors whom we have quoted above
go on to discuss why capital punishment has thus become
an impossibility in Switzerland. According to some the
change is to be attributed simply to a lack of physical
courage, to a physical dread of the horror of the scaffold,
But, according to others, the scaffold has been abolished
i n obedience to enlightened reasons of public policy.
Society can protect itself, they say, without so barbarous
and demoralising a punishment. In the interests of jus-
tice nothing can he worse than the possibility of the
supreme injustice of executing innocent persons—a possi-
bility against which no legal precautions can ever give an
absolute guarantee. Moreover, the value of human life,
they my, must of necessity he lowered in the eyes of the
more ignorant classes if the State itself takes the lives of
Us citizens.
If Mr. Dibus fancies that the auger shown by
some of his colleagues in the New South Wales
Assembly at the proposal to appoint Mr. Barton
leader of the New South Whales Protectionists,
was pure loyalty to himself, he is a victim to one
of those misconceptions incident to his magnani-
mous nature. For it would be impossible to wrest
the leadership from the popular M.L.C., but it
would be comparatively easy to dethrone Mr.
Dibbs. And if the latter move were effected a
new leader would be wanted, and who more likely
to obtain the office than some non prominent
member of the Opposition ? It was that con-
sideration which helped to make the suggested
change in leadership a hateful thing to some
very zealous champions of the claims of Mr.
Dibbs. And without depreciating those claims
it is well to see what counter-claims can be
urged by the party. Mr. Dibbs has fought
hard in Parliament undoubtedly, but bis very
presence at the head of the Protectionists has
been a source of strength to the Freetraders. It is
a moral certainty that if he had taken a subor-
dinate place before last election the Protectionists
would have carried a solid majority. His ‘claim’
to leadership can only consist in his ability to ad-
vance the party more effectually than anyone else
could do. But notoriously he has been a heavy
passenger ever since he seceded from Freetrade. It
is true that he has lived down a large part of the
prejudice against him, and has now achieved some
popularity, but it is beyond question that his re-
tirement to a back seat would positively strengthen
the party. The only weighty argument in favour
of maintaining him in place is that, even under his
leadership, the Protectionists can get ahead at
next election. They are safe now, it may be said,
and a change would be risky. But all the same,
if Mr. Barton were in the Assembly the risk
would be well worth taking. For the leadership of
the latter would add 30,000 votes to the strength
the Protectionists can now secure.
Overheard, at an open-air Freethinkers’ lec-
lecture : “ There are no women in heaven, you
know. What does the Bible say ?” —giving the
sacred volume a vigorous smack —“ What does
the Bible say? There was silence in Heaven for
the space of one hour J”
Captain Crawford, late British chief
magistrate in the Lubymah district on the Cold
Coast, has recently been sentenced to 12 months’
imprisonment for flogging a nigger to death. The
unfortunate native had committed a theft, and
the gallant captain handed the criminal over to
seven policemen, with instructions to lay on so many
lashes that the ungrateful recipient of the white
man’s repressing influence died under the sen-
tence. The Anglo-Saxons are the greatest
colonising power in the world. When they ax-rive
in a new country “first they fall on their knees
and then they fall upon the aborigi-nes. ”
The Neokratine Works at Oyster Bay
were opened on the 2nd inst. by a banquet at
whose conclusion the .pressmen, experts, and busi-
ness people assembled were shown over the works
by Mr. De Lambert, the inventor and manager.
From what was demonstrated by experiments it
was made apparent that neokratine is a very
powerful explosive, whose safety, cheapness, and
freedom from noxious fumes are certain to recom-
mend it to miners, contractors, quarryraen, and
dynamitards.
Sub-inspector Cameron, of Dubbo, is not
the only man who has been shot by mistake for a
bushranger. On 6th August, 1876, Father Healey,
a R,C. priest, was shot at Deepwater, on the Mur-
rumbidgee, by Sergeant Foley and Trooper Towns-
end in mistake for a highwayman. The priest had
arrived at the hotel and retired to bed, when the
police, thinking him a bushranger in disguise,
demanded admission. This the priest (believing
the house to be stuck up) declined to do. The
police thereupon fired through the door axxd shot
the unfortunate clergyman dead. The constables
were tried at Yass Assizes and acquitted. Foley
left the fox-ce and opened a pub. at Narandera,
where he died a few months ago.
When George Moore was associate to Sir
Redmond Bax-ry they were one day on their way
to attend the coin-ts in Gippsland—the mode of
travelling being a buggy with relays of horses
from Cobb and Co. At one of the changes they
encountered a very surly groom, who grumbled
px-etty considerably at having to get horses for
them. With the hope of conciliating and hasten-
ing the man, the judge assisted him to unharness
the horses they had driven there, and carefully
let one go with his collar on, whereat the groom
abused the judge in such a x-eal good bullocky
style that Moore interfered to stop him, with the
result that they were soon having a “ set-to ” of
which Moore had a bit the best, and having pretty
well finished him off, advised him to hurry up and
get the horses in. When he and the judge were
once more on their way, the judge remained silent
for some time, whilst Moore patiently waited a
reprimand. The silence was broken by the judge
saying, “Well, I cannot very well countenance
fighting, especially while I am in the position of
jxidge. But if ever there was a blackguard in this
world who deserved a thrashing it was that man.
I just went round the corner, you know; but 1
could see you, and had you wanted any assistance
I felt that I would have had to-give it.”
Here is a story about E. T. Smith, father
of the well-known L. L. Smith :
“ Mr. Edward Tyrrel Smith, with whom 1 had business
relations for some three or torn- years, was,” writes Mr.
Mapleson in his “ Memoirs,” “ an extraordinary personage
whose like could be met with only iti our own time and in
such capitals as Loudon or Paris, where the population in
general has certainly not the faintest idea how some small
part of that population lives. Mr. E. T. Smith had made
up his mind early in life to be the possessor, or at least the
handler, of considerable sums of money; and he at one
time found it worth his while, so as never to he without
funds, to hire daily, at the rate of one pound a day, n
thousand-pound note, which was obligingly intrusted
to him by a money-lender of tire period, one
Sam Genese. There are not many persons to whom
such a loan would be worth the thirty-six-and-a-half per
cent, interest which Mr. E. T. Smith paid for it. He was
an adept, however, at all kinds of business, and his
thousand-pound note enabled him to make purchases on
credit which without deposit-money he would have been
unable to effect. Attending sales, he would buy whatever
happened to suit him, with a view to immediate re-sale,
offering his thousand-pound note as a deposit, to discover
as a matter of course that it could not be changed, and
have the article for which he had bid marked down to him
all the same. Then he would re-sell it and pocket the
difference.”
Smith, junior, knows better than to monkey with
£lOOO notes. The £1 note of the young man who
“ doesn’t feel well” is quite good enough for him.
EditorßuLLKTiN—ln making enquiries theothor
day concerning a Government contract now being carried
on upon one of the islands in Sydney harbour, 1 was in-
formed that the men engaged on it were receiving the
munificent sum of 6a. per day of nine hours—out of
which they have to pay boat-hire to and from their work.
If this is so—and I got the information from some of the
men working there—it gives a very good reason why all
classes of labour should federate, likewise it shows how
strikes are caused. The large body of men in and about
Sydney who gain a livelihood at the point of the pick
Slave long been fair game for the application of the screw
on the part of the employers, who, finding their efforts in
that direction, on the trades, frustrated by their (the
trades’) unions, ha ve applied the process, and very suc-
cessfully, on those who have no union. Ever since “eight
hours’ work, eight hours’ play, and eight shillings per
day ” has become the motto of men engaged iu ex-
cavating, the employers have systematically set about re-
ducing their daily pay, and very successfully, too, for the
victims have not rung in the shape of an organised body to
resist the pressure, ami in the present disorganised state
of this class of labour the time is within measurable dis-
tance when their pay and that of the London dock-
labourer will be on a par. Will they ever wake up?--
.Navvy,
You are hereby invited to extend your
regrets and some Christian sympathy towards
•John Stephen Perch al Waller, a fat man and a
tiller of the soil, who is now seated on a dog-leg
fence over against Hamilton (Vic.), ruminating
bitterly, and shedding tears of repentance into his
clothes, and scrambling for-relief in profanity, but
finding it not. .1. S. P. Waller was originally the
husband of a big. bony female, with red-com-
plexioned hair and large hands and feet, but some
years ago this lady was decoyed away from her
connubial responsibilities by a subtle, up-country
dude who cursed cattle for a living, and whose
ginger side-whiskers and charms of "manner had
subjugated the great, ml person who had hitherto
boiled .John Stephen’s hash, and devilled
his hair in her moments of passion. For many
days John went alone, and mourned the tail
rubicund lady who was cuffing another as one
yanked hence in her prime, but when years
gravitated into the past he wiped her off the'slate
■of his memory, and, looking round, his discrimin-
ating eye lit upon another unattached female of
large growth, and his affections went out towards
her, and he pressed her to his shirt-front one day
and requested her, with a voice tremulous anti
low, to be “ li isn,” and the unattached female fore -
closed with him on the spot, and said she was his
mutton, using a- beautiful idiom common in the
district. Mr. Waller then hired a high-priced
clergyman and was wed over again, and no further
circumstances of importance happened for fourteen
months, when, one soft Autumn morning, as
Percival and his wife were pumping the lacteal
juices from the ripe, red cows, a great, rosy
female, with strawberry - lined hair, came
climbing over the horizon, lugging seventeen
bundles, two hat-boxes, a patent" churn, and
a pet sheep, and she crowded into the house,
and began to unload herself on those premises.
Mr. Waller and his lady wrung their kino dry,
and then returned to the homestead to find a sheep
in the front room, the place littered with foreign
belongings, and a tall, stout woman of-extensive
muscular development eating a pan-full of ham
and eggs iu the kitchen. John Stephen Percival
cast a look of passionate entreaty at the intruder,
ami then fell ill. His observations on the situa-
tion were brief but earnest and pathetic; he
simply said, ‘* H and Tommy!” and thcii backed
into the outer atmosphere and gave himself up to
bitter reflections, leaving the woman to settle any
little difference that might crop up at their own
pleasure. The brawny interloper was the initial
Mrs. Waller, and that is why John Stephen
roosts gloomily on the dog-leg fence, and why you
are solemnly requested to remember him in your
prayers. He cannot get into the house for the
first Mrs. Waller, and the second Mrs. Waller and
the pet sheep and other marital misfortunes, and
his days are full of kicks and blows and wild cries,
and his nights are streaked with enmity and
despair. The two Mrs. Wallers clashed and
clinched with a sound like a circus menagerie
being uprooted in a gale, and they fought all day
between meals, each endeavouring to assert her
supremacy and-set up her social and constitutional
rights to the name and person of J. 8, P. Waller,
Esq.; and then they changed the venue, and
formed an offensive and defensive alliance against
their devoted husband, and fell on him in a body
and harrowed a lot of ploughed land with his
mangled anatomy, and struck him over the eye
and the ear and smote him hip and thigh in
vindication of the wrongs of woman. This
alliance was soon repudiated, and, with only brief
intervals for rest and refreshments, the women
have been going on at each other with violence,
and tumult ever since, and Mr. Waller comes
in for aggravating demonstrations of spleen from
the rival claimants every time either can reach
him with a stick. The flrst Mrs. Waller asserts
her legal rights and connubial privileges by
heaving flat irons at Mr. Waller, and by taking
him up suddenly by the hair when opportunities
offer; and the second wife leads him round aim
lessly by the whiskers, and throws bricks over
him —and the district is filled with red hair, the
screams of women, and the swear-words of a
strong man in his agony. John Stephen doesn’t
know what to do, and when his wives are busy-
following each other he sits on that dog-leg fence
and thinks.
“Always Have Something to Sell.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tillers of tlio soil should adopt the motto Of “Always
Have Something to Sell.” It cannot in all cases be liter
ally put into practice, but it can be in hundreds more
than it is or ever has been. In this climate some kinds of
vegetables may be harvested every month of the year.
Then there are poultry and dairy products. As far as
possible farmers ought to have something to sell every
time business calls them to town.— Post and Kail
Gazette.
Produce of poultry or pig,
Fruits of the tree or the vine,
Marrows and pumpkins as big
As the subsequent half of a swine ;
Things in the husk or the shell,
Butter and cheese that go high—
Always have something to sell—
Little or nothing to buy.
Always have something to sell,
From the henroost, the dairy, or sty,
For the palate, the eye, or the smell:
Someone is ready to buy.
The cow, with the aid of the pump.
Will yield cent, per centum of juice ;
The cost is but small to make plump
Then he, and the duck, and the goose.
The best man is he who can cram
His fellows with gammon and lie.
Whose motto is “ don’t care a d n
As long as there’s someone to buy.”
Someone or something to sell —
Fair dealing is all in my eye—
The wise are the people who sell.
The sold are the people who buy.
F.D.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
[?]
816 Macquade-street North, Sydney, Octobero,
My Dear Moorabindj,—
An overpowering aroma of patchouli and fresh paint—a
meltingly hot afternoon —a lot of more or less fashionable
or dowdy women talking Art with painful assiduity, and a
collection of pictures, pleasing on the w hole, were the
principal features of the private view of the N.S.W. Art
Society’s October Exhibition at their rooms, on Ith inst.
Some of the dresses were rather startling. They may
have been artistic and intended to make regulation-draped
W'omen feel mundane and ordinary, but the general
effect was unnerving. Fancy, for example, dark
blue, geometrically designed in vivid yellow, with
terracotta bonnet and a yellow silk front! There W'ere
but few' very great people present. Kowalski did the pic-
tures most conscientiously with a striped vest on ; “ Marc
Antony ” was elegant in a white tie and a pink geranium,
and brought Mrs. Rignold and Miss Bishop, both in black
merv., Miss Bishop, who is looking fagged out,
wearing a black lace hat with pink roses on it, while Mrs.
G.R. sported a Hamlet-ish top-knot smothered in black
plumes. And, apropos of the real show—the pictures—
there is one large realistic canvas that ought to ensure a
very large dividend while there is a blear-eyed bald man
left to find his way in. It is painted by a lady, of course.
After spending a contemplative evening at “ Julius
Ciesar,” on University night (3rd inst.), I concluded that
the wit of the country isn’t monopolised by the Sydney
undergrads. The alleged fun consisted of the traditional
effigy in gow'n and mortar-board danced on a string across
the house, a few lame “ cartoons,” and the Soldiers
Chorus, after hearing which I made another mental note
that part-singing isn’t our undergrads’ strong failing either.
The d.c. was mostly filled with ’Varsity dons, and sw'eet girj
graduates in white frocks and black gowns, and a wicked
undergrad, in the family-circle had come out in a w'hite
frock under his gowm ; he carried a black fan and a broken
umbrella and occasionally reclined in the bosom of another
undergraduate in the cosiest and most approved feminine
fashion.
Almost as numerous as the stars above was the gorgeous
assemblage that swooped into Sydney Exhibition Building
on 2nd inst. to hear Santley in his great role of “ Elijah”—
the prophet of old who relied principally on ravens to
prevent his having to tighten his belt at meal-times.
Santley is very melodious as the hungry myth, and it
did seem odd, after exceptionally fine vocal frills, to see
the vast audience sit fashionably dumb because of the
unwritten law decreeing that oratorio is too sublime to be
vulgarly encored as if it had tights in it or anything else
that “fetches ’em,” as the bad little boys say. The
audience was simply dense. Lord Oarington came with
the old, familiar “ suite,” but as I wasn’t planted next the
V.R, enclosure I could only grasp that “ he ” had his hair
parted in the middle. It was simply impossible to com-
prehend the frocking. Cream and w'hite tints appeared
to predominate, and one weird apparition, with tortured
gold-washed locks, had a very clinging Empire gown of
pale-blue silk.
Speaking of Empire gow’ns reminds me of a recently
uttered warning that I think everyone should pass on to
her neighbour. At an hotel recently a young lady—quite
correct in every way, and chaperoned by a pince-nez
mamma, attended the table d’hote in an exquisite Empire
gown of some thin white stuff. She was pleasant to look
at ... so I saw her w'hen she started out. I did in-
deed. She happened to get between me and the light,
and it w'as made clear to me that she well, that she
was a biped.
A recent Sydney marriage advt. ran: “ William Smith
to Evelyn (n6e Effie),” &c. Now, most people have to fee
a parson to have their olive-branches properly ticketed.
In the blazing face of approaching Summer, Sappho
heartily rejoices to see that, through an imported lady
visitor once taking a canter in a straw hat, Sydney eques-
triennes have been fascinated, not by the sensibleness of
the adoption, but because it’s “so English,” and now
almost invariably come out in white, low-orowncd yacli •
ing-hats simply trimmed with a band of ribbon. The (let
us hope, and since the straw-hat fashion comes with the
London stamp on it, why not ?) obsolete wear of narrow,
brimmed silk hats or heavy hard-hitters in an Australian
sun was simply absurd, for those not masked in veils
returned with faces like ripe prickly-pears—to say nothing
about incipient sunstroke. You don’t need a veil with a
yachting-hat. And when, I wonder, will Baron Carington
walk down the street in straw-hat and flannels, with a
view to abolishing black “ tiles ” in Summer, even as
Prince Alfred— l was young in his day—abolished kid
gloves at one fell swoop by appearing in Melbourne
publicly with bare brown hands ?
So Mrs. Brown Cleopatra Potter is to visit Australia
with that nioe young man, Kyrle Bellew, in her pocket.
Mrs. B. P. and her wonderful anatomical dissolving views
wouldn’t be such a shocking introduction to one’s coterie,
everything considered—but what about Kyrle ? A friend
ol mine remembers him well in Melbourne when he was a
newspaper-reporter on the staff of the Melbourne Evening
Herald, ever bo many years ago; he was not then grey-
haired, but had, as now, atrociously bandy legs. He
used to write the police-court reports in doggerel of which
this is a sample: “ Mr. Brown and Mrs. Brown don’t get
on well together, the other night poor Brown got ‘tight,’
and she commenced to leather. Fined five shillings or 24
hours.” 1 don’t, think much of Kyrle Bellew as a poet.
By the way, Sydney’s “leading” daily gladsomely states
thfct Mrs. Potter is “ gifted with a charming personality
which is peculiarly her own.” I suppose lam mistaken,
but I really thought since she staged “ Cleopatra ” and
worked a corner in asps, her “ charming personality •
was everybody else’s, too.
A Sydney woman is negotiating to bring out a ship#
load of English helps Bat where’s the uss I It dosmPt
need a prophet to see the indigenous Mary Ann hanging
by her elbows over the back-fence initiating next door’s
imported domestic into how many trumps she holds.
Let the three R’s only be taught in the Public Schools.
“ Accomplishments” at a penny per week are responsible
for our empty registry-offices. They are also at least partly
responsible for the unkempt condition of the residences
of many shabby-genteel people who, while too poor to
afford the luxury of a servant at 16s. a week, are too
ignorant and dreamful to make home comfortable with
their own hands.
The re furnishing of Melbourne Government House has
been conducted on such a breathless scale that it is pro-
posed to make the place a free show for a few days to
anybody who owns a visiting-card to hand over at the
door. The ballroom is said to he the most dazzling spec-
tacle and is a whirl of soulful tints with a frieze painted in
imitation of old china, while the draperies are done in
peacock-blue silk plush, of which 3300 yards have been
used in that one room alone.
I wonder if Mr. Adelaide Anderson thinks marriage a
frost ? In the first blush of love he made large settlements
on his giddy Popsie, which she now retains, thou gh no longer
his wife ; while all he gets out of that expensive little trip
to the altar is a newspaper notoriety, a long lawyer’s bill
(he has to pay for both sides !) and a decree nisi.
The somewhat theatrical departure of the homeward-
bound H.M.S. Calliope on 2nd inst. of course drew quite a
crowd of women, who clustered round the sea-wall of the
gardens with their handkerchiefs tied to their parasol-tops
to save the exertion of waving. A V.R. aroma was lent to
the trying moment by Lord Caringtou and several dis-
tinguished people standing on the gubernatorial lawn and
waving vigorous adieus with their boxers. The air was
literally darkened with brass bands and bunting, and the
Calliope steamed half-way down the harbour between two
lines of be-flagged wherries, which contributed greatly to
the etc., etc.
The gifted members of the Southern Amateur Theatrical
Society broke out into vindictive drama at the Academy
of Music on 30th ult., when “Blow' for Blow” was given
with reasonable results by a throng of people who had
dressed their parts nlost carefully. The audience was
large and gorgeous, and one girl in cream with black
bows had a corsage that created an immense sensation.
Sydney is to have its baby-show, for which Mr. John
Solomon has engaged the Crystal Elite Rink, York-
street; the affair will commence on 19th inst., and wil
run for a week if whooping-cough doesn’t set in.
There will be a prize for twins and triplets, and the pleased
mamma of the heaviest, baldest, flabbiest infant will need
a cordon of police to-escort her off the premises after the
prize-giving. Everything is to go on greased wheels in
fact, and the assorted bow-legged “ buds from Heaven ”
can be entered to compete gratis.
The first night of the “Pepita” revival at Sydney
Royal on the sth. attracted an uncanny d.c. with nothing
on worth recording beyond a paralyzing paste necklace
which looked like the dismantlements of a chandelier.
After thejdozens of sentimental pictures (principally in
almanacs) of a maiden being kissed by a bold youth in a
corn-field to the inscription of “ Cornin’ thro’ the Rye,” it
is quite disheartening to learn that the artists are a! to-
gether wrong. Bobbie’s girl wasn’t kissed in a rye-field
but in the small river Rye in Ayr, which was fordable. In
crossing, the girls had to hold up their petticoats, and the
local mashers used to wait till they got to midstream and
then wade out and achieve a kiss for which the lady, with
her hands full of skirts, couldn’t box his ears without get-
tingjwet.
Impelled by an enthusiastic friend, I lately visited Hor-
dern & Co.’s, George-street, opposite Sydney Markets, and
quite fell in love with their bordered robes and French
millinery. The robes were all in the latest tints, one
eucalyptus green with a shaded silk border looking
especially cool and fetching. A lovely wide-brimmed
white lace straw-hat was prettily trimmed with crimson
poppies and folds of pink crepe, and a flat bonnet was
composed of gold lace, green rep ribbon, and the prettiest
little buttercups you ever saw'. '
Nothing but bazaars ! Immediately on the arrival of
Lord Charles and Lady Scott (the “cousin of Lady
Clarke,” you remember) a sale of work is to be instituted
in one of the Sydney rinks—probably the Crystal-Elite—
in aid of the Naval Home—an institution that appears to
require a great deal of support. 1 hope the workers will
have the sense to stock their stalls with moderately useful
articles. Everybody doesn’t want to revel in w'oollen
bootees and gutta-percha cloth.
Clara, who went to the great Melbourne Baby Show, as
a matter of course, has favoured me with a very motherly
epistle on the subject. After a critical examination of
exhibits she came to the conclusion that the best all-round
lot of babies w'ere entered in Class F., for boys between
six and twelve months of age. Among these she saw
about a dozen of about equal excellence, but most of them
were horribly bald in comparison with their sisters. It
struck her that anyone of this dozen might have carried
off first prize if his mother had been smart enough to fix
her darling up in a flaxen w r ig. In the distribution of
“ pens” the management gave place aux dames, for baby
girls had the centre of the Exhibition to themselves. An
East Melbourne damsel of 10 months was “ boomed ”
from the very start, and Clara (who wrote on Friday)
surmised that the £5O champion prize was already booked.
This prodigy had enormous limbs and body, with a fairly
intelligent face, but was death-like in tint, the result of
“ over-nursing.” I suppose you know' what that means,
my dear—if not, ask your friend, Dr. . He will look
into your eyes and give full particulars. The champion in
posse seemed to he possessed of a nice-looking mother,
and this fact went a long way with male voters, no doubt.
Talking of that, I hear that a well-known pressman
limited his inspection to mothers, and rushed about
on the opening day with the very interesting
statement that he had found “the prettiest woman
In the whole Show—and you must give her your
vote, old man.” All the best Melbourne people “did”
the Babies, it seems. Lady Robinson set a good example
by going on the first day, when there was a deal of style
gathered round the “pens.” Clara thinks that several
women—who shall be nameless—were looking around for
darlings to adopt, so I expect we shall soon hear of prize-
winners being sold by auction without reserve. Mr. Solo-
mon will give Sydney a Baby Show as soon as possible.
The mothers of the “mother” colony expect him to do
his,duty, and all kinds of infants’ fattening food are being
■old out at the chemists’.
Yours affectionately.
SAPPHO SMINTH.
Mrs. Elizabeth Devaney, relict of one of
the pensioners settled by the Imperial Government
at Howick, near Auckland (N.Z.), has just been
out down at the age of 102.
During the Land Bill discussion Mr.
Fletcher called his leader a “ thick head,” and the
head of the Opposition retorted by calling him “a
liar.”
Though Fletcher has a quick head,
And often catches fire.
He might call Dibbs a “thickhead,”
Anri yet not be a “ liar.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Agent for the Above ” ; Yes, the poor abori-
gines have only one religion, monotheism, which, being
interpreted, signifleth Rum “ Navvy” : Next week
“Barrier Ranges”: Will duly appear “James Mil-
son ” : No, he can’t do anything of the kind. The Vic-
torian Court has no jurisdiction in N.S.W. in such a
matter, nor has the N.S.W. Court any in Victoria....
“Sigma”: Why a “ mushroom aristocrat?” Don’t you
think that he is a brainy man who has won his position
at the Bar on the merits of his head alone ?
“ Spring Yale ” : We can’t read your writing—we can’t
even make out your signature. Will you re-write legibly
if we return MS.? “Radical”: Many thanks....
“E.W.”: A most chaotic conundrum. What’s it al[
about?. ...“Monad”: The subject is one which, in the
present condition of public thought, cannot he openly
discussed in any general newspaper “G.R.L.”: A wil
must be witnessed by two persons who are not interested
in it. “I hereby bequeath all property, real or personal,
of which I may be possessed at the time of my death, to
my wife (naming her), and appoint her my sole executor, 5
will he sufficient; but you had far better give a respect-
able solicitor two guineas and avoid uncertainty in the
matter.... “ Sorub-poet ” : Your sentiments are admir-
able, diction atrocious. Try again “L.A.”: The
N.S.W. Assembly, in short, has voted for John Davies to
prove that Parkes is honest “ C.L.R.” : “By their
works ye shall know them.” While the A.N.A. per-
sistently go out of their way to sing “ God Save the
Queen,” and so on, and neglect to give evidence of any
national virility, The Bulletin feels justified in severely
criticising them, no matter what their supposed principles
“ C.P.S.” : Have referred your question to the Jockey
Club.... “A. Iceley ” : The death-rate in the British army
is 8 per 1000. In the German army it is only between 5
and 6 “CharleyS.”: We don’t advertise the sweep
now simply because we are not permitted by law to do so.
That is the only reason....“ Richmond ” : Thanks. Will
notice next week. ..“Incognito’’(Gympie): To hand.
One will be used. Glad to hear from you again
“Robert W.”: No offence, we assure you—“W.B.G.”:
Look at the result of the boom in Round Hill shares. Isn’t
that a pleasing illustration of the truth of the contention
raised by Mr. Joseph Palmer, the stock-broking chairman
of the New South Wales Baptist Union, and endorsed
by yourself, that share-speculation is not gambling?,...
“ E.E.E.” (Tung.): No, it’s not a divorce. The parties
are still married, and if either marries a third person it
will be bigamy “ Smith ” (Wagga): Handed to artist.
Ideas for rough sketches are always welcome...." John
Sutherland ” : Yes, they are bona-fide “ Lorelly ”
(Tas.): It doesn’t follow that because your town has a
skating-rink and a pawnbroker’s shop, every wedding-
ring should be exchanged for a round on the pine-flooring.
“Walter”: (1.) There are five Sydney aldermen in the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly. (2.) Four of them voted
for John Davies “A. C. Ackroyd ” (Melb.): If you
don’t like like Australia well enough to be buried in it you
can get your hones taken away—as the Chinamen do—
“ Reefer ”: “ Gag” too hackneyed “ Nemo ” (Hill-
ston) ; Six feet four inches by W. B. Page, America, Got.,
’B7 “ Hopetoun’s Livery”: Your rhymes have so
strongly strabismussed us that we look in vain for the
W.P.8..... “Jimmie Pannikin, late Oyster Johnnie”: Will
write. —[Many letters held over.]
Premier Atkinson, of N.Z., has been ill
ever since Parliament was prorogued. He is
suffering acutely from a serious internal disease.
In view of the political situation in Queens-
land, M‘llwraith will not go to Japan this
summer. He will, however, take a complete holi-
day in Gippsland.
The Hawke’s Bay Telegraph says
“ Everyone who knew Sir George Grey in his
prime will regret to hear that his gait and his
voice betoken age. He looks feeble, and he
speaks, when addressing the House, as one who
feels the weight of years.”
An Englishman, who stopped at the same
hotel as Benzon in Melbourne, says he changed
his clothes a dozen times in a day. He once
challenged Roberts to pyramids ! and he once lost
£lO,OOO while waiting for a train. Fortunately for
himself this king of the Johnnies has enough money
left —tied up—to live on comfortably.
Dr. Maloney, one of the few Victorian
senators who “wants to know,” has been asking
Chief Sec. Deakin to state how many votes the
members of the Melbourne and Australian clubs
respectively were entitled to use at last general
election. Deakin promised to supply the awkward
enquirer with information bearing upon that
great Tory mystery.
No effort will be made this session to un-
seat the Mount Morgan gang who are running the
Queensland Ministry at the present moment. A
political crisis and a general election would be
most unadvisable on the brink of summer,
MTI wraith’s health making a campaign and the
taking of office too great a risk for him. The next
session will probably open in J une, and a want of
confidence motion will at once decide the fate of
the Mount Morganers for ever. If needs be, a
straight appeal will then be made to the country
on the fiscal question.
In “Colonial ‘Knownothingism,’” a reply
to B. R. Wise, in the Centennial Magazine, F.
B. Freehill points out that the former’s statement
“ that within two years every Irish member of the
N.S.W. Parliament, with only one exception, has
been converted to Protection ” is untrue, because,
in addition to the Postmaster-General, out of the
12 Catholics in the House, M‘Court and Hugh
Taylor are still Freetraders and still Catholics,
while two members of two years ago, J. M‘Elhone
and .A. J. Riley, have changed neither their fiscal
nor religious opinions. In answer to the charge
th it “Whatever Government may be in power
the !ri-h are the great billet-hunters; five appli-
cants out of every six for any Government,
however poorly paid, are certain to bear Irish
names,” Mr. Ereehill has tabulated from the
Blue Book of ’BB a column of figures showing that
out of 5552 Civil servants in N.S.W. only 558
“ bear Irish names,” and, therefore, are presum-
ably Catholics. This either shows that the five
Irish applicants out of six must liave very bad
luck or that Wise's statement is mere nonsense.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Theatre Royal “.To.”
Her Majesty's “ Henry V.”
Criterion “Sophia.”
Opera House London Pavilion Co.
School op Arts Snazelle.
Cyclorama “Battle of Gettysburg.”
Crystal Palace Hall Baby Show.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Alexandra “ The Beggar Student ”
Opera House “ Fool’s Revenge.”
Theatre Royal “ Human Nature.”
Princess’ “ Pygmalion and Galatea, ”
St. George’s Hall Professor Kennedy.
Victoria Hall Minstrel Co.
Atiien.eitm Hall The Midgets.
“ Sophia,” last witnessed in Sydney 18
months ago, has been reproduced with a cast in
which the parts previously played by the Misses
Kemble and Lee, Messrs. Beck and Cathcart, are
filled by the Misses Enson and Seccombe and
M Messrs. Hilton and Lyndal. Opinions, of course,
conflict as to the strength of the present produc-
tion when compared with the original, but, on the
whole, we consider the changes for the better. It
is not necessary to describe or criticise Buchanan’s
stage adaptation of Fielding’s immortal work, ex-
cept to remark that the last act, wherein the over-
throw of Blifil is all too easily accomplished, is
immeasurably the weakest, and that (in the play)
no reason is evinced for the transference of the
scene from London to Greenwich. As was pre-
viously stated, Lilian Seccombe is most at home
in the part of a hoyden, but her rendering
of Molly, in accent and broadness of stylo
surpassed even the fondest expectations. From
what had already been seen of Fanny Enson
a clever reading of Lady Bel last on was looked
for, and expectation was in no way disappointed.
The All worthy of A. T. Hilton was quite equal to
that often over-careful actor’s usual efforts, but
Percy Lyndal’s Fly-bil, or rather Blifil, is so .far,
to our mind, his worthiest Sydney effort. The
part was played, as the author intended and as
common-sense dictates, in a cool and undemon-
strative manner; his profundity of hypocrisy
making it a foregone conclusion that he could
sufficiently mask his villainy to deceive his asso-
ciates, in which case it would not be too evident
to the audience. Mrs. Brough is not at her best
and betrays traces of overwork, but Miss Romer,
Pattie Brown, Dion Bouoioault, Cecil Ward and
Titheradge are admirably suited, and in capital
form. Mr. Spong, despite a somewhat hectic
sunset, is to be highly commended for his willow
copse scene.
* * * 35-
Several monologuists have lately explored
Australia; all, without exception, good in then-
way, but the method of Mr, Snazelle, at the
Sydney School of Arts, differs greatly from that
of his predecessors. The feature of his show, the
novelty in fact, is the lantern pictures. Nothing
like them has previously been displayed here.
Views of great size are thrown on the canvas with-
out the sliding-on effect of the ordinary magic-
lantern, and are subject to almost instantaneous
changes of colour. A church, for instance, is
depicted in broad day-light; -presto, it is warmed
by the rays of the setting sun, then it is seen
bathed in moonlight, while its windows are ap-
parently illuminated by light from within ;
another change, and the landscape is snow-
shrouded, then the entire view fades gently from
sight, and even while it vanishes another scene of
equal loveliness is gradually unfolded in its place.
The illustrations of Mr. Snazelle’s songs and recita-
tions —artistically considered, those of the Village
Blacksmith are weak - arc in themselves a first-
class entertainment. Asa vocalist the monologuist
is a decided success, his method and denunciation
are admirable; as an elocutionist, he is scarcely so
successful, particularly in verse. For this perhaps
his choice of subjects is greatly accountable.
Gray’s Elegy, a masterpiece of composition, is to
our mind more adapted to the quiet consideration
of thestudy than for the necessarily hurried inter-
pretation of the platform. The thing in which
Mr. Snazelle most deeply touched an appreciative
audience on the night of our visit was the death
of “ Jo ” ; this was so pathetically rendered that
it filled his auditors with an emotion that was,
however, quickly assuaged by the springing in of
an aggravated atrocity in the magnified present-
ment of “ Her Gracious. ” We are glad to learn
that Sunday evening entertainments will in future
be somewhat lightened.
** * *
Fresh interest has been imparted into the
performance of “ Julius Csesar,” at Her Majesty’s,
in the assumption of Junius Brutus by Phil. Beck,
vice Cathcart, transplanted to Melbourne. Brutus
is a part which demands widely different treatment
from that of Antony. The latter niay be pour-
trayed by means of a few broad, manly strokes
and vivid, powerful utterances, while Brutus,
always in evidence, must be delineated not only
by action, but by inaction—has to convey to his
audience the idea of a tempest-tossed soul in whom
conscious worth, patriotism, sense of public
neglect, and the entreaties of his friends, conflict
with his self-abnegation, love of Caesar and home ties.
Some have taken occasion to find fault the Brutus of
Cathcart for its measuredness of step, its compre-
hensiveness of gesture, its rotund uttterance;
that these things were all necessary for the de-
velopment of its majesty cannot now be doubted.
While Cathcart was on the stage he was ever,
without thrusting himself forward, the most pro-
minent character, the man of weight, of worth, the
born commander who insensibly impelled atten-
tion and respect. In the hands of his succes-
sor the character assumes _ a subordinacy alto-
gether at variance with its importance. For this
the latter may not be blamed ; so far as we know
it is to him new ground, and at all events dis-
tinctly at variance with the class of work he has
lately undertaken. It goes without saying that
Bis reading of the part is an intelligent one, lack-
ing chiefly in dignity and dramatic force. It has
been truly urged that Mr. Jewett’s Cassius is
over-youthful; in this respect Mr. Beck as Brutus
is even a greater sinner. This is a fault that may
be easily amended. “Henry Fifth,” a play of
which we are inclined to think the Sydney public
has had an overdose, is in active preparation
& *
The reproduction of “Popita,” at Sydney
Royal, is a financial success, but it does not seem
to go with its previous smoothness. The marching
is by no means so good, the banner-waving, sword-
thrusting act is punctuated by slips and hitches,
and the tired old honest victim of a holiday having
been consistently slept on by the caretaker and
the stage-cat right throughput his vacation, has
a hairless flatness, creditable in an asphaltum foot-
path, but unsymmetrical in an Andalusian bull of
breed. During the week, Billy Elton and Nellie
Stewart (whose engagement by the mighty Three
terminates for a time) were appreciatively bene-
fited, and “Jo” will sweep the Comic Opera
Company from the boards on Saturday evening.


Use Ba'EHO’s Baking Powder.
Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, too., to c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. KiT" A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Street).
OATLEY LAND SALE— Saturday. October 19,
TIR-A-lIT .A-ITID IPXj-A-ETS *
GARRARD & PTTT STREET, SYDNEY.
Special attractions on eight-hour day drew
toany visitors to Sydney Cyolorama.
* * m *
The man-eating sharks of Bondi Aquarium
—there are six of them, varying in length from
eight to sixteen feet—have succeeded the N.S.W.
Assembly in the affections of those who love the
violent and the horrible.
* -;(f -Me- &
Sydney Crystal-Elite Skating-rink, York-st,
closes up soon to make room for Solomon’s babies.
As Sol* —-remarkable for his wisdom and his deci-
sion in a disputed baby question, &c.— had 1000
wives and several thousand what-d’ye-call’ums,
his family is bound to be large. The show opens-
on 16th inst. (next Wednesday).
iff iif
Until the advent of David Christie Murray
Sydney audiences have never been privileged to
hear a popular author interpret his own works.
Those who attended the recital at the Sydney
Y M.C.A. Hall on a late evening were probably
somewhat unprepared, after their lecture experi-
ences, for the dramatic power, command of dialect,
and feeling displayed by the novelist-lecturer.
The only fault apparent, one likely to interfere
with the success of every sympathetic expounder
of his own works, was that the elocutionist occa-
sionally seemed so permeated by the spirit of his
subject as to be incapable of forcibly interpreting
it to his hearers. The verse of the lecturer belongs
to a higher type of thought than that ho has
lately eulogised in the local press; the soliloquy
of Michael Tregovitch, condemned to die for an
attempt on the Czar’s life, being a profound and
philosophic piece of work clothed in dignified
language. Air. Murray is now fulfilling an en-
gagement in Brisbane.
* * » *
“ A grand benefit concert and quadrille
party” will be held in the Masonic Hall, Parramatta,
on Friday, October 18th, for the benefit of poor
old soldier Roy, the Rorke’s Drift be-medalled,
unbread-and-buttered hero, for whom The Bul-
letin long ago opened a subscription-list.
* * *
The Melbourne Baby Show, after three
days of delirious excitement, terminated in a burst
of downright lunacy, last Saturday night. By
8.30, when Mr. Dampier brandished a maiden of
enormous bulk in the heated air, as an intimation
that her parents had honestly earned £5O, there
were more people in the Exhibition Building than
ever before struggled for existence within those
walls, or will ever again shove through the Valley
of the Shadow of Death to win one sly glance
from an infant which is upon the verge of ex-
changing Nature’s font for a fiat bottle. So im-
passable did the avenues of “darlings” (this ex-
pression is stolen from the artful Dampier) become,
that visiting families drew lots to decide which
male member should plunge into the hurly-burly
and presently return with a graphic description of
any baby he could see. When one of these hardy
adventurers came back bruised and bleeding from
the battle he was called upon to take the chair at
a mothers’ meeting and thrill them with faithful
details of Number so-and-so’s legs. Thousands
of women who had started with a vain ambition to
kiss all the “ best ” babies, gradually relinquished
hope of touching one baby, and finished up by
putting on a terrible lot of frill because they knew
someone who had caught a glimpse of a twin.
How many would have forfeited five years of life
to be the champion’s mother for five minutes is an
arithmetical problem which only Heaven can de-
cide. Jealous fathers almost choked while envying
the policeman allowed to guard that colossal kid,
and privileged to hold the monster in their arms
while she made fat, sleepy snatches at their hel-
mets. Take them altogether, they were a pro-
mising field of babies from whom the skilfully-
handled and patiently-nursed Champion cantered
in with several pounds in hand. One minute
creature was introduced to play the part of Derby
dog in the contest, but the remaining 600 odd
were picked, as far as possible, from some 2000
babies who cried aloud for admission to the Show.
A careful process of weeding out resulted in the
survival of the fattest, consequently each baby had
enough admirers to soothe the savage breast of its
mother when she didn’t “ scoop the qoff.”_ Mr.
Dampier carefully surrounded himself with minions
of the law before he announced the names of prize-
takers, but his precautions were unnecessary. The
mob evinced no disposition to rise against these
announcements, because there wasn’t elbow-room
for a rebellion, and nobody could hear a single
word, anyhow, except that Mr. Dampier was
grateful to the mothers who had so loyally turned
up day by day with their “little darlings.” He
uttered that good old chestnut with genuine emo-
tion. The “ darlings ” had produced a profit of,
say, £3OOO for the speculation. And if any of them
die from too much show, they will have the satis-
faction of knowing that they made a triumphal
passage from the cradle to the grave, leaving their
names behind them in a catalogue.
*
Melbourne theatres benefited by the Baby
boom on Saturday, the mere title of “ Human
Nature ” being sufficient to fill the Royal. _ In-
sinuations that this drama is remarkable for wicked
old men appeared in last week’s Bulletin, but the
accusation was based upon a confusion of ideas
whereby “ Human Nature ” got credit for the sms
of “Mankind,” or some similar insult to creation,
in which a couple of toothless fossils are always
gnashing their gums and murdering one another.
Now “ Human Nature ” is quite differentto that,
It’s chief bad character seems to be a villain of
noble mind who teaches the Soudanese to shoot
straight and otherwise disturb British arrange-
ments for working off the unsophisticated nigger
on his native desert. The worthy endeavours of
this lost sheep come to naughty inasmuch as
a vast quantity of Arab patriots are left
bleaching under the Egyptian sun, while an alleged
hero rides around Trafalgar Square on a
spavined horse to the strains of “ Rule Britannia.”
Mixed up with military spectacles are strange
misunderstandings between husbands and wives,
also a comic lawyer’s clerk and an adventurer of
the deepest dye. There is a good deal of baby-
farming in the show, too, besides such an ever-
lasting change of scenery that nobody can say
where he will get to next minute, unless he makes
up his mind to stay in the refreshment-room and
collect his thoughts. In an acting way the present
revival is but a shrivelled spectre of the past,
when nearly all the leading parts were made more
of. As for two or three outsiders of the new
London company, they ought to be bathed in
broken glass and put in a beehive to dry them-
selves —which isn’t an original joke, although
many people may have heard it before. However,
the supers, are all there, and the big drum receives
a splendid interpretation, so “Human Nature
ought to hang on to its departed glories tor a bit.
* % * *
“ A Fool’s Revenge ” is helping to pass
the time at Melbourne Opera House until Antony
and Cleopatra have finished faking up their finery
for the coming pageant. Mr. Miln’s conception
of Bertuccio, the pour old joker with labyrinttuan
legs, is so entirely powerful and frisky that he
never inflicts his constitutional hump upon the
audience. He plays the 800 l in a hearty, acro-
batic manner calculated to mislead any licentious
Duke, those pillars of the State being proverbially
pudding-headed and easy to bamboozle. In this
respect, also in a number of others, he is a more
acceptable funny man than Mr. Charles Warner,
whose desire to bite bits out of the ducal profligate
was absurdly manifest all the time. When Mr.
Miln puts aside his diablerie and hugs the fair
daughter of the woman who left him—probably be-
cause she couldn’t put up with her husband s loving
contortions any longer—he is as tender as a (Spring
chicken. In fact, the whole performance of tins
trying character may be commended for its op-
posite inconsistencies and artistic strength. Miss
Louise Jordan likewise droops her gentle head
upon the lumpy chest of her parent with true feel-
ing, while her behaviour towards a flaxen-wigged
poet, who maunders round the premises piping
songs of love, is womanly and beautiful. x oung
Mr. Greenaway, as the bard, looks almost nice
enough to sling verses for this journal, and Mr. il.
N. Douglas is no slouch of a licentious dook. I he
gingerly manner in which he comes down a ladder
established his noble birth beyond doubt or ques-
tion. Other members of the company represent
gilded infamy with pleasing results, anti the
Bool’s death brings down the curtain on a furore
of applause.
* * m *
“ Beggar Student ” is so fairly in it at the
Alexandra that fresh dress-circle seats are now
fixed into all available spaces, and the blushing
Hose has been summoned by his gracious < jueen to
explain why ho shouldn’t be hanged, or something
of that sort, for overcrowding the show. Honours
in this tuneful struggle are fairly divided between
Mr. Bracy and Miss Lilian Tree, albeit that
rounded charmer’s notions of comic opera are not
remarkable for their style, neither does she warble
with the same facility that marked her previous
efforts in Italian. Miss Graupner is considered to
be all right so far as she goes, and when Knight
Aston lets himself fairly loose he compares favour-
ably with an earthquake set to music. I he trust-
worthy Borde has a large say in this success, and
the party who appears to be a replica of our old
friend Gobo is likewise a source of satisfaction.
As for the prices, their popularity remains as great
as ever.
«- * * *
The “ New Magdalen ” and her limp
curate finish at the Princess’ to-night (Thursday).
A crowd of amateurs take the stage to-morrow,
and on Saturday fair Miss Achurch commences to
play Galatea for one week only. The scene of
66 Pygmalion and Galateawants transferring to
Cow Plat, where the sculptor might go digging in
an abstracted sort of way until he brought up the
marble woman on a spade: and asked the gods to
give her life. But the Triumvirate never strike a
bright idea like that. Kennedy’s boys continue
to chew onions at St. George s Hall, while the
niggers are doing well at the Vic. I he Midgets
are also objects of weird interest at the Athenaeum,
and the Battle of Waterloo is a cool, shady spot
in warm weather.
» m * *
Mr. Edward Thorne, who will be shortly
appearing at Melbourne Opera House in an
adaptation of Dumas’ “ Three Musketeers, is one
of a well known American theatrical family. His
late brother, Charles, was brought over to London
by Dion Boucicault, to play the leading part in
“ Led Astray.” At the Gaiety Theatre, where
the piece proved a mild failure, it is a tradition
that Charles Thorne was the most taking and un-
conventional melodramatic actor ever seen in Bng-
land. However, he went right back to the (states
after playing his engagement, and departed thence
for the Better Land, nearly seven years ago.
« * * ■ *
One absurdity has followed another at
Adelaide Royal, “ Jack-in-the-Box ” by the
Jennie Lee company, being the latest transgres-
sion. The claptrap which pervades this piece is
unworthy of G. R. Sims, who must have felt ill
when he manufactured it. J. E. Sheridan will
shortly re-introduce the Widow O Bnen to her
Adelaide admirers, and they will no, doubt meet
her with all their old ardour. Cogill Brothers
gather in good coin at Garner’s rooms, where fre-
quent changes of programmes draw good
audiences.
% * * #
How the old time comes over one to meet
Henry Edwards, the actor, again in Melbourne,
bringing up reminiscences of G. V. Brooke, Ellen
Mortyn, Banny Oathcart, Heir, Barry Sullivan,
and all the people of the golden era, not forgetting
the perennial Goppin ! Harry Edwards seemed to
be anchored in San Brancisoo, as the guide,
philosopher, and friend of all American theatricals
thinking of Australia. He beguiled his leisure
with forming the finest collection of butterflies on
the Pacific Slope. Edwards was so much like G.
Y Brooke, in the past, that they acted the
Antipholi, in “Comedy of Errors,” like the
Holloway Brothers. He and George haw-
cett managed the Theatre Royal for Brooke.
Edwards now bosses the Little_ Lord
Bauntleroy ” crowd, and will play the Did
Nobleman. Of course he finds Melbourne changed
out of all knowledge. All the theatres are new.
When he left, the old Royal, old Princess s, and
the Haymarket were the rivals. I he Royal and
Haymarket perished by fire, and the greatest
wonder was that the Princess s didn t. The old
friends Edwards finds about include Coppin, liar-
wood, Stewart, Hennings, and Gladstone. Old
friends residing in *be Melbourne Cemetery in-
clude Mrs. Phillips, Mrs. Wooldridge, Lyster,
Jack Dunn—but the great majority would soon
run into a page.
* * * *
That fine actor Eduardo Majeroni, and his
no less talented and amiable wife, Giulia Majeroni,
take a sorrowful farewell of Australia. Shaking
the dust off their buskins, they are away to Cal-
cutta, and thence to the Cape of Good Hope.
This lady and gentleman, with their high-souied
ideas, have been somewhat of exotics in the Aus-
tralian theatrical world. The Majeroni Brothers
were both lights in Italian Thespian circles 20
years ago. Eduardo’s brother stood next to
Salvini and Rossi, in tragedy. The most famous
cast on record, in Italy, was when “Francesca di
Rimini ” was acted by Ristori, Salvini, Rossi, and
Majeroni, for the Dante Centenary. W hen
Ristori toured the globe, Majeroni was her
leading man, he having married -Riston s niece,
Giulia Tessero. Majeroni and his wife both
learned English, and adapted themselves to our
stage. Like all people round whom Australia
has wreathed its charm, they declare they wdl
come back.
*& * *
Says Manager Solomon : —“ If you want
to make a book in Australia you must be well
known ; but if you want to write a book you must
be a perfect stranger. It stands to reason. 1
write a book, nobody buys it. Every cove says :
4 A book by Johnny Solomon ! Me buy it ; no
fear, I’ve knowed him this 20 years ; I’ve got his
little pitch by heart.’ ”
&* * *
At Dampier’s baby-show Florence Jennie
Dry burgh Johnston, aged 10 months, the brown-
eyed daughter of a Scotch father and a Tasmanian
mother received the prize of £5O, by public award,
as “the best all-round baby.” The other prizes
were aoQprded by judgment of Doctors Maloney,
Miller, Williams and Wilmott and the champion
would also have received the prize in her class had
it not been inadvisable to give her two prizes.
The majority of the prize-takers were blue-eyed,
and all, except two, were born in Victoria.
** * *
Every new invention furnishes an admir-
able reason for the wiping out of administration
by precedents in law-courts. For instance, what
can verdict by precedent find to say in the follow-
ing case ? The baritone, Kaschniann, who
recently holiday-making in V enioe, sang the
romance from “Hamlet” into a phonograph.
Coppello, Edison’s representative, kept the phono-
gram, the baritone protesting, and even threaten-
ing legal proceedings. On what ground can
plaintiff proceed ? The laws of copyright, at any
rate in England, have not provided for any such
contingency. The writer of a letter, it is true, has
copyright in its contents, although the sheet ot
paper may bo the property of the recipient.
Whether a phonographic reproduction of a song,
which can be multiplied indefinitely, is likewise
the copyright of the singer, is a question which
would perplex many a learned judge. The repro-
duction would certainly seem to be a sort of joint
affair. It clearly could not be done without the
assistance of the vocalist who first sings into the
machine, and it is equally sure that, apart from
Mr. Edison’s invention, the voice could be
reproduced at all.
-* *- »
Here is what a valued correspondent
writes to The Bulletin about M'Wade
Bob M'Wade has turned up in Melbourne.
Bob that we used to know round Buffalo, Mem-
phis, Cleveland, Wichita, Portland, and every-
where, acting “ RipjVan Winkle,” opens at Mel-
bourne Alexandra. Has acted Rip some 0000
times. That which pleases long and pleases many
must possess some merit. When Jefferson acted
Rip in Sydney and Melbourne 26 years ago, Mrs.
Rip, “ de ole vomans,” used to die in the 20 years
between the second and third act. When he
went to London, 1886, Boucicault re-wrote the
play, keeping the old woman alive, and married
to Rip’s enemy, Derrick van Slaus. Jefferson
knew very well that this was false art, but made
the concession to public taste, just as Boucicault
had to give the “ Octoroon ” a happy ending
in London. Well, M‘Wade keeps up the old
style, Mrs. Rip dies, and the play thereby is in-
finitely more satisfactory, with the fullest scope
to the actor. Jefferson rises before the mind s eye
when the old fellow, with his long white hair and
beard, and rags and tatters, gets back to his
native village, so altered. “ Und my dog Schneider
ish dead, und de old voman ish dead, and Kip
Vou Wingel ish dead! I vender who I vas !
What a peerless actor was Jefferson. M Wade,
though, goes one better in this point, not sacri-
ficing his artistic principle to public clamour. Hie
thing now-a-days is to get one thing to carry you
round the world, like Emmett’s “ Fritz, Sothem s
“Dundreary,” Arnold’s “Ham the Boatman.'
One Billy West has just returned to Melbourne
after 18 years’ absence, and is a corner-man in the
nigs at St. George’s Hall. _ A bone solo, magni-
ficent in its way, has carried him all round the
globe.
At Poverty Point.
Theo. Hamilton, who was in Australia some few years
always contended that if an actor kept a straight face
he could utter any irrelevant remark during the dialogue.
Theo proved it on more than one occasion, and in serious
speeches, too, and the audience took no notice. He was
noted for the same thing in New York.
During a play in a N.Z. theatre, one of the characters
had to remark: “’Tis true, I am no Count.” said
a disgusted auditor, rising from his seat in the pit, none
of you are of any ’count,” and walked out.
Marius, whose wife (Florence St. John) is suing the
Wasp for libel, once sued the Bat for libel, that paper
having stated that he (Marius) had been a waiter.
Miln, at Melbourne Opera House, is preparing ‘‘Antony
and Cleopatra.” Walter Montgomery played it in Mel-
bourne years ago. Handsome George won’t—by the way,
the calcium and lime-light are all on Cleopatra. Hennings
is at work on the scenery. Twenty years ago he worked
up Montgomery’s revival.
Jenny Watt-Tanner intends returning to Australia m
about 15 months. Meanwhile, she will probably visit
America.
George Melville and Bob Vernon have been touring the
Goulburn Valley district with “ Fanohon,” and “ La
Cigale.”
At Yarrawonga (Vic.) Agricultural Show, the other day,
there was a circus and a dramatic company. Biz. was so
good that the circus shut up, and the performers visited
the dramatic show, and constituted the principal portion
of the audience. ,
An Australian travelling “ manager ” was gaoled last
week in Sydney because his ghost walked irregularly.
“ A tit-bit of the bill in the London music-hall where
Viscountess Dunlo and her sister Flo are appearing is
the big, beautiful, bouncing brunette, Addie Conyers,
who wears diamonds in her little hottines, and appears in
two pairs of tights, but not all at once. In one of her
‘turns’the dark Addie resumes the petticoats of her
sex, and sings a pretty little song, of which all that can
be understood is that somebodys or somethings go like
this.’ Then she hugs nothing to her heart, strokes the
back of her left hand, and, as a sort of refrain, kisses her
own pretty o.p. shoulder twice. All of which
singular proceedings are received with rapture.” Ex.
Leonard Lane is piloting the Saint-Maur Comedy Go,
through Victoria with the "Arabian Nights” as their
right bower. After Victoria, the company proceed to
Western Australia, leaving the latter province for India at
the end of October.
The temporary indisposition of Leumane having afforded
(during one evening) the chorus-concealed Fitzgerald an
opportunity of evincing his undoubted ability as Nanki-
Poo, a contemporary writes, as if he had been cast for the
part: “As Nanki-Poo, his son [the Mikado’s] and the love-
sick swain, Mr. Fitzgerald is in his element, and shows to
great advantage.” This is “a good notice” for Fitz-
gerald’s scrap-book.
A London newspaper man wrote something nasty about
John Minnie Palmer Rogers the other day. Whereupon
John wrote him thus:—“f 100 to £1 that you will be
buried in a pauper’s grave for your loss of friends and
coin !—Yours merrily, J.R.11.”
Good, kind-hearted Bessie Bellwood, the variety actress,
has stated in court that she provided Viscount Mandevilie
with money (she also paid his cab-fares) “ merely for the
sake of his wife and family.” Mandevilie is heir to the
Dukedom of Manchester, and Miss Bessie Bellwood pro-
bably wants to be Duchess of Manchester.
The lesson of “ A Doll’s House ” is that marriage is a
failure, and yet three out of the five leading performers
have since its production, less than six months ago, got
married. First, Janet Aohurch (the Norah) wedlocked
Charrington (the Dr. Rank), and now Gertrude Warden
(the Christina) has been golden-hooped by Walter Jones.
Another skating rink has just wound up a successful
season with a big fire. This time at Orange, N.S.W.
What’s the rate of insurance on Australian rinks by now,
we wonder ?
At a Birmingham theatre, while Jess in “ lloodman
Blind” was contemplating suicide in the Thames, a
kitten walked quietly over the river amid the roars of the
audience.
A New York paper says : It is estimated that 1500
native actors are now idle in this city, without any pros-
pect of being employed, while several hundred English
actors will land in this city within the next two months.”
Toole leaves England for Australia in March,
Signor Majeroni, the actor, informed an Age inter
viewer, the other day, that “ there are numbers of Aus-
tralians who have undoubted dramatic genius.” True—
but they are all on the political stage. They are mostly
lightning-transformation performers.
Rose, who is managing the Alexandra Theatre, in Mel-
bourne, for Mr. Dampier, was fined tOs., the other day,
for allowing it to be overcrowded. Never was a fine paid
with more bubbling gaiety. People used to die of colds
caught by sitting in the lonely auditorium of the Alex-
andra not so long ago.
Manager’s office. Manager looks up and sees Dolly
Sucblegs. “Well, what is it now ? ” “ W ell, 1 see you are
writing to the press that I am getting a hundred pounds
a week, when you know you give me only four quid.”
“ What of that ? It’s a good advertisement for us both,
and you get all you are worth. What do you want ? ”
“ Well, you dear man, couldn’t you make it four
guineas ? ”
Says actress Kendal—Madge Robertson On my,ex-
pressing a wish that I should marry an actor, my father
said that only on one condition would he allow me to
marrv my husband —that we should never be parted. Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Kean always acted together, and she
endorsed my father’s words. If my husband and I had
been separated, if he had played parts to other women ; if
other women had played parts to him, and 1 to other men.
and other men to me, there is no doubt that certain go-
ahead people would have preferred it, and we should
prohahlv have been worth thousands of pounds more
to-day ; but, on the Other hand, there is another section
of the public who say they like to see us act together ;
that the very fact of knowing we are man and wife gives
them a certain satisfaction in witnessing our performance,
which' they would not otherwise feel. That, however, I
must leave to the public to decide ; as far as we are con-
cerned, however, it was a vow made to my father, from
w hioh my husband has never departed ; and if, when we
are dead, we leave our children less money, let us hope
they will respect what we have done.
During a theatrical performance in the Theatre Royal,
Wellington, a short time back, a member of the chorus
burst a blood vessel. We suppose the other girl got all
the vegetables.
Cole a Melbourne nurseryman, left £85,000 behind him
- the proceeds of his own industry and other people’s
folly. From him did the bald-head and the masher huy
their little guinea hunches of roses for the nightly bom-
bardment of the footlights.
A contemporary points out that the Jersey Lily s nasal
obstruction will prove a positive advantage when she
visits Smelbourne.
“ Dawvid ” Buchanan is nothing if not ungrammatical.
In a ponderous bow-wow to the S.M. Herald he says—
“ Mr. Rignold’s performance of Marc Antony did him
great credit—Which he looked to perfection.”
“ New South Wales cannot raise her own onions. At
present the market is waiting to be filled by expected
American shipments.” We have noticed a great improve-
ment in the atmosphere of Sydney dress-circles lately.
Johnny Hvdes, the late-lamented, was cast some years
ao-o in N.Z. for the Second Gravedigger in “ Hamlet.” He
didn’t like the part, and so when Bob Dale, the Ist G.D.,
said to him, “ Get thee to Yanghan and fetch me a stoup
of liquor,” lie replied, “ Yanghan’s full about you. You
never parted for the gallon you got when Polomus was
buried.”
An “ ad.” tells us that Katie Putnam is about to perform
George S. Sands’ “ Fanohon.” George S.?
Young Boucicault has made ahit as Conn the Shaughraun
at the London Standard.
It having been reported that the Bernhardt, in a fit of
anger thrust her pet dog in a stove and burned it to death,
the Missouri Humane Society “have denounced her late
act as barbarous and shocking beyond expression, and
have informed her that hereafter, in all civilised countries,
“ she will he coldly received.”
After the Hugo season at Auckland Opera House they
return South for Dunedin Exhibition.
Bland Holt is doing well in Christchurch with “New
Babylon,” and plays of that stamp. He allowed the Uni-
versity students to occupy seats on very reasonable terms
lately, but report says they acted worse than those on the
stage.
John Solomon has bought for his big Sydney Baby Show
all the fixtures and paraphernalia of Alfred Dampier s
Melbourne exhibition. He has also arranged for the
attendance of the champion Victorian baby, which, how-
ever, will not he a competitor.
The estate of the late Hou. W. Robinson
(of N.Z.)has been sworn under £350,000, and is
left to his daughters for life, afterwards to their
children.
American Elgin Watches. Awarded two
Gold Medals, Melbourne Centennial International
Exhibition, 1888, being higher awards than any
other Exhibition of Watches obtained.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHAELEMONT
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Carington “By Appointment.”
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A—
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best investment*
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst• street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200ft. above sea-level.
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
GOLD MEDAL PARIS EXHIBITION AWARDED
SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Invite your friends and neighbours to see you wash
clothes with Sunlight soap. Let them see you' soap the
clothes well, then roll them up in a tight roll, and pul
under the water and left for half an hour, then taken out
and rinsed. It will be quite a curiosity for them to see a
wash done without the necessity of scalding or boiling a
single piece, no matter how dirty or soiled.
Some Special Uses of the “ Sunlight Soap.”— Used in
the Dairy it w ill keep churns, cheese vats, and milk pans
beautifully bright and clean. Used in the Sick Room it
acts as a Disinfectant. Used in the Stable it will keep
manes and tails clean and silky, and seal sores and
scratches. Use it for washing prize dogs and poultry, and
it will improve them as no other soap can. Use it for
taking out grease spots, and for keeping linoleums and
oilcloths clean and bright. Use it everywhere where soap
can lie used and it will always give satisfaction. If you
prefer to boil the clothes, remember this soap will give
better results than any other.
The
Marvellous
18s. 6d.
OPTIMUS
WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland,
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one.
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact,
real good-looking, handsome little watehes, and magnifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one.
Send P. 0.0. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one,
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory aftef
» week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney,
The Book Fiend.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There was a time when I used to pray nightly to
be delivered from all evils, especially from book-
agents. Now I see the error of my past judg-
ment, and I pray harder than ever in the opposite
direction—that the sphere of their usefulness may
be extended. They take the light of knowledge
into the dark corners of the world, where, but for
them, no light would penetrate. They do it at
the risk_ of being misjudged for all their pains,
and their only emolument is the satisfaction of
doing good and the advancement of humanity.
The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in
Foreign Parts is a weak, wan, white-livered,
spiritless, crawling, limping invertebrate com-
pared to a book-agent, with his splendid
vigour, enterprise, and earnest endeavours for the
public good. I am so impressed with this fact
that I run after him now whenever I hear of his
coming upon the scene. To show my regard and
appreciation I have rented an additional house
for the_ stowage of the numerous volumes I order
from him and his 00-workers. I never, by any
chance, open the books for fear of the fairy story-
web he has weaved about them being rudely torn
asunder. It is sufficient for me to watch the
beautiful spinning of that wondrous web. When,
after a long spell of talking he pauses for a moment
to take breath, the hiatus in Ids speech is almost
as painful as the stopping of a quartz-battery-
such is the witchery of his tongue.
I shall never forget how on one occasion a great
agent condescended to wait upon me. He intro-
duced himself thus; —
“ Mr. M‘Joskin, I have been recommended to
call upon you by my friend the Archbishop of
Canterbury. He is particularly anxious that I
should show you a work I am taking orders for. I
promised his Grace faithfully that I would never
leave the town until I had seen you, let the sacri-
fice be to me what it might, and"here I am.”
I said I was much obliged to Iris Grace for the
recommendation, and to himself (the agent) for
calling upon me.
“Yes, yes, of course,” said the condescending
agent, “ I knew you would be. This is a specimen
of the work (taking from his leather bag a copy of
some portion of the book), and when you
come to behold it you will readily admit it is
the most stupendous undertaking that has ever-
emanated from the brain and hand of man. You
will carefully observe how the work is bound
None but the best steel rivets and bolts of
Damascus manufacture, are used for putting this
book together. The paper, you observe, is the
best traction-engine-rolled macadamised kind.”
“ Macadamised paper be !”
“ Exactly so,” said the unruffled agent. “ That
was just my opinion until I saw the process. We
make the paper ourselves, and do you think our
firm would be so mean as to use ordinary pulp ?
No : what we use is the prrlp of flint-stones and
boiled-down rocks. If a boy attempted to tear a
leaf out of his book to play with he couldn’t do it.
He would have to call upon his father to help him.
Then please observe the illuminated type. This
book is got up to save candles. You can read it
in the dark. We buy all the diamonds of the
first water we can lay our hands on. We then
pulverise them, and with this diamond-dust we
dust over the sheets as they come from the press.
The effect, you see, is as beautiful as it is marvel-
lous. The whole work only costs thirty pounds.
We throw the diamond-dust in for nothing, and
a 16-carat diamond is ground up for each book.”
"Then you are actually losing by every copy
you sell ?”
“ Yes; we are losing heavily, but we are pre-
serving our reputation, and nothing is so dear to
a publisher from the United States as las repu-
tation. ”
“ Oil, indeed,” said I, somewhat taken aback by
this astounding revelation. ‘ : I thought American
publishers kept up a reputation of being the
greatest literary thieves to be found on this side
of Jordan. ”
“My friend,” observed the agent, “that’s not
the name for it. We call it smartness; and a man
in the States would soon lose his reputation if he
wasn’t smart. ”
“Then, too,” I continued, “the American pub-
lishers enrich themselves whilst the poor English
authors whose brains they have been sucking are
well nigh starving. ”
“Poor English authors,” observed the imper-
turbable Yankee, “must think themselves honoured
when their brains are turned into pap by the great
American publishing houses; for by these means
are not their books read and fame spread amongst
countless millions ?”
“That’s a beautiful engraving,” said I, wishing
to turn the conversation into a pleasanter channel.
“I should think it was a beautiful engraving.
Just you go to the other end of the room, Mister.
Now, what do you see J”
“ I see a landscape, with hyenas and camels in
the foreground.”
“Hyenas and camels! Great Osesar ! They
are cows and horses that have taken the first prize
in every show they have been exhibited in. We
only put prize cattle in our pictures.”
I blushed at my showing so much ignorance of
high art, but, to help me to regain my self-com-
placency, the Yankee good-humoredly observed —
“ Now, come a little nearer, and you will find
the beauties of that engraving will grow upon
you. In our process everything is crushed out of
our plates except lines of beauty, and the plates
are chock full of ’em. They couldn't hold any
more without bursting.”
“ The lines,” I remarked, “are wonderfully soft
and beautiful.”
“ Soft and beautiful! I should think they were,
friend, considering the process we have of pro-
ducing them. Why, those engravings arc printed
from plates of butter. ”
“ Plates of butter, be !”
“Oh ! I knew you would be incredulous, but we
have a method of freezing the butter that makes it
hold out for a long time; but as soon as the frost
gives out, and the lines show a disposition to melt
into one another, we change the plates. Eor the
sake of economy the butter is sold to the
cook-shops, to be used in the manufacture of
black-puddings. The shopkeepers tells us that
nothing gives so rich a flavour to the puddings as
printers’ ink. So you see, Mr. M‘Joskin, this is
really a beautiful and wonderful work, all for the
low charge of 150 dollars—l mean thirty pounds,
with the diamonds thrown in. His Grace the
Archbishop was particularly anxious that you
should secure the work for yourself and family.
Now, pardon me; what’s your Christian name?”
“ Jack Jolliker.”
“ Mr. Jack Jolliker M‘Joskin, kindly put your
name there.”
“ Can’t write.”
“ Can’t write ? Take the pen in your right
hand, thus.”
I did as he bade me almost mechanically. The
agent then caught hold of my hand and jobbed
the pen through the paper in his order book in the
blank left for the subscriber’s signature.
“There, my friend, that’s Jack Jolliker
M‘Joskin, his mark, and you couldn’t get a yard
a way from that signature if you took it to a court
of law. But the diamond-dust will keep you
riveted to your bargain. Now, Mr. MVToskin,
how many copies will you take, for you couldn’t
do better than send one each to all your friends
and relations. ”
1 was so charmed with the man’s style of doing
business that I ordered twenty copies.
“ Mr. M‘Joskin,’' said the agent, “we only re-
quire 25 per cent, deposit upon each book.”
I paid the money, but I scarcely expected that
the books would be sent, as I thought possibly his
memory was not so long as the price I paid for the
books. They, however, were sent in due time,
and I posted them to my friends and relations.
My friends and relations have out me dead ever
since, and they pass me by with their noses thrown
up into the air at an angle of 90 degrees. All
this comes of sending works of art to poor rela-
tions.
This much may be said about book-agents
generally, that, notwithstanding their efforts for
the public good, they are often derided and dis-
counted by a gawky, lumbering, hob-nailed public
opinion and a degraded yokel press, whose best
efforts are a free use of the paste pot and dis-
interested desire to write their articles to the mea-
sure of their advertisements. But with all the
book-agent’s many noble qualities, combined with
beautiful self-abnegation that is sweet to con-
template, we never find that he dies peaceably in
his bed.
G.F.L.
A new book “Fifty years on the Trail’
gives a receipt for compounding “tarantula-juice*
the favourite drink of trappers and cowboys.” It
is is made of two quarts of alcohol, a peck of burnt
peaches, a plug of black tobacco and five gallons
of water. This, having properly fermented, is
said to be the most drinkable intoxicant extant,
and one whose effects last a week. What are the
THAT’S WHAT IT WAS.
DECKHAND: “DON’T YOU SEE THAT THERE NOTICE?”
PASSENGER: “YES, BUT I AIN’T SMOKING ABAFT, THIS HERE’S NAIL-
ROD I’M A-SMOKING OF, THAT’S WHERE IT IS!”
refreshment commitee of the N.S.W. Assembly
about ? It was not on tap during the John Davies
debate.
Michael O’Reilly, formerly of the Banner
of Belfast, was the first to utilise female labour
in a Victorian newspaper-office. He had a huge
family of fine daughters, all expert and well-
educated. Some of these worked as compositors
in their father’s office, and others wrote slashing
leading articles. < )no day a pig-jobber came to
the office with a stock-whip and a copy of the
Banner, bellowing, “ I want the man that wrote
this here article. ” ‘ ‘ Here he is,” promptly replied
a stalwart Irish maiden popping out of a side-
room with a stick in her fist. But it was a com-
posing-stick. The pig-jobber remarked that the
writer had saved his bacon by being a woman, and
withdrew.
BIT OF SCANDAL.
Our ladies 5 man heard the following conversa-
tion between two young and goodlooking ladies in
a suburban train yesterday : First Lady: “That’s
a sad affair about Mrs. eloping with her hus-
band’s coachman. What could have been the
reason?” Second-Lady : “ Don't you know ? It’s
the talk of the town. Her hubby refused to
furnish her with a bottle of the famous St. Louis
Lager Beer, and the coachman offered to supply
her wants. A reason weighty, strong and
effectual.”
How “Bunya Bill " was Caught.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Presented to Mr. Edward Bradley by the
Colonial Secretary, in token of admiration of his
pluck in risking his life in the capture of the
notorious ‘Brown,’ alias ‘Bertram,’ at Delallah,
Queensland, on the Gth August, 1870.” This is
the inscription on the stock-plate of a sporting
rifle I held in my hands a few days back. It is a
weapon that looked as if it had done some work,
and is built in the style of shooting-irons in vogue
before the days of the “Winchester” and the
“Wesley-Richards.” How it came to be, “pre-
sented ” to Bradley was like this :
On the evening of the day above-mentioned, as
Bradley and two friends were driving into Cliarle-
ville (Q.), after a day’s duck-shooting on the
lagoons, they stopped ten miles short of home to
have a “ nip” with the owner of Delallah Station,
who was an old mate of theirs. Fancy their little
flutter on driving up to the front of the house (it
stands there still, wind-and-watertight yet after
a score years) to find themselves confronted
on the verandah by a powerful fellow about
six-foot-two in his uppers, with murder in his
eye and a Colt’s revolver in either hand. He lost
no time in letting them know how things stood.
He had no need, however, to tell his name, as
Bradley, who was a publican in Charleville, had
had him pointed out to him on the sly, in the bar
of his hotel, some six months before. “By G !”
he blurted out, “ You’re Bunya Bill, and no other
man !”
“ You seem to know me well enough,” retorted
the man, “though 1 wouldn’t know you from a
crow. You have the advantage of me, anyway,
but it don’t matter. Get down out of that trap
and stand in a row, like better men have had to
do before you, and, just as a little mark of respect
for my wishes, let every man hold up his two
hands, like this ! But stop a minute —I might as
well tell you my little game first. lam ‘ Bunya
Bill,’ alias ‘Brown,’ alias ‘ Bertram,’ sure enough,
as that gent, seems to know, and I have ‘ stuck-
up ’ this whole shebang; the people are all safe-
under lock and key in there (indicating a sitting-
room on the left), all except one flaming young
fool, who was so hard to reason with that I had to
put a bullet through his brain-box —you’ll find his
well-fed remains on the verandah, there, round the
corner, if you have a fancy for such pictures.
Now, I am going to go through this domicile and
reap the reward of my labours, so in you stalk
into that little meat-safe, while I go on with the
proceedings. ”
Of course there xvas no denying “Bill ” under
the circumstances, so the three men, glad enough
to have the muzzles of the revolvers lifted off their
eyes, allowed themselves to be locked into a small
store-room opening from the verandah on the right
of the main entrance.
Soon after the key was turned on them they
could hear the bushranger tramping rapidly
through the house, opening drawers, forcing locks,
&cv, and twice they were startled by the discharge
of firearms, which was afterwards accounted for
on finding that the robber had taken the precau-
tion to fire off two guns which ho had found loaded
on the rack in the kitchen.
After their agitation had cooled down a bit,
Bradley, who was a splendid specimen of “a
human,” declared that he was “not going to stand
there penned up like a sheep listening to that
fellow swaggering and plundering all over the
place. ”
* # *=
The small window of the store-room
where they were confined communicated with a
dark passage which connected in turn with the
main entrance-way from the hall-door to the
kitchen. With the aid of his mates Bradley
squeezed himself through the small space made by
pulling out the window-frame, and creeping to the
end of the dark entry, awaited developments. He
could hear “ Bunya Bill ” making a general smash
of everything in the house, and once or twice he
had almost concluded to steal out as noiselessly as
he could, and take his chance by tackling the
desperado ; but he thought better of this, and
what followed proved that it was lucky for him he
had done so.
* # #
When Bradley heard the footsteps of the
bushranger coming along the main passage near
where he was crouching he declares—and this
deponent has heard him say it—that he could
hear his own heart-beats go as regularly as the
tick of a clock, only a little faster than usual.
There is no doctor’s test for finding out whether
a man is afflicted with pericarditis or fatty de-
generation or other organic disease of the “ blood-
pump ” like putting him in such a corner as Brad-
ley then was. But Bradley was as true grit as
they used to make ’em in the rough-and-ready
bygone, and the moment Bill’s back had cleared
the dark passage where he lay, the publican was
upon him with both his hands grasping from be-
hind the robber’s two wrists.
* # *
The rest of the story is easily told. With
the advantage of Bradley’s position he soon had his
man down, but it was only then the trouble began.
Taco to face “ Bunya Bill ” would have been the
better man of the two, and as it was he struggled
desperately. One of the revolvers went off in the
scrimmage and the bullet took with it the little
finger of the publican’s right hand. The robber
fought with hand and foot, and even with his
teeth, and years afterwards the marks of his
incisors could be seen in the muscles of both
Bradley’s arms. But as soon as the caged-np
occupants of the adjoining rooms realised what
the struggle meant they were not long in bursting
bounds, and then all was over with “ Bunya Bill.”
When they had secured him hand and foot they
lashed him with a bullock chain to a verandali-
post, where he remained regaling them with the
choicest curses until the arrival of the police.
“ Bill ” was hanged in due course.
PADDY MELON.
The Old Story.
Dear Charley*,—
I’m writing this letter
By the light of a villainous lamp
In dingy old diggings in Sydney,
And am chancing to luck for a stamp.
At present I haven’t the money
For a lunch off a “bitter” and bun,
So, Charley, you’d better believe it,
I’m not having rollicking fun.
It’s only a year since we parted,
Though it often appears to be ten,
And I nearer fifty than thirty,
For I’ve lived a whole lifetime since t hen.
I’ve acted the role of a Croesus,
And have tasted of every joy,
Whilst now, you’ll be sorry to hear it,
I'm a regular broker, old boy.
To think of the fun on the passage
When on board of the glorious Borne,
With plenty of coin in my pocket—
A remittance to follow from home;
To think of the many flirtations,
The nights with unlimited “chain.,”
With never a thought for the morrow
Then to picture myself as I am.
By Jove, I’m as mad as a hatter
When I think of the money I’ve spent,
Of wagers I’ve lost to the bookies.
Of the “ fivers ” and “ tenners ” I've lent.
Xmv, “friends ” that I made when I landed
Are “away ” when 1 happen to call.
And should I, by chance, be admitted,
Am requested to “ wait in the hall.”
Young fellows are idiots, Charley,
When they play such a fool of a game,
But query, your sanctified censors,
Can then point to a past void of blame?
For the gov’nor writes to inform me
'That I’m thoroughly into disgrace
(You know*it was whispered at College
'That he went at a deuce of a pace.)
Old chappie, I long for a letter
With the very best tidings of chums,
So post me a regular budget—
-111 be lonely enough till it comes ;
And send me a word of the mater —
L enclose you a letter to Liz. —
But don’t let them know I’m in trouble,
For there’s bother enough as it is.
And now I must come to a finish,
For the oil in the lamp’s running dry—
Is Flossie still at the “ St. James’s,”
And does Lottie still stick to the “ Cri. ? ”
Tell both that I’m making my fortune.
It would hurt me to think that they knew
The Johnnie who drove them to Richmond
1 lad a palpable patch on his shoo.
Good-bye and God bless yon, old fellow
(It’s a neck-and-neck race with the light);
I’m going up-country to-morrow,
And my eyes are all dizzy to-night.
1 ’in going to start in the morning
< hi what’s known as “ the wallaby track,”
There might be a job on a station
For a broken-down Johnnie like
JACK
(Alias Montmoernox de Smith).
Sydney, 21st Sept., ’B9.


“HOG’S H K AD” ll!!V\l)
PUT ME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed.
F. B, WHEELER & CO.,
2G5 Clabunok Street,
SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whttk
Patknt RoUjKR Fmhtr. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Everybody says — and what everybody says must be true
-that Pemell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
softow & |yu'6m-tv> t'caffu’ v v
(fuvco jSoXC6 a iTc
.ban*? c'lacfli).
p
(!cM
\'oX t ctxf^eA
HVM COCI t& of.
F. B. WHEELER k CO.,
2«r» Clarence StroM, SYOVF.V.
POLITICAL POINSTS
The Orangemen voted solid for John
Davies,
The Queensland Freetrade crowd are the
Queensland black labour crowd.
The Melbourne Age always gives prece-
dence to the Assembly debates over those of the
Council.
The N.S.W. Education Department is,
it is said, beginning to arrange its teachers “ on a
religious basis.”
“ I’ll sell you up if you don’t go solid !” is
the cry in Queensland politics. And he is in a
position to sell them up, too.
The N.S.W. Assembly, having got pay-
ment of members, no longer wants to fight in
earnest. Who wants to fight after being fed ?
Considerable amusement was occasioned
iu the Victorian House of Assembly the other
night by the application of the “gag" to its
author, Duncan Gillies.
John Haynes, ALP., says that Air. John
Davies, M.L.0., is “the greatest trickster and
political shuffler that N.S.W. has ever produced.”
John is too modest. Mind you, we don't say
which John.
A gentleman who lately got £Hi,oooout of
the N.S.W. consolidated revenue -for a patent now
alleged to be of little if any practical use to the
Government, did ndt get justice til! his brother-
in-law came into office.
To all who would know what really hap-
pened in the N.S.W. Assembly during last week's
scenes of disorder, The Bulletin says—Read
Hansard, which, so far, is not a “kept” publica-
tion like most of the newspapers.
You may not be able actually to see the
larvae of corruption crawling over a politician or
a political party ; but yet the stench, and the buzz
of the blowflies, may remind you of the proverb
about smoke and fire. The Bulletin leaves the
N.S.W. public to make its own application of this
plain Saxon.
Martin, ALP. (N.S.W.), has discovered
that the cause of the unoccupiedness of Sydney
houses is the over-production of bricks. ' The
Bulletin would like to emphasise this discovery
by pointing out that the vacancy in the gifted
thinker’s brain-pan is the direct result of a surplus
creation of Alartins.
A South Australian, in offering a sub-
scription of one guinea towards the purchase of
the N.S.W. Premier’s picture, wrote that “ If it
had been towards a statue of the greatest Aus-
tralian statesman he would have given a much
larger subscription.” “ Australia’s greatest states-
man ?” Quite right. Almost anybody would give
more than a guinea to set up a statue to Al‘ll-
wraith.
The Australian Star (directed by mem-
bers of the late Dibbs’ Ministry) opposes the idea
that Air. Barton, Q.C., should lead the N.S.'W.
Protectionist party. The Bulletin is afraid that
the prejudice against Mr. Dibbs, assiduously and
unscrupulously fostered by the Sydney daily (sup)
press, is now so strong that he will not be able to
lead the party to complete victory. The Star, by
the way, if it wishes to really represent the Aus-
tralian Nationalists, had better adopt a more
generous policy with respect to several of the more
intelligent members of the Protectionist party,
whom it appears to regard with disfavour as aspir-
ants for office.
A handsome placard of a patent medicine
on the walls of Melbourne exhibits a picture of
what is called the Australian Flag, which evokes
some discussion. This flag is in four squares, two
of white bordered with blue, and two of yellow
bordered with red, the squares being alternate.
We don’t know where this flag comes from. Our
idea of the Australian national flag is that of the
Southern Ci’oss, which waved over Peter Lalor
when he was shot down by the English soldiers at
the Eureka Stockade, Ballarat. Victoria has a
mongrel flag already, adopted in 1879, to prevent
the English Government from laying hands on the
ironclad Cerberus, which might be shunted off to
Sydney or Adelaide if under the English flag.
Here, even, was one of the nails in the coffin of
Imperial Federation. Oh ! how we trust our be-
loved Mother!
Parkes is fond of comparing himself to
Mister Gladstone, but the man who, under w hat-
ever circumstances of provocation, would deli-
berately produce in Parliament for the purpose of
ridicule a little present given him in other days by
a political opponent and who would read in public
a private note sent to him by a friend who was in
prison for debt, is not made'of the stuff of which
Mister Gladstone is composed. And this The
Bulletin says, while admitting thatthegross impu-
tations of personal corruption made against Parkes,
were unpardonable, if unproveable. The revenge
of the truly great mind is often cruel, but it is never
malicious and petty. As a politician, Parkes has
been incomparably greater than Dibbs; personally,
and as a friend, Dibbs has ever been, and over will
be, incomparably greater than Parkes. The action
of the latter in jeering over the little wooden cup
carved at a prison lathe by an honest man who
went to gaol rather than pay what he regarded as
an unjust debt, was an act unworthy of an angry
man. It would have done discredit to a revenge-
ful woman.
According to Air. Garvan, M.F., the
national debt of Victoria is £34,000,000, or, count-
ing the surplus, £33,020,000. The value of the
State railways is £27,768,000, or, adding the value
of lines under construction, £30,678,000. Deduct-
ing 10 per cent, for wear and tear, leaves
£27,611,000 as the value of the Victorian lines.
Adding the .water and sewerage and the telegraphs
gives a total asset for Victoria of £33,476,000,
against a total indebtedness of £33,020,000. N.S.
Wales, on the other hand, has a deficiency of
£21,000,000, in addition to which she has sold
19,000,000 more acres of land than the sister
colony, which, at 15s. per acre, means £41,000,000
received by tin l Treasurer. Adding the two gives
a total deficiency of £35,000,000 for N.S. Wales,
while Victoria has no deficiency at all. Mr.
Garvan says that the national debt of N.S. Wales
is not represented by its railways. The total
amount of the N.S. Wales national debt
is £50,000,000, or, with the deficit £52,600,000.
The value of the railways is stated to be
£27,000,000, or, writing off 10 per cent.,
£25,096,000; deducting the value of the railways
from the total indebtedness leaves an indebtedness
of over £28,000,000. Deducting other reproduc-
tive works, such as the water and sewerage works,
which, like the railways, were not included in the
English national debt, would leave a public debt
not represented by the railways or other repro-
ductive works of £21,265,000. Now, the English
national debt was £705,000,000 sterling, which had
been reduced from ,£802,000,000 since 1866. Com-
paring the amount of the indebtedness of Great
Britain and N.S. Wales and the number of their
respective populations, the latter country would
have a national debt of over £765,000,000 in order
to be even with her. But the English indebted-
ness was paid for at the rate of 2f per cent., while
N.S.W.’s was paid for at the rate of 4 per cent.,
so that in order to be on the same footing as Eng-
A HITCH.
CLERICAL CENT.: “WELL. MY POOR, MISGUIDED YOUTH, AND DID YOU
RETURN UNTO YOUR FATHER’S HOUSE AS I ADVISED YOU?”
YOUNG BLACKSHEEP: “RATHER!”
C. G.: “AND DID HE KILL THE FATTED CALF AS I APPREHENDED HE
WOULD?”
Y. B.: “WELL,NO, BUT HE NEARLY KILLED THE PRODIGAL!”
land the N.S.W. public debt would have to lie at
£1,113,000,000. In other words, the burden of the
national debt per head in N. S. Wales —excluding
of course the railways and the other works named
—was 7 per cent, more than in England.
“The weak side of the head is called
heart.”
• The London police have discovered a
training-school for beggars in the city. Country
address Windsor Castle, of course.
A Melbourne paper says : “ There is some-
thing radically wrong with the milk-supply of
Melbourne.” There is always some trouble about
the Yan Yean.
The “ good ” people in V ictoria who ob-
ject to Sunday journalism may be interested to
know that Colonel Fit/.George, son of the Shook
of Gampridge, a few years ago owned part of a
Sunday paper (the Sunday Times, now run by
Miss Alice Midas Cornwell Whiteman.) It was
his pleasure to pass part of each Saturday in
writing leaders and correcting proofs. This is
how he did it : “ He approached his work very
much as a cavalryman prepares to groom his horse.
That is to say, he took off his coat, turned up his
shirt-sleeves, dropped his braces over his shoulders,
and put his feet into a pair of slippers without
toes. A pipe and eye-glass completed the out-
ward and visible presence of this aristocratic
newspaper-man.” Now, as little Bailey also wears
an eye-glass and has been in the army, what more
can the Victorians want ?
Personal Items.
Dibbs and Abbott are both bald. Nothing
can grow at such altitudes.
Mrs. Maybrick owed £3OOO not long before
she poisoned her husband.
David Christie Murray returns to Eng-
land after the Melbourne Cup.
The famous collaborators, Erckmann and
Chatrian, have parted company.
Millionaire Berry was the last of his race.
None of the Berry family ever married.
The Earl of Galloway, now charged with
criminal assault, married the Marquis of Salis-
bury’s sister.
Physically, Sir Benjamin Benjamin is a
model alderman. They call him Sir Bingey Lin gey
in Melbourne now.
Bir John Stainer says: “A University
professor is a man appointed to prevent other
people from taking degrees.”
Evangelist Varley says he would not re-
nounce his position for the consolidated thrones
of Europe. Talk’s cheap.
A London paper remarks that live nobodies
are addicted to making capital out of dead some-
bodies. D. O’Connor, please note.
Mr. Crick M.P., who has a libel-action
against a Sydney publication, says he is determined
that he will ruin it, or it will ruin him.
Air. Justice Stephen, who tried Airs. Alay-
briok, recently wrote in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury : —“ We can get on very well without a re-
ligion.”
()ne of Sydney’s millionaires, whose money-
lending operations on freehold property are enor-
mous, has no office, but does all his business in
front of the bank-counter.
A Melbourne paper writes of Lord Hope-
toun that his clothes fit him very well. We don't
much admire that sort of man in Australia. We
prefer the man who fits his clothes.
There are some rich men who do the State
most service when they are dead. Probate duty paid
on the property left by J. B. Watson, of Sand-
hurst, amounted to some £63,000.
The Prince of Wales is suffering from a
swelled leg. The Tory press' wails over it. We
congratulate the Prince. The change of venue
must have vastly relieved his poor head.
Hopetoun, the new Governor of Victoria,
though 29 last birthday, is as yet unable to dis-
play a vestige of either beard or moustache. Like
Baron Carington, Hopetoun is yearning for a little
heir.
Dr. Cecil de Yere, better thief than sur-
geon, has been judged and jugged at Sydney for
five years. His name was probably stolen and his
villainy may be gauged by the character of the
annexation.
Edwin J. Welch, now of the Picturesque
Atlas Publishing Co., Sydney, a veteran Queens-
land journalist, carries a large potato in his right-
hand trousers-pocket to ward off rheumatism. It’s
his rheumatic pomme-de-terrent.
Berry, the British executioner, has cabled
to New York offering to hang for an honorarium
of £5OO all the murderers in the States who are
awaiting the rope. This ishis idea of “drawing
tighter the silken bonds which,” &c., &c.
The Melbourne people have amongst them
one of England’s heroes. He served 20 years
in army, was present at Balaklava, Inkerman, and
Sebastopol, and is now seeking charity. He gets
ninepence a day out of the city police poor box!
Queen Victoria will spend the autumn as
usual at Balmoral, where she compels her ladies-
in-waiting to dine in low dress with the windows
all open, while she covers her plump shoulders
with a shawl, and sets all the men-folks shivering
in kilts.
London Figaro advises Bladen to stick to
his rhyming and not try to astonish the “ Old
World ” again by his sensational discovery that
Australasia during the past century has been pro-
ducing “poets ” at the average rate of at least one
per annum.
Dr. Wills, the father of the explorer, was
lying dead in an English provincial town when
Duncan Gillies announced his Government’s in-
tention to propose a pension of £lOO a year for the
poor old fellow. For father, as for son, relief
came too late.
In a letter to a daily paper one “Austin
Brereton says : —“Speaking of the London Sunday
papers from an intimate knowledge of them all,
based upon nine years’ experience as a loading
London journalist, I can say,” &c,, &c. ■ How
beautiful a thing is Modesty !
Gladstone says ho weighs 12st. 41b. in hi"
boots, and he is careful to add that three-fourth'
of him is water. There is a difference between
him and the old stylo of British statesman who
was three-fourths port-wine and the other fourth
prejudice and pigheadedness.
Some Sydney Eight-hours’ men lately
waited on Bruce Smith—so goes the story- and
asked him for a contribution towards their demon-
stration. 8.5., thereupon, gave them £5 to spend
on sports’ prizes, stipulating that the money shout i
go to buy works on political economy.
A young lady having observed to Albert:
Victor that she had lost her dog, added that it
would save the dog-tax. " Dog-tax, ’ said the
Prince, “ what is that?” She-explained. I
never heard of such a thing,” he replied. “1 am
sure, if I were you I would not pay it.”
It is an open secret that Queen A ictoria lias
bequeathed the Osborne estate to Princess
Beatrice, and Balmoral to the Duke of Connaught,
with Birkhall to Princess Beatrice, and Claremont
to the Duchess of Albany, with reversion to her
son. If the old lady goes on like this, nothing
will bo left for ns.
During the building and decoration of the
present Parliament Houses in London, the Queen
expressed disapproval of her robing-room to Mr.
Barry, the architect (father of the late Primate of
Australia.) At which Mr. Barry said : “I am
very sorry, your Majesty, because .1 like it, and
there’s an end of the matter.” And he walked off.
Says a Pall Mall correspondent:- “The
Earl of Fife holds himself apart from his depen-
dents and tenants, maintaining towards them an
attitude of rigid and frigid dignity. To say that
he is liked in Braemar would not be true. He is
feared and respected as one of the proprietors of
the place, and that is the best that can be said of
his relations with the people.”
Honest “ Tom ” Coker, the originator of
“sweeps” on the Melbourne Cup and other big
Australian races, is dead. Tom’s was a well-
known figure in Melbourne thirty years ago as an
hotelkeeper and afterwards as lessee of the
“Varieties.” He afterwards went hotel-keeping
in Launceston, (Tas.), and is said to have been in
poor circumstances at the time of his death.
The ten richest men in America are Mr.
Cornelius Vanderbilt, £22,000,000; Air. J. J.
Astor, £20,000,000 ; Mr. William Astor,
£20,000,000 ; Air. John D. Rockfeller, £12.000,000 ;
Mr. Andrew Carnegie, £8,000,000; Air. John L
Blair, £8,000,000; Air. Lelaud Stanford, £8,000,000;
Mr. O. P. Huntington, £8,000,000; Air. -I, W.
Mackay, £7,500,000 ; Mr. Philip Armour,
£(5,250,000.
Poor little cork-legged Duke of Newcastle
is building a church, to cost £50,000, in the
grounds of his Clumber estate. And when this
young man’s father, the late Duke, was sold up,
the auctioneer couldn’t find a Bible on the
premises. The library consisted mainly of ele-
gantly-bound volumes of the Racing Calendar.
What an improvement a cork leg may effect in the
morals of a noble family !
The enunciation of a certain very well-
known Australian actor is much interfered with
by an ill-fitting set of false teeth. He has an ad-
mirer, a Sydney dentist, who lately offered to
provide him with a new set free of charge. The
old man, however, stoutly refused, and on being-
asked for a reason said, after a brief period of re-
flection—“ Well, you see, there’s so many tender
Associations hanging round the old Tins.”
Mr. E. 0. Bell, police-magistrate of Caster-
ton (Vic.) is a gentleman of the fruity old port-
wine type—now, alas, nearly extinct —and has the
poorest of opinions about any man who can’t take
his pint, or quart, or two or three quarts for that
matter, when occasion arises. A witness came
before him the other day. “You are not a Blue
Ribbon man, are you?” said Mr. Bell. “No, sir,”
replied the witness, wiping his month with his
coat-sleeve. “I’m very glad to hear it,” said Air.
Bell, “ I always suspect them.”
The Duchess of Edinburgh’s income is
about a third less than it used to be. Her dowry
was arranged to be invested in Russia, and interest
was to be paid by the Emperor. Now Alexander
lll.'has reduced the incomes of all the Grand
Dukes and Duchesses, and even that of the Em-
press. Added to this, the rouble—-the Russian
merchants say owing to Prince Bismarck, but
more probably from commercial and financial
reasons—is of less value than it was in 1874, and
there is a rule that the Grand Dukes and Duchesses
may be deprived of half their incomes unless they
spend half the year in Russia. It is well known
that the Duchess has not conformed to this rule
since her father’s murder in 1881.


for TT^^| k>u ,
luUlc IM ) Jr)
j* re t ( u r t
•|> C C'*’ *• 'C*A 3 1C
4>uil yen
nu>r, bv v«
V r k
IV (; o I «f O 1/4 4 1^
ll our citit/
c *?) cu o I c
p
5“ °
At Dampler's Baby-Snow.


}r
3J/-&35 jyj) Cf/c/f a. - ,
, y au. o)oujc/, 5/ayct /y>y r rop/ L -
Oj 'fh~ ‘ ______
11l
7 A /£-
%
r y)/fktJusr/^e
/y re p(,/o£/s r *r/ct#rry ffie Cr/oArj"//? fas yo 6usy/>
of ferjerq.f'/b/}. */
fe a Hoed f ft • r 'V °?f ere an<C
rrucSy oaf
oral) aye ///s /anyujxye /&
fa rayC; Q.yct 'f/ /
tf ar
ij (>/pryfjf /n Jfy£>
UyuaWy
The John Davies Vote.


“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is.
at least double that of any other brand in the,,
market.”
PACKED ONLY BY
James luglis & Oca.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Place, SYDNEY.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET. SYDNEY.
F. W. .lOVSOV. Fit man's Fertiflcalcri Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Fee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post—Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson".
Fees in Advance.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3STew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Penrich, Lipp, Ronisch, Bluthner, Collat'd, and other
Also of the wonderful Victor Y*ian.Oß and Sstev Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Trims.
Society
Lord Caringfcon writes that “life in Aus-
tralia is well worth living.” Quite right, Baron.
With £7OOO a year, Government House rent-free,
perks of all sorts, a big private income, the
Christian Weekly to read and Burdett Smith to
talk to, life ought to be well worth living. Any-
how, if under such circumstances life be found
uninteresting, then the fault must surely be with
“ the liver ” and not with the country.
* * *
The judges at Dampier’s baby-show must
have had a tough job. For ourselves, we could
never see any difference between one baby and
another, any more than we could between one tea
leaf and another. Babies, monkeys, Chinamen,
and green peas— are all alike in that regard.
* * #
Tears ago, we are told, there was a baby-
show in Sydney. The prize fell to the lot of the
mother of a very beautiful child. Three weeks
afterwards that child was dead.
Miss Clara Brooke, who, during the pro-
gress of the Anderson divorce case, at Adelaide,
married the gallant Lieutenant Frederick Talbot
Driffield Clindening (aged 30), set her age down in
the Registrar’s book at 37. She will be 57 when
th6' giddy Frederick is 50 and the average
military swell wants a lot of watching when his
whiskers become iron-grey and he shaves his chin
to look youthful.
# * #
The Rev. Steel, of North Melbourne,
wants Sunday telegrams to bo abolished. We are
now waiting for some reverend crank to demand
that the circulation of the blood be stopped on
Sundays. By the way, people die on Sundays just
as freely as on week days. We do not wish to he
A SAYING CLAUSE.
Scene: Manly steamboat.
SMITH: “AH, JONES, STILL LIVE AT MANLY?”
JONES: “YES, STILL THERE.”
SMITH: “SUMMER’S COMMENCED—I SUPPOSE YOU’VE BEEN BATHING?”
JONES: “NO, NOT YET—AT LEAST I’VE NOT YET COMMENCED SEA-
BATHING.”
flippant over serious things, hut we wonder
whether their cases are held over till the following
morning. In other words, are they damned on
Sundays, or otherwise ?
# # #
The man who advertises on postage-stamps
will have his name in everybody’s mouth, anyhow.
Everybody will spit on his name, also. This rather
vulgar joke can’t he licked.
* # 5S
From Adelaide ;—Mr. Justice Boucaut
gave 10 years’ hard labour yesterday to a white-
haired burglar named John Jones, 78 years old.
The man had a long record of previous convictions,
one being a sentence of death, which was after-
wards commuted.” ,
Little Spurgeon is “coming the big
Beecher.” Charley has got home to father, and is
explaining away the San Franoiso occurence. The
American papers are such awful liars, you know !
Look at how they persecuted the holy Beecher,
the sleek Abbe. Spurgeon, senior, writes that
“Our Sou” has been maligned. Now they are
making capital out of it. Young Charley goes
round to big meetings, and of course draws a
crowd. Is he married ? AVhy, he could easily net
now some £30,000 heiress, like our familiar and
unscandalised Boanerges, the Rev. Grattan Guin-
ness. Frisky parsons never will be candid. Mean-
while all the women, young and old, will rush to
see young Spurgeon, as they did to see Beecher
when he went to England. The droppings in the
plate will correspond.
# * #
The Melbourne medical students’ organ
quotes for the edification of sucking sawboneses
the following “ excellent rules for the collection
of fees ” ;
Always make a charge for each service ; this gives it a
business value in the eyes of the patient. The charge
should always he just and reasonable ; then no deduction
is necessary. Insist always on full payment, based, if
necessary, on itemised accounts; when the patient asks
for a reduction of his bill, recall the sacrifice of meals and
of sleep in tendering him prompt service. Think of your
preferences then, and his now. Never allow sentiment to
interfere with business ; the “thank you” is Best emphas-
ised by the silvery accent of clinking coin. The loss of
money by sickness only affects one side in every other
business. Why should it be different when the doctor is
to he paid ? Always charge a fixed fee, and never trust to
your patient’s generosity, or embarrass him by guessing
an amount that would lie satisfactory to you ; it is very
much like firing with a kicking gun in a dark room at a
black oat, which isn’t there. Render bills at short intervals,
and be in earnest when you begin to collect them.
# * *
Out in N.S.AV. there is a young R.C.
clergyman who within 12 months has received
four testimonials from different parishes. The
cash insults in all amounted to £BOO.
# # #
Melbourne “ drunks,” to avoid the ortho-
dox “ five shillings or six hours,” now usually
ascribe their condition to the milk. Two brought
up last week, after being allowed to shake off in-
cipient D.T.’s in their cells, severally and inde-
pendently affirmed, with due solemnity, that it
was all “ along of the milk.” There will be a
licensing-act for dairies down south presently.
The cows are beginning to give milk-punch.
* * *
Down South there has been a considerable
bother over the recent marriage of a young man
well known in military circles to a lady of the
(lend monde. The trouble chiefly arises out of the
fact that, like more exalted personages, the young
man insists on forcing his bride upon local society.
“ Messers Editors ” is the style in which a
letter begins in a Victorian paper. The compositor
always gets even with his enemies in the end.
* * *
A Victorian country paper, referring to tho
suggestion made by Mr. ,T. L. Purves, the bar-
rister, that a prize should he offered for the best
Australian poem to he written, says, “Where will
he find the poets ? ” That is soon settled. If Mr.
Purves finds the liquor the poets will find them-
selves.
The season is now beginning when the
man who has taken the pledge at the request of
his friends lies down on the roadway, pretending
that he has been bitten by a snake, and howls for
whisky. Pass him by.
# #
Fourteen hundred different methods of
rabbit destruction have been submitted to the
Intercolonial Rabbit Commission. And yet the
law has only discovered one way to kill a man !
# # *
Mr. Jubilee Juggins Benzon says, in his
book just brought out, that his Australian trip
cost him £65,000. This is the principal reason
why he is considered such an abject idiot in Eng-
land. The English point of view is that only
hopeless lunatics come out to Australia to spend
money. Sensible persons don't conic, or, if they
do, they come either as Governors or eminent
novelists delivering lectures for the good of then
health.
* * *
There are some sensations still loft for the
male person of the future. The woman with hair
on her face will be one of them. A writer in a
contemporary _ says : “The habitual feminine
smoker is said to nearly always possess a
moustache.” The inference is, of course, that the
moustache is produced by smoking. At this rate,
when lovely woman takes to chewing she will pro-
bably grow a beard. This altered state of affairs
should do away with a lot of foolish and gratuitous
osculation. Lovers of the future will have to be
content to rub noses, like other savages, when
they meet. A new school of poetry will be one of
the first results of this coming change. This will
be the idea, we suppose :
I met her. in the pale moonshine
One passion-breathing night;
She rubbed her ruby nose ’gainst mine
O, rapture ! O, delight!
This state of things will have some curious fea-
tures. Fancy the uxorious husband of the future,
who has missed In,s wife in a crowd, rushing about
crying, in anguish stricken tones : “Did anybody
see a lady with a waxed moustache and a goatee
passing this way ?” Or the s'ngie gentleman of
the future looking for his partner at a ball. lie
enquires if the M.C. has observed her. “What
was she like?” asks the M.C. “She had a red
beard.” replies the single gentleman,
# # *
Dear Bulletin, —Allow me space in your
columns to draw the attention of all lovers of fair
play to the manner in which some of the dress-
making and millinery establishments in a big
New, South Wales border town are conducted
and the treatment dealt out to the unfortu-
nate workers therein. In the first place, exclud-
ing the forewomen, the girls or young women
(for some of them arc full-grown women) do
not get on an average more than 3d. per hour
for day-work, and have very often to work at
night until 10 or half-past 10 and on some occa-
sions as late as 11, for which they get paid one
farthing--their employers, at the same time, being
well aware that after leaving off work some or
them have to travel along distance to reach home.
Ju one establishment the girls were kept at work
for three weeks prior to the last Agricultural
Show until 11 o clock at night, and not paid any-
thing extra for it; at another establishment it 'is
the custom to lock the girls in at night when at
work. In case of tiro the unfortunate creatures
might be burnt to cinders before the turnkey or
warder or whatever you would call him could be
found, as he might be saying his prayers or play-
ing billiards. By way of illustrating the em-
ployers’ ideaS' of fair play, lot me add that,
although nothing is paid for overtime, if a hand
should stay at home for a day or two through
illness—possibly brought on by working’ in an
unhealthy room, the employer has the effrontery
to deduct pay for the lost time. Australians had
better not expend all their sympathy on the
London dock labourers.—Yours truly, )ld
Forty-niner.
% #
Four cases of murder, of wives or through
wives, have been reported in the Australian
papers in as many days. From altar to halter is
but one false step.
* # #
The A ictorian Customs authorities have
determined to make no concessions regarding
those presentation, diamonds ordered from Eng-
land for dear Lady Loch-—the committee will
either have to plank £4OO duty or keep the jewels
out of the colony on a hulk and present them to
her ladyship on the bosom of the deep as she is
leaving again.
* * *
An official statement to the effect that
there are more deaths of infants than births regis-
tered in Tasmania every year has caused some
consternation in the Tight Little Island. There
must be a large import trade in infants done in
Tassy. Who sends them there ? Don’t all speak
at once.
* * *
We have the authority of the Princess
Christian for the assertion that a college for train-
ing ladies for colonial life is being formed in
London. They are taught the duties of a barmaid,
we suppose.
* * #
We have often remarked it ourselves. But
we never saw anything about it in print until we
encountered the following, from the pen of the
recently-deceased “ Clara Belle
Did you ever notice how women hug themselves in
cloaks and shawls ? I first realised that feminine pecu-
liarity last evening at a fashionable concert. The lobby
was crowded by the arriving ladies and gentlemen, the
former mostly in new opera-wraps. I noticed that nearly
all were hugging themselves unconsciously but fondly. I
found that I was doing it myself. The wraps were gener-
ally drawn forward until they were tense and comforting
around the waist and shoulders, and then the hands of
the wearers were caressingly held on their own opposite
fore-arms, or were in some way instinctively fondling the
owner. All through the performance I investigated my
new discovery. On every side were ocular evidences of
women’s horn desire to he lovingly petted. They were
holding their own arms, squeezing themselves- with then-
own elbows, pressing their hearts with ~r i eir own soft
biceps, and in all these unconscious indulgences they
were demonstrating that woman was made to hug.
* * *
’ The Australian .Natives of Melbourne are
being stirred up to talk more drivel concerning
poor Adam Lindsey Gordon’s grave, A metro-
politan committee—which ought to know better —
appear to be taking up a collection from the
various branches of their verdant association, for
tho purpose of erecting a monument over the
poet, who is alleged, in the committee’s circular,
to bo sleeping under a plain tombstone, surrounded
A BALLAD OF THE BABY SHOW.
Ten years, or more, had pass’d
Since I’d seen my Ethel Mary,
Ah !' she broke it off at last—
Flirty, foolish little fairy !
I left her with a sigh
And wrote a final letter
(I was certain I should die—
But I afterwards got better.)
I used to sit and think
How one day I might see her
(And I rather took to drink
In the form of bottled beer);
I wanted, ah ! so much
By her side again to linger,
•lust to feel the magic touch
Of her tiny, taper finger.
’Tis hard when lovers part,
Who’ve doted on each other—
AVhen the darling of your heart
Merely “ likes you as a brother”—
When the ruby lips, so cold.
Don’t impart a pleasant tingle—
(Though a married man, I’m told,
Often wishes he was single.)
Well, well—l lived alone
AVith a cat and a canary,
Doing little else than groan
For my cruel Ethel Mary.
No hand to put a stitch
In the garments needing mending
(I was slowly getting rich,
Earning twice what I was spending.)
Had my Ethel Mary wed ?
Or had they laid her under,
AVith the daisies overhead,
Very sadly I would wonder,
The thought it drove me marl,
To the very verge of rabies—
I was feeling pretty bad
AVhen I went to see the babies.
I roamed about the show
Disconsolate and droopy—
Never caring, doncherknow,
If the little kids were croupy ;
There was one infantine cuss
AVith a visage sour as senna
(Now I wouldn’t really nuss
Such a baby for a tenner.)
For “ a single man like I ”
Doesn’t love his fellow-creatures
AVhen they only squeak and cry,
And they haven’t any featur, s
(I would feel for any chaps
Who their little cherubs smother),
So I thought I’d try, perhaps,
Just to mash a pretty “ mother.”
I therefore fossicked round
All among the household trnasn e -
Some were lying on the ground
Sucking bottles at their pleasures -
Some were very plump indeed
(And as waxy as pertaters)
But I didn’t take much heed
I was working at the maters.
I went through section “ E ”
(Boys six months’ old or under)
And there what did I see?
’Twas too horrible, by thun 1 r !
All gone the girlish charm s
Of faithless Ethel Mary,
And this baby in her arms
AVas a reddish one and hair’ - .
Our eyes that instant met,
She blew her nose and start * I,
Then she said, “Do you forg t
How w« fondly loved and juried
But to my single breast
I didn’t want to clutch her,
And she playfully confess’t
She was married to a butcher.
Her weight was fifteen stone,
Her yellow gown was shabby—
For her I’d lived alone,
And she with such a hahhy !
(Love’s a thing of yesterday.
And I’m sure there’s nothing in it),
So I tore myself away,
Saying, “ ’Sense me for a minute.”
Yes, like a bird I fled
To my cat and my canary;
I never turned my head
For another look at Mary.
As I left her sitting there
(I believe she must have dropsy)
I could hear the mother’s prayer
“ Mind you vote for precious popsy.”
I gave mine to that kid,
Just for old associations
(There was no one else who did,
’Cept his father and relations),
And later in the day,
AAJien I saw O ! such a fairy,
Sober reason seemed to say,
Now ! remember Ethel Mary.
It was a white-haired burglar
Of venerable mien,
That all before the justice stood,
These words passed them between :
“ I’m very old,” the burglar said ;
“ For this you might allow.
My habits all are formed—Alas !
I cannot alter now.”
“ I’m also old,” the justice said,
And wiped his pallid brow.
“ My habits, too, are formed —ten years—
I cannot alter now.”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT Sc DISCOUNT BANK,
90 KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9| per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months ... ~■• per cent.
3 Months oh per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance ol current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors. _
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T, S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager.
In Consumption
rsE iiorsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. A. Cf. Rawson Harris, L.R.C.P., and M.R.0.5.,
“The Elms,” Pembroke, Eng., says: “I administered it
with the best results in a case of phthisis, first stage. The
symptoms were very unfavourable ; great derangement of
the digestive and nervous systems, very little sleep, and
no appetite ; the patient herself 'had lost all hope, being
of a fatalistic tendency of mind, and the results were all
the more gratifying.”
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
p
WHAT
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
CURES
uanBBBaBHH
CONSUMPTION
SCROFULA
BRONCHITIS
COUCHS
COLDS
Wasting Diseases
Wonderful P3osh Producer.
Many have gained one pound
per day by its use,
Scott’s Emulsion is not a secret
remedy. It contains the stimulat-
ing properties of the Hypophos-
phites and pure Norwegian Cod
Liver Oil, the potency of both
being largely increased. It is used
bv Physicians all over the world.
“PALATABLE AS viILK.
Sold hif all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOW ME, New York.
Robert son’s W iiiskv.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of 45 each, 25 42, and 70 41,
Pamphlets from the Agents, A.LLT Sz
CO., Limited, CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
by weeds. Very recently The Bulletin ex-
plained that this neglected condition of Gordon’s
grave was a pure fiction, and that his “ tomb-
stone ” is a column sufficiently imposing to satisfy
anybody who isn’t a snob. Only railings are
required round the double allotment grave, which
measures Bft. square, to make it one of the most
gentlemanly shows in Brighton cemetery. In
point of fact, the writer of this par. was there
within the last thx-ee months. Not a weed could
be sceix on the groxxnd at that time. It was being
kept ixx proper garden order at the expense of a
Sandhurst lady. Weeds xxxust get arouxxd occa-
sionally mxless a man is hired to stay beside the
o-rave with a Dutch hoe and haxxk the vegetatioxx xxp
directly it shows signs of bursting into full view.
Wo don’t think any member of the A.N.A. Metro-
politan Committee has ever been to see the grave,
and we respectfully surmise that the special object
jf this monument agitation is to give some stone-
mason a good job.
* ■* #
The bridegroom, who put a charge of shot
into a tin-kettler, down at Euroa (Vie.), has been
acquitted by a jury of married men. Tin-kettling
will now go oxxt of fashion.
# * *
Adelaide has got into a state of virtuous
indigxxation because only 500 people turned xxp at
the Mayor’s return ball, whereas his own official
kick-up was attended by 1700 invitation ticket-
Ixolders. There is really no reason for this hulla-
baloo. Yoxx see, most of the xnen took their
wonxenfolk to the first affair under px-otest, and
swore at the xxxilliner’s bill. When it came to
paying for tickets, as well as for new gowns, the
poor sufferers were “ off,” very much off. Man’s
inhumanity to woman is the saddest characteristic
of this selfish age, but we think people ought to be
used to it by tins time. By the way, a return ball
to the Mayor of Melbourne is xxow afoot.
A co-operative store at Sandhurst, being
conducted on the orthodox principles, has just
declared a 20 per cent, dividend. The co-opera-
tive system is essentially radical and socialistic in
itself, besides tending to diminish the ranks of
shopkeepers, whose reverence for “carriage
people” and slavish demeanour towards “best
customers ” works for Toryism all the world over.
In both of these respects co-operative stores are
doing good for many English towns. And as
Australia wants them badly, it is pleasant to
record the success of this little Sandhurst experi-
ment —the first attempted in that dry and dusty
district.
# # *
An Adelaide man, whose body was found
lately after ho had been missing for several
months, left this message in his pocket-book:
“Tell my mother-in-law that I die with a curse on
ray lips against her, and I hope she will follow in
less than a week.” He evidently didn’t expect to
go to Heaven.
* # #
Extract from the report of the inquest on
the North Melbourne Lothario who was stabbed
by a wicked husband last week ;
Mr. Lyons (to witness): “But a man could lie sober at
half-past one and drunk at six.”
Dr. Youl: “Yes: that is the reason why I never keep
a jury after three in the afternoon. The effect of alcohol
is somniferous.”
The point of this curious statement may not be
seen at a glance, but it is there all the same.
Whenever a man is summoned to serve on a
coroner’s jury in Melbourne, his first thought is to
fill a bottle with rum or other liquor of a cheap
and satisfying kind, anil place it in an inside
pocket. Then bring on your corpses.
* * *
Millionaire David Berry was a little vain
after all. He has left a Bible and a black dress to
each child attending Sunday-school at Coolaxxgatta,
A wild yarn is extant to the effect that a
Melbourne son of toil has become entitled to one
million and a-half sterling by the winding up of
in English Chancery suit. The whole amount
available for family distribution is fixed at eight
millions, and Sir Charles Russell, who took up
the case on spec., is to absorb five hundred thou-
sand pounds by way of fee. A flavour of Jonah
and the whale hangs about this yarn. We are
prepared to hear that this vast estate can be traced
back to the Marble Man—who died intestate, ac-
cording to competent medical authorities.
* * *
Lord Hopetoun has ordered 300 liveries in
Edinburgh— to dazzle Toorak and Melbourne at
large. Republicanism is gone. Chuck up the
sponge. Toorak is dazzled at present with photos,
of his Lordship in a hunting-suit, with baggy
breeches, like a purser’s shirt on a marlin-spike.
These 300 flunkies will knock Melbourne dead,
but what a row among the tailors! Protec-
tion to native industry. Three hundred gold-laced
coats at £5 apiece, 300 red-plush breeches £3
apiece, 000 silk stockings £1 apiece, 300 wigs £2
apiece, 300 fancy weskits £2 apiece. Total ? What
groans from Collins - street. Talk abouQ the
Chinese cabinetmakers ! why, there’ll be a tailors’
insurrection.
* * *
That big farce, the Ormond Working
Men’s College, Melbourne, held the display of its
Elocution Society last Thursday night. The lec-
ture theatre was thronged. But alas ! you looked
in vain for the working class. Not one of the
vulgar proletariat. A complete assemblage of the
shabby genteel. One young lady, dressed in a
scarlet velvet opera-cloak, and with long white kid
gloves, recited a scene from the “ Lady of Lyons,”
as Pauline, supported by a stage-struck hero as
Claude Melnotte. Whatever sort of Working
Men’s College business is this, in velvet opera-
cloaks, and white kid gloves ? Rev. Macully, who
BRUTALLY CANDID.
M. Seumblethump has painted a strictly Australian subject, “The Bushranger’s Death,” and
has asked the opinion of a friend.
FRIEND: “WELL, I THINK IT IS AN INFERNAL DAUB, IF YOU ASK ME.”
SCUMBLETHUMP: “OH, COME NOW! THAT IS HARDLY CRITICISM.”
FRIEND: “BUT YOU DIDN’T ASK ME TO CRITICISE IT, YOU ASKED ME
TO TELL YOU CANDIDLY WHAT I THOUGHT OF IT.”
used to be a utility actor, sat in the front seat,
evidently ruminating in his soul, “ Oh, dear ! The
supply of fools is perennial.” • He thought, per-
chance, of the time when he was stuck in West
Australia, and delivered his spouting entertain-
ment in the saloon of the steamboat. But the
butterflies still rush to the candle, and the mystery
is that the Working Men’s College of pious Mil-
lionaire Ormond is turned into a seminary for
the stage-struck.
# # *
At Sydney Philharmonic Society’s Ex-
hibition-building performance of “Elijah” that
inevitable musical nightmare, “God Save the
Queen,” was trotted out, as usual, on the appear-
ance of Governor Carington. First the sopranos
stood up and dusted it round, then the altos
grappled it manfully, and finally the whole chorus
grovelled voluminously. When “God save,” &c.,
had been stood on its head, viewed, en profile, from
the rear and sideways, every one wiped the dust
from their knees and the prophet Elijah being pro-
duced out of a corner, the alleged business of the
evening was proceeded with. But the half-houi’
devoted to the unnecessary “National ” bug-bear
wholly precluded most folks from having an oppor-
tunity of sitting the performance out. In refer-
ence to this matter the S. M. Herald’s leading
London journalist severely asks—
Why should certain ladies think it unbecoming to stand
up when the National Anthem is being sung or played ?
There seems to be a growing tendency to disregard this
mark of respect. This was particularly noticeable at the
“Elijah” performance, where many ladies remained
severely seated from beginning to end of “ God Save the
Queen.” Is this lamentable lack of manners due to ignor-
ance, or does it arise from a feeling of bravado ? What-
ever may be the cause, it looks bad, and a stranger to the
country like Mr. Santley cannot form a particularly high
opinion of our courtesy towards the Sovereign. And th
people who commit this breach of etiquette are not only
inferentially disloyal, but their conduct is a slight to their
neighbours.
We don’t suppose ladies consider it unbecoming
to stand on these sorrowful occasions, but they
certainly are sensible when they remain seated
when a piece of music, so highly calculated to
make them tired, is performed. Why on earth
should a prayer for the prosaic Queen V ictoria be
eternally forced into the mouth and ears of every
person who has paid a shilling or two for the pur-
pose of enjoying himself sixteen thousand miles
away from the Herman sausages of Balmoral
Castle ? But we entreat the Australian ladies not
to sit down when “God Save Queen Victoria”
is played at the theatre. Let them kneel down.
It will look ever so much more loyal.
# # *
An American boy of 11 shot his father and
stepmother dead as they lay asleep. Second
marriage is evidently a failure.
# #
Mr. F. B. Suttor, M.L.0., says in a
Bathurst newspaper that there are 700 empty
houses in Bathurst.
John O’Neill, of Prahran, aged 76, tried
to commit suicide last week. He said he was
tired of life. The old story—crossed in love—me
suppose.
An aged Victorian, named Woolf, after
digesting all the ’orrid details of recent murders
went on a prolonged ‘ ‘ burst, ” and then surrendered
himself up to justice for committing a con-
glomerated crime which seems to have no existence
in fact. It was a case of Evenin’ ’Erald on the
brain
An extraordinary meeting of the share-
holders of the Equitable Deposit and Mortgage
Bank of Australasia, Limited, was held in Mel-
bourne last week. The ‘ gentlemen present
immediately proceeded to call each other liars,
scoundrels, and old fools. The business of the
meeting then concluded..
A competent office of the Victorian Water
Supply Department, has just completed an
exhaustive survey of the Murray River in the
neighbourhood of Albury, chiefly for the purpose
of ascertaining the volume of water proceeding
down the stream. The result of his investigations
is that there is still enough water in the river to
dilute whisky with for many years to come. All
is quiet on the Murray, once more.
Why on earth should David Christie
Murray, in his Sydney D.T. articles, make P. J.
Holdsworth one of a quartette of which the three
others are Brunton Stephens, Marcus Clarke, and
Cordon? Mr. Holdsworth, in point of having
enthusiastic friends, is a very lucky young man,
for not only does Christie Murray write about
him, but Parkes, in his choicest orations, takes
leaves out of P. J.’s book. We are almost begin-
ning to suspect that Mr. Murray has never heard
about V. J. Daley, or “E. Lowe,” or John Farrell,
to say nothing of others who are unrepresented in
Douglas Sladen’s shilling; laughing-stock. All of
which we have artfully said as a prelude to the an-
nouncement that The Bulletin has in the press
in the form of a shilling book a selection from verse
and prose matter which has appeared in its
columns. Post-free after publication to any of the
Australias for Is. sd. in stamps.
Wo have recently been shown over the
renovated establishment of “The Sydney Catering
C 0.,” Pitt-street, Sydney. The first improvement
noticeable on entering is the isolation of the ladies’
department from the general lunch and dining-
rooms, ladies being now able to pass to the
apartment assigned them by a separate en-
trance, thus avoiding the refreshment bar.
The general dining-room on the first floor
(capable of sitting about 500 persons) is up-
holstered and fitted in the latest and most
approved style. Behind the dining-room is the
smoking-room furnished with round marble-
covered tables, where is located a temporary “bar”
for the special use of banquets, &c. The culinary
department is spotlessly clean and provided with
steam jets for the “ heating of plates,” &c., from a
boiler in the kitchen placed there for the purpose.
The ventilating and sanitary arrangements are
of the most complete description throughout,
while the exterior of the new premises are most
artistic and imposing and a decided acquisition to
Sydney. Altogether, for comfort, excellence of
cuisine, and attendance, the Sydney Catering Co.,
under its present management, would be difficult
to excel.
"ELIJAH" EGESON’S AWFUL PRO-
PHECY.
Three solid years of sun and drought!
A prospect sad without a doubt;
The country must go up the spout
By Eighteen Ninety-three.
No pleasant sound of shearers’ shears—
The squatters crushed beneath arrears—
N o water to be got—with tears
Will women make their tea.
Imagine creeks all full of dust,
Each river’s bed an iron crust—
-0 ! shan’t we all be thirsty just
By Eighteen Ninety-three.
The air alive with fever-germs,
And creatures known by Latin terms,
1 f, as our Egeson affirms,
No rain are we to see.
No pasturage or smiling crops,
No luscious fruit or drowsy hops—
The shutters up at all the shops
In Eighteen Ninety-three.
A long farewell to lemon squash,
Why, how the dickens shall we wash
Or clean our teeth ? Enough of bosh—
The drought, will never be.
That Epithalamium.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Queen has greatly embarrassed Lord
Tennyson by requesting him to compose an
epithalamium on the Duke of Fife’s marriage.”—
Daily Pater,
Tall and tauty,
Anti-sporty,
Fair and forty,
Moral life.
Rather yellow
Kind of swell O !
Decent fellow,
Duke of Fife.
Two-and-twenty,
Forehead denty,
Waist in plenty,
Nice to squeeze.
No Astarte,
Free and hearty
Sort of party
Is Louise.
Two-and-twenty
Married forty.
They have plenty—
Give them more !
Foolish growlings,
Worse than naughty.
Joyous bowlings
Let us roar !
For her Gracious
Wants a spacious
And splendaeious
Nuptial song;
But the person
Who should verse on
This is cursin’,
Which is wrong!
Yet we’ve hit on
Home he’s written.
Lauding Britain,
To the skies—■
Sort of soulful
Grim and ghoulful,
Drear and doleful
Hogwash-wise.
’Tis a rippin’
Chance to slip in,
So we chip in
With a verse,
Which is written
For the Briton
Whom they sitou-
There are worse.
Pastors ! Preachers !
Masters ! Teachers
Teach the creatures
How to whoop !
People ! love you
Those above you,
Though they shove you
In the soup !
<; ood old maxim—
“ Be contented" —
Can’t relax him,
By the powers !
Crouch in doorways—
Be contented—
Such are your ways,
Different ours!
If you’re starving—
Be contented —
We are carving
Choicest game!
We have riches—
Be contented !
Die in ditches —
Who’s to blame ?
Best of strictures —
Be contented!
Read the Scriptures—
’Tis the law !
In your small ways—
Be contented,
“ We must always
Have the poor ! ”
Be contented—
So ’tis written—
Be contented—
Do you hear 't
And he merry,
For to Britain
Fifes are very,
Very dear ! !


Amusements,
IJTI H 1! A T R E
ROYAL
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Tub Famous ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
Friday, Night Miss Nellie Stewart’s Farewell Benefit.
Admission —55., 35., Is. Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
R. SNAZELLE.
R. S N A Z E L L E-
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold,
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY,
JULIUS CJBS-A.R!
RIGNOLD as “MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
R. S N A Z E L L E.
■pOWN HALL, YOUNG
* (Late Mechanics’ Institute).
The extensive Additions and Improvements
thereto being completed, the Hall (which is capable
of seating about 700 persons) is now available for
the use of Dramatic Companies.
The Stage is large, and fitted with many Changes
of-Scenery with all necessary appliances, the whole
brilliantly illuminated with 100 IG-c.p. Electric
Lights, which can be instantaneously switched on
nr off at will.
Terms on application to
W. M. BARKER,
Town Clerk.
R. S N A Z E L L E.
ITVIR SALE.-Second-hand Quad-Demy
’ Folder, by 11 Aid'd ll> : GJ-map. Apply Tin*
BVLLkIIN office.
of
J. I’. Macdonald, Acting-Manager
Amusements.
QSITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoioault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Doors Open, 7. Overture, 7.55. Carriages, 10.40.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10,
and Every Evening until Further Notice,
Grand Revival of
BUCHANAN’S WORLD-FAMOUS PLAY,
SOPHIA. SOPHIA.
The play produced under the personal super-
vision of Dion Boucicault, Jun.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.40 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
ONDI AQUARIUM
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate —Fare, 4d.
M
R.
SNAZE L L E.
QYCLOKAMA. QYCLOIIAMA
The Grandest Exhibition ever seen in Sydney.
Opposite Redfern Station. Open 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Adults, 25.; Children, Is. Sunday, 3to 10. Half-price.
■j'yj"' R. S N A Z E L L E.
grTGEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE.
—THE MELBOURNE LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
Ft KICV EVENING at EIGHT O’CLOC K
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment!
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural,
and providing, in addition,
f3T“ NO END OF LAUGHTER!
M
Popular Prices. Popular Prices.
R. S N A Z E L L E.
JJLITE SKATING RINK.
The Manager is pleased to announce to his many Patrons
and the Sydney Public that he has RESUMED BUSINESS
at the CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACADEMY, York-
street, during the Repairing of his ELITE RINK.
SESSIONS
Morning Session Ladies and Children, Admission Free ;
Skate Checks, 6d.
Afternoon ; —Ladies and Children, Admission Od ; Skates,
Free, Gentlemen, Admission 6d : Skates, (id.
Evening : —Admission, Skaters, Is.; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, Od.
Monday and Thursday Evenings; Admission, Ladies, Is.;
Skates, Free. Gentlemen, 2s. ; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, Is.
Saturday Afternoon ; —Prices as usual.
The Rink will be OPEN for Special Afternoon Session
from 1 till 2 p.m. Admission 6d.; Skates, Free.
The NAVAL ARTILLERY BAND in attendance every
Evening and Saturday Afternoon.
Objectionable persons will not be admitted.
K. A. SKINNER, Proprietor and Manager.
M "• 8
NAZ E L
L E.
CRYSTAL PALACE HALL
(Late Skating Rink),
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Important Notice to Australian Mothers!
Mr. John Solomon, the well-known entrepeneur,
has decided to hold a
Grand Australian Baby Show
Grand Australian Baby Show
Grand Australian Baby Show
Commencing ou
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16,
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16,
<£2so Xxx Prliaea! £250
First Prize, £5O. •
Special Prize of £25 for Twins.
Special Prize of £5O for Triplets.
Ike Exhibition continues for One Week!
——o
“A nation’s future lies in the cradles
of its children.”
ggr ENTRIES are ENTIRELY FREE!
AND
E\ ery Baby will receive a Handsome Prize.
Barents are especially directed to the fact that
Mr. JOHN SOLOMON promoted and will per-
sonally direct this vast enterprise.
Be very careful as to the place:
Crystal Palace Hall.
And note exactly the date:
WEDNESDAY, 16th OCTOBER.
Entries are now being received Daily at the
Crystal Palace Hall, and full information given.
A leading caterer has been specially engaged to
provide Refreshments Gratis for Mothers and
Children. Secure entries at once.
Mil JOHN SOLOMON, Promoter.
\| R. S N A Z E 1. L t
Shipping.
■JQIREOT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Koyal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi. Malta. Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
p
Tons.
Commander.
Leave
Sydney,
i p.m.
Leave
Mel-
bourne.
Leave
Adelaide.
Rome .. .. 5011 A. W. Adamson Nov. 23 Nov. 29 Dec. 2
Britannia ~ 16257 G. N. Hector ..|Dec. 7 (Dec. 13 iDeolO
Carthage . .15011 0. E. Baker . , ! Deo. 21 iDeo. 27 !Deo3o
And henceforth every alternate week.
, RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India/ China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A. MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
~, 1,, , [Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
Steamers. | Commander, j at 11 a.m. bourne! p.m
__i ' i
SALAZIE .. Fiaschi .. Oct. 25 .. Oct. 28
YARRA.. .. Poydenot .. (Nov. 25 .. (Nov. 28
OCEANIEN . Didier .. Dec. 25 ..IDeo. 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. - Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, -and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
H. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
Jjj’ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable)
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED BATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under: —
Jaacn Steamer carries a uui.y
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
lentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
luropean destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
he unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
nman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
o San Francisco and 2501 b. “Overland ” free,of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
outes to any point in the United States, may be had on
pplication
For rates of passage and freight and all other informa-
ion apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager.
il n
it*!
H.
\ Z U 1,
Furniture, &c.
EWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, U PHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
1 ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
r
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
D
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
p
"fU ALNUT FALL
VV FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
| Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by; movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the spac.e when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles forthe Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
«s
Drawing- room
CABINETS.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
f i ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs,
VJT Indian Long-arm Lounges. NEWTON
and LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d.. etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell
Street.
EDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
s
PRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.
p
JgEDSTEADS, nil sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
p
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), beat make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
13, (id. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s. • Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
N
ewton and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Snow Rooms and Manukaotoky :
SPUING and COIN NELL STREETS.
The annual British newspaper-snake has
arrived; this time at Liverpool in a steamer
named the Editor. A bush editor, probably.
The Wagga Wagga Advertiser winds up
a leading article on the Epple murder in this
poetic fashion : “ Before another spring is bring-
ing the buds on the trees the Epple tragedy will
be a far-away event, and a few short years will
cover it up with the dust of oblivion.” Very
likely, but there will still be gloom enough in
Wagga to satisfy anybody who is not a glutton
for gloom—that is, if nothing happens to stop
the issue of the Advertiser.
Apropos of the London Police News,
about which Evangelist Yarley has been writing
lately in the papers, Mr. Ingram, of the Illus-
trated London News, once took the writer of
this paragraph to his office window and pointed
across the street. “You see the Police News
office? Well, that paper has a circulation of
800,000 a week and costs next to nothing to get
up. I believe it’s as valuable a property as the
Illustrated London News, although its literary
and artistic work is done by two men. The pro-
prietor hasn’t even to pay for the setting of the
matter his paper contains, for its circulation is so
enormous that the firm which prints it sets it up
free in consideration of being allowed to machine
it at trade-rates.”
From the S.M. Herald :
The performance of “The Mikado” at the Theatre
Royal last evening was somewhat interrupted by the ex-
traordinary behaviour of a young man who, with his
mother, sat in the dress-circle. He burst out several
times as though in a fit of hysteria, and finally had to be
removed to the vestibule. There happened to be four
doctors in the theatre at the time, and their services were
requisitioned. The young man was pronounced as suffer-
ing from a mental derangement brought on by an unfor-
tunate and unrequited affection for a young lady, and was
removed to the Infirmary, while his mother was conveyed
to her home by one of the theatre staff.
What marvellous diagnosticians !—to put their
lingers not only on the effect, but on the cause —•
and all in two minutes ! Perhaps the young lady
is in “The Mikado.” chorus, and possibly when
that young man comes to have a good look at her,
lie will find that she is his maternal grandmother.
P.S.—We are informed that the object of the
young man’s affections was Miss Nellie ——, to
whom he had written reams of foolscap, although
the lady was utterly unknown to him. We regret
the gentleman’s misfortune. He has such good
taste as to be deserving of a more kindly fate.
However much judges’-associates, sucking
barristers, and the numerous Jacks-in-office about
a court whose peace of mind depends more or less
on the judge’s humour may bow and scrape, his
Honor occasionally meets with a Tartar when
least expecting one. Some years since, Judge
Josephson was officially engaged in Western
N.S.W., and, desiring to proceed from Forbes to
Orange, he instructed the landlord of the hotel in
which he was staying to procure him a private
conveyance. Shortly afterwards a trap and pair
came round and the J udge was told that everything
was ready. “Is that the person who is to drive
me?” he inquired, pointing at the same time to a
bare-chested individual holding the reins. “ Yes,
your Honor,” returned the publican. “ But,” said
the Judge, “he has no coat, and I am accustomed
to be driven when in town by a servant in livery.
Tell him he must cover himself decently.” The
publican delivered his instructions, and in order
to produce the desired effect on Jehu without
ruffling his feathers, he explained the fact that his
passenger was a judge. “ Judge or no judge,’
replied the half-dressed driver, “I’m if I’ll
muffle up on a hot day like this for him or any-
body else, and if he doesn’t care about coming
with me as I am, he’ll have either to drive himself
or get another trap.” The judge tried for half-an-
hour to arrange things otherwise, but time pressed,
there was no other trap in the place, and as the
Court at Orange would be kept waiting unless he
got away, he finally had to accept the position
and depart side by side with the impudent rascal.
Before the pair reached Orange the judge dis-
covered his companion to be not only careless of
public opinion but also to be a well-informed man,
able to teach him a few things not to be found in
Blackstone.


The Home Seeker.
The word that heads this column expresses the
aspiration of an untold multitude of men and
women in all walks of life. The hope that some
clay one “may sit under his own vine and fig-
tree ” and gather about him his loved ones, “ with
none to molest or make him afraid,” is the most
natural and universal sentiment in man. We
believe there is nothing in nature which would
prevent the fruition of this hope, hut that the
causes which hinder it arc solely the bad laws by
means of which men are cheated out of their
earnings and prevented from enjoying equal access
to the natural opportunities to make homes pro-
vided by the Author of Nature.
There is only a small proportion of the people
to-day who can ever hope to get homes of their
own so long as present oond ilions continue. Among
the remedies proposed are temperance, economy,
industry, education, trades unionism, prohibition,
protection, restriction of emigration, socialism,
and the theories of Henry George. We have
never known anyone to deny that all these ques-
tions have an important bearing upon wages, upon
savings, upon the ability of men to get homes. If
tliese are not to be discussed, what is there that is
worth discussing ? Mpn and women and children
are perishing every day with hunger and exposure,
dwarfed in body and soul, predestined for theprisons
the almshouses and the brothels simply because
they can’t get homes, because they are poor and much
good will, doubtless, be received from the general
acceptation of many of the reforms thus loudly
clamoured for, but the day of their reception is
still far off. Meantime, it would be suicidal to
wait for their adoption in order to escape the
burthen of present difficulties. Only a madman
will neglect to embrace present opportunities
while patiently waiting for future reforms that
the present generation may never see accomplished.
Mighty social changes can only be brought about
by the utmost unanimous action of the community,
and the progress of the few holders of advanced
ideas towards their acceptation is not only re-
tarded by the antagonism of vested interests, but
by the inaction of the stupid, the ignorant, the
apathetic, and the indolent. The battle of life,
then, must be boldly fought out to the bitter end,
and so the true man, instead of sitting down to
wait for emancipation by means of heaven-sent
weapons, will manfully use those that lie nearest his
hand, trusting by their courageous, skilful, un-
flagging use to become possessed of better ones.
A Home is Essential to Happiness.
All reforms recognise that. It is a central
standard in the doctrines of all reformers, but
even the Land Nationalisationist will admit the
folly of waiting for the adoption of that system
ere becoming possessed of some little plot of
ground where the domestic virtues may flourish,
and a family may be healthily and intelligently
reared. To those, therefore, who want homes, and
who are disposed to struggle for them, we would
say, wait no longer for Fortune, compel Fortune
to wait on you. You cannot afford to pay cash
for a home, it may be, but you pay rent at present,
and by means of a no greater weekly expenditure,
through the system of
Purchase by Deferred Payments,
you can become possessor of a piece of fertile
ground, not less than a quarter of an acre in
extent, and a well-constructed dwelling in a
healthy suburb, where all the sanitary conditions
prompted by modern science have been observed.
It is perhaps scarcely necessary to say that the
reference is to
Harconrt. the Model Suburb,
situated seven miles by road from Sydney, distant
a little over a mile from Burwood station, and on
the surveyed loop-line to Liverpool. Its advan-
tages, therefore, for rapid communication with the
metropolis are undoubted. It lies on high land,
naturally drained into the waters of Cook’s River,
and its surroundings are healthy and beautiful.
Those who desire to view it for themselves can
obtain
Free Railway Passes
at the office of the vendors, Messrs. Philips, No.
6 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney, and on arrival at
Burwood they will be driven over the ground by
the local agent. Unlike most new suburbs, the
resident here has not been left to struggle with all
the roughness and inconveniences of virgin soil.
The roads, varying in width from one chain to one
and a-half, have been carefully constructed,
fcerbed, metalled, and channelled, while the com-
fort of foot-passengers has been attended to by the
formation of footpaths, shaded by thickly-planted
avenues of trees. The purchaser of Harcourt
Estate need not wait for the completion of pay-
ments to enter into this
Promised Land.
The payment of the first monthly instalment en-
titles him to take immediate possession, to fence,
build, and cultivate. Nor is this all. The vendors,
recognising the advantage of early settlement, in-
tend to distribute the sum of
Ten Thousand Pounds
during the first three and a half years among early
settlers. In addition to this, PUNCTUALITY
BONUSES, in value £3,000, will be apportioned
amongst those landholders who regularly meet
their pecuniary obligations. Nor need those who
by sickness or other misfortunes are compelled to
be irregular, fear forfeiture. To meet the wants of
the temporarily unfortunate, an application for
Three Months’ Grace
will be allowed for financial recovery. But all
the facts, all the benefits of the Harcourt system
are too many for enumeration in a limited space,
and for further information, books, plans, maps,
railway passes, &0., the interested are requested
to call at the offices of the MUTUAL BANK-
ING and LAND PROPRIETARY 00.,
CARRINGTON CHAMBERS, Nou 6 OASTUB-
REAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A man’s idea of Intimacy with a woman is
that he shall be allowed to talk about himself, and
she shall listen. In consequenoe, a man can
hardly ever be said to be intimate with his wife.
In the N.S.W. Assembly, John Haynes,
M.P., moved the application of the cloture to
Crick, M.P. In politics as in law anybody is good
enough to do the throttling.
It is said that the “ Ma” of the winning
baby, at the Melbourne show, kept a steady flow
of the lacteal fluid by imbibing Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
Onr notice of the Sydney Art Society’s
pictures are held over until we have digested the
Art Society’s dinner. High art and high living
are not synonymous terms, and fair criticism and
indigestion are disqualified from competition as
twins at the baby-show.
Pattison is in a state of stupid bliss. He
thinks he is going to carry through the coup
d’etat and boss Queensland for an indefinite
period. But at this very moment the caucus is
in revolt, and M‘llwraith could carry a want of
confidence vote and precipitate “Billy” back
again into the dignified shades of Rockhampton
by lifting up his hand. The game, however, is a
waiting one.
A Maori witness, cross-examined in a
civil action at Napier (N.Z.), in explaining why lie
slept alone in a garret, said that the fleas were so
bad down below that he could not sleep with the
other members of the family, and he always took
the precaution of pulling the ladder up after him
when he wont to bed so that they could not follow
him to his roost. New Zealand fleas, it may be
explained, skip up ladders and bark when they
want a feed. We have been there.
At a London inquest on the body of a
child the doctor deposed that the child was very
much emaciated, simply nothing but skin and
bone. He had made a post-mortem examination,
and found that the weight of the child’s body was
only 41b. Ijoz. The cause of death was peritonitis,
due to starvation. The coroner said this was a
frightful state of affairs. Here were four human
beings trying to exist on 2s, a week, which was an
impossibility, and it was easily surmised that the
children did not have sufficient to keep life in their
bodies. The mother was committed for trial!
In regard to the proposal that Mr. Barton,
Q.C., shall be the leader of the N.S.W. National
party, it will be interesting, on the principle of
learning from the enemy, to recall the circum-
stance that not so very long ago the conductors of
the Sydney Daily Telegraph made a private
attempt, now historical, to induce Mr. Edmund
Barton to form a “ Young Australian ” Govern-
ment in opposition to Parkes. Mr. Barton was
not then an avowed Protectionist; but the fact
that he has since declared himself an advocate of
the policy of trying to make Australia complete
and self-supporting within herself only adds force
to the D.T.’s old-time suggestion.
The Victorian Executive is going to hang
Landells on 16th inst., despite the strong doubt
that must be held to exist as to whether his shoot-
ing of Sherlock was accidental or intentional. As
a matter of fact, Landells was convicted because
after the death of Sherlock he took possession by
devious means of the dead man’s goods. In the
same way Mrs. Maybrick was convicted (not,
mind you, that we think she wasn’t guilty) because
she had admittedly committed adultery ; and the
alUne Hewart was hanged in Sydney, not because
he had killed his fellow drunkard, but because he
had killed him in an unusual way, which pecu-
liarity revolted the stomachs of the Pharisees and
quite upset people in general who were unfamiliar
with the dissecting-room. The public don’t see these
things as a rule until about six weeks after the event
but the facts exist all the same. The Victorian
Executive has also decided to “ commute ” prisoner
Lucas’ death-sentence to 20 years’ imprisonment
and three lashings. King Coffee, of Dahomey,
could hardly go one better in the direction of
illogical, useless savagery, which is alike a satire
on Christianity and a disgrace to the human race.
They have caged up their alleged tiger for 20 years
from the society upon which he sharpened his
fangs. Why should they torture him by poking
red-hot irons through his prison-bars ?
We have to record the death, at close on
70 years, of our friend and sometime colleague
Harry Porter Mostyn, known in the columns of
the newspapers as “Pegasus ” (his pen-name) and
to the public as “ Old Peg.” Taken all in all he
was one of the most loveable men we ever knew,
and he left not an enemy in the world. The mag-
netism of his good-nature was such that you could
have been happy alone with him on a desert island.
Almost to the day of his death, he had the
ripe-cherry cheeks of an English schoolboy, and
he was the only man in Sydney whom
Nature had designed to wear a red necktie.
His life had been a varied one. In his youth he
graduated at Oxford, and was a daring rider in
the English steeplechase-field. In 1846 he emi-
grated to Australia, bringing with him the cele-
brated stallion Premier, whose blood flows to-day
in the veins of so many of our best horses. A few
more years and he was a goldfields-coxnmissioner
on old Bendigo; then he tried his luck at Bris-
bane and at the Forbes gold-rush, and all through
he contributed to the press. He was one
of the few men who brought to sporting
journalism a good education and an interesting,
cultivated style. For the last eighteen months
Mr. Mostyn suffered terribly from a wasting
disease which, before he died, had reduced him
to less than half his weight. Three months
ago, exhaustion finally forced him to the bed from
which he was to rise no more, but to the last he
bore up bravely and tried to banish sorrow from
the minds of the affectionate son and daughter,
and from those of the no less sincere friends who
watched over his last moments.
That a majority of the members of the
N.S.W. Assembly should, under all the circum-
stances of the case, deliberately vote £llOO to Mr.
John Davies, M.L.0., late chief of the_ historic
N.S.W. Casual Labour Board, a body which spent
thousands of pounds of Treasury money in making
elaborate roads through estates belonging to sup-
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
LANTD AGENTS,
Business Brokers A Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
60-pago List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
VlliM list Bnlneuei for Sale Issued Daily*
All Lists posted Fan on application.
porters of the Parkes party, on the allegation that
the roads were needed to open up adjoining Crown
Lands, is a matter which can surprise nobody
acquainted with the sort of men who have for so
many years “run” the bleeding province of
N.S. Wales. The circumstances under which the
charge of embezzlement, brought against Mr.
John Davies, was formulated, and dismissed
by the Court, need not now be further alluded
to, nor need anything be said concerning the
other legally-unproved and it may be unprove-
able charges which have from time to time been
thrown at Mr. Davies. All the N.S.W. pub-
lic need now be concerned in is to extract a
moral from the payment aforesaid, and from the
latest sample of those disgraceful scenes which
have made the N.S.W. Legislature unique in the
history of constitutional government. The moral
is simply that the £llOO vote and the pot-house
brawls which accompanied its extraction from the
public chest are an insignificant portion of the
penalty which N.S.W. has to suffer for the keep-
ing in office of a man like Parkes, who, whatever
he may be in politics, has, by the example of his
private life, done less to raise the tone of
public morals than any man ever elevated to
a premiership. A feature in the week’s proceed-
ings was the manner in which the debate on this
infamous grant was coloured and distorted by
the daily press, which, while excusing every
utterance of Davies’s friend, Parkes, did its
utmost to bring into discredit the utterances
of Mr. Crick and other Opposition members.
The fact of the matter —as will be seen on reference
to Hansard— -is that, although Crick’s speech may
have been quite sufficiently violent to meet the
brutality of the assault made upon the first prin-
ciples of political honesty, and although some of
his interjections were inexcusably unparliamentary,
and some of his charges of a wild character, his
almost every comment was full of power, pun-
gency, and brutal candour. Let the N.S.W.
electors not judge the case on the garbled and
judiciously-condensed reports and the misleading
articles of the daily newspapers. Let them read
Mr. Crick’s speech and that of Mr. Traill, after
perusing the plausible utterances of Premier
Parkes, and then let them pass judgment upon
what we contend is one of the blackest episodes in
the history of Australia.
ft
I
K
J
•o
M
rn
/Uenlts .
DELISSA & PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack Strext.
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 5, 1889.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
BRUCE SMITH.
JJEADING THE POLL BY 212 VOTES.
(From Modern Truth.)
Tire great success and popularity of an article
has now been confirmed by a Postcard Competi-
tion inaugurated by the Chemist and Druggist,
a copy of which reaches nearly every dealer In
medicine in the United Kingdom, the Colonies,
the Continent, and in the United States. The
publishers recently conceived the idea of ascertain
ing from the trade the most popular preparation
for outward application now being manufactured
and sold. With this object in view they invited
a Postcard Competition, each dealer to name the
preparation which was most popular with his
customers.
The publishers received (>.‘ls post-cards with the
following results :
while eight other outward applications had one
vote each.
It will thus be seen that >St. Jacobs oil was
named by 384 different dealers as being the most
popular remedy, leaving 251 (less than half) to be
divided among 15 other remedies, showing con.
clusively that St. Jacobs oil to-day stands pro
eminent among all other proprietary medicines for
outward application. In fact, the sales are more
than double those of any other proprietary medi-
cine in the world, and ten times greater than
those of all other liniments and embrocations.
This wonderful success rests on the solid founda-
tion of merit (acknowledged everywhere). It is
advertised only for such ailments as it will cure,
and hence it possesses the confidence of all classes
of people, and has become a household word in
every civilised country.
The great success and popularity of St. Jacobs
oil has become the subject of comment by almost
the entire press of the country : in many instances
the leading articles of large and influential papers
have been devoted to the details of what seem to
be almost magical cures effected by the use of St.
Jacobs oil in local cases coming under the imme
diate attention of the publishers. St. Jacobs oij
is endorsed by statesmen, judges, the clergy, the
medical profession, as well as by people in every
walk of life.
The curative powers of St. Jaeohs oil are simply
marvellous. It conquers pain quickly and surely.
It cures even when everything else has failed. It
has cured thousands of eases of rheumatism and
neuralgia which had resisted treatment for the
greater part of a lifetime. It has cured people
who have been crippled with pain for more than 20
years. After the most thorough and practical
test, St. Jacobs oil has received Six Gold Medals
at different international exhibitions for its mar-
vellous power to conquer pain. It is used exten-
ively in the leading hospitals and dispensaries of
the metropolis and provincial cities and also on
board Her Majesty’s troopships and the Cunard
Steamship Company’s fleet. If there should be
any of our readers who have never used St. Jacobs
oil, we most strongly advise them to projure a
supply in case it should be required. We believe
that it is the most value! and possesses the great-
est merit of any preparation for outward applica-
tion ever offered to the public.
HE WORD IS INADMTSSABLE.
It has always been so ordained in polite society,
and politicians used to be considered to belong to
that denomination. In circles which are not sup-
posed to be polite, where one man calls another a
“liar,” the other fellow rarely loses time by
threatening to pull his nose if he does it again.
The insult has been offered, and prompt redress
takes the place of the idle threat which appears to
be considered good form in “another place.”
Under certain conditions the use of the word is
pardonable, but they are few and far between. The
people’s representatives, at £3OO per annum, with
train and tram fares, harbour picnics,, and other
perks, thrown in, can never be excused for this
offence against decency. In fact, nothing but ex-
cessive provocation can ever be an excuse for
palliation. Such, for instance, as that suffered by
the man who jumped from a cab at Redfern
station a few days ago and saw the tail-end of his
train vanishing into the infinite before he reached
the ticket-window. Hauling out what looked like
a gold watch, he dashed the former violently on
the platform with the exclamation : “ You’re a
worthless liar !” An examination of the remains
showed that it had been a low-price Swiss watch,
with pewter intestines. His justification was
complete. The recording angel made no entry.
COLGATE
rj >
V,
—
Mr '
&
"TOIIiEFSOAP
> ;&
r >
'
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND DEALERS
IN TOILET REQUISITES.


Tobacco, etc.
THE
“DEAD BIRD”
Has Arrived !——
What is the “DEAD B1RI»
If You are a Smoker the answer to this ques-
tion is worth noting'.
The “ DEAD BIRD ”
U a NEW BRAND of the I Ln. et AMERICAN
TOBACCO, the first shipment of which has just
arrived from the famous Factory of
DUNLOP & CO.
(Successors to I). B. Tennant & Co.),
Who have eclipsed all previous efforts in producing
the “DEAD BIRD.”
To be had Cut and In Plug from all Tobacconists
and Storekeepers.
Ask for it where you deal.
Smoke it.
It will realise your Highest Expectations.
“DEAD BIRD” TOBACCO,
Manufactured Solely By
DUNLOP <&= 00.,
Successors to D. 13. Tennant & Go.
Wholesale Agents—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
(180 & (182 GEORGE STREET,
CRAIG & AITKEM
Have just opened and are displaying a Large
Shipment of
Vialcan. &: O."V. Briars,
manufactured at the PARIS EX HI B TIT ON from
Highly Seasoned Wood. Warranted never
to Burn.
All New Goods. New Shapes. New I’ateiils.
I uique yiuiiudngs.
Special Advantages to the Trade.
New South Wales Barbers' Supply louse,
Send for Price'List.
Everything you can possibly want in stock
from a HANDCUT-COM B or an AMERICAN
CHAIR to a BARBER’S POLE.
Competent Assistants Engaged for Town
and Country Customers.
Note Ihe Address—
CRAIG & AITKEN,
N.S.W. Barbers’ Supply House,
680 AND 082 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
05?
n
s
r<
w
•ft
\V
AW!
MRS. MAYBRICK
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Skow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and jxmr bread will be as white as snow'.
Nota Bene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap w ines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, Jb
EARL IXG HARBO UR,
~\RT OOL BROMEBS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kumjaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac.
CHEX-A-liKT SAX^IESSIIVCIESIIXr.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
42 Margaret street;
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 020. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1880 ; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables hiiu to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receiv e his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC 'and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN axd WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail Ire treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. 11. J.
Speer, MD., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Oliice hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m, Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
T O 'STOTJKTG 3MC ES UXT.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
r pH K directions contained in this little treatise will be
_ found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during- the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicines will he required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self. _
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer _ from the following complaints, viz.: —Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher's treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
■ '
isiil
■
a
R M
k
r r i
fO
M.O
n.V’J
n
i
- ■
—e.
ELECTRIC PHOTO ENC. CO , 8 BRIOCE ST . SYDNEY-
forcl. Hotel, Kling Si'tTC'ecs'fc. Sydney,
H. THORPE ... . .j, ... Ppopkietor.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
STOCK JUST L _A_ TxT ID lICT Gf
KTettHeim, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YOFtK X STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for flic ROOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all
IMPORTED LK.VI lIKRS, fu\ ; ami of the following Svkctat, Ltnbs: IVrlm
Itl.-icMng Tanners’ Tools ami Materials. ; I: ihnis Ex waled
Details, including MACHINERY,
Gloss. Sal In I'olisli, Vultlan
on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
lti
CONSU
tnHH
jwumum
DR RICHARPS_!
c
a
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to 1 ho study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hii
patients, ho lias during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who sutler from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bash fulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of (id. in
stamps he wall send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unneceisary cxpence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly rvell its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume wi'l bo found a Lst of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by tire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street
(Off Pitt Street North)
SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
C( iXSri.TATIOV PRHP


BEALE <Sc CO.’S
NEW WAREHOUSE.
V*
20
AND CHIEF OFFICES,
182, 484, & 488 Gsorgs Street,
S'STIDIETIEi'Sr.
REVOLUTIONISING
THE PIA.KTO TRADE.
Messrs. Beale & Co.’s Great Enterprise.
mu EKE can be no questioning the fact that the Piano
-1 Trade of these Colonies has undergone a complete
revolution during the last five years ; and to that desirable
change certainly no Ann has contributed more than
Messrs. Beale and Company. During the time high prices
continued the trade was held by a few, and hundreds of
homes now rendered attractive by the glorious influence
of music scarce could dream of becoming the ultimate
owners of the instrument which has done so much to
cheer and to refine our modern domestic life.
When Beale and Company commenced business they
had quietly gauged this condition of affairs in Australia,
and they began operations on a plan which could alone
work out successively in a mammoth undertaking such as
they proposed. With the Australian selling branch of
their enterprise they resolved to combine the manufacture
of Pianos in Germany—the centre of the world’s trade for
that instrument. But the experts sent out here for the
purpose of fully determining what was best fitted for
colonial requirements reported that it was essential to
have a special make of piano to suit our climate—an in-
strument as different as those made for Europe as Aus-
tralia is different from the Old World. The result of this
was the production of the staunchest pianoforte of
modem times—the iron-framed “ Hapsburg.” The in-
strument is regarded by the most capable experts of
Europe as the Production of the Age, combining as
it does every feature of the highest class instrument with
the maximum of strength and durability, and it was placed
on the market at prices much under what other firms and
manufacturers had previously demanded. Although it
took almost endless trouble and long, patient labour to
produce the design of the “ Inimitable Hapsburg,” yet once
produced the demand grew so rapidly, and has become so
great, that the enterprising originators are able to out-
distance all competitors for both quality and price. The
peculiar construction of the iron frame, the excellence
of the wires, and the unique movements have, with all
other factors, contributed to this splendid success. No
other instrument nossesses to the same degree such rich,
full, clear, bell-like tones, so noticeable in the “Haps-
burg,” especially in the higher grades, while strength,
solidity, and imperviousness to climatic influences have
been so well looked to that whether on the coldest, bleak-
est spots of New Zealand or our own Monaro Plains, or in
the hottest of our Western and Northern areas, this
wonderful pianoforte not only maintains, but improves its
tone and consequent value even after years of use. And
it must continue so. The srenius and experience of the
mechanical world in this branch of art are embodied in
this one instrument—the inimitable “ Hapsburg ’’—and
the sales to-day give ample evidence of the repute in which
it is held. Beale & Company have placed the
“Hapsburg” with thousands of families in Australia.
Homes in the far-distant back blocks, and homes in the
city, are not only enlivened but are made purer and better
through the influence of its music. The firm resolved to
do a large trade by selling these superior instru-
ments at prices and on terms demanded for the
lower grades, and success has crowned their efforts.
They do by far the largest business, and hold the
largest stocks in the colonies. They give their best
efforts to suit the circumstances and requirements of
every customer, and they supply for cash or on an easy
system of Time-payment which they have made peculiarly
their own. The correspondence department is of itself a
huge undertaking; every mail brings its burden of letters.
From the great landowner, from the rich squatter, and
the astute merchant they come. And they came too
from clergymen, from doctors and solicitors, from civil
servants, and from the struggling selector, the tradesman,
the workingman ; for fathers and mothers of every grade
and class now recognise the influence which music exerts
for good in the life of the home. And every writer re-
ceives courteous attention and immediate response.
Hapsburg Double Iron-framed Pianos
Possess the following Advantages —
-Ist.—The wires are of a very high quality and in-
tensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverberated
by a sounding board of special construction, are
clear and bell-like, instead of the muffled, tin-
kettly, or metallic sounds so common in chean
Pianos.
2nd.—Being double oblique the strings are of a
greater length and fuller tone than in the old
straight-strung Pianos.
3rd,—The action is perfect check repeater, and is
made of pencil cedar, an expensive material,
and best for resisting climatic changes.
4th.—All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
3th.—They are all seven Octaves.
Oth.-—They have consolidated Iron Frames of
great strength, thus resisting the rapid muta-
tions of a tropical climate, whereby tuning is
only required at long intervals.
7th.—They oppose obstacles to the inroads of cock-
roaches, silver-fish, mice, &c. They have wire
gauze backs which cannot be eaten by vermin,
and other unique improvements devised for
similiar ends.
3th.—The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers,
instead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every Piano except the Haps-
burg.
oth.—They have brass or nickel-faced Wrest-
planks, instead of the old-fashioned perishable
style.
10th.—Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
Hth.—-The outer cases are handsome in design,
and of durable beautiful woods; they can be
had in walnut, or in walnut and gold, or in
ebony and gold.
12th.—No matter in what part of the colony you
hve, we will supply you with a Hapsburg Piano
upon easy terms of payment. No charge will be
made for packing or for packing cases.
Hapsburg Pianos. Haydn Organs.
Photographs and Price-lists by post or from our
own travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing* Machine.
PAST olv A LIS T 8 are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents; J. H. CfEDDES & CO.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:—
#
J
XJSE
liebis COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
for Beef Tea, Soups and Entreef
BTHafo’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
mwM Km
fine old highland
ANDREW. t fiTH
ci asgow
\
V
y.
/
jJyaAi
-i I
m
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER.”
LICHTNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GrEORG-E STREET.
y
BRISBANE;
9 ELIZABETH STEEET.
i
JPi
Ui
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK -
i IMPORTERS.
MT SEND EOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE m
—OF—
CAMERAS. LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS.
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
) :(
ovtp’XTs.
Thus Reynolds’ Weekly Newspaper (ci»
culation 700,000 each issue): —
As for the nincompoop. Prince Collars and Cuffs, it is an
insult to the nation to ask for an income for such a noodle.
Why does his father, the Prince of Wales, not send him to
earn his bread as a clerk, like so many better young men ?
The British beast of burden will no doubt saddle itself
with the support of Prince Albert Victor and his sister,
the other royal pauper. For such is the nature of the
creature. The people may starve, but, at all hazards,
royalty must be maintained. The only misfortune is that
there is no means of making those who are content to keep
up these royal beggars bear the whole cost. What is the
Mendicity Society about that they do not prosecute the
Queen, who is the most persistent professional beggar in
the kingdom ?
This casts a strong light on the affection felt for
the royal family by the working masses.
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Fitt Street.
Business Announcements.
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
O years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! £lO
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
Fund. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title,
City Allotments &•>» £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Eive Lots receive a
Title EIIEE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
mkk
iii!
p
ill!
3/6
\'' Photograph
v N \ Views |/[Poßffv\i‘i
V /^ x /’
PORTRAITS
Vtlws
\
316. C
CHUBB & PEAEGER, Photographers,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“ Empire Galleries,” 483 «i 484 ticorge .Street*
(over Beale’s), SYDNEY,
%
WE have much pleasure in making reference to the
' * favorable notice of The Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work in ali
departments, and trust to merit a continuance of the same
good opinions and favours.
Note our Moderate Prices:
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visite, Bs. 6d. per Doz.
*.W° J Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &0., a
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
.Moderate Charges,


Are showing some very pretty and stylish
Next Royal Arcade, Opposite Central Markets,
PRING COSTUMES
made at their own Establishment.
Also CHOICE SPRING! MILLINERY of the Newest Styles-
stn.dl CO!£P.AI>
400, 400, 400 George street, Sydney,
Next Royal Arcade. *ft W Opposite Central Markets.
p
Armstrong's Citron Saline, for cooling and purifying the
blood An aperient effervescing salt. 2s;lBsdoz.
Armstrong’s Blocd Purifier or Anti-Scorbutic—a valuable
remedy where the blood has become vitiated through
residence in hot climates, with usual consequences of
bad water, deficient vegetable diet. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Compound Sarsaparilla with Dandehon, lodide
of Potash &0.,f0r,a1l impurities of the blood. 2s; 20s doz.
Armstrong’s Eye Lotion for Blight and other inflammatory
affections of the eyes. The proprietor has received
numerous testimonials for cures effected by this lotion
when all other means had failed. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrongs Simar-coated Anti-bilious Pills. An infallible
remedy in cases of indigestion and other complaints
arising from an inactive liver. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Diarrhoea Mixtures gives instant relief in this
t roublesome -complaint. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Gout and Rheumatic Mixture. For gout,
rheumatism, sciatica, &c., &c. 3s 6d; 36s doz.
Armstrong’s Cough Elixir. An 'immediate cure for colds,
coughs, influenza, &o. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Pills, for liver complaints, im-
purities of the blood, &c. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Phosphorous Pills, for Nervous and General
Debility, &o. Is; Bsdoz. _ .
Armstrong’s Anodyne Liniment (or Pain Paint) for bruises,
sprains, rheumatic pains, &c; 2s; _lBs doz.
Armstrong's Cough Balsam, for chronic pulmonary affec-
tions and lung diseases. 2s; 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Golden Eye Ointment, for blight and all
diseases of the eyes. Is Gd; 13s doz.
Armstrong's Carbolic Tooth Powder antiseptic. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Lime Juice and Glycerine. A valuable
preparation for the hair. Is &2s; 8s & 18s doz.
Armstrong’s Transparent Cement (Cohesuline) for china,
glass, wood, leather, &c. Gd &Is ; 5s &8s doz. _
Armstrong’s Disinfectant, Carbolised Powder (in tins),
for drains, etc. 9d &IsGd ; 6s Gd & 12s doz.
Armstrong’s Improved Collas, for the removal of grease!
spots and stains from silks, satin, kid gloves, «c.
&Is ; 5s &8s doz. , ,
Armstrong’s Dandruff Pomade, for eradicating scurf, dan-
druff, &c., from the hair. Is ;8s doz.
Armstrong’s. Resin, Carbolic, Zmo, Blue, White and Red
Pereipitate Ointments (in boxes). 6d ;os doz.
Armstrong’s Worm and Condition Powders, for tioises
(in tins). 6d &Is ; 5s &8s doz. ,
Armstrong’s Carbolic Dressing, tor_ cuts and wounds
among stock. Is &Is6d ; 8s & 15s doz. .
Armstrong’s Blistering Ointment - the best remedy toi
splints, curbs, etc. Is 6d ; 13s doz.
Armstrong's Arabian Insect Powder. 9d;6s doz
Armstrong’s celebrated Ointment for Piles. /s,
Armstrong’s Iron and Quinine Tonic for loss of appetite.
Nervousness, General Debility, Neuralgia, &o. 2s ,
18s doz.
Armstrong’s Pepsine Bismuth andßux \ omiea, tor
chronic indigestion. 3s (id &5s (id ; 30s & •*«> doz.
Armstrong’s 156 Mixture for discharges. 3s M. ,
Armstrong’s Arabian Hair Renewer, for restoring
hair to its natural colour. Is 0d ; 12s doz. _
Armstrong’s Toothache Drops and Carbolic Nervine, tor
immediate cure of toothache. Is; 8s doz.
Armstrong’s Indelible Ink, for writing on hnen, silk, and
muslin. Is; 8s per doz. . 1 ,
Armstrong’s Corn 'paint and Solvent, for painlessly
removing corns, bunions, warts, &c. Is, 8s clo..
Armstrong’s Quinine Wine. A most reliable brain and
nerve tonic. 2s 6d; 20s doz. ,
Armstrong’s Podophyllin Seidlitz Powders. A mild and
Armsttmg^ n^re IB,lil’ 1 B , lil’ Ointment far horses. 2s !»«■ *»
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
175 Pitt
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know
their new cusine a trial.
that, their Saloons have been Meager' 1 '
Four young fowls have been sent by the
energetic Mr. Walter Hope from his Bonnyrigg
poultry -farm, near Sydney, to compete in English
show-pens.
We have received a profusely-illustrated
“shilling-shocker” arrayed in a gorgeous, gory
and blood-curdling cover, and entitled Murder
Will Out”—a narrative of the murder of Hawkins
at Kaiwarra (N.Z.) and the trial of Chemis, by
J. Evison. The story, one of the most interesting
in the annals of crime, is most graphically and
ingeniously told. The book will sell.
In London, a Mr. Stump earns his living
by making wooden legs and artificial noses. He
turns out, on an average, 40 noses yearly. A
silver to be worn with spectacles only costs
£5, but the best noses are made of a sort
of ’ india-rubber and are so arranged as to give
with every movement of the face; they are
fastened on with strong gum. The artist declares
that the artificial nose defies detection at three
yards, that most knowing “noseless” folks have;
at least three on hand in case of emergencies,
and that he is now making one for a “ gentleman
in Sydney. ”
Dear Bulletin, —I see that an old mate
of mine has been telling you about the assassina-
tion of Commissioner Grenfell, who was shot
near Narrowmine many years ago. It may in-
terest you to know that this unfortunate gentle-
man fell by mistake. Mr. Will Todhunter, now
of Inglegar, Marthaguy Creek, was the motif of
the attack and the man for whom the bullet was
intended, as it was rumoured he was bound for
Dubbo by this particular coach with £3OO on him,
but, receiving a side hint, he remained in W arren.
If poor Grenfell could only have got at his re-
volver the odds are he would have loaded both
assailants up with lead, as he was by temperament
cool, resolute, steady as a rock in danger and full
of fight under provocation.—Yours, L. Mac-
quarie.
Bernhard Gillani, the chief caricaturist of
Judge, in the Epoch says ‘‘.l get papers from
all over the country —North, South, Bast, and
West. When I have digested their views, I get
a pretty clear conception of what the country is
thinking about. Then I seek to present the
thought in a picture. Thus it may be said that L
only reflect 'public opinion. But people likd
nothing so much as to have their opinions con-
firmed. The caricaturist is, perhaps liable to
abuse the freedom from restraint which he enjoys.
He can put an expression into a man’s face which
may constitute a most diabolical slander upon Ins
character, and there is no court m which the man
thus traduced can seek redress. But he is under
the restraint of public opinion. Americans have
a keen sense of justice as well as of humour. i
think you will find that the tone of cartoons has
greatly improved in recent years. 1 hey appeal tQ
higher tastes ; they don’t make coarse insinuations
against public men. Men who are caricatured
seem to stand it remarkably well. Besides, the
public man, if he be shrewd enough to see it, has
this to console him when he is caricatured : it is
a sure indication that he has become a man ot
consequence. Public men are easily caricatured
as a general thing. The English caricaturist
has a great advantage over the American, in the
fact that so many English officials wear uniforms;
An English judge makes a splendid subject, with
his horse-hair wig and robes. The ordinary
American judge, as he sits on the bench, is dressed
in citizen’s clothes, with a spittoon by his side,
(As good a judge hut not so good a caricature
En. B.) Cabinet Ministers at receptions m
England are gorgeously attired. Ours dress like
the ordinary civilian. But notwithstanding the
fact that the Englishman has so much better
material to work with, I think it will be generally
conceded that the American caricaturist leaves
him far behind. The American works for a natiop
of humorists who simply won’t tolerate a bad jest.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARBKTCE STREET, SYCNB^.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
BUGSIES, FUTONS, BUfiBBOMDS,
PONY CARTS, Arc., Arc.
Express k Lumber Waggons.
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
Agricultural Machinery.
p
m
Will
m
uum*
mm.
m
A.?
WPS
Illlui
m
tVN
VmM
M;
m
luhii)
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIE, B T QUALIT Y.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sole Purveyors to the
Colonial & Indian ExhilLion, London.
(By Special Appointment.)
Wholesale Agents;
Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
M.
IB U <3-T IE ”
B. FOSTER & SONS,
BEA UsT ID ALE
)(-
LONDON,
AITD
STOUT.
PUBLIC "NOTICE. ,
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and STOUT of very inferior quality, m bottles with
skillfull!/ forged labels have lately been palmed off on the public cansules of the
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and to state that all corks! as well as capsules i ot ine
bottles shipped by M»», M. li. FOSTER & SONS to, th» ooo„y bear
Anv information respecting Bottled Beer purporting to be Foster s Bugle DRAND onerou
for sal/without, these corks and capsules will be esteemed by the undersigned, who have mst
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the frauds. „ , „
A Liberal Eewai'd will he given for information leading to conviction of the offen irrs.
BALCHm, JOHNSTON & 00., Sydney,
Agents fob Messrs. M. B. Foster &, Sons.
air for Kupper’s Blberfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sdiu||H -imM-
(jAWSONV^
DAW SOU’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, EOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THK
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
There are 553,000 pianos in Paris I
is the place where the old pianos are kept.
A Melbourne tailor is advertising rever-
sable coats which can be worn either side out. He
should do a big trade amongst a lot of the politi-
cians who voted for John Davies.
Some Victorian stock-breeders are now
trying the experiment of stall-feeding cattle for
the market. It is becoming a pastoral axiom that
the pen is mightier than the sward. .
fOLEMANEaSOHS
m
r
THE TREE OF LIFE.
Eucalypti Oii-sa
Victory Ointments.
The only pure Euealypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs: also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Euealypte Pills, Euealypte
Hair Restorer, Euealypte Soap, and our world-
famed Euealypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Euealypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot -227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
p
“ They fit perfectly , and are
far superior to all the other
'.Cornet# I have tried.'’
| (Signed) Marie Hose.
THE
&
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset., No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
Wool.
WINCITCOMBE. CARSON & CO.
Offices :
Wool
Storos : OKNTRAIj WHARF; Produce Stores : GIRCITfiAR QVXY ;
49 MACQUARIE STREET WORTH,
SYD3STEY.


GwAjU) J~)Cy\<tA Cl4tS>
s>cvns c\<xc%vb.
p
S&A Cu&UccwZ
XXQof-CA
F. B. WHEELER & CO.,
865 Clarence Street, SIDSEI.
Business Announcements.
MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE CN THB WORLD
GOODAIiLB
fill
CELEB
6,000.000 Bottles
sold annually. I
Snriohes Sot
joints, Stews,
Deliciousto Chops,
Steaks.Fish,&c.
With, soap it is
charming l .
Agrees with, the:
most delicate
person.
Makes cold meat
a luxury.
Makes the plain-
est viands pal-
atable.
The daintiest
dishes mere
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it. the
best Sauce.
Fears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
Invalid’s cup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
_able imitations.
Sold Everywhere
by all Dealers.
wholisali ;
TTLLOCK & CO,,
GEORGE ST., BYDNEY-k
LARMER’S
—CELEBRATED —
Health-Giving
AND
Invigorating Tonic.
THE TONIC OF THE AGE!
This being one of the best Restoratives yet offered
to the Public in the form of a Tonic.
Warranted to Build up the Constitution, at
the same time acts as a Strengthening' Resto-
rative in all cases of
Nervous Debility, Mental St Bodily Weakness,
SICK HEADACHE,
Bilious Complaints, Fever and Ague,
&c., &c.
Bottles a,t 2s. 6dL. & ss.
Post, Is Extra.
W. G. CAINS,
King Street, SYDNEY.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co.,
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. J. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
p
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize—MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine Itavan«:ili Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor rte Bonite ”
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.”
Medical.
r
J
S*
r
'3
Infantile Loveliness
No mother 'who loves her children, who takes
pride in their beauty, purity and health, and in
bestowing upon them a child’s greatest inherit-
ance, — a skin without blemish, and a body nour-
ished by pure blood, should fail to make trial of
the Cuticuba Remedies.
Cuticuba, the great skin cure, and Cuticuba
Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticuba Resolvent, the new
blood purifier, internally, are a positive cure for
every form of skin and blood disease, from pimples
to scrofula, from infancy to ago.
Have been in the drug and medicine business
twenty-five years. Have been selling your Cuti-
cuea Remedies since they came West. They lead
all others in their line. We could not write nor
could you print all we have heard said in favor of
the Cuticuba Remedies. One year ago the Cuti-
cuba and Soap cured a little girl in our house of
the worst sore head we even saw, and the Resolv-
ent and Cuticuba are now curing a young gentle-
man of a sore leg, while the physicians are trying
to have it amputated. It will save his leg and
perhaps his life. Too much cannot be said in
favor of Cuticuba Remedies.
S. B. SMITH & BRO., Covington, Ky.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticuba, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potteb
Deug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
hi PY’C Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
DAD I 0 tifled by the use of Cuticuba Soap.
When six months old, the left hand of our little
grandchild began to swell, and had every appear-
ance of a large boil. We poulticed it, but all to no
purpose. About five months after, it became a
running sore. Soon other sores formed. He then
had two of them on each hand, and as his blood
became more and more Impure, it took less time
for them to break out. A sore came on the chin,
beneath the under lip, which was very offensive.
His head was one solid scab, discharging a great
deal. This was his condition at twenty-two months
old, when I undertook the care of him, his mother
having died when he was a little more than a year
old, of consumption (scrofula of course). Ho could
walk a little, but could not get up if he fell down,
and could not move when in bed, having no
use of his hands. I immediately commenced,
with the Cuticura Remedies, using all freely.
One sore after another healed, a bony matter
forming in each one of these five deep ones
just before healing, which would finally grow
loose and were taken out; then they would heal
rapidly. One of these ugly bone formations I pre-
served. After taking a dozen and a half bottles he
was completely cured, and is now, at the age of six
years, a strong and healthy child,
Mrs. E. 8. DRIGGS,
612 E. Clay ,"Jt., Bloomington, HI
4®“ Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
DIMPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
I I 111 oily skin prevented by Cutxcura Soap.
Address :
R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
Cold Medal
Condensed
A The B?st Milk.
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
oeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
The Ballad of Splendid Silence.
(Written in memory of Ferenz Renyi, the patriot who
luflered death in Hungary in the year 1848.)
This is the story of Renyi,
And when you have heard it through,
Pray God He send no trial like this
To try the faith of you.
And if his doom be upon you,
Then may God grant you this :
Toifight as good a fight as he,
And win a crown like his !
He was strong, and handsome, and happy,
Beloved, and loving, and young, _
With eyes that men set their trust in,
And the fire of his soul on his tongue.
He loved the Spirit of Freedom,
, He hated his country’s wrongs,
He told the patriots’ stories,
And he sang the patriots’ songs.
With mother, and sister, and sweetheart,
His safe, glad days went by,
Till Hungary called on her children
To arm, to fight, and, to die.
“ Good-bye to mother and sister ;
Good-bye to my sweet sweetheart »
I fight for you —you pray for me,
We shall not be apart! ”
The women prayed at the sunrise,
They prayed when the skies grew dim ;
His mother and sister prayed for the Cause,
His sweetheart prayed for him.
For mother, and sister, and sweetheart,
But most for the true and the right,
He low laid down his own life’s hopes
And led his men to fight.
Skirmishing, scouting, and spying,
Night-watch, attack, and defeat;
The resolute, desperate fighting,
The hopeless, reluctant retreat;
Ruin, defeat, and disaster,
Capture, and loss, and despair,
And half of his regiment hidden,
And only this man knew where t
Prisoner, fast bound, sore wounded,
They brought him roughly along,
With his body as weak and broken,
As his spirit was steadfast and strong.
Before the Austrian general—
“ Where are your men ?” he heard :
He looked black death in its ugly face
And answered never a word.
“ Where is your regiment hidden ?
Speak—you are pardoned straight.
No ? We can find dumb dogs their tongues,
You rebel reprobate !”
They dragged his mother and sister
Into the open hall,
“ Give up your men, if these women
Are dear to your heart at all!”
He turned his eyes on his sister,
And spoke to her silently ;
t She answered his silence with speaking,
And straight from the heart spoke she :
“ If you betray your country,
You spit on our father’s name;
And what is life without honour ?
And what is death without shame ?”
He looked on the mother who bore him,
And her smile was splendid to see ;
He hid his face with a bitter cry,
But never a word said he,
“ Son of my body—be silent!
My days at the best are few.
And I shall know how to give them,
Son of my heart, for you !”
He shivered, set teeth, kept silence :
With never a plaint or cry
The women were slain before him,
And he stood and saw them die.
Then they brought his lovely beloved,
Desire of his heart and eyes.
“ Say where your men are hidden,
Or else this your sweetheart dies,”
She threw her arms about him,
She laid her lips to his cheek :
•'* Speak ! for my sake who love you!
Love, for our love’s sake, speak !”
His eyes are burning and shining
With the fire of immortal disgrace—
Christ! walk with him in the furnace
And strengthen his soul for a space!
Long he looked at his sweetheart,
His eyes grew tender and wet;
Closely he held her to him,
His lips to her lips were set.
“ See ! lam young ! I love you I
I am not ready to die!
One word makes us happy forever,
Together, you and I.”
Her arms round his neck were clinging,
Her lips his cold lips caressed ;
He suddenly flung her from him,
And folded his arms on his breast.
She wept, she shrieked, she struggled.
She cursed him in God’s name,
For the woe of her early dying,
And for her dying’s shame.
And still he stood, and his silence,
Like fire was burning him through,
Then the muskets spoke once, and were silent,
And she was silent, too.
They turned to torture him further,
If further might be —in vain ;
He had held his peace in that three-fold hell,
And he never spoke again !
The end of the uttermost anguish
The soul of man could bear
Was the mad-house where tyrants bury
The broken shells of despair.
E. NESBIT.


Public Companies.
TEE AUSTRALIAN HEROAHTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL .... £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch :
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 37 Hunter Street.
Money Bent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
from 1 to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond* Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Six , ” - 7 „ '
Twelve „ ... 8 „
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OB’ THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
DIVIDEND of 10 per cent, per annum declared for the
last half-year is now due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company’s Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company’s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Act, 187 U.)
CAPITAL .. .. £200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
*- Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted daily.
Communications from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits : —3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. ;
6 months, S per cent.; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATING,
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
James Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay ; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
cost for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old process
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
pqlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has success-
fully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
Tor further Information, apply—
W. B. FLETCHER.
THOMAS MCREERYs
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, 4 doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Doth Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
MUSICAL.
"PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
1 Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers.
H. HILDER,
BOOT UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, Ac.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Business Announcements.
—THE—
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established 1872.
Bonuses
OF
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & OO).
Reserve Capital Account .... .... £250,000
Reserve Fund 61,431 10 10
Total Assets over Liabilities 311,431 10 10
— o —-
Head Office .... .... Sydney, H.S.W.
Melbourne Office .... 464 Collins Street.
London Office .... .... 1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices ....
fN.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
(Victoria : Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £3O:
7\ per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
5 3 „
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
-
s.
F. Cowell, Manager.
“What is Home without a Picture?”
Xi. BEEUASCOUI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IP. SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
Hotels.
BourkeS’
ELkOURNE
TRAMS PASS
EYEfcT FEW MINUTES
iTr
ia
II
PALACE HOTEL
J.A.WILSON
fIOPIiEIOS
G.W.CLARE
\ggf MANAGE*
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
—is—
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains
Three Hu.nd.redl MZagnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
FIXED LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER, AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
AST Each Eloor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modem Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
m~ TWO PASSEIsTGER OTIS LIFTS
M
Ladies’
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos, Cook St Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms : Single Bedroom, 2s. 6d. per Wight.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege 6f using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
■> -«-r3»0«=» iKJn
Pull particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
p
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent in Sydney:
E. DOUBLET. 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A ACCOUCHEUR,
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation:
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 tiU 9 p,m*
54 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Bead
(opposite University),
S XO ME X.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Worts,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square , for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
JSI. Trial Solicited.
P. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners k Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 GJ-eorge Street, 736
HATMAEKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, See., Made to Order.
—AUSTRALIAN—
Holler Iplour and j|rain UtorcA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: - 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Bmnton’s Patent Roller Flour
AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Jurors of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition.
1888-89.
UMBRELLAS
BE-COVEREa
QIUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. STILL, IVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly done.


Medical,
NERVOUS MEN.
m
n
ELECTRIC BELT.iI
I
v-
Nr -
H")
■d'
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete ■with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
•nd all weakness caused by indiscretion. 1 ains In the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 davs
trial, and accept payment after they have proved theia-
•elves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a2d stamp fur
postage.
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 910, G. P. 0., b rosier.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.K.C.P., M.R.0.5., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Genito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-325 LONSDALE STREET—
(between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts J,
MELBOURNE.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
EP” All Personal Consultations are FREE ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases—price,
3s. fid. (.post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing C 0,,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Eose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
PPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
f The Public are requested to notice the
waII wJLUIJL 1 words, Ruse s Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
SSI GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
N
ERV O U S
DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical book sent free ©n
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
mg valuable hints. Try Herr Kass-Mussbn’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOB FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK and POULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Bam* by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :
“I hare tested a sample of the 'Maoio Meal' for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, afteJ a most careful examination, that 1 have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion that tnis
Reticle should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwio, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:—“l
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—7lb. 3s. ; 141 b. ss. fid. ; 661 b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 561 b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
n HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CH4
0
PATENT
w
PSLLS
&
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give reliel
in twenty minutes. Everj
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
i heir use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ifle<
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these Pilh
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to thi
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppressioi
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech am 's Cocan
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
prietor,Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered to be the most Successful Practi-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferer-
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) One Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY.
Moore & ]Jogg
p
THE EMINENT
SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases Otthe Genito urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
I, CORBETTS BUILDINGS, corner of George
and Elisabeth Street «, Brisbane.
001 .SULTAXIOMS FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER, f
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book sent on receipt of 2d. stamp. |
Hotels.
Eden
ILLI
OWOCNS
»om
Ui
BOW33E3VTS HOTEL,
Elizabbth Strkbt (Nkas Hdntbb St.), Stdnbt.
JOHN O. BOWDEN „ - Proprietor
WESTERN HOTEL,
Warmambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. SSB" Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE - Proprietor,
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand-
Sydney Branches; _
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
Read. ! Read ! Read i
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur GayU.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bdlbetin’s -well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Stailliug
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland) Is. 3d.
Wholesale Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Melbourne: Gordon & Gotch.
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Adelaide: Neville & Co.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launeeston.
“ Fop Framing a Picture Heat and Well.”
w x : x
D BERN ARDS P. ture and Moulding
• Store, 399 GeorgT- t., Sydney (Opposite
lloyal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edge;.
pecial attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Altken.)
HAHUPACTURERS
A IMPORTERS OF
« T .A.
HATS CAPS it
438 CEORCE ST
SYDNEY 1
CfiposiCt LiusrtCera
/y
&
V-
p
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
p
p
pp
Business Announcements.
rjIHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
AND THE
New Era Portable ffas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over 6000 Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
be seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor offers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia;
H. T. SMITH & CO.,
494 Kent Street South. SYDNEY;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S. A. ; Argent Street, Broken Hill ;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
The British and New Sonth Wales Investment
and Financial Co., Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office; 246 PITT STREET.
TRILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
S Months .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT A COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap*
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers.
Upfold’s Tree Pest Exterminator,
Its Effects are Marvellous!
Sean's Faint Unbreakable Sadi Company,
LIMITED.
Factory aud Office: 227 Castlereagh Street,
(Late 245)
SYTDTSrSNT.
New Style of Tree.
The Company is now prepared to manufactnre all kinds
of Saddles. Any infringement of the Patent will be pro-
secuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark.
ALFRED H. GENTIL, Secretary.
GR
I
I
•WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY.
C CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
j received and realised in the best markets. Aoeount
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZi
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in ad van e). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office. George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near OperaHoase, Bourko-st..East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 31s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
* 2r Porpoise Hide wears twice as long as
any other leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool,
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
J 55
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Class, llilnn and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and GO.’S
Cognac.'
J. T. OAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
E». R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OE
W IITES, x SPIRITS, x BEB B S, x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
■
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Ddnvillb’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hennessy’s, Kartell’s and Sazbrac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
yri|ol£saip anti §inglE Battle BspantniEnts, r iS% anti 2M J^yflney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ R2FRESHMSNT ROOM & LAYATORY*
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
~)X(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE; GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
BROS.
5
p
KTIES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From IDs. 6d. to £35.
SATIN
I'XADIES; iji
CH, U dV 5 J'
TBUNKSIfcCSC
"cl |
/7r/7r*
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDREN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medial on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the Angers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneffcent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mann-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. 82T - Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
Free Freacriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Dree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.'
dctv€ss~~~~
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHMOND FAMILY HOTEL,
PORTLAND, VICTORIA.
John Shelton - Proprietor.
ALTED COCOA
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
A T SrvS LAR S N '?? N f H f°^ E J J ’ B . an( l" ets ’ Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
™f, d n the horte ® t °tice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
y C en Joy frorn the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
n^f^vf Q °Ki yOU C vf 1 i iave , . eom Pf n y> g° od Wines— in fact, everything that can possibly make one
coinfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishir»g and Picnic Parties provided. Table
/i U y xf“ d i^ nc J ay "'• N l ° expend is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony,
KILIMCIKTSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
IjOUG'S imperial hotel,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - • Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
1
m
AIR.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and pr duces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A pure, non-gritty Tooth Powdkr. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skin.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS*
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
i.TTVTTniTirfc^
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.P.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes*
CENTRUM PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPa
Saw Benches.
Ziatlxea.
SUMS MACHINES.
4m.
■
■I iliiiii
;
Ji fflifi
ssffls*; --to i
mmrnm
i
-I*
igijg
ipSiifeb
.'Slnm ' 'ffanaw-i’Unfit fTitaloniil
mSB:
WINDING MINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUR-MILL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOB
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Miluhlar Boilers.
COKHlgn BOHJBBB.
te* Aou
We invite all those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to Immediate delivery.
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, B
129 » 181 » ' 133 & X 35 HAY STREET, HA YM AHKBT, SYDWr”
