

Ask your
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristoli, London and Sydney,
“An ordinary cap contains more active properties of malt than a pint o the beat Ale or Porter. '^Lanobi.
ZMlecLsuls lan. 18S8.
Melbourne:
Highest Order of Merit,
Cincinnati:
Only Medal.
Toronto :
First Award International Speed Contest.
«<
3
Typewriter Records wherever obtained were all broken by Mr. T. W. Osborn, of Rochester,
New York, on the 28th March last at New Haven, when he wrote:—
From Memory.
180 words in a minute and an average of 142 3-sths five
minutes, the sentence being “ This is a time for all good
men to come to the aid of their party.”
fDrom Dictation.
113 words in half-a*minute, and an average of 99 3-sths of
legal evidence without an error.
30,000
IN
DAILY USE.
Most people can in less than
a week work faster than
with a pen, and can become
expert in a few months.
1 '■
■
'
,r '
■n
T-
'T:
c>:
&
m
wm
Testimonials
expressing unqualified ap-
proval from Professional
Men, Heads of Government
'Departments and Leading
Merchants.
Gsed almost exclusively by
the Government offices of
America, New South Wales
and New Zealand.
? ’>
a
o
iiy
I fl s
V
Has established its superiority over all other Typewriters in the way of-
Wm* SPEED, DURABILITY, BUJEIIT FORKING and ADJUSTABILITY
by having a key for every Capital or Small Letter arranged on a scientific principle, thus avoid-
ing the clumsy shifting apparatus which sacrifices every possible claim a writing machine can
have to practical usefulness and success.
The Caligraph will press copy Eight times and manifold Twelve with Carbon. 3000 Copies
may be taken by the aid of Edison’s wonderful Copying Machine, “ The Mimeograph,” jwhich
is supplied by Caligraph agents all over the wor d.
Every style of machine made by the American Writing Machine Company, of Hartford,
Conn., U.S A., and all requisites may be procured from the following Agents:—■
New South Wales: J. E. CUNNINGHAM, Official Shorthand Writer, Lyndhurst Chambers,
Elizabeth Street, representative of the American Writing Machine Co. for all Australia;
and JOHN SANDS, Stationer, 375 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: C. 8. CUNNINGHAM, Shorthand Writer, Australian Widows’ Building, Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Messrs. WEBSTER & 0., 75 Mary Str. et, Brisbane.
Tasmania: Messrs. J. WALCH & SONS, Hobart.
The Bulletin


TOBACCU
n
I
DIXSOPSONS
'p
*
a
o
O
S3fc
Jt.
C?
V
Pavx
Sir rocer
50
O
r
0
BEnBoLI
VL
3
DIXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WAT RS
are now imported In bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPES-
CEMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
CARLSBaO SPRUOEL ■ SAIT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in dosas of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dlssolYed in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
& teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
In water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
And of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
{STATE
j
SPRINGS .)
aiINDE-GRILLE.— For Affections of the
Liver. Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS. —For the Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. — For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Water.
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dtaltrt, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
. Tntdt Mark—“ White Rose ”on Golden
Lyre, with Address in full. A
"Willia-m. Csirgrill,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26— MARKET—STREET,
SYDNEY.
M‘LEAN BROS.. HI GO, & CO.
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
618 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
o
Co
'*•
<5
&
IRONMONGERS
12
5
o
o
3
REG?
<fc
SPECIALITIES’:
Davis’ Sewing-Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Aibo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES s-LBONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S
WASHING,MACHINES, *O., *O.
LEA&PERRINS'SAUCE
ADC
V PtPRi
jfn consequence of imitations of
SALfCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have Jo request that Purchasers see that the Label on every boltU
bears their Signature thus —
4^Os
without which no bottle of the, original WORCESTERSSIRE
SAUCE is genuine .
Ask for LEA and PERKINS'- Sauce, and see Name-on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Cross* and
' Bloc kit ell, London, ire., ire.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
T. Lawless, Jun.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit Merchant.
WALTER HOPE, General Merchant and
Commission Agent, 197 Sussex Street,
Sydney. Consignments of all Produce, Live
Stock, &c., received and realised in the best
markets. Account Sales and Proceeds remitted
the day after sale. Orders executed for all Goods
from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale Prices.
SPECIALITY.—Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock
of all description Bought or Sold on Commission,
All communications referring to Pure-bfed Poultry
and Eggs for Setting to be addressed as usual to
WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg Prize Poultry
Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
64 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received ..
Advances Made _ ~
total Income
Tear ending
Oct., 1886.
£180,425
61,630
93,681
123,248
200,106
Tear ending
Oot., 1880.
„ £350,000
120,000
... 261,500
... 247,840
.. 461,086
Tear ending
Oot., 1887.
_ £431,125
- 206,685
_ 391,350
_ 807,828
- 797,990
Tear ending
Oot., 1888.
_ £580,000
_ 251,015
_ 1,123,049
_ 625,826
_ 9,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent, ; 8 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
iXPLS FUSES for Borrowers. JERKS LIBERAL
I
“■Ha
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
425 Contributing Shares
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. pe
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders In Cash.
The holders of t le First Issue of these Shares received In October,
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed only
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hen. JOHN HIM (O, M.P.. J.P., _ _ Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHEKTT ... Asttns-gecretary*
-
-1
J.
Federal coffee palace,
OORNBB Of
DSZl33.gr dz, Collla=LS Streets, l^enoo-a-rrr©.
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and Table
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced OMf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, BEADING and RECEPTION ROOMS.
HOT, OOLiD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND PROMPTLY REPLIED TO
George Cohen ----- Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 485.
SATURDAY, JUNE 1, 1889.
Price. 6d.
[Speaker Davies.
M


The Bulletin
Tbs National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 2i PITT-STREKT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Dusiness Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
Whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin’’ will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MAY 23, 1889
Posthumous Glory.
A marble SLAB in St. Pam’s Cathedral, the
eacred edifice wherein the deeds cf many
of the rojal pirates of Great Britain
are commemorated, la to hand down ot
future generations the name and memory of
B. Dalley, the amateur Caesar who
sought to revive the age of knight-errantry
and to tread in the footsteps of Cambyses
and Jugurtha, A pries, Scipio Apricanus,
and the other storied butehers of antiquity.
While he was alive the apostle of Imperialism
in Australia was honoured by a tile which
he held In common with a faw dozen of the
hereditary peers who shine In the Dhorce
Court aod whose coronets blaze above the
billiard-table and among the wc-hhers of
the British racecourse; and row that he is
dead ihe tcalptured pavlng-stone on which
his name Is to be handed down to fatnrity
will remain (o t;ll of his services and bid his
success ora go ard do likewise. If the title
and the second-rate cenotaph are worth the
sacrifice with which they were purchased—
if the vast expense, the accumulated ridicule,
and the national degradation of the Soudan
expedition were a fair exchange for the
abbreviated prefix which the Australian
Cjesar was authorised to attach to his name
and the slippery boulder which la to be
erected in his honour, then Mr. Dalley has
had his reward and the world owes him
nothing more.
* * •
Bat the evil which he unoorsofoißly did
promises to live afbe r him. The misguided
enthusiast who sent an awkward tquad to
Bctamble over tin ruins of the old empires
of Africa having boen duly honoured by a
title and a monument, a host of grovelling
politicians and lawmakers pine for an oppor-
tunity to fellow in his f ootateps. Tire
tablet la the Cathedral, It la true, is
of ilttie Betvics to the dead-and-gone states-
man, and the men to whom such mementoes
are erected are mostly those whose names the
world most wi hes to forget ; but the fate
which the modern political toady dreads
above all others 1s oblivion, and even a bri f
inscription on the wall of a crumbling
cathedral In a foreign land helps to postpone
for a few years the inevitable day when he
will be utterly dropped out of all remem-
brance. Httherto the highest honour to
which the Australian “loyalist” oonld
aspire has been the soiled aod crumpled
label of Sb. Michael and Sb. George, bat
there was no immortality attached to It, and
even among the moat devobed admirers of
monarchy that battered decoration was
beginning to lose something of its lustre.
Tin K.O.M.G. has no place In the Book
of Fame ; at the best he la apt to be regarded
ss a dismal, flobby caricature of nobili y,
and his position is as undefiaable as that of a
back-blocks native king or a maj >r In the
ranks of the Salvation Army. Exporience
has shown that he can die and be as utterly
forgotten as the shiftless monarchi who
roved with clubs and spears over the hills cf
Britain In the days before history com-
menced, and under these circumstances the
devotion of the podgy rum-selier and the
political scarecrow of the Orange Lodge Is
apt, sooner or later, to fall short of Its old
fervour. Is was probably considered ad-
vlsible, therefore, to open a new path to
In older that the colonial politician
might be kept straight, and therefore the
name of William Bede Dallby is to shine
In St. Paul’s to remind the om-
mon, unconsidered Jenkins, or the plain,
illiterate Hoolahan, that if he does his level
b-st through life to prop up the great Im-
perial throne his name may yet be enshrined
among those of the Plantaqeneis and the
Tudors, and the passing stranger may stop
to shed a tear over an Inscription setting
forth that he died at the pump In his eff >rta
to hold up the British constitution as handed
down to him by h!s fathers.
• * •
The reward, at the best, Is not a brilliant
one, bub a prolonged study cf human mean-
nets and imbecility has long since taught
monarchs how low Is the average price at
which mankind can be purchased, and as
a consequence royalty la seldom lavish In its
tendencies. A long llfe-tlme of abject devo-
tion is repaid by a Companionship In the
O-der of the Gilded Dust-heap; a royal
audience or a copy of “Leaves from My
Journal In the Highlands ” has bought more
apostates than any min could reasonably be
expectel to remember ; and more than one
tribune cf the people has sold hla name and
his reputation to ba a C.M.G. along with
John Davies and other patriots of similar
calibre. The miserable degradation of Aus-
tralian public life has created an Impression
that everybody has hla price, and that every,
body’s price Is vary low, and Australian
patriotism is languishing for want of a few
Hnn with courage enough to reject a tenth-
rate title and throw the pauper badge of a
cheap order of knighthood into the gutter.
On the very day when M*. Dallex’s
posthumous honours ware first announced It
was raported that Mr. Dibbs, the leader of
the rising political party of New South
Wales, was to be “ honoured ” with a special
mark of bis sovereign’s esteem, and waa to
ba promoted to be a commoner in the
Order of St. Michael and St, George
a position something lower In rank
than a knight and a little higher in the
social scale than an illiterate bush J.P.
Whether true or false the report was one
which should have aroused a shriek of de-
risive laughter all over Australia—but nobody
laughed. The proposal to elevate a pro-
minent Australian statesman into a fifteenth-
rate apology for a nobleman was accepted
pretfy much as a matter of course, and
sheu'd the offer be actually made and con-
temptuously rejected, the only cause for
general surprise will be that there Is one
public man In New South Wales who does
not pine for a decoration or desire to be a
mute at the tall end of the great funeral of
St. Michael and St. George,
* • *
To the “loyal” Australian a seedy C.M.G.-
shlp is the beginning, and a placa in the
Privy Council and a tablet In Westminster
Abbey the summit of human greatness, and
so far the “bonds' 1 of Imperial union have
been sufficiently cemented by means of these
devices. The golf which lies between the
two extremities of personal grandeur is much
the same as that which divides the Fantee
with a cast-off tail coat from the other Fantee
who boasts a soiled collar for his sole adorn-
ment, but the men who wave the Imperial
banner In these colonies have fixed their own
price, and If they are for sale cheap as a job
lot of damaged politicians the responsibility
la theirs alone. The erection of a stone slab
to the memory of Mr. D alley among the
tjinbs of Britain’s dead asiasslns and
eminent public homicides In St. Paul’s I a
a measure which will probably cause a great
temporary revival of loyal devotion among
the legislators cf this continent, and though
there 1s unhappily room for only a few of
them In the British Pantheon they will nob
aid g ither all go without their reward. So long
as there is one solitary groveller to be ennobled
In Australia the cause of loyalty will not
die out; and even when the Order of St.
Michael, and St. George has received into
its b„som eveiy social and political fiinkey
In the Australian nation, bo long as there is
standing room on each loyal stomach for
another decoration the Imperial driveller
will not become totally extinct. And when
the crosses and medals give out, the “ repre-
sentative Australian ” has still before him
the hope of a monument in Westminster
Abbey along with the deceased hero of the
Soudan, and only when this final hope Is
lost will the oft-cemented “ bonds ” of union
be forgotten and the drivel of Imperial
Federation and loyalty to the ancient flag of
England will finally die out.
“State-aided Emigrants.”
The British pauper has achieved the distinction
of being regarded as an emphatic nuisance in the
land of his birth, and the main object of Imperial
policy now is to legislate him out of existence. It
is no j sought to achieve this end by giving him a
chance of gaining a decent living by honest labour;
scca an expedient would bean infringement of the
rights of property, and would likewise be class
legislation of a dangerous kind, remedial legisla-
tion being permissible only when it tends to pro-
tect the class who hold property. At dit is more
because he is a danger to vested interests than
because he is miserable and destitute that Im-
perial legislators condescend to worry about him
at all. A few paupers in the community are a dis-
tinct advantage to the proprietors of capital, for
they, by their competition, keep wages to a good
starvation rate, and prevent their fellows from
talking any high-pitched balderdash about the
rights of labour, and besides that a part of the
enjoyment of wealth arises from the knowledge
that there are millions of persons who don’t own
the price of a dinner. But, useful as the pauper is
in these ways, ha has become too numerous alto-
gether. When he is not busy trespassing on
somebody’s rubbish-heap in exciting search afser
decayed vegetables, he not infrequently is wonder-
ing why he should be perpetaady stone broke,
while some very evil persons whom ha wots of
spend thousands weekly for which they have
never toiled. Then the British pauper mutters
nasty vu’gar curses, and attends Trafalgar Square
meetings, and otherwise threatens to create a
breach of the peace of property owners. There-
fore it has been resolved that the pauper must go.
He doesn’t die off quick enough, and public smti-
mant'is not yet educated up to the point of order-
ing him to be shot on sight, so as the next belt
means of riddance he is to be sent out of E igland
and dumped down In Australia.
• » o
What iniquity Australia has wrought that it
should thus be continually made the dumping-
ground and dust-bin for the scum, the tcourings,
and the evil smelling refuse of the “dear old
mother country ”it is difficult to imagine. First
it was the convicts whom Britain emptied into
Australia; then officials, parsons, and governors
whom it was desired to favour at oar expense were
sent out ; vaurims, blackguards, released felons,
consumptives, and bankrupts have been oom'ng
out all the time, and every ship has brought its
share of brummagem and shoddy. Now, to crown
the list, it is proposed that the dangerous and
destltu,ta paupers of Britain shall be transported
hither, to compete with men who have been raised
and educated here, and also with those who paid
passages out of their own hard-earned money.
And the iceberg coolness of the whole business is
witnessed by the fact that these Imperial schemes
are being perfected without any reference what-
ever to the opinions and desires of these self-
governing colonies, Downing-street confides in
Australian loyalty to meet these outlaws with an
address of welcome and to give them free beard
as long as they choose to stay. Of course such
welcome will be given. We have endured British
aristocrats and therefore need not refuse to receive
British paupers. We have had sent here as
Governors scoundrels of far worse type than any
mere pauper could possibly prove. “Freetraders
should rejoice to see shiploads of these cheap
foreign producers landed in Australia. If it is a
good thing to import cheap goods ipade abroad,
io must) be a still better thing to have
goods made cheaply here, and these paupers
may be ralied upon to work at “scab” rate a in
every trade. Freetraders who want to appear
consistent say they only object to Chinese on the
ground that, being an alien' race, a bad type of
crossbreds would arise to the detriment of the
whole community. It would be interesting here-
after to notice what excuse in accordance with the
creed of cheapness will be found as a ground of
objection to the flooding of Australia with unwel-
come “ blacklegs,” but before the first shipload
can arrive it is more than probable that the pre-
sent New South Wales Ministry will be ejected,
that “ Freetrade ” will have been crushed flitter
than a O.M. G.’s reputation, and that Parkes
and Abigail will have declared, “Hi 'ave
halways hadvocated the glorious principle of Pnr-
teotion,” And with a Protectionist Ministry in
command we can guess to a fraction how many
British “ State-aided emigrants ” will be turned
lose on the labjur market of Naw South Wales.
Imprisoned for “Contempt.”
It may be admitted that New South Wales law is
not so barbarous as it once was, but it is more than
a trifle brutal even now —a conclusion Messrs.
Dobn, J. a. O’Neill, W. E. Hammond, Hilder
(released last week after a year’s imprisonment),
G. R Dibbs, and other sufferers have long since
reached. As a solid matter of fact it is a common
event for men who have the misfortune to be
defendants in civil proceedings for libel or to be
suitors in divorce to be robbed of every cent they
possess by legal process and then to be Imprisoned
by order of the court because they have no money.
In causes of these classes the crime of being poor
is one which, upon conviction, is punishade by
imprisonment for an indefinite period, and yet
without resulting in discharge of the debt. While
people glory in the reforms which abolished im-
prisonment for debt, libel and divorce suitors
who are found guilty of being poor get into
gaol in very much the same old way, although the
process is differently described. They are not
sent to gaol for “owing” money; they are sent
there because they won’t pay money they don t
possess ; but they “ get there just the same,” any-
how, and with just as poor a show of getting out.
• • „
Nothing but petrified tradition can show any
grounds for palliation of such unreasonable pr •
ceedings as these. Take the case of libel, for
instance. A man desms himself aggrieved by
something that has been published about him, and
thereupon sues at civil law to recover damages for
the injury sustained. The criminal law may be
available, but as he wants to coin h’s injury into
sovereigns, he prccoeds at niAprius. An indul-
gent j ary assesfes his hurt at, say £3O, and he
therefore gets judgment for his costs as weil. The
defendant, perhaps, can pay the £3O but not the
costs, and because he has not the money to do so
he is “attached” for contempt and is sent to
gaol. The plaintiff then has got his damages, his
character is cleared, and he has put the defendant
la gaol, so that he has in one act achieved as
much as if he had proceeded both at civil and
criminal law. His costs are not paid, but he
holds the defendant’s carcase as security for them,
and however long the latter may stay in prison he
still remains liable The imprisonment, which in
itself prevents a man from earning money to dis-
charge his liability, is utterly ineffective, for the
validity of the debt remains as before the attach-
ment. And the defendant by means of the
brut iliby of tho dual process to whioh he has been
subjected is twice punished for one and the same
offence—an outrage on j ustice which the theory of
law declares cannot be permitted.
• • *
There is nothing unique or so exceptional about
the tort or crime of libel as to justify or excuse
such peculiar brutality of treatment of the de-
fendant. Persons indecently or otherwise as-
saulted are not allowed to recover damages and
then to imprison the defendant for an indefinite
tsrin if he doesn’t pay their costs. Forgery is
often as bad an offence as libel, but still the person
defrauded is not allowed to recover compensation
for his loss and to imprison the forger as well.
And further, it would be impossible to argue that
an execution for costs has any greater right to
involve the imprisonment of the debtor than a
judgment recovered for goods sold and delivered.
± hei creditor in either case has lost so much money
as the judgment includes, but his claim in libel can
be put upon no other or higher ground than that.
Put even omitting theie considerations, the pre-
sent process stands without excuse. The jury in
a libel action are asked to asaesi the damage if
any, sustained by the plaintiff , They do so, and
conclude as in some cases that one farthing is an
accurate estimate. Their verdict, then, does
notli.cg more than compel the defendant to make
reparation by handing this amount to the plaintiff.
Pub here the law steps in, and for failure to pay
certain costs—an obligation which the jury had
been expressly ordered not to consider in giving
their verdict—imprisons the defendant for a term
not dependent upon any law, bub until such time
(nob exceeding twelve months) as the plaintiff
chooses to release him. The power of the jury is.
therefore, subject to that of the judge, and his
authority m regulating the penalty against a
ruined defendant is less than that of the plaintiff
himself. To put the matter more clearly the jury
assign the sum of damages ; if that be under £3O
the judge then says whether the defendant shall
be condemned to pay costs, often 100 times
greater than £3O; and thereafter the plaintiff
himself decides whether he will as a further
penalty imprison the debtor. The relics of the
practice of barbarous ages when every man was
judge in his own cause are discernible in this
method of legal oppre:s : on. That such savagery
in the name of law continue! proves nothing more
i t 0 the ma i° rlt y of “en “ whatever is is
right, howsoever completely it may be severed
from any atom of justification.
* * •
Common justice demands that the present
practice in this department of New South Wales
law should be knocked out in one short legislative
round. If libel be esteemed so peculiarly gross
.J? ° iii 13 as 4o n9oeH(s itate further punishment
than that passed upon other defendants in tort—
although we fail to see one glimmer of reason why
this should be so—the term of Imprisonment to be
®“° ure . d default o f payment of verdict and
costs should be limited by the jury when deliver-
ing their decision. Verdict for “one farthing.
distress, or 48 hours imprisonment,'
would then be a form of judgment providing for
every contingency, and putting the defendant out
ot reach of the vindictiveness of his prosecutor.
J.hen would the suffering now undeservedly en-
dured by men whca.3 only crime is their poverty
be removed, and legal proceedings freed from the
Stl £^.V mp !i eSBed upon them hy the occasional
exhibition of cruelty by cold blooded and malig-
nant men. B
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Queen’s Birthday
ViOTGSiA, Queen by the grace of God, has had
another birthday, and though the rejoicings have
fallen tlat, and the fireworks have fizzed out with
a dismal sound, and the banquets and speeeho
have been the poorest apology for a public oere-
monia), it is erecerally understood that Australia
has done its best to honour its sovereign’s natal
* A t, - he , , veDeiable age of three score
and ten Britain s beloved Sovereign still hangs
on with a tenacious grasp to the millions
voted by a complaisant nation, and the
tact that she has clung to her accumulated
treasures for another year annually fills a vast
empire with a melancholy semblance of universal
gratification. But now that Victoria has fallen
mto the sere and yellow leaf the occasion seems
rather to suggest that royalty, is another year
nearer to its inevitable grave, and that the British
crowned figurehead has undergone an additional 12
months wear and tear, and is so much further ad-
vanced in general dilapidation, and for this and
many other reasons the Queen’s birthday has be-
°?? ae * somewhat grotesque subject for the drivel
’ °* lo / al orators and the O CoNNOR-esque eloquence
of after-dinner celebrators. Old age is the one
hopelessly incurable disease to which mankind is
subject, and both the monarchy and its personal
repressntative are in an advanced stage of this
complaint j and, therefore, the firing of artillery
salutes, and the waving of long rows of drenched
and clammy banners seems like an unpleasantly
direct expression of public joy that the old
institution has advanced a year further
towards its final foundering. But, after all, the
hidden significance of such celebrations matters
very little. Some sixty or seventy years ago the
British nation rejoiced in similar fashion as
Ghorgk the Thud marked each succeeding mile-
stone towards his final destination, and though the
old king was blind and gibbering in incurable
lunacy, and the favourite amusement of his loving
offspring consisted in sticking pins into hia
miserable carcase, and each additional year of life
meant to him only a year of misery and living
death, the celebrations went on as joyously as
though George himself had been the happiest of
mortals. And if Victoria should live to be the
same crowned phantom that her grandfather was—
if she should exist and collect her salary through a


loag-drawnout old age of imbecility and blindness
and torpid, stupid unconsciousness, the banners
will wave and the guns will be fired just the same,
and the driveller of loyal gorges will drink to her
long life and prosperity as of old.
♦
A Shearer’s Conspiracy.
A Victorian paper reports that two union
shearers were lately found guilty at Hamilton
(Vic.) of riotcus conduct and unjustifiably conspir-
ing to raise, the rate of wages. And now the
world waits anxioufly for the time when a league
of employers will be sent to gaol fcr conspiring
to keep wages down and laying unlawful schemes
to shove the price of commodities up; and it longs
to see a bloated syndicate despatched to pound
bricks in a prison on a charge of having leagued
themselves together to buy a piece of land for half
its value and sell it again for three times what it
is worth; and it hungers to hear that a dozen
members of Parliament have been run in for
feloniously associating to pass a swamp with a
dubious title on to a confiding nation at sixteen
times the price of dry ground ; or that an eminent
speculator has been committed fcr trial for mis-
demeanour inasmuch as he heard that the country
wanted to purchase a scrap of water-frontage and
organised himself, contrary to law, with a view to
obtaining a commission thereon when he shouldn’t
have. If the law, as Tennyson said in the days
of his greatness, “ whirls in equal measure,” or
words to that effect, we want it, supposing it is
still whirling, to whirl a few influential gentlemen
of this description into a dungeon and leave them
there until further notice.
♦
The Melbourne Argus has a melancholy tale of
three nigger serenaders who bray for coppers on
the Thames Embankment in London, and who,
ten years ago, were Irish landowners and gentle-
men of high distinction. The Land League, Par-
nell, and other disturbing influences, however,
brought them gradually down to mendicancy, and
having lived so long on the work of others that
they have no idea how to work for themselves,
they now wail long drawn out melodies by the
side of the evil-smelling and malarious Thames.
The Argus supplies no information about the dis-
hevelled peasants on whom these three gentlemen
lived so happily until ten years ago. Whether
they are starved out, or in the workhouse, or in
gaol, or whether they are also singing for coppers
somewhere doesn’t matter much, we suppose, for
the A rgus confines its sympathy to the tuneful
landlords who are such infernally bad songsters
beside London’s unwholesome river. For our own
part we don’t know exactly where the hardship
comes in. If the proprietors of Ireland are men
of such miserable incapacity that they are only fit,
when thrown on their own resources, to p’ay the
organ grinder and the organ-grinder’s monkey on
an embankment, why should they be the virtual
owners and rulers of hundreds of their fellow-men
who could probably sing a heap better on an em-
bankment than they will ever do ?
♦
Our Gracious Queen, it appears, has been
earnestly besought by Sir Henry Loch upon his
bended knt e to have her portrait painted for the
Melbourne National Gallery, and the Queen has
graciously replied that she will see Loch further
before she consents. From which we infer that
our Sovereign Lady doesn’t consider that the
most fl vttericg oil-painting of herself, as she is,
would be another link to bind us to the dear old
mother country, but would rather tend to bust up
that Empire upon which the sun never sets. And
Victoria Regina shows a downy spirit in this
matter. It w ould never do for the “ loyal ” parents
of Victoria to introduce their offspring to the por-
trait of a heavy, jowled old woman, with purple
cheeks, swollen eyelids drooping over bleared eyes,
a cast-iron nose, and a mouth turning down at the
ends, as “The Queen-God bless her!” Better
to let them get their conception of Imperial
Majesty from the head on a new shilling, and
learn reverence for the Queen’s personality from
postage-stamps and illustrated papers. It is in
the interests of rconaiohial government that
Tummy’s mother seldom shows her face in the
busy haunts of men, a fact at which we arrived
after long and earnest contemplation of her august
countenance on a cold day.
>
Melbourne Herald has a simple little system of
manufacturing “ original ” articles on furrin
affairs. All those heavy Indigestible yards of
print about the Eastern question—sermons that
possess neither beginning cr ending—which ap-
pear in Australian morning newspapers, and are
rehashed in we klies issuir g from the same offices,
all of them are feeble plagiarisms from Illogical
articles in English magazines to hand by the pre-
vious mail. But the Herald is not a feeble
plagiarist. The gifted Winter, or his myrmidon,
just lays hold of the English stuff bodily, and
sticks in a word here and there that gives a new
tone to the old matter, and probably _ causes the
unfortunate Emperor cf all the Russias to break
out in cold beads of agonised sweat. An illustra-
tion of the system follows : —
London Spectator,
December Is* 1 , 1888.
“ Xnere is no proof what-
ever that the Czar, who in
matters of foreign policy is
‘Russia,’ has decided to
attack Persia, or to exercise
upon its court a diplomats 3
pressure of the kind which
would attract immediat)
attention throughout
Europe. Nevertheless, the
sudden outbuist of temper
in Rue si an journals caused
by the Anglo-Persiac Treaty
opening the river Karum,”
&0 , $3.
Melbourne Herald,
February 28t<h, ]880.
“Proofs ate strengthen-
ing’ that the Czar, if cot de-
ciding to attack Persia, h s
determined to exercise upon
its Court diplomatic pres-
sure of a kind which is al-
ready attracting attention
thro git Eu ope. The out-
burst of temper in the
Russian journals caused b/
the Acglo-Peisian Treaty
opening the river Karum,”
&L, &3.
And thus the Hebald slioga its own improved
Ideas among the Spectator drivel. It Is a simple
process.
The proposal to send a prince of the blood as
Viceroy to Inland Is finding favour with Lord
Salisbury. Whatever merit there i? in the pro-
posal—and we will reveal this presently—belongs
to Lord Beaconhiheld. It was one of his many
schemes for the pacification of Ireland, and it
ot aracterlsed bv the usual Machiavellianism which
maifeed most of the Hebrew Premi r’s projects.
The idea is this ; A prince of the blood in Ireland
as Viceroy will appeal to all the toadyism which
exists in that country, and that is a substantial
quantity. Everyone knows how Byron reviled
O’Oonnell for his abject loyalty to the fourth
of the fools and oppressors called George
when that fat and enormously coarse per-
sonage went over to Ireland. In every down-
trodden country like Ireland there is a slavish
residuum whose spirits are crushed by long sub-
jection. These have within them the capacity of
true toadyism, and them a Prince of England may
count upon winning away from the national
cause. This is not all, however, that is meant by
the proposal. Lord Salisbury is fully comolcus
that there is no chance of winning over the true
nationalist party by such means. He does not
reckon on this. He does not want it. _ One
of the accusations levelled by the coeroionists
against the Irish nationalists is that they are
disloyal as a natural consequence to the agitation
they are conducting. lord Salisbury’s wish is
to bring a member of the Royal Family into
direct conflict with the Nationalist party. This
can be best done by making the Prince Viceroy of
Ireland. The Tories will then be able to play
upon the fears of the British supporters of Homs
Rule who are loyal to the throne by pointing out
the disloyalty cf Ireland. There is one thing
that is overlooked, however, in this beautiful
scheme. The English and Scotch democracies
have learned many things from their Irish
brothers within recent years. Supposing Lord
Salisbury’s experiment should teach these demo-
cracies what they have not yet learnt, how easy
it is to rebel against Royalty ! _ The issue might
be disastrous to Throne and Tories alike.
♦ —
Thomson W. Leys, editor of the Auckland (N.Z )
Star, lashes himself into fury in that organ
because James Gore on Bennett, of the New
York Herald, publishes a Sunday paper.
Amongst other hard things, ha says that “the
question whether heavier loads may be laid upon
the honest toiler, whether another of his few
remaining privileges may be filched, and bis lot
made harder, in order that men of the stamp
of James Gordon Bennett may grow wealthier,
is apparently to be left to the arbitrament _ cf sel-
fishness and greed, instead of being determined by
high religious, moral, and social considerations.”
This is a magnificent piece of cheek, coming as it
does from a man whose “proprietor” has done
more to debase the position of the working printer
than any other man in Australasia. Coming from
the man who produces his paper by the aid of
underpaid girl and boy labour, and who carefully
suppresses reference to labour movements in the
other colonies, the cast-iron impudence of this
attack on James Gordon Bennett must be held
to out-adamant the fossil man from Orange.
*
Most of the members of the present N.S.W.
Ministry are young men, and accustomed only to
those methods of administering criminal law
which have grown from seed planted in the grim
and bloody convict time. The Bulletin hopes
that the case of Ernest Buttnes will serve as a
lesson to them unt'.l their dying day. It is through
no precautions on their part or on the part of tie
rest of the authorities that the German boarding-
house keeper whose life was sworn away by the
malice or madness of Jessie Lennox and through
the criminal carelessness cf one other person with
whom the public may yet have a short and sharp
reckoning in the interests of justice, is not a dead
man to-day. They had actually confirmed his
sentence and fixed the day for his execution; so
far as they are concerned, Ernest Buttnkr simply
for want of the most cursory official inquiry into
the antecedents of an hysterical prostitute, has
died the death cf a deg, and gore to sleep in
quicklime till the Day of General Resurrection.
A Kerepuni native killed a man in a tribal fight
in New Guinea lately, and in due course Adminis-
trator Macgregor went along in a mission-
schooner and arrested him. The native did not
know that he was a British subj set or was amen-
able to any law but his own. He has, however,
been committed for trial for murder, and as there
is no gaol on the island he has been put in irons
pending the arrival of tbe Government steamer
Merrie England. He had been in irons from the
end of February till the last despatch of news
from there on the 4th May, and how much longer
he will have to lie by in this fashion is dependent
upon wind and tide and official exertion. The
incident shows that New Guinea natives stand an
almost certainty of being impressed with the
majesty of British law in the same way as Aus-
tralian natives have been impressed with it. It is
the same Merrie England always.
♦
Hon. John Douglas, now at Thursday Island,
wants New Guinea evangelised. The conditions
he Jays down, in a communication read lately in
Sydney, will be, however, a little difficult to
fulfil. The missionaries, he says, must be sailors
and not land-lubbers, and must have a thorough
knowledge of barbarous customs. To get men
pious enough to be missionaries, rollicking enough
to be sailors, and savage enough to be thoroughly
up in barbarous customs, will be a tough contract.
Then, again, the ex-sta toman says : “ Tradesmen
of all kinds, with the fear of God in their hearts,
are wanted for the work.” The latter is charac-
teristic of Douglas when in active politics. Dur-
ing his Premiership he was given to present his
proposals with such qualifications as, if accepted,
rendered the proposals nugatory. It is to that
habit cf adding 3 to 2 and then subtracting 6
that his political e Ifacement in Queensland ir due.
Emerson 40 years ago foretold the phono-
graph. He wrote : “ The sun paints ; presently
we shall organise the echo as now we do the
shadows.”
The New Zealand Herald proprietary
have reduced the wages of a large number of the
staff owing to hard times, and have had some
bother also rc the introduction of female labour.
The Jewish Standard bells a story of a
Jewish orator being interrupted by a noisy Irish-
man with the shout-, “Who killed Christ?’' He
silenced the Celt with the remark: “ Well, it is so
long since that occurred I really can’t recollect,
but I do recollect who killed Cavendish.”
A Pekin weekly newspaper has just
finished a serial story which contained 2040
chapters. That author is wasting his time in
China. The spirited proprietors of the Down
and Gumtrek Jkbnil would almost even pay a
man for such an extensive tale as that,
A Japanese artist at Hocg-Kong msk's
£ISOO a year by tatooing. He advertises his
tariff as follows Three butterflies, 125.; a dragon,
£4 ; an elaborate group, £2O. An English peer
recently had £ICO worth of Japanese history
tatooed on his breast by this artist.
Mr. Sheeby, the Irish M P. , has gone Into
the law bearing upon imprisonment without hard
labour, and has discovered that the prisoner may
refuse to do any sort of work while he provides
bis own food, and may also avoid the wearing of
prison clothes unless his penonal cleanliness (or
uncleanliness) makes it necessary. The law is a
solid seeming thing until you put it under a
microscope, and then it turns out to be a mildewed
accumulation of decaying “ statoots,” which mean
anything you liko or nothing in particular. There
is little doubt that a condemned murderer can be
released upon payment of si. to the Poor-Box, if
somebodv would only turn up the obsolete Act
sanctioning this merciful arrangement.
The Melbourne Fireman’s Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Yus, I've had some nirrer squeaks, sir, though it
ain’t for me to boast,
Us firemen makes no bones about agivin’ up the
ghost,
And if, at thoughts of death, I isn’t troubled or
dismayed,
Why, so ain’t all the rest, sir, in the Boczeaway
Brigade,
We loves to hear the summons of the little ’lectric
bell—
Lor, we jumps upon the engine and we drives
away like ’ell.
Suppose the fire's gone out ere we arrives upon the
scene ?
Well, we squirts a lot o’ water where the flames
had oughter been.
Perhaps the folks theirselves has got it under
'fore we came ?
Then we cuts away the winders with a ’atchet just
the same,
And tight into the droring-room the ’ose we
mostly brings,
And takes our turns at dowsing of the furnerture
and things.
If the conflagration s serious ? 0 I then, of course,
we stiives
To save the goods and chattels at the peril of our
lives;
And, speaking for myself, sir, through the smoke
I disappear
To try and do my dooty by a-rescuin' the beer.
I smashes open cupboards, or I breaks the cellar
door,
And I snatches up the bottles till 1 can’t snatch
any more;
And when, from them exertions, I am ready for to
sink,
I pulls myself together with a little drop of drink,
My mate, old David Feeder (Ah I a hero, sir, is
Dave)
He’ll go through fire and water solid heatables to
save,
And I makes bo’d to mention, knowin’ well his
real worth,
That at savin’ beef and pickles he’s the smartest
man on earth.
So it very often ’appens that old Feeder, sir, and
ms
Are a-facin’ death together in a hout-’ouse, don’t
yer see,
Hard by the burnin’ buildin’, which is bound to
come to grief—
And there we does our dooty by the beer and by
the beef.
But about the Bijou fire as you was askin’ me to
speak,
And you want to know the stnry cf this scar upon
my cheek ?
Well, it ain’t about the Bijou that I’ve got so much
to tell,
My work that day was mostly in preservin’ the
hotel.
The Bijou was a tinder-box, as very well ycr
knows,
There ain’t no sense in playin’ on such buildings
with a ’ose ;
Besides, poor Brough and Boucicore ’ad got no
beer and grub,
So I drops my ’ose when David shouts —“ We’d
better save the pub.”
Was the capting givin’ orders ? did yer say ? Well,
1 admire
Yer innercence—who cares about a capting at a
fir el
Bach feller does his dooty, sir—yes, does his level
best,
And a capting, dash my buttons ! aint no better
nor the rest.
D’yer think I’d take instructions from the noblest
in the land
When I’m fightin’ confl ergrations with a willin’
’art and ’and ?
The firemen, sir, cf Melbourne, of sterner stuff is
made —
Leastways, I mean the chaps wot form the Booze-
away Brigade.
There is some cove that fancies as he’s takin’ all
control
Of the job, but no one listens to his cackle, bless
yer soul;
And when he come and told me what ho wanted
me to d o,
Isf z Get out, yer crackpot, or I’ll turn the ’ose
on you."
Well, just as I was Bayin’ when I hears my trusty
mate
Shout “Save the pub. 1” I didn’t for a second
summons wait,
But dropped the ’ose and started ’fore I’d time to
drore a breath—
Although its me as sez it, sir, I ain’t afeared of
death.
We run along a passage and we burst in lots of
bars,
Lor, you oughter seen us rescuin’ the liquor and
cigars;
Old David, Kevin bless ’im! spots some juicy little
pies,
And sez, sez he—“ I’ll save ’em, Jimmy, even if I
di s. ’
He kept his word, did David, and them pies upcn
the shelves
Was put right cuter danger, for we put ’em in
ourselves,
And as the rescued bottles had been, in the rescue,
broke,
We drunk wot wasn’t spilt and tried a small
Havanny smoke.
For David trooly argied, “we must keep cut
strength up, James,
If we want to ’old our own amongst the fierce and
ragin’ flames.”
And I replied to David—“ Well, it’s right again
you are,”
So we thought we’d keep our strength up with
sixpenny cigar.
Then sure enough a “bobby” comes a-slowiy
moochin’ round
To our bar, and sees us lyin’ there a-smokin’ e n
the ground,
And tells us how the fire itwasn’t burnin’ anymore.
Whereupon we gives’m whisky while we all begins
to jore,
We jored, did Dave and me, about the proputty
we’d saved,
Till the bobby got a-blowing’ of ’ow nobly he'd
behaved,
A-crackin’ up the Force, and ’ow they weren’t
afeared to die—
Of course he riz my dander, and I ’it ’im in the
eye.
This brought about a scuffle, sir, we rolled about
the place,
And that bobby jobbed a bit of broken bottle in
my face ;
So, yer see, I’ve got the last one of my honourable
scars
Through a-savin’ from destruction Wilson's liquor
and cigars.
But I ain’t the man to shite about the couraie I
displayed ;
It’s deeds, not words, we go for in the Bcozeaway
Brigade,
And I m perfectly content to know I did my
dooty well
On that fatal Easter Monday when we rescued
the hotel.
I’ve told my simple story, and I think I’d say
good-bye;
If we never meat again, sir—well, I ain’t a-feared
to die.
Should you see our Demonstration, it’s the big
thing of the year,
You won’t forget, I’m sure, to give the Bocze->
a w ays a cheer.
EDMUND FISH ER.
Last Grocd Friday the sailors of the ship 1
Earl Rosebery, lying at Lyttelton (N.Z.) Har-
bour, expressed their feelings by hanging an effigy
of Judas Iscariot at the yardarm. They had just
heard, for the first time, cf the sinful doings cf
that ancient swab, and they felt themselves com-
pelled to mark their disapprobation of his charsc
ter, and draw the attention of the police to h's
conduct.
The ficest photographic studio in Sydney
is that of Messrs. Chubb and Praeger, 6? the
Empire Galleries, Gf orgestree’’. The Galleiies
are approached by an Ods elevator and are fur-
nished throughout in quite a palatial manner, wait-
ing rooms, lavotories, and dresssing rooms being
provided for bcth lady and gentlemen pair ns.
The m mbers of the firm are p aodeal artists fr m
the best London s’udi s ard all the work turned
out is cf a most ar fistic character and yet at re-
markably cheap prices,
Mre than usual interest is attached to
the sad death of fireman Parsons (killed at thS'
Eijon burning) frem the fact that the day follow-
ing the fire was to have been his wedding day.
His predecessor in office was a friend of his
named Barry, who died some time ago, lesflng a
young widow. Parsons’ friendly cire of his dead
Captain's interests led him by degrees into att
intimate acquaintance with the latter s widew j:
the acquaintance ripened into friendship, the
friendship into love, the wedding day was about
to dawn and the white wreaths of Hymen
were changed for mourning crape of Death.
An English doctor, who risked and nearly
lost his life by transfusing his blood into the veins
of an exhausted patient, was lately recommended
for the “Albert Medal,” a species of kerosene-tin
decoration established by Her Gracious as a re-
cognition of distinguished valour. The recom-
mendation, however, was promptly r q relched, on
the ground that the care was not one of the kind
which the Throne cared to consider. The mounted
horse homicide, who goes out in all the pomp and
circumstance of bis Government mule and other
fixings and blows a poor, dingy, half naked Arab
into small hash at 500 yards distance, is the sort of
hero that the Albert Medal was meant foq and
there is also honour in store for the person who
sallies forth with his life in his hand and nego-
tiates a new opium treaty, or trades off a quantity
of incurably invalided axes on some Polynesian
potentate in exchange for an acknowledgment cf
British sovereignty, but all other hinds of valour
are their own reward, and the imperial deg collar
of nobility is not for them.
The fact that Lard Dudley, Lord Lurgau,
and Mr. James Merry were arrested in a gambling-
hell the other day, will provide English sporting
papers with a fair excuse for raking up memories
of the past, and remarking that the old order
changeth. It seems but yesterday that Lord
Dudley was vainly endeavouring to lay £20,000 to
£lO,OOO on Mr. James Merry’s broken-down horse
Maogregor for the Derby, though the Calendar
tells us that the great pot boiled over in 1870
About that same time Lord Lurgan’s name was
made a household word by the three Waterloo
Cap victories of his famous dog Master M'Grath.
The verdant irio whom the police, at Lady Dud-
ley’s instigation, mercifully prevented from drop-
ping any more of their unearned increment at)
fcaocafat are the sons and heirs of the 1870 men,
and have less sense than their fathers, 10 would
seem. As regards our former visitor, Benzon, who
was al>o arrested in the hell, history furnishes us
wish no intercs'irg rsmini*cerc°s cf his falh'r,
an I the chances aie he never had oaa.


Ib la not too little to aay that the death-
rate of N S.W, has been minimised by Marshal'’s
Tonic Nervine
“John Davloiattended Governor Caring-
ton’s levee.” Well, and so, for the matter of that,
did Sir Henry Parkes, the man who put John
Davies in the N, S.W. Legislative Council.
We read that Mr. Christopher Bennett, of
the Evening News, “ hai purchased a valuable
picture exhibited at the Royal Academy.” The
title is understood to be “ An Ominous Silence.”
It will Interest and concern not only row-
ing men but a wide circle of friends all over Aus-
tralia to hear that Mr. P. J. (‘■Jim”) Clark, who
has of late been very ill, last wet k underwent a
severe operation at the skilful hands of Dr.
Sydney Jones. Mr. Clark, whose malady was at
first of a v?ry puzz iog character, is now getting
ale n< as well as could be expected.
Ben franklin printing office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLARDT,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic ant*
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,-
Account Look Manufacturer, &c., &o.
Maclardy’s £5 Sox of Stationery a speciality.
Send for List of Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
N;B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cardr
»nd Fancy Gcoda Inspection Invited
[?]
846 Macquarle-etreet North, Sydney, May 29, 1889.
Dear Moorabikda, —
Somebody recently rose suddenly to inquire, “ Why
women don't have pockets'"' hut I would rather ask
” Why don t women utilise their pockets ?" Every skirl
has a pocket in it, and yet what a beast oi burden the
average female prefers to be 1 She carries a bag—she
carries a purse, and her handkerchief is thrust in the
front of her bodice, a position from which for the sake of
appearances she daren’t haul it if there is a man within
cooee. lam sorry, too, that the neat, Outside watch-
pocket has disappeared. In its stead we have a little bag
let in inside our bodices, and we must undo three or four
buttons if we want to see the time—a proceeding which I
am surprised we have tolerated so long. A remark I once
heard a child make as a guest of his mother's hauled out
her timepiece in this way recurs to me whenever I see it
done. I f hall not repeat the criticism—it is too trenchant
for publication.
Lord Carington’s levee in honour of Victoria’s 70th
birthday was a success, so far as numbers went. A
perspiring throng of weiid people in white ties and dire
distress as to what to do with their feet were ably
ciceroned by brother Rupert, who acted as a'de-de-camp,
and put the “ public bodies " through with neatness
and despatch. Also the Permanent Artillery Band
droned harmlessly in the garden, and the attendance
comprised illustrissimi, George Rignold, J. H. Rainford,
a shaggy suburban alderman with literary tendencies, and
Quong Tsrt.
Apropos of receptions, the Mayoress of Melbourne’s
last “ at home ” was attended by over a thousand people
who all took refreshments and nearly all remarked that
the weather was orful shivery arter the sun set.
The first “ S, dney re-union ” of the season 'B9 came off at
Needs' rooms on the 21et instant, when a large number of
couples successfully negotiated a card of fifteen dances
and two extras by midnight. An odd gown was of black
velvet made straight up and down and worn without any
bustle, the only finish being a single row of marguerites
round the cut-out neck. Black reigned, of course, pr r-
hape the handscmest black gown being of moire with
beaded skirt-panel, bodice to correspond. Two theatrical-
looking frocks were of white satin, scantily out, worn
without improver of any kind and finished off with pearl
girdles. Then a conscienceless individual came out in a
pink drees and brandished a scarlet fan, and another per-
son in pink had apparently taken some yards of raw
material and simply bound it round herself. Music, floor,
and refreshments were highly satisfactory.
On the 20fch instant Mdme. Sammerhayes gave an invi-
tation pupils' concert at the New Masonic Hall, when the
building was tco small to hold the crowd of “music
lovers.” The programme principally consisted of the
cantata, “Red Ridirg Hood," with the singers dressed in
character, the “ wolf ” being esp-cially realistic. One of
the successes of the evening was Miss Gertie Summer-
hryes’ rendering of Pouesard’s solo for the violin, “ Une
Plainte.”
Lord and Lady Delamere, with their two daughters,
left Sydney for N.Z. by the s.s. Hauroto. Whilst in
Sydney they have been the guests of Lord and Lady
Carington.
The spacious Elite Skating Rink, Redfern, was
filled to the pavement on the 21st icst., the occasion being
the first carnival cf the season 89. The pretty wife of
the rink manager wore a "Juliet” costume cf pale blue
s din slashed with darker blue, a pearl oeinture and small
pale blue cap affording finishing touches. The lovely
manager himself came in ivory satin with a flesh-coloured
cloak, and was simply encrusted in gleaming " jules”—
while a white satin cap and plumes set off his nice, curled
mustivey to perfection. There were all sorts of fancy
dresses on the floor, perhaps the most uncommon being
that of a " black gin ” with a pioaninny strapped across
the back ; while the get-up cf “ Flower Girl white
tulle with macses of blush roses was really very
pretty and looked new. “ Britannia ” was there, too, in
armour, and carried her trident triumphant through a
thousand somersaults, and the large, husky, fat lady,
was “Night” in black gauze spangled with gold, and wore
her clothes too short. The building was a dazzling mass
of lanterns, shrubs, flags, and other items cf general
gorgeousness, and the music was excellent.
Toe “ Darlioghurst” Skuting Rink—a new and sump-
tuous temple dedicated to the rollers—bandy to the
gaol—was successfully inaugurated on the 2,‘!rd instant,
in the presence of a large crowd at two shillings per
head. The building is decorated with unlimited lanterns*
anil lit by both gas and electricity, while numberless-
mirrors along the walls show the novice how others s.e
her when she is clawing at nothing for tangible support.
This aggregate of splendour is engineered by Mr. R. J.
Aginton.
AUude writes from Brisbane:— The opening of Par-
liament by Sir Henry Norman was attended by society
in a body, ladies predeminatirg— two of our sex pene-
trating even to the ptees gallery and elbowing the fourth
estate cut of its fiontseat. The gowning was decidedly
gorgeous on this occasion. Lady Norman wore a redin-
gote of black and grey striped silk trimmed with lace and
jet—a red bonnet trimmed with a grey bird lightening
the get-up ; while Miss Norman’s black and.white striped
silk dress en Directoire with black velvet skirt p«nel,
white bonnet trimmtd with pale grey, was subduedly
tasteful. Lady Lllley wore blue cashmere en Directoire
with revers cf blue velvet, bonnet en suite ; Lady Griffith,
asparagus-green silk relieved by a lighter shade, hand-
somely braided, high bonnet en suite. One fearful crea-
ture oame in bright rel silk trimmed round the feet with
red and green tinrei! Empire bodice trimmed with the
tinsel and large to iue tat, the brim bordered with red
and gr,een tinsel and a glittering bird of Paradise perched
on the top 1 She reminded me of a nightmare after a
tomato supper, and Solomon in all his glory was nothing
to her. By the bye, did I tell you that Sir Henry Norman
lisps ?
It may interest those women who come out with a
supercilious* hong tong air, engendered by the fact that
they are attired in 18 yards of ruby tatin pulled with
yellow and a high green bonnet, to learn that the Briccess
of Males has adopted the straight, plain ekirt now fashion,
able in Paris. A recent dress worn by her was of gr y
homespun, the jacket short ard tailor-male, the drees
trimmed with fur en suite. Another of her d<esses is of
black cloth, en Direetoire, with vest and skirt of grey and
black silk. Still another is of black and white striped
cloth, very simply made with habit bodies and plain skirt,
whilst a fourth is of grey brocaded cloth simply adorned
with a corded silk sash. Alter all it’s not necessary to
have a large banking account to “ dress like a princess,"
is it ?
The cable is once more jerked to inform us that Sir
Henry and Lady Loch intend to pay a visit to Lord Stan-
ley, at Ottawa, Canada, They do not now expect to
return to Melbourne before December or January.
Her Majesty’s Rink, Newtown, blossomed out into what
is described as a “ select ball” on the 15th instant. One
of the promoters writes that the affair was a success in
every way.
Maude gave me cold shivers the other day by saying
that somebody’s new gown quite entranced her. I,asked
her if she wanted to be autopsied like poor Bishop;
and then Maud, who is more dense than deaf, made me
burst a string by saying she didn’t know the poor Bishop
had' dropsy.
1 hear that Mayoress Benjamin's afternoon reception at
M-Ibourne Town Hall—she is Lady Benjamin now, her
husband being Sir Benjamin Benjamin since Queen's
Birthday—which happened last Wednesday (22nd),
was a eoberly-attired funclion, most of the women
paying their respects in black. M-s. Benjamin herself
sported a particularly solid-looking moire of inky hue,
and was handicapped throughout the tiring performance
with a monstrous bouquet attached to ultra long
‘ weepers ’’ of white ribbon. Some good music was pro-
vided, and refreshments were on quite a lavish scale, so if
the whole mob of Visitors don’t get invitations to the
Mayor s ball, many of them will be consoled by the reflec-
tion that they made a square meal at his wife’s “recep-
tion.” One fair-haired innocent was observed to pocket
two pounds of almonds and raisins with a far-away lock
in her brown eyes, and the tough old heroine cf five hun-
dred free feeds carried away half a bottle of colonial
sherry—inside her. ' •
Dear Lady Robinson, I hear, entered the oolony unac-
companied by a lady's-maid or even a private secretary,
two nights after her musical lord and master had enter-
tained his frit nds at Government House at a free-and-
easy to oelebratt the wind-up of his career as a grass
widower.
The Earl cf Kintcre received over 300 gentlemen at an
“ At Home ’’ at Adelaide Government House, on the 22nd
Inst., Admiral Fairfax and his oflScers being present.
Which reminds me that the Orlando and Calliope are due
in Melbourne on the 28tb, where they will stay nearly a
week. Melbourne is alway s in urgent need of defence
when the “ Season ” is on the boom.
From a giddy N.S.W. inland town someone writes tell-
ing me of a oruel triok practised by two flighty damsels
on four confiding youths. These two girls bet one another
un.imited gloves that each could produce a handsomer
and an uglier man than the other on two succeeding Sun-
day evenings. The first time they attended Divine Service
with two beautiful beings gotten up to the last curl. The
second they came with two woeful squinting horrors in
baggy olothes and last century hats who looked radiantly
happy and paid them oppressive and marked attentions
under the idea that they had been bidden as escorts for
purely sentimental reasons, while people who knew all
about it giggled behind their prayer-books. Next day
the unkind wager leaked out, and now there are at least
two male young men whose gentle ideal woman has been
badly jolted.
The really excellent concert given by Madame Lablaohe
in Mrs. Foffnung’s ball-room, Potts Point, Sydney, on
the 23th in&t. was rendered in the presence of a dlstress-
ingly thin audience, most of whom had “ complimentary
cards” in l-.tters of fire all over them. But those who
stayed away—probably because most of the singers can
be heard at a cheaper rate in the metropolis on frequent
occasions missed a perfect treat of sweet sound amidst
novel atd pleasing surroundings. Madame Lablaohe,
who wore a beautiful gown, a bodice and train of white
moire looped on the right side with a tai-oord over a jupe
cf white net and lace spangled with crystal, elbow sleeves
of or, stal-beaded net finished with a glittering silver
fringe, the corsage finished off wi>h silver fringe and
or, stal beading, tan-gloves and a huge feather-fan with
ivory sticks completing an enviable turnout -sang two
solos in charming style, though the canvas walls
and roof of the room were tctally innocent of acous-
tical properties. Miss Tree, who heightened her
excessive fairness by a pink silk trained gown with wide
skirl panels of spring green silk finished rfl by black jit
ornaments—square-out bodice with spring-green revers
and cluster of blush roses in the centre, contributed one
solo though suffering from a cold ; and Buzzi, Lenoloni,
Dimitresco, and Kowalski helped the programme
along. But the pupils of Madame Lablaohe were too
nervous to give the beet account of themselves, and
looked as if they wanted to die whilst the symphony of
their different songs was playing. There wasn't much
dressing amongst the audience. A shrimp-pink satin
olouded in i ulle en suite was.about the most respectable
I saw, and there was one horrible, blood-red gown. Also
Signora Pabris came in ruby satin and velvet, and Dr-
Marano sat waving a palm-leaf fan with kiltyng i ffiect-
Clara writes from Melbourne: “The reception at Go-
vernment House on the 17ijh was simply a crush, alUl
Meltourne attending, attracted, I suppose, by the novelty
of being again received by a lady. The day was beauti-
fully autumnal and the dressing quite tco : nice, lady
Robinson wore pinkish-reddish brocade en Direetoire
relieved with dark«r velvet, and carried a beautiful
bouquet of roses. Lady (tlarke, grey-green cloth and
lighter velvet, surplice vett cf white crepe and gold
galon, bonnet en suite ; Lady Nicholson brown and gold ;;
Mia. Benjamin, b ack watered-silk velvet with jet trim-
Black was first favourite, but there was a fair
sprinkling of green and brown dresses, about the hand-
somest being Mrs L C Mackinron’s Direetoire ooat of
art-green cloth ornate with velvet, vest braided with gold,
and bonnet to match, whilst the nicest brown turn-out
was a beaver-brown cloth trimmed with beaver fur,
bonnet exactly en suite."
In an incoherent diatribe—of course in (he gush-column
of the S M.H.—on the “pursuit of pleasure,'’ the writer
(" Faustina ”I) embodies these remarks“ Ail of us who
have arrived at years of discretion know the goddess now
for wbat she is—no angel—but a deceitful minx weo,” &o.
Qcite so. But why not have addressed the goddess as that
“nasty mean eat,” or a “bold-faced hussy?” “Faus-
tina ” then sobbingly continue?, “ How many a woman we
see—a good woman, too, perhaps with fine qualities—
smiling and flirting her fan ’ at some social gathering,
with “two pale lips” I Touching, isn’t it I But this per-
son isn't in eocitt/, '* Faustine ” No society woman ever
bar tvo pale lips while cherry 1 psslvjco ii< ues at 2s 0d v
per ounce. In a portion accorded to women who “ like to
gain the exclusive admiration and attention o( a member
of the opposite sex,” of course (*a “Faustine” giddily
hints) not the lady’s husband, we are told that the inter-
esting pa ! r “converse on high topics, and get a sort of
delicate aesthetic pleasure out of each ethers society
which is very agreeable, end peifeo'ly innocent, as long
as it is not carried to a seJfl-h extreme.” It must be “ very
agreeable” indeed, as, judging by the Supreme Court
recorde—so many people seem to indulge in it, but I
really decline to believe that the latter-day patriarch
entertains his Laura on “high topics.” No Faustine ; he
mostly says “Haw,” and she remarks that “that horrid
thing didn't send her dress home in time last week,” and
then an esthetic siiencs reigns for an hour or so.
I am indeed sorry to hear of the continued indisposition
of Miss Nellie Stewart, which is so recurrent that the
Triumvirate have shipped another prima donna from
London in her place. Apropos of W,, 6., & M., Mr.
Garner leaves England for Australia on 14th June,
his departure being postponed owing to his having
entered into negotiations with Mrs. Langtry for a season
in “the colonies.”
With every curl hanging limp round my brow
and a damp and borrowed umbrella dripping in the
corner, I riss to inquire where Australia's reputation
for dry weather comes from ? Queen’s Birthday dawned
with a Eqisshy sound that must have struck terror
to the eouls of the partially-attired members of the
Scottish regiments, and one cffl*cr’ who is sus-
pected of tonging h's hair must have shudder.d at the
prospect. Notwithstanding the damp, a huge throng
surged into Moore Park to rivel in the " review.” After
the warriors had subsided, Lord Carington, attended
by brother Rupert and E W., escaped to Randwick,
for the annual meeting of the Sydney Turf Club, at which
very few women were present.
Sir Heijry and LadyPatkes entertained over 200 Vernon
boys at their Balmain residence on the 24th insl. at an
al fresco entertainment, which the rain heavily
handicapped. Dinner was served in. a marquee, and
after Sir Henry had requested the boys to drink Her
Majesty’s health, in tea, the colonial G.O.M. inflicted a
long oration, in which hs advanced that ancient story
about the good little boy with 2-id. in his pocket who, after
fearful struggles, “arrived in London, just as you migh]b
leave the Yprnon, became a wealthy merchant, a sheriff,
and a member of Parliament," I am suiprjsed that the
Premier should have recorded the end of the good
little boy with 2}i.
The bicycle races at the Cricket Ground had to be
postponed on the 24 h,on account of the downpour.
The prophet who, whilst in a bilious state, peevishly
remarked that nothing was new under the sun—made a
mistake, for we are introduced to novelties everyday, the
latest being the new style of shaking hands. “The cor-
rect method is now to extend the elbow slightly sideways
on a level with the waist, and to give two fingers. The.
recipient does the same and the four ficgeis meet, touch
each other, and that is all. There is no ilwks as there
was once.” For which their various vice-regalities ought
to be truly thankful. When the new style of touching
fingers obtains in ths kawlinies their ladyships won’t
have to wear their right hands in a sling after reception
days. Perhaps, too, they won't be “ indisposed ” so fre-
quently.
Of\ dit that Admiral Fairfax will relinquish the com-
mand of the Australian squadron early next year, with
the intention of returning home and ", settling down as a
country gentleman.”
Different to last season when our heads were a masj
Of pins, fane, ornam ?nts, and all, sorts of odds and ends,
this year tie coiffure is to be very little deaerated. Young
girls are lo wear their hair siftly arranged on the top of
the head totally without ornam on i. The favourite style
is the Greek, as worn by Miss Detohon, and, latterly by
Fanny Liddiard in the pantomime, consists of a large
loose knot right at lh,e back of ttc crown of l,be head.
Grecian tandlels may be worn with this style on the top
of the bead, the ends being concealed in the knot of hair.
By the by, pink coral is to be the rage again, coral
aigrettes and coral buttons being much sought after. As
■everyone has ona or two aifeles of ( his marine substance
put away, I should alvise them to get them out and put
them into sorkiog order at once.
A Melbourne friend, who has just mn over to admire
■our Beautiful Harbour, was telling me a funny story
about a Toorak widow, famous for her malapropisms.
The dame in question is, it seems, fond of referring to the
■surpassing excellence of Mr. So and-So’s “cousin,” and
when my friend found himself seated next to the gushing
widow at So and So's festive board he whispered her to
point out the “ cousin ” that he might see for himself if
that famous relative was so excellent a# had been stated.
You have guessed the joke, no doubt. The widow tapped
him sportively and said : “ Ridiculous creature I as if you
didn’t understand French.'’ It was the host s cuisine she
had been extolling all the while.
The sassiety soribess of Melbourne’s new evening paper
must be a wild and fitful sort of angel if she often goes on
like this It is a well-known fact that every cloud has
a silver lining. Our present silver lining is centred in
Lady Robinson. Since Lady Loch left us the cloud has
been dark indeed.” Fancy talking such disrespectful
nonsense about a Governor’s wife ! In the drapary accep-
tation of the terms, a dark “cloud” (and I like dark
clouds) is of more importance than any lining, silver or
otherwise, unless the garment be worn inside-out. The
same gifted contributor goes on to say : “We are all pre-
pared to like Lady Robinson. She was a general favourite
in Adelaide duiiog her stay there.” It is such a long
while since Lady R. did stay there tljat I have forgotten
whether she was a general favourite or not. But I don’t
remember that the Holy City wept when she went away.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
When a young man takes a maiden
la a hansom oab at ease,
She is but with sorrow laden,
Doth he not her small waist squeeze !
And if while in hansom-driving
Hs forgets to steal a kiss.
Maiden, with her oholer striving
Mutters : “ What a duffer this 1”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ E. W.” : (l)j Befora achnissioa to the N S.W.
Bar, you must pass three examinations. The first in
Latin (authors and grammar), geometry, algebra, history,
and either Greek. Logic, or French. Subjects for the
second exam, are Roman law, constitutional law, inter-
national law, and such other small luxuries as the crass-
ness of .the examiners prompts them to throw in. Finally,
you must gel through another examination in the law of
real property, personal properly, common law phad
mg and evidence equity, and Broom's maxims.
(2 ) There is no limit to age and hardly any to truth-
fulness and honesty. Write to the chief clerk of tho
Supreme Court for a copy of the “Bobs for the
Admission of Barristers," the books for each examina-
tion being catalogued therein or words to that effect
Home Rule (Sale): Poetic mixture recemd.
“ Thargo ’: So sorry.... “ J.X.F."; Thanks.... “ A C."
No, because it is customary in the British army for the
officer in charge of the Roman Catholic division of the
Parade to march his squad out of church in the event of
the pr.est preaching sedition or treason “ Bathurst ”:
Thanks. Are inquiring into the matter “Ulster”
(Mprdialloc): Any Australian who withholds his sy mpathy
from the Irish in their struggle lor freedom is virtually a
traitor to Australia ; inasmuch as he directly encourages
England to believe that coercive measures similar to thoze
used in Ireland might be used ia Australia to squelch
Australian Nationalism.. ..“O.R H." : (I) No. (2) Wo
neyer heard of any ecclesiastic making such a statement,
(3) No. (4) The greatest proportion ha 3 been so ex-
pounded directly and indirectly. (5) We cannot say.
J. H. Power”; No ; Davltt has never been a member of
the Commons . ..“E.S.A. ’: Their practice is to steal
novels and publish them under other names instead of
paying for them. They era a most “enterprising” set of *
literary thieves....“ A.M.” (Dungog): Thanks for clip
ping.. ..“Jack G.”; Many thanks....“ P.L.” (Lucknow,
Q.) : There is no matrimonial paper in Sydney now. If
you want a wife advertise in Tiif, Bulletin. All the girls
read It....“ Bush Native”: Shelley wrote the words, the
other man wrote the song “V.X.F.”: The lisl-
oharaoter story is as old as human love and whisky
“Gang-Gang”: To hand “ P T.” (Melb.): Many
tpanks. We got letter....“ K E.S.”: “ Withers’ History
of,Ballarat” contams a very good account cf it “II
Mactwish ” (Tc rrington): We want your full address
“ S.A.L.”: Buttner is entitled to his release. The Bel-
letik does not “ go out of, its way to, bolster up im,
morality ” when it says that, consent having been given
by the woman, act, though an cflanoe against
the moral code, is not an offence against the law “ C.
H. Tuckerman : The likeness to which John Haynes ap-
pended the name of Jphn D.llon is really the portrait of
Haynes himself (only with a beard),,, which appeared in.
Tiif. Bulletin two or three years ago when he was first
elected for Mudgee....“ H. C. Shaw ’: Many thanks..,.
“yere": Handwriting is that of an educated woman—
apparently one of considerable force of, character.
Ilpwever, you never can tell from handwriting. We one e
wrote love-letters for an uneducated digger, a mate or
ours, whose girl used to reply in the most beautiful hand
you ever saw. We fell in love with her through her.
handwriting, but when we met her we discovered that*,
she was cross-eyed and wore a misfit set of false teeth,
and that she was in love with a drunken inspector of
native police. You never can tell from a woman's, hand-*
writing. It’s hard enough to tell from what the say s to.you.,
herself from her own lips. So our opinion as tc.your girl'e-
“flst” is subject to the reservations indicated above..
“ Veritas ” (Kawakawa, N.Z.): Many thanka....“ Horse-
whip ”: Of no interest.... “ Insomnia ” : Don't lose hope.
Try the S.M. Herald,. ..“ E.L,A.” : Any mam who.
honestly bslieves that his cause is good and also believes
that it will succeed, has a right to start a rebellion it he is
prepared to take his life in his hand, Success justifies cn
rebellion, and those who believe to the contrary consist'.
solely of those who believe in the “divine right’ 1
of kings as against the will of the people
“Mocnie River” (Queensland): Whafs the good*
of writing poetry about Judas Iscariot now?.
“ U.S.A.” (Melbourne): Bland Holt, the actor, is a son of,
Clarence Holt, the English, not American, actor....
“Walter R.” (Hobart); Received “Thespis "(Mel-
bourne): Drury Lane is the largest London theatre, and .
has, we find, seating accommodation for 3500 people.-
The Lyceum (Irviqg’e) only seats 1455 “Fjamingo ” r
We know of no such person. It was probably a catch-
penny advertisement....“R. Jones”; Thanks for infor-
mation “L.W.”: Mr. M'Namara, so far as wo know,.
did not attend the Vernon picnic “M. C. Hillorest”:
Kindly let us have.a sample “ Moro ” : That's nothing
new. When we read the advice given by Sir Henry Parkee
to little boys last week it occurred to us that many a bad.
Ptiest preaches a good sermon “Englisher’ : We spel
it thus because it s shorter. We have half a mind to spsili
it with a “k;,”
A nephew of the defunct King Cetewayo'
i« a missionary in his native Zululand, turning ther
minds of the heathen to the beauties of orthodoxy
and rum.
The Bishop of London gets £10,000 a
year and has, it is said, only three remarks to'
address to those who seek him on business—
• What is your name?’’ "What do you want?’'
and "No.”
An applicant for a bank clerkship recently
tried 13 banks in Victoria without success. One’
manager told him he had 23d names down as can*
didates for the first vacancy. The attraction'
must be the great facilities offered for securing
and getting safely away with a big " boodle.” It
certainly cannot he the starvation salaries that are
offered.


The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ten's Beaoonsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne,
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths, Horset and buggies for hire.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate
FOB THE TIRKD BRAIN
From over-exertion. Iry it.
When next you bake try Pencil's Snow white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
‘ There are more cures made with i)r. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters than all other medicines ”
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
High Abt Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLEMONT
& CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to HU Excellent? Lord Oarlngto*
" By Appointment.”
Sundry Shows.
Theatbk Royal.—" The Ruling Passion”... p. 14.
Heb Majesty’s.—" Romany Rye ”
Obitebion.—" Mamma ” ••
Gaiety Theatbb. —“ Run on the Bristol ... ~
Opeka Hoese.—" Bohemian Girl ” »
The Oyolobama.—The Battle of Gettys-
burg •»
‘•The Ruling Passion, 1 ' with which Bland
Holt has inaugurated his new season at Sydney
Royal, is a melodrama written up to date In six
shrieks of extraordinary intensity and violence.
There are 22 characters in it —also police, soldiers,
lunatics, muffin boys, muffin men, butcher boys,
tramps, beggars, dead - beats, cabs, cabmen,
balloons, and other extraneous circumstances more
numerous than the sands on the solemn sea-
shore. The first scene commences with an old
skinny man whose money is hidden under the
hrarthstone. He is slain by his son in-law who
then roots up the coin aided by his pal, a comic
clown in a mangled high hat and a string round his
neck in place of a collar, and the two retire loaded
with plunder. A girl dies of fright about here
and is left lying under the table, and her sister is
cast into a lunatic asylum, where she remains for
five years. A man with a wooden leg muses a
little later on in the open street under a shower of
real rain—it is the comic clown fallen upon evil
days; and the sister escapes from the lunatic
asylum and fiies in a cab amid a general riot and
carnage of loafers, vagrants, and baked-potato
men with one eye. Further on she gets a billet as
governess to her own daughter, being engaged in
that capacity by a man who meets her casually in
the road one sloppy night and at once offers her a
j ,b ; and she is snatched away from this lucrative
situation to be hurg up by the hands in the old
lunatic depdf, and left there to pine with her feet
floating loosely in the air and a deep croan in her
voice. Just here, however, her sister’s lover returns
from sea kind of sudden like, and tears the front of
the house out, and lifts her down, and hangs up the
boss of the establishment in place of her. Evi-
dently, however, that gentleman regains the floor
later on, for he makes the pursuit so sultry that
the lady has to borrow a balloon and scoot into
the upper air and through the murky gloom that
overhangs the English Channel, where she comes
down on top of a lighthouse. The beggar with
the wooden leg lays claim t i the immense estate
ot the person who was butchered in the first act,
and endeavours to scare a woman in an office that
ha may secure a certain fusty parchment of im-
mense importance, but the lady tires artillery at
him and menaces him with howitzers and dyna-
mite, and he breaks up and tells everything
and falls in a heap. When the curtain de-
scends the murky pirate of the story and
his ally, the comic clown with the mangled
tall hat, are in a fair way to be scragged
by the public executioner, and calm, serene pv
lights up the countenances of the other 29 or 30
characters There is not much acting in the
“ Ruling Passion,” but Miss Kate Bishop, as the
lady who is suspended by the hands in the lunatic
asylum, and pursued in cabs and balloons, and
swamped in the English Channel, has a good show
and makes the most of it. Bland Holt, as a
matter of course, is the shrieking clown of the
story, and though his dialogue is bald and thin he
makes it considerably amusing. Mr. Charles
Holloway is killed before he has time to develope
himself, and the rest of the laurels mostly go to
adorn the massive brow of B. N. Jones. Toe
scenery and the music are both good, and the
"Ruling Passion ” gives the spectator so much
solid devilment for bis money that its prospects
ought to be good in a financial sense for some time
to come.
** # *
Mr. Frank Thornton will positively skip
from Sydney Criterion on Friday next to make
room for Messrs. Brough and Boucioault, who
return on that date to play "On Change” At
Her Majesty's the gigantic calioc poster which
has so long overhung the outer wall has been rent
in fragments by the gale, but though the adver-
tisement is gone "Romany Rye” keeps on as
be'o:e. The Stirk troupe o! gymnasts, freshly
imported by Hiscocks end M‘Mahon, will amal-
gamate with the Silbon aggregation, and appear
at the Exhibition Building on Monday, June 3,
Pain’s " Last Days of Pompeii” have been blown
into unrecognisable ruins by the storm, and sundry
other shows require to be bailed out and mopped
up with a damp cloth.
•* # *
The “Bohemian Girl" started afresh at
Sydney Opera House on Saturday, and the success
which attended her advent seems to hold out
■some reasonable promise of renewed prosperity
for the abandoned caravanserai In H ork-street.
The company is by far the best that has assembled
there for a long time, and even the ill-used Pole
who has been knocked down and mangled by so
many amateurs and split up for operatic firewood
by so many decayed professionals has had sundry
new lights cast upon him by Mr. Henry Braoy’s
rendering of the character. The agitated fugitive
from the flat and muggy land of Poland is re-
ceived with loud applause, and he does his best to
deserve it. Miss Lilian Tree makes one of the
best Arlines that has been seen in these parts for
many years, and her 'style of beauty harmonises
well with those marble halls in which she dwelt in
her dream ; and Madame Lablache, as the black-
browed queen of the wandeiing Egyptians, is a
marvel ot splendid acting and glorious melody.
The chorus is strong enough to lift ten tons of
scrap-iron at one effort, and there_ is a powerful
orchestra with M. Kowalski sawing the atmos-
phere as the leader of the gang. Under his able
guidance the music never fails to go straight, and
the violin and the big drum are brought up in the
way they ought to go. A completely new comic
opera called “The Beggar Student” is to ensue at
an early date, and the management undertakes to
stake its boots that a great success must follow.
** * *
Sundry naval gentlemen from the far-off
land of Brazil visited one of the Sydney theatres
the other night, and retired with a lasting and
sultry Impression of the stately politeness of the
cornstalk nobleman. Apparently the strangers
had drifted out between the acts to see a man—
oven the South American officer pines to see a
man in the middle of a long and incomprehensible
play—and when they returned they discovered
thati their seats had been jumped or else they
tried to jump scmebcdy else’s seat, or some-
thing or other, more or less. This led the
various parties to the transaction to discourse to
each other in different languages, and while the
negotiations were still in progress someone landed
the most prominent Brazilian from behind on his
swarthy foreign ear. Then there was a rally and
riotous proceedings and violence, and when
Pedro’s war vessel leaves Sydney Harbour it will
carry with it at least one damaged warrior who is
convinced that the Australians are a race of idiotic
savages without sense or manners to counter-
balance their big feet and other multifarious vices,
** * *
The fact that some 4000 excited visitors
have already rushed the Darlinghurst (Sydney)
Skating Rink seems to imply that another
link was necessary to supply a long-felt want.
The size of the long-felt want for rinks in
Australia seems absolutely incredible in its
dimensions, and though Skinner’s Elite, the
Crystal Palace, the Trocadero, the Metropolitan,
and some half dozen more establishnr ents are
toiling manfully to supply the public cavity for
skating, the want appears to remain as active and
Importunate as ever.
*# * *
“ The Battle of Waterloo” Cyolorama Is
causing a steady stream of Melbourne population
to flow in the direction of a newly-erected edifice,
presenting the outward appearance of a huge
gasometer converted into a fashionably C mgrega-
tional Chapel, that stands on Victoria Parade.
This circular scene of carnage is of equal width
and circumference with “The Battle of (rettys
burg,” so favourably known to Sydney, but the
Waterloo production is considered to rank higher
as a work of art, and to be, in fact, the finest
cyolorama that ever yet deluded the admiring eye
of mankind. It is a masterpiece of mock land-
scape and unreal atmospheric effect’, stretching
across miles of vivid imagination so artfully con-
nected with an actual foreground that the merg-
ing point of palpable dirt into fictitious distance
is a mystery between Wellington and Bonaparte,
who appear to be bossing the assault at arms with
admirable fidelity to Nature. Everything that
happened on the historical 18 ih of June, 181.), is
in this Cyolorama, and many occurrences that
never occurred at all have been added by a spirited
management Moreover, although force of cir-
cumstances compels the contending armies to be
each pursuing the other, in a great measure, yet
the transcendental quality of Anglo-Saxon \alour
stands out in bold relief. And this moral lesson
of Waterloo is enforced by the smart young lec-
turer (Mr. Stewart Bale, of bicycle memory), who
mount’ upon an eminence in the patriotic capacity
of the British Lion wagging his eloquent tale.
m• « m
List Thursday the Triumvirate’s new com-
pany appeared at Melbourne Eoyal in The
Pointsman,” a strong and glcomsome drama from
the allied pens of Messrs. Richard Carton at d
Cecil Raleigh. The central villain in this story
starts his wickedness in a prologue by keeping a
riverside pub. duel a stationmafiter s daughter,
who was probably temptsd from the paths of
virtue by the accursed quality of the beer licensed
to be retailed on these premises. When there is
no more beer left and the brewer is about to take
possession under a bill of sale, the viilsio turns
his fair victim adrifo with half the till money,
after which she returns to the parental dwelling
without mentioning to her father that she has
sinned. Meanwhile the depraved pub. keeper
has acquired effluence through robbing his last
customer of a belt full of Cape diamonds, and
then dropping his gashed carcase down a trap
into the murky tide, where it becomes incor-
porated with water rats and is advertised for in
the daily press without success. _ It happens, how-
ever, that the ruthless extinction of the young
man aforesaid has been witnessed in a wild and
fitful manner by the hero, who was delirious at
the time and lost his own half share in the
diamonds through not knowing what it wss
all about. Instead of dropping this delirious hero
down the same old trap the villain allows him
to wander forth, and the stationmaster s other
daughter picks him off a heap of road metal and
puts ice upon his head until he is sufficiently re-
covered to marry her upon tte starvation wages
of a pointsman. The sister who sinned, but
didn’t say so, marries anothf r railway employ e,
but the sunshine of her life is somewhat obscured
by the shadow of her husband’s fiat, and she likens
herself unto a caged bird desirous of returning to
her former mate, who now fares sumptuously
everyday and shuddera at the bare mention of
beer. A sequel ci of stirring incidents bearing
upon the guilty desires of the strayed sister
culminate in a railway smash caused by the
pointsman drugging himself by mistake, but as
the actual collision is hidden from view, the prime
sensation of this drtma falls short of expectation.
The rest of the play is devoted to working out the
villain’s confusion, which takes the form of violent
death at the hand of a humble companion in
crime. The chances of this trickily built play
developing Into a huge success are discounted by
Its utter lack of humour, or even cheerfulness.
Furthermore, it is not remarkable for anything
except the one well drawn character of the erring
young woman, played by Miss Maude \y illiam-
eon in such finished style that this tall,
graceful and intense lady became a popular
Melbourne favourite at her first attempt. Miss
Clara Oowper, in a lighter part, also gave
evidence of power and pathos. Mr. Alfred Buck-
law put a lot of heart and unstrained energy into
the character of the hero, but Mr. J H. Ulyndes,
who impersonates the villain, in accordance with
Ms professional traditions, seems to have lost the
breadth and vigour that marked his acting in the
Jong ago. Moreover, he has adopted or acquired
by accident the vocal mannerisms of Mr. Charles
Warner, and this hemiiphere is getting rather
weary of the latter gentleman, even in his own
original state. Olyndes is merely his ghost. Some
of the other new people will doubtless exhibit
gold work when they get bigger opportunities,
and si me of the others will never be anything
worth mentioning unless they alter. Messrs.
Bmnton and Gordon have done wonders in the
scenic department, and “The Pointsman ought
to go ahead for six weeks or more.
** * *
Although Mr. Charles Santley Is not what
he used to be (and he never was such an over-
whelming prophet in his own country as news-
paper ignorance would make him out to have
been) the attraction of his honourable reputation
is sufficient to fill Melbourne Town Hall with
persons desirous of hearing a Great Baritone,
doncherknow. All things considered, Mr. bantley
is a wonderful vocalist now —that he is an artist
at hia business goes without saying, bometimes
he produces splendidly-executed notes, and some-
times he is rather reminiscent of a voice that is
still, but his songs are well calculated to please
the general ear, and he is encored most religiously.
Being quite up to the average in other respects
these Santley concerts will probably hum right
through the series. Anyhow, they demonstrate
the enduring quality of Anglo-Saxon reverence
for a noble ruin, together with a tender regard for
auld lang syne and things of that description.
«* # •
At the Opera House the final stage of Mr.
G. 0. Miln’s triumphal march along the higher
walks of drama was commenced on Saturday,
when the wily Richelieu let off his Curse of Rome
in masterly fashion. An intended long notice of
this event* however, was violently interrupted by
an accident to the writer’s uncle, who broke his
leg through stumbling over a tram-car, so further
particulars are held over until calmer moments. It
ia impossible to deal with such an important
matter as “ Richelieu ” while one’s thoughts are
fixed upon a suffering relative. “ Shamus O’Brien
continues at the Alexandra, and the Princess’s is
still satisfactorily occupied by “Yeomen of the
Guard,” but Messrs. Brough and Boucicault have
left the Hibernian Hall and stolen away to
Sydney.
#* * #
Yet aiiother benefit to our affliited brother 8
Brough and Boucicault was brought off at Mel'
bourne Royal last Saturday afternoon, the occa-
sion being generously supported ly public and
purfeshun. A rapid succession of miscellaneous
delights led up to the appearance of Purves, Q C.,
and sundry other live barristers in the Trial Scene
from “ Pickwick.” At the risk of being com-
mitted for contempt of court The Bulletin must
express its unbiassed opinion that the Victorian
Bar is almost as humorous as a prize heifer, and
that if Purves, Q 0., is willing to appear again in
the character of Sergeant Buzfuz he will be buried
by public subscription next day. All of which
tends towards the melancholy conclusion that
legal roosters crow best upon their own manure
heaps, and are precious feeble birds without their
wigs.
** * *
The well-conducted young Cerberus who
guards the dress-circle entrance at Melbourne
Princess’s has been despitefuliy used all through
seeing somebody settle the leprous hash of an un-
happy Chinaman in Little Bourke street. For
several days in succession he was placed behind a
row of iron spikes under the hard, legal glare of a
Chief Justice, was conveyed to a dungeon cell
and back again to behind the aforesaid spikes,
being sometimes in one nisty place, but mostly in
the other, merely because the murderer he saw
was different to the murde er selected by certain
policemen who were not present when the gory
deed was accomplished. In short, the Princess’s
dress-circle doorkeeper’s indisposition to hang the
wrong man resulted in hl« trial for perjury and a
verdict of Not Guilty. Up to a certain point the
police seem to have admitted their indebtedness to
this young man, he having undoubtedly done his
best to catch the Chinaman’s annihilator, and being
about the only respectable individual who can
identify that particular son of Cain at sight. But
when his knowledge clashed with police theories
he became part of an u attempt to
defeat the ends of justice and was maltreated as
above, along with nine others, five of whom are
engaged in working out nine years’ penal servitude
while the remainder have been duly discharged
without a stain upon their characters. Outside
the fact that the Law has made a more abj j ot ass
of itself than usual in connection with the Cutler
perjury trial the case of the Triumvirate’s usher
shows how necessary it is to look the other
way when a murder is being committed, lest
you should be saddled with the perilous
responsibility of knowing who didn’t do it.
And as a theatrical attendant is personally
known to many p°op’e, perhaps it was well
that one such should be made a warning
example of the danger of seeing or hearing any-
thing at all except under special instructions from
the police. Otherwise you get into the clutches
of the Law, and the Law may first dig you play-
fully in the riba as a witness, and then incarcerate
you for not having witnessed as it expected, and
unless you can subsequently recover damages from
the Queen or the Constitution or from anybody
except the lying policeman that are quite beyond
human reach, then it is better not to be born.
** * *
The Indestructible Maccaba is having
another flutter at Melbourne Ather eeum, and will
keep driving Dull Care away for a few nights
longer.
*♦ # #
Mias May Holt has been atruggllng in a
brave manner in the face of adverse circumstances
to make things go at the Adelaide Royal, but
with not very cheerful results. “Men and
Women ” has been the latest means to this laud-
able etd, but there is in the City of the Just
already a superfluity of both sexes not over-
burdened with conscience or cash, so that Miss
Holt’s new introductions were neither needful nor
acceptable. At Garner’s Theatre Frank Lin-
coln’s success continues unabated The irrepres-
sible American’s boom is almost unprecedented,
and the dollars roll in with the utmost regularity.
The genial Lohr smiles and grows fat, and swears
by Adelaide as a show town, despite the unen-
viable reputation some people give it.
** * *
A Paris gentleman engaged a cafe concert
company to entertain his guests at a recent recep-
tion, and before the evening was over a handsome
baritone of thirty won the heart of the young
lady of the house, and eloped with her while the
company were at dinner.
** * *
The police recently arrested a demented
actor, known professionally in London as Auguste
Fenwick He stated that he had just arrived by
the last train from Sodom and Gomorrah, and
that he was a pillar of salt.
#* ♦ ♦
Nellie Farren says that Mrs Lacglty,
Mrs. Brown-Potter, and Miss Mary Anderson are
three of the luckiest women that ever went on
the stage, for they are being taught to act at the
expense of the public.
** * *
An Irish actor lately sued a Belfast news-
paper for criticising his “ Romeo ” and his wife’s
“ Juliet.” The actor avers that the critic never
forgave him for falling asleep while he (the critic)
was reading one of his own plays to him. The jury
awarded £350 damages.
•• * #
Said Sara Bernhardt recently “ The
English actress I ac’m're most of all is Eden
Terry. Oh, the beautiful cieature ! She has
graces and prettinessis which are ad her own. I
think her the most perfect actress on the stage.
** ♦ ♦
Mons. Victor, za great wrestler, is about
to retire from the Commercial Hotel, Sandhurst,
and cast in his lot with a circus bound for New
Caledonia. Victor was not a success as a boni-
face, although he had one of the best pitches in a
very thirsty city. Customers stood in fear of
being promiscuously chucked out in Graeoo-Eoman
style whenever the immortal Frenchman’s liver
didn’t act properly.
♦* * *
Mrs. Brown-Potter goes to no particular
church. She just jumps into a cab arid tells the
driver to take her to the nearest. This blind,
child-like trust in cabby is very touching.
** * *
George Leltch is at last ia a fair way to
recover, and in a few weeks more that cheerful
showman will again be visible on the horizon. He
has survived a gang of doctors sufficient to kill an
elephant and permanently undermine even the
tough and enduring grampus, and when he has
paid all the bills and thrown the last bottle of
evil-smelling mixture out of the window, Mr.
Leitch will be his old self again.
** * *
Modem Australian theatrical programmes
are getting to be preposterously bare of details
and comparatively useless for purposes of refer-
ence. As often ss not the author’s name is omit-
ted, there is no mention of scenes or acts, occa-
sional alterations in the cast pass unnoticed, and
finally the miserable oasis of programme in a
desert of advertisements is destitute of anything
like a date. As things go the public have least to
complain of at the Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne,
where they get a miniature newspaper, containing
a quantity of superior matter headed ‘ From The
Sydney Bdlletin.”
Have you got a cast-iron cheek ? If 10,
read the Arbenz razor advertisement in Bulletin.
Let ns see. What is the threat that John
Davies once made in Parliament against Parkes ?
And has Parkes ever publicly resented that
threat ?
Mr. Gale, who has just retired from the
governorship of Pentridge Gaol, says that during
88 years’ experience of prison life he has never
seen a reformed criminal.
Mrs. Gauche : “Do you have any trouble
in getting money from your husband ?” Mrs.
Droit: “ None in the least. I accuse him every
now and again cf talking in his sleep.’’
The attention of those in want of finely-
bred poultry, &c is directed to the advertisement
in this issue of the well-known and reliable Mr.
Walter Hope, who has made a speciality of such
things.
Westport (N.Z.) owtaa Jewish tobacconist
and billiard-saloon-keeper who doesn’t gamble or
swear, who never said “ kid ” or “ scbleinter ” in
his life and who is, moreover, a leading member
of the Young Men’s Debating Society.
When ci mmunlcaU >n was cut off between
Manly and Sydney on Monday by the big sea,
and no Sydney papers were obtainable in “ The
Village,” local Editor Gale was asked why he
didn’t bring out a special edition. “The gale has
brought out a special edition,” replied Editor G.
A correspondent points out that the ar-
rangements made to pack the hall at the recent
Sydney anti-Home Rale meeting were veiy
■inilar to those made to pack the memorable
Jubilee anti-Australian meeting a 1! Sydnev. The
fact of the matter is that the Imperial Eeiera-
bion party, the ugh it holds nearly all the publio
positions of eminence in this country is, in such a
miserable minority among the young Australians
that it dare not challenge a vote at any fairly-
conducted public meeting.
Proprietors Bdllelin, Sydney.—Gentle-
men, — I have the pleasure to acknowledge the re-
ceipt of your favour of 22nd icst , enclosing
cheque for 19s. 2d , being balance of subscriptions
towards Miners’ Strike Fund. I have this day
placed same to the credit of the Amalgamated
Miners’ Association and enclose receipt. May I
again thank you for the bsneficent use of your
columns in aid of a just cause, as well as the use
of your editoiial pen in the same interest. — I re-
main, yours truly, James Curley. Miners’ Gene-
ral Secretary, Newcastle, May 23 1889,
The present British Premier is married bo
the daughter of Baron Alderson Alderson was a
queer old man and iminently fitted to be father-
in-law to a peer. On <ne occasion at York he
sentenced an old man of 75 to 15 years’ penal ser-
vitude ; but just as the aged felon had left the
dock Alderson bad him called back, and leaning
forward addressed him with the greatest urbanity
as follows ; “I beg your pardon, but I have just
sentenced you to 15 years’ penal servitude. Now,
I am sorry bo say that for your offence I find by
the Act of Parliament I cannot sentencs you to
less than 20, but you need nob, after all, mind
that, as in either case it would be quite sure to
embrace the remainder of your life !’’
Wherever two or three Anglo-Saxons aro
gathered together there will a cricket club be
found in the midst of them—always provided that
there is a sufficiency of flat land within 20 miles
on which to lay out a wicket. At Ross, on
the wild West Coast of N.Z , some time ago, it
was moved by the teller of the bank and seconded
by the young man at Gankins and Oomisky’s
store that a cricket club be formed and the reso-
lution was carried unanimously. But it so hap-
pened that the only piece of level ground amongst
those glacier-scarred hills was a paddock belonging
to the loc»l butcher, a surly fellow, who was not at
all likely to give the use of his field to the
cricketers. However, diplomacy aoc implishes
much, and by dint of electing the butcher vice-
president of the club and wheedling him into a
promise to play in the first match, the much-
valued concession was obtained. On the date
fixed for the opening game the butcher insisted on
going to the wickets first —although he had never
handled a bat in his life before—and, as might be
expected, the very first ball distributed his bails.
“ Out,” said the umpire. “ Hout ! Ham hi ?”
growled the knight of the cleaver, nettled at his
discomfiture. “ An’ so are the whole of ye, fur
hout of me paddcck every jack-a dandy, spindle-
shanked dude of ye goes.” And that is what
stopped the game of cricket at Ross,


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
GREAT ~ RELIEF - IN RHEUMATISM.
PEPPER AND SALT
As a sort of relief work for the unem-
ployed, or a means of subsistence for scattered
firentlemen of delicate birth, who have come out
from old Hingerland to overcome a thirst for beer
ii a climate that is conducive to aggravated drink-
ing, the Victorian authorities have started paying
jurymen who sit on inquests of persons who have
succumbed to rough on-rats and other common dis-
orders necessitating coronial inquiry at the rate
of four-and-six an inquest Already larnre numbers
ol broken down parsons who look haughty in old
c.othes and smell of beer and long association
with onions on the wharf, have taken advantage
of the opportunity to earn money for rum, and a
contingent of professional jurymen has been
created. These enthusiasts tang about the
morgue and follow recovered bodies to their
destinations in the hope of being taken on to sit
on deceased and deliberate oxer what hit him :
Last week the Melbourne police were
solemnly warned that “Jack the Ripper” was
in their marvellous city. As the identity of Jack
is a somewhat mixed question, The Bulletin
trusts that the following accurate description of
his general appearance will enable the Mel-
bourne foorce to run him in right away.
The North China Herald, speaking of
the famine now devastating parts of the Flowery
Land laying the leper low, deduces facts to prove
there is really no facts at all, there being quite
sufficient food in the affected spots to meet the
demand, but it is held by pig-tailed monopolists
and evil almond-eyed syndicates that have created
corners in r!ce and prime rats and are holding up
for pricfs too high to be accessible to the im-
poverished heathen with a large family and
leperous mother-in-law. In a list of subscriptions
to the Famine Fund, printed in a recent Age, the
names of 17 parse ns appear. This is very like
the average parson whose charity, if he has any,
invariably begins abroad and stays there :
Oh ! saintly sinners, fools of grace,
Whose sympathies run out in gold
Towards the far-rfflicted race
That hungers in another fold,
Who turn with deep religious Ire
Upon your wretched neighbour’s woes
And bore him with the weapon dire
That Samson used to slay his foes,
Pray, tell us here the reason why
You feed those yellow heathen hordes
And give the tuffering sinners nigh
The empty charity of words ?
Your charities to Obina roam
To make the bloated Pagan jeer,
And swear we’ll have to keep at home
The Chows we wouldn’t keep out here.
“In connection with the widespread con-
spiracy against the life of the Czar of Russia the
police have ascertained that several bombs have
recently reached Sb. Petersburg.” Yes, he’s got
to go (cue for the office orchestra).
The Reverend Dr. Dale, a nonconformist
parson who shot a glance through Australia last
year and has been relieving himself of his impres-
sions concerning “wattle and gab” huts, as he
calls them, and other Australian features through
the medium of the Contempobary Review ever
since, says in a late effort that he considers it
remarkable “no hymns have been written or
come into general use that have caught the true
colour and inspiration of the new country and the
new environments of church life.” This seems to
suggest an opening, and a long-felt want, and the
necessity of the Australian bard knocking off
brewing heir, and selling pies, and keeping a
pound, to throw his utmost endeavours into the
work of concocting hymns with an Australian
ring, and kangaroos, and iguanas, and bull ants,
An Illustrated Paragraph.
Judge : “What sort of a man,
now, was it whom you
sawcommittheassault?
CONSTABLE: “Shore, yet honor,
he was a small, insignifi-
cant craythur-about
yer own size, yerhonor."
and other things in them that are racy of the soil
and are “the new environments of church life”—
especially at picnics. When our poet is sober we
will commission him to write a new book of
Psalms and a mile and a half of hymns for nee in
Pastor Jefferis’ church. These efforts will contain
judicious hints about salvation, associated with
useful facts concerning the native bear, and the
ring-tailed ’possum, and wattle-trees growing on
the Golden Shore. The paddy-meloa will he
gracefully associated with touching truisms on the
necessity of complete faith, and the plate will not
bo forgotten in connection with rabbits and the
drought. Rockhampton will come in useful as an
apt illustration of the effects of climate in Sheol,
and the ornithorynchns and emu will be rung in
wiffi telling effect. When this work is through
The Bulletin will congratulate itself on having
done a whole pile for the church in Australia —
where its “ History of Botany Bay” is accepted
as Gospel already.
* * •
A North Queensland paper prints a bitie?
complaint about a fire which took place in a
wooden boarding-house up the local gully and
which nearly demolished several leading citizens.
The fire itself did no damage worth mentioning,
and didn’t hurt anybody, but there was a new
fire-brigade in the place and it couldn’t refrain
from distinguishing itself. Accordingly, it turned
out with a ladder and a mass of tangled hose, and
ran for the scene of action, and presently it nearly
disembowelled itself on a barbed wire-fence and
hung there screaming while the owner of the
hoarding-house extinguished the conflagration
with a bucket. Then he went and took down the
fire-brigade, and disentangled the ladder and
picked the fragments of the hose out of the fence,
and solemnly warned the members of the associa-
tion never to run for his premises again whether
they were on fire or not, and they told him
that they would see him in Tophet first. The
local paper, In giving a two-column account of the
incident, endeavours to steer a middle course
between the boarding-home keeper, who adver-
tises in its columns, and the fire brigade, which
subscribes to the journal, so it alludf s in general
terms to the heroism of all parties concerned, and
the durability of the wire fence—the man who
erected it having a standing “ad.” on the front
page—and then tails off into generalities about
Vesuvius, and Sodom and Gomorrah, and other
great fires in ancient times. But the editor in the
next township gets hold of the incident and curses
at large concerning it, and the fire-brigade feels ro
bad that it will probably come round some windy
night and put a lighted match under his office
flior.
• • *
Hs was something In the city, but not very
much outside of it, and on making his first
acquaintance with the primitive accommodation
of a bush pub. one morning, he rushed into the
bar and excitedly asked: “W-w-where’s the
bawth-room ?” “ The what ?” returned the aston-
ished landlord. “The bawth-room, or even the
lavatory,” gasped the new-chum. “ D n me if
I know what you’re a-drivin’ at, young man,”
replied the other, who, by the war, is a J.P., and
once had the honour of being an alderman as well;
“Is it some new-fangled sort rf drink you’re
after?’’ “Give him a sloosh,” said a bystander,
who was better acquainted wiih the luxuries of
life; “ha wants to clean up ; that’s ail.” “ Ob, is
than it?” exclaimed the host; “Well, why the
blaz’s couldn’t yer say so at fust, young man ;
come along this way wid meand then he led the
dapper city swell out to tfce back yard, where
was a rusty tin pan and a bucket of soapy looking
water resting on the stump of a tree. “Thereyou
are, now,” continued Boniface proudly; “ splash
away as much as y’like ; y won’t soil no Turkey
carpits here, I reckon. I’ll send the towel out as
soon as them fellers upstairs Is done wid it. Wade
in all yer want to ; there ain’t no extry charge for
the lavatory, as you call it, an’ there’s a bucket of
soft soap on the bench. Use all y’hev a mind to.”
That young man is now at home, and likely to
stay there.
Both poppe ry and fiscal—that loan bank.
The Law locks up the man, or woman,
Who steals the Goose from off the Common,
But lets that greater scoundrel loose
Who steals the Common from the Goose.
—Old Epigram.
Minister : “Yes, children, we a’l have
besetting sins. I, like the rest. Now, what do
you suppose is my besetting sin ?” Bright Boy :
“ Talking.”— Extbagi.
On and after this date lb Is our supreme
pleasure to rule that the la l e Mr. Richelieu’s say-
ing, “ The pen is mightier than the sword,” be
altered to “The Bar Lock typewriter is more
pairs: nt than the Gatling gun.” Advance Aus-
tralia.—Advt.
Ah Way has gone Insolvent at Melbourne.
The way of the world.
The recently-escaped Chinese leper Is sup-
posed to be still on the loose in Sydney. Probably
ne sits beside us iu the tram-cars after dark and
rides iu the omnibuses, and the public only take
him for a rather uglier Chinaman than the
average. Or possibly he is growing vegetables,
or is assistant to a fruiterer and sorts out the
apples In a back room, and puts the big “olangee”
on top ia the case which at night forms the
foundation of his bedstead ; or else he is aide-de-
camp to a dealer in Mongolian cariosities, and
shines up the bric-a-brac, and dusts, and sweepr,
and washes up, and makes himself generally use-
ful. Who knows ?
The proprietors of a Sydney weekly now
issue a card to every newsboy who sells a certain
number of copies, which card, on presentation at
the office, entitles him to “a packet of c’garettes
on Sunday morning between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m,”
Judging from the appearance of the paper the
time is not far off when every newsboy sellinor a
dozen copies will have to receive a case of whisky
or a Krnpp gun or some little trifle of the same
sorb to keep him from giving np the sale of the
journal in despair, but for the moment the packet
of cigarettes helps to keep him up and staves off
the final act of ruin
The Inscrutable visage of Major le Caron,
the British official spy whose mission it has been
for years to urge the Fenian body on to dynamite
and violence and then gave them away to the
Government, still appears here and there in the
Australian press. Generally he looms np as a
badly-smudged lithograph, in the centre of which
may be dimly descried a small, thin man with a
fixed and stagnant eye like a dull red lamp in a
tunnel, a long, carrot-shaped head, and a hatchet
countenance. His moustache has a rakish twist
like the curly tail of an oveifed dog, and he wears
a misfit coat which wrinkles up after the fashion
(f a collection of concertinas. Even the most
abject Fenian who was ever fired out of Tipperary
would never have been taken in by a flattened-out
major like the one in this smudged lithograph,
and the attempt to pass off this badly-printed
stack of humanity as a subtle conspirator and an
inscrutable schemer is an insult to the human
understanding, There is a dreadful sameness,
however, about most of the portraits which appear
in Australian journals, When the new bishop’s
photo, can’t be obtained in time the hanged
murderer ia run in instead and ticketed as the
reverend father of the church, and when the
bishop’s countenance comes along it generally has
to do duty as the oo respondent in a divorce case
in which a leg-show person was deeply involved.
Sometimes the victim’kicks, but not often, for he
seldom recognises the hopeless blob of Ink which,
under happier auspices, might have looked like
him.
Tdo eating of tea-leaves Is developing Into
a vice in America. This habit is said to be far
more pernicious than drinking alcohol to excess,
for the tea leaves produce the wildest type of in-
toxication. They lose their intoxicating qualities
when boiled.
The lovely Waltemata harbour (N.Z.) de-
rives Its name from a great naval battle fought
there between the Ngapuhis, under Hongi Hik',
and a combination of the Auckland and Thames
natives. The engagement was bitterly and stub-
bornly contested in canoes, and so many were
slain that the waters became tinged with blood,
consequently the river was called Waitemata. or
“The Waters of rfflction.”
Mr. H. W. Risler, who lately broke his
neck at Rockhampton, was remarkable in many
ways. In most of the goldfields of North Queens-
land money of his was funk. From a few of
them returns came, but never in the measure tht t
enabled him to count winnings. Having been the
first to build a house in Rockhampton his tally of
t’ae progress of that sultry city was more accurate
than the pages of Pugh’s Almanac. Nearly 40
years ago he was one of half-a-dozen who used re-
gularly to start out to look for alligators. His early
associates dropped away one by one, and it was
thought by seme that the end of the century
would see Risien bartering shares in rome Gulf
goldmine with the same energy with which he
worked the Palmer ; but, without the slightest
warning, he stopped business and rejoined the
comrades of old.
Rauparaha, the great Maori chief, who
was mentioned by The Bulletin recently in con-
nection with the death of the chief Aperahama te
Aik was one of the most noted “toas” or great
Maori fighting men of later days in Maoriland,
and his daring deeds brought great “ mana ” or in-
fluence to his tribe. On one occasion he and ten
men had a most desperate encounter with the
Waikatos, who numbered considerably over 100,
Rauparaha killed 20 of the enemy, and was carry-
ing one of the most to v ed chiefs away, thinklrg
he was dead, when he was seized by the hair and
his head dragged back until he was almost
strangled. To free himself Rauparaha let his
antagonist go, fell on him, and despatched him,
but before he could regain his feet he was sur-
rounded and killed. As he lay dead his spine was
so arched that no portion of his backbone touched
the ground, and it was this peculiarity that con-
firmed the Waikatos in the belief that it was
really the famous “ tea ” they had tomahawked.
It is a Maori superstition that a chief never rests
on his backbone when dead.
Ha re te Pere, the Maori murderer whom
it was Governor Onslow’s first official act to con-
sign to the gallows, wa« executed at Napier, N.Z ,
on May 13. The crime for which he suffered was
tae wholesale butchery of the family of a store-
keeper named Pook. On the scaffold Haire stated
that he was innocent of the crime, which ha •>,
however, been committed by his brother with b a
knowledge. It had been arranged between them,
that Haire, being innocent, should stand his trial,
the brother pajing the legal expenses of bis de-
fence, and that, as he was innocent, the great
pakeha father with the horsehair wig would let
him off. He bad been under the impression, he
said, that after his acquittal his brother wculd be
absolved from all responsibility for the crime.
Haira admitted that he had since feund that
British justice did not run in the direction that be
and his brother had imagined, but having in-
cur red the ri<k he was pr stared to take the con
tequences. He met his death with thei tnost
stoicism, and those acquainted with Maori
character arc willing to believe that the story he
told vt aa perfectly true.
The day is growing brighter for
The devastated dude,
Who’s stranded on this foreign shore
With hate of “graft ” imbued,
And grubs about upon his ear
Three little browns to bunch
And squander on a pint of beer
And half a-ton of lunch.
You know him well, his blood is b’ua,
The roof is off his tile,
His trousers let his linen through,
His boots both blandly smile ;
His nose an arched instep boasts,
His eyes are large and fair,
He smells aloud of honoured toasts,
The rats have cropped his hair.
No longer need he haunt the pubs.,
Distracted by the “ cops ”
And recked with envy for the tuba
That catch the wasted drops,
He’s made his final, graceful bow
As vagrant at the Court —
The festive suicide is now
The means of his support.
A high profession yields him means
The rosy god to woo ;
For when Policeman X. convenes
The twelve good men and true
To sit upcn a man found drowned
He’s always of the mob.
Four “ stiffs ” will almost stand a pound
At four-and-six the job.
When biz. is good and corpses rife
The pro. can earn a screw
That fires his pride and makes bis life
A dream of beer and stew.
Hush ! whisper low, a direful thing
We have to tell —’tis raid
These jurors grim have formed a ring
To find the stock of dead !
GUIDE TO JACK THE RIPPER.
He's short and tall, with auburn hair
And blackest flaxen tresses ;
His form is somewhat stout and spare,
In tourist suits he dresses,
Or else in moleskin pants and coat—
This burly chap or ‘ nipper,”
He’s shaven clean with a billygoat,
You must know Jack the Ripper.
He walks with slouching gait or strut,
His accent’s sweet and nasal;
His eyes are bluey-brown when shut,
But sometimes they are hazel;
Ho has a white and tiny paw,
Or big and grimy flipper ;
Most square and rounded is his jaw,
You must know Jack the Ripper.
He’s poor, and freely offers gold
To unprotected ladies ;
He’s very young and rather old —
He’s Mr. Nick from Hades.
So, when you see his horns and hoof
Encased in carpet slipper,
You needn’t wait for further prorf—
You must know Jack the Ripper.
BOUND TO GO.
A T as ! poor Czar, he can’t assuage
His loving people’s hate,
There’s dynamite on railway gauge,
And ’neath his Chair of State ;
And day by day they, by the way,
Put poison on his plate.
Chorus. —The Czar has got to go, you know,
The Jzar has got to go ;
Perhaps he’s got to go Above,
Perhaps to go Below—
Perhaps they’ll send him off in bits,
Or kill him at a blow ;
However they may manage, it’s
A fact he’s got to go.
Ten thousand subjects seek Lis life
And will not be denied ;
In fancy he, from bomb or knife,
Ten thousand deaths has died ;
Then, by the bye, why don’t he die
One death—from suicide ?
Chorus. —The Czar has got to go, that’s so !
He knows he’s got to go ;
Perhaps he’s got to go Above
Perhaps to go Below;
Then, better hurry off and drown
In Nava’s quiet flow—
His golden crown will keep him down
And he’ll be bound to go.
Newspaper Criticism.
lb is a privilege every newspaper reserves to
itself to criticise, adversely if needs be, for the
public’s benefit, anything in which the public is
deeply interested.
It is the custom of H. H. Warner & Co , pro-
prietors of the renowned “Safe Cure.” to flood
the country, and especially the postcffioes, with
medical pamphlets. The writer has taken the
liberty bo examine one of these marvellous little
books, and finds food for criticism, but before
indulging in it, will give our readers some quota-
tions therefrom, from the highest medical authori-
ties which we believe worthy of consideration.
Under the head of “No Distinctive Symptoms
Apparent,” we find :
First—More adults are carried off in this
country by chronic kidney disease than by any
other one malady except consumption,—Thomp-
son.
Second—Deaths from such diseases are increas-
ing at the rate of 250 per cent, a decade.—Edwards.
Third—Bright’s disease has no symptoms of its
own, and may long exist without the knowledge
of the patient or practitioner, as no pain will ba
felt in the kidneys or their vicinity —Roberts.
Fourth —In the fatal cases—ana most cases have
hitherto been fatal—the symptoms of diseased
kidneys will first appear in extremely different
organs of the body as stated above.—Thompson.
Fifth—Only when the disease has reached its
final and fatal stages may the usual symptoms of
albumen and tube casts appear, and will great
pain rack the diseased organs —Thompson.
Sixth—Bright’s Disease which usually has three
stages of development, is a universal disease in
every country.—Roberts and Edwards.
Thompson is authority for saying that more
adults are carried off in this country by kidney
disease than any other malady except consumption.
Under Warner’s “Safe Cure” article on Con-
sumption, we find a paragraph claiming to be a
quotation from a publication issued by Brompton
Hospital for Consumptives, London, England,
which states that 52 psr cent, of the patients of
that institution have unsuspected kidney disorder.
Dr. Herman Brehmer, an eminent Gertm n autho-
rity, also says that Consumption is always due to
deficient nutrition of the lungs, because of bad
blood.
Medical scierce can no longer dispute the fact
that the kidneys are the principal blood purifying
organs of the human system, and if they are
diseased and thus fail to expel the uric acid poison,
or the wasts matter of the blood, as the blood
passes through these two great organs, the “ Safe
Cure’’claim is correct, and the reasoning of its
proprietor holds good.
There is no doubt but that in too many in-
stances medical practitioners doctor for symptoms,
instead of striking at the root of the disease, and
that under this form of treatment many patients
die.
We cannot, however, see the necessity of con-
tinually flooding the country with these advertis-
ing medical books, when their story once well told
is enough for the time being. People as a rule
now-a days go to their newspaper for information,
and we believe such truths as we have instanced
could be proclaimed therein more advantageously
to the public and much more beneficially to the
proprietors.


The English People’s William
Is the grand old W.G.,
But Australia’s People s William
Is the Famous Billy Tea.
Packed Only bt
JAMES INGIiIS * CO.
4 AND 6 DBAN'S PDACB,
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Moot and Cuandon’s Champagni.— Messrs. Moet and
Ohandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
ohampagna-prodnoers In the world. Their
Imperial” 1884 vintage is the pure Juioe of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres In the
oholoest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant In Australia. The Imperial
Grown It In each strnsr si labs! and 1881 brandtd M
task and labs).
Everybody should use Parnell's latest best Snow-whits
Patkot Boiiiißu Floub. II Is Ihe greatest suooess of the
age.
John M‘Ewan & Co,,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45 page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &o.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Daily
All lists posted Free on application.
Personal items.
Bishop Murray, of Maitland, N.S.W., waa
at one time tecrebiry to Pope Pius IX.
Emin Pasha, though a Jew by birth, is a
Mahommedan. We suppose it pays a dividend.
Mrs. Beatrice Batbenberg has, lb la cabled,
given birth to another eon. “ 111 weeds grow
apace.”
The father of Dr. Leger Eraor, o! Mel-
bourne, was one of the founders of the Home Rule
movement.
Santley, the singer, la a Verb to Rome. He
ones put a cheque for £l2OO in the collection-plate
of a London Catholic Church.
Parkei has lately taken to speaking of
himself as “ The Prime Minister.” The Past-
His-Prime Minister would be better.
Lo Oaron, the British spy on the Irlah-
Amerioaus, was a bugler, not a major, in the
Union Army. What a falling off is here.
Bright left no legacies to public charities.
It was his strong opinion that the support of pub-
lic institutions should come from the living.
“Daddy” Lloyd, who was crier at Mel-
bourne County Court for so many years, died the
other day. Daddy’s “ silence in the cocri is his-
tc rical.
The Hon. James White, everyone will
regret to tear, is still very ill. Heart-disease is
his malady, and there is little chance of his re-
covery.
Onslow receives a couple of thousand less
salary than did Jervois as Governor of N.Z.. and
the Maorilanders have taken to calling mm Cur
cheap Governor.”
R<sv. Principal Rainy, a conspicuous Pres-
byterian, is visiting Australia on a mission. He
must have arrived on Queen’s Birthday. He is
very seasonable.
& it Is reported that the remains of the late
Mr. Francis Ormond, now on their way to Mel-
bourne, were insured for a large sum before being
shipped in London.
Mr. Justice Day did not speak a single
word in court during 58 sittings of the Parnell
Commission. Wa have heard of the silent
eva ” before, but the “ silent Day” is an agreeable
sort of novelty.
The cabled statement that Phil. Robin-
sen’s wife is sueing for a divorce on the ground
that he compelled her to swallow morphia and
thus made her insane is, on the fi.ee of it, a vary
cock-and bull story, indeed.
Pile■ ell, the Frerch artist who, lb Is cabled,
kicked Rochefort in a London street and then ran
away, pursued by Rochefort revolver in hand, is
identical with the artist who draws fashion-pic-
lures for the Lady s Pictorial.
Bishop Barry pleaded for greater depth
in church matters in his farewell oration at Ade-
laide, the other day. The Primate is pretty deep
himself—he refused to be “interviewed by the
Press. So deep that he oouldn’a be sounded.
Cardinal Moran’s Christian name Is
Patrick Francis. Boxer Slavin’s Christian name
also is Patrick Francis. We have here a base
Jesuitical conspiracy to “ put a heal on Blacfc
Jackson. QE D. What do you think, mbigle 1
One of the happiest men now alive In
England is a “representative Australian ” who
went home with Governor Loch. He and the
Gdv. were sick on the same Bids of the shipi
and the blissful loyal memory is ons that nottims
short of death will ever efface.
When the Daka of Portland waa a
there were thirteen lives between him and the
title he has since succeeded to, We don t believe
in the “ thirteen superstition,” but we are com-
pelled to say that the lack of these thirteen heirs
to a dukedom was decidedly stiff. _
Hennlker Heaton has contributed £lOO
towards the cost of a statue to the poet Marlowe, to
be erected at Canterbury. Henniker very bkdy
never heard of Marlowe, and hasn t a bit of
poetry in his condition, and it’s a burning shame
that he should be allowed to sling old bam Bon-
nets’s money round in such fashion,
Mr. Frank Farnell, M.P., suggests that
in order to give the NS.W. oysters a ebanceof
iacreasing the public should go without any for
three years. Toere are a lot of cranks in 1 arlia-
ment who suggest that we should go without stout,
also whisky, psrmanently. It’s a mad world.
A squatter named Hutchison has com-
menced an action for £2OOO damages against the
b'ARKACOOBTE (3. A.) Hkiiald because thatjournal
said he was unfit to be a J.P. Of course the paper
is wrong. If Hutchison is like the typical squatter
—as the squatter is known In town—that s about
the only thing he is fit for.
Macdonald, the blunderer of the Thun-
dbree, used to unctuously boast that he waa ores
a p ior boy working at the bottom of a mine in
Sootlard. Looking up one day he saw the stars.
• They appeared to be beckoning him to a higher
sphere, which ha reached when he filled his chair
in Printing-House Square. Mao. sees stars once
more. ,
Gladstone was lately iuylbsd to subscribe
to a certain charity. He replied cn usual post-
card that innumerable applications of the kind
were received by him, and that he had to confine
his donations to local needs. The postcard was
duly put up to auction, fetching two guineas, and
the G.O.M appeared on the list . of subscribers as
a donor to that amount.
A very reverend visitor from Natal, at
present staying in Melbourne, is addressed as
Daan Green.
Is Daan Green a “green ” Dean,
Or keen Dean or bright Green—
A dull Green or clean Dean,
A mean Dean and lean Green,
Or serene ? but this is madness.
The three medical wags who out up Irving
Bishop among them state that he must have been
dead when they operated, because they P™'
Viously shut him in an air-tight box. This is
much about the same as maintaining that, if they
had divided him before the boxing-up took place
the poor thought reader could not have succumbed
to suffocation. Anyway, he was pretty dead by
the time the surgeons had finished w.th him, and
the coroner’s jury will probably return an open
verdict to the iff act that “ Deceased got there all
the fame.”
Sydney Evening News, In a leading
article, describes Sir Thomas Esmonds as ‘‘a
young man of low forehead and high collar who
m’ght sit for the portrait of Fibzacodle ” Dele-
gate Daasy is alluded to as “ a gentleman of glib
tongue but saturnine countenance.” _ How we d
like to see in print a verbal portrait of Alfred
Bennett, B;q , “ j curnaliat,” drawn, say, by one
of his ex-raporters !
Mrs. Humphrey Ward, the successful
Tasmanian authoress, has evolved a new scheme
for the disposal of her literary wares. Having
completed the manuscript of another novel, she
has completely turned the tables on her publishers,
by announcing that up to a ceitain day at twe.va
o’clock, she will receive propositions from pub-
lishers for the production of her book, and will
then decide between them.
The prize history for use in the N.S W.
State schools “will contain special chapters in
which sketches of the progress of industries in
N S.W. and of legislation and citizenship will be
dealt with.” From this we argue that the new
history will call a lemon-tquaeh shop a “ factory,
and will show what a good thir g it is for the
country that Mr. Burdekin hi s allotment votes in
a dozen constituencies at every general election.
General Gourko, Russia’s bowelless com-
mander in-chief in Poland, announces that in the
event of a war with Germary, Russia will drive
out the inhabitants o? Warsaw en masse in order
that the garrison may not be encumbered ty
women and children and other things of little
account. They are “ only Poles and Jaws, says
Gourko—and, therefore, 350,000 people will be
prodded into the wilderness to die miserably.
When that blighted statesman, Hauley
Bennett, was booming along In Tamworth,
N.S.W., he ran a little paper called the lnsß-
selectob, and a most original production it was
A SUGGESTION TO THE N.S.W. POSHTMASHTHER GINERAL.
“Why not plant some praties in the vacant ground in the front of the G.P.O. and also
graze a pig upon it to help pay the rint?"-charge.)
too. A Mr. Dold was foreman of the typogra-
phical department, and one day he drew his mas-
si ve-browed editor's attention to the fact that it
was not usual in journalistic to display
the first person singular in leading articles. Put-
ting it as mildly as he could, Mr. Dodd observed :
<> X!j i s the custom in such oases, Mr. Bennett, to
write ‘ we,’ not ‘II”’ “Is it V thundered the
mighty Hanley; “well, look here, my friend,
there’s m blanky ‘ we ’ about my articles at all ;
it’s all me—me myself—Hanley Bennett, an
don’t let any galoot about these ’ere premises for-
get that fact.”
Maharajah Dhaleep Singh, son of Ranjeet
Siugh, the “Lion of the PuojauV thus writes
Queen Victoria It will be useless for me to
demand the restoration of my kingdom, swindled
from me by your Christian Government, but
which I hope shortly, by the aid of Providence,
to retake from my robbers. "But my diamond, the
Koh i-noor. I understand, is entirely at your own
pe”sonal disposal. Therefore, believing your
Majesty to be ‘ the most religious lady ’ that your
subjects pray for every Sunday, I do not hesitate
to ask this gem be restored to me, or else that a
fair price be paid for it to me out of your privy
nurse.” Before Phil. May came out here from
London he lived in the same tmilding as Dhuleep
Sintrh and got to know him pretty intimately.
When Phil, began to draw for The Bulletin he
often sent a copy of the paper to Dhuleep who
after a while sent out £5 for five years subscrip-
tion to this journal which goes to him regularly.
But we are afraid he doesn’t read It regularly or
be would never address a lady so unceremoniously.
The family motto of Lord Onslow la—
“ Festina lente" (hasten slowly) Sir Bartle
Frere’s is 1 ‘ Frere aime frere ’’ (brol her loves
brother); and Sir A. B. Dixie's is “ Quod dixi,
dixi” (what I have said, I have said).
It has again been stated by Truth that
Lord Carington intends resigning at the end
o! the year, and the Baron has again strenuously
denied the soft impeachment, H.E lately stated
that ha would regret till the end of his days that
he ever became Governor of N S W., tut now he
was here ha would stay until the end of his term.
From Lire, a London society journal: —
“ Mr. Phil, May has returned to Europe, after
fulfilling a three years’ engagement as artist on
that brighest o! Australian pap-re, the Sydney
Bulletin. The salary paid to the genial Phil, by
the enterprising proprietary of that papar was £3O
a week. Why, it is better to be an artist in Aus-
tralia than a junior Cabinet Minister in Eng-
land 1”
The ever lamented Albert is c mlog to
base uses in his old aga. la the entrance-hall of
the Oourc'l rooms at Birmingham the customary
status of the revered German stands in state, but
hung by a string round the waist of the graven
image is a card with the inscription ‘‘Sandwiches
and refreshments can be obtained in the base-
ment ” Albert has thus fallen into an advertise-
ment for a cookthop.
Aperahama Te Aik. a famous old chief of
the South Islands of N.Z, has just died at the
age of 80. He was one of the last survivors of
the Ngaitahu tribe, which was almost completely
wiped out by the raid of Te Rsuparaha in 1827.
At the great battle of KuapoilOOO of Aperhama’s
tribesmen were slain, and their bleached bones
still bestrew the field of slaughter and bear silent
testimony to the fierceness of the conquerors.
Samuel Wolfe, a broken-down and ex-
ploded vagrant who is said to be lineally descended
from that other Wolfs, the hero of Quebec, is
doing 12 months at Auckland (N.Z ) It xen t
much to be descended from a hero nowadays.
The direct heir of a monaicb sells shrimps and
prawns in the publix streets ; the last of a line of
emperors is mostly found on a doorstep and taken
to an orphan asylum to be brought up by hand ;
and the busted duke of the London Journal
sumersaults in a penny show. Heroes, nowadays,
are short, polgy men without an h, and the
last remnant of the old style of heroes are em-
ployed as sandwich-men.
John Dick, whose death-uentenca for
shooting at with iptent to kill, has been com-
muted to 14 years’ hard labour, the first threem
irons, has been governor of the Mudgee (N o W.)
gaol for over twenty years. He was a strict dis-
ciplinarian, and compelled all the warders to torch
their hats to him as he passed. He was, however,
a good Government servant, and came frequently
into collision with the townspeople from the fact
that all the gaol birds in Mudges were kept well
employed, and the product of their labours sold
outside the walls. Dick was for years a teetotaller.
Strong waters, however, overcame him in the end,
and he lies a manacled prisoner where once ha
governed.
According to an English paper Captain
Ingram (brother of the chief proprietor of the
Illustrated London News) who was noantly
killed by an e’ephant in South Africa, some time
before his death unwound the cuo-xloth of an
Egyptian mummy. Inside he discovered a tablet
which, being translated, was found to prophesy
that the person who profaned the grave-clothes
would die a violent death within three months of
his sacrilegious ac h , and his bones be scattered to
the winds. Within the prescribed time the threat
or prophecy came true. Captain Ingram was
killed in South Africa, and he was so badly
scattered that only his thigh bone remained to
attest his fate.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Sir Henry Parkas dentes that he ever flew
kites with Mr. J aim Taylor, of Parramatta.
The Age recently spoke of “Messers. D )w,
Daakin, and Gillier.” Truth is mighty end will
prevail,
S veral English papers, including Rey-
nolds. recently quoted The Bulletin articles
on “ Oae Man, One Vote.”
The names cf Nician Melvlle snd William
Ewart Gladstone ware hissed at a loyalist meet-
ing in Sydney last week
Sydney Evenin’ Nooze hasu’b felt well
since it published that article during the last
general election headed “An Ominous Silence.”
But you can still see John Haynes' fist all over the
paper,
A legal quibble as to the meaning of the
word “agent” and “person” seems to have
pulled John Davies through his Casual Board
troubles so far. It is Irli that John is not
an “ agent.”
The last anniversary of Beg cornfield’a death
fell on Good Friday, so the Pnmrose Leaguers
were able to oommemora'e two melar choly events
at one fell swoop. It was a coalition Festival cf
primroses and hot cross buns.
The rock ahead for the Siegle Tex party
is • Shall yelping curs be taxed ? If taxed, down
goes the theory. And who that is kept awake at
night with howling canines will vote against a
proposal to put, say, 10s. a head on the noisy
brutes ?
Ifce Emperor William 11. congra'ulated
President Carnot on not being killed by the blank
cartridge fired by Perrin. While he was on the
j )b he might have also congratulated the Czar on
His escape from the bomb which was not thrown
at the Tolstoi funeral procession.
The Marquis of Salisbury boasts that the
Primrose League, “an association to promote
jobbery by means of snobbery.” has secured
800 000 members since 1883 No doubt this
800 000 includes the Australian lodges, which lived
about a fortnight and then “went bung ”
When the Victorian C ief Secretary re-
introduces the Early Closing Bill it is lo be hoped
he will so arrange that a number of fat shop-
keeping justices cannot pack themselves on a
bench and fine their fellow shopkeepers in nominal
sums, with a view to making a just democratic
law into a farce.
S'r Charles Russell, counsel for Mr. Par-
nell, justified boycotting by quoting the very
modern instates cf tfce Cape C.lony, where the
people refused to supply their beLved Gov. with
provisions so long as a ship laden with English
criminals remained fS the coast. The skip took
her departure and the Gov. then got his refresh-
ments as usual.
Queen Victoria at d the Prince of
Wales are at loggerheads. H.M. wishes Turn
m when he comes to the throne, which A E. bets
he will not live long enough to do, to assume the
title of Albert the Ist. Whereas Wales stards
firm for Edward and eays he mear s to see that bis
eldest son “ Spuds,” alias “ Collars and Cuffs,” ia
Edward after him.
John Gale, who waa for 38 years connected
with the Victorian prisons, and has just retired
from the Governorship of Pentridge Gaol, has*
come to the conclusion that prisons are perfectly
useless for reformatory purposes Reformatories,,
too, he says, are worse than useless, as the mest
incorricable criminals he has bad to deal with,
were ilnse educated at reformatories.
There waa a coincidence In the fact that
Sedition won the Royal Stakes at Randwiok on
Friday last-Queen’s Birthday—and Home Rule
the Sovereign Stakes at the same place on the
same day. The Racing Clubs, who, as they are
“ patronised.” by Guvnaha and such, aretffuaively
“ loyal,” will, no doubt, make a fresh rule to the
effect that no horse so c ffansively named as either
of the above shall in future be allowed to enter for
any race on Queen’s Birthday.
Lord Kintore, utterly unmindful of the*
fate of that fine old diplomatist, the late Mr.
Ananias, recently said: “Loyalty to her Most
Gracious Majesty the Queen extends and surges
round her throne from every part of the world
where the British ensign waves or where the
British language is spoken.” How much of it
extends from the United States ? And how did
it surge in Sydney when an organised mob, com-
posed of University hoodlums prizs-ring bullies
and football foolheads was rounded up in order
that a boaus vote of loyalty might ba earned in
a corner ?
Dm O’Connor attended the banquet to
the Irish envoys, Dillon, D asy, and Bsmonde, in
Sydney the other day, and proposed the toast of
“The Shamrock Club.” The funny thing about
this is that the bhamrook Club is an organisation
that has worked hard at the last three elections
for West Sydney to put Dan at the bottom of the
poll in order to pay him out for his unpatriotic
hesitancy at the time of the Redmonds’ visit six
years ago. The “ Jaynial Oae ”is trying hard to
get into favour with his eo-religionists aud fellow-
countrymen now that he knows that, having dis-
placed Abigail, he will never again get the support
of the Orangemen at election times.


Things in General.
//er /ya-y<ish r s
Z/r, / e S'6/* <!
jYayceyy £s CorYspg'
/ o/-U Ca rtq
-rr J e C(^
London, Saturday—The following is »
lint of the distinctions conferred on the
occasion of the Queen's birthday and for-
mally announced in the London Gazelle ;
Mr. William Macleay. M.L.C., of New ■
■ South Wale* and Mr Benjamin Benjamin,
Major of Melbourne, to bo Knights
Bicheldir*. |
Sir James Macßam, K. 8., M.L.C., Victoria, A
[ and JJr, WUljam Macgregor, Governments
[ Administrator of British New Guinea, to/
Knights Commanders of the Mold Disjr N J
guiahfd Order of Bt. Michael'and 3L j
(K.cm.q.) Kll
Mr. R L. J. SUerj, Government ■,
I tronomcr of Victoria, and Mr. Justice J V i
Dodds, ot Tasmania, late Atlorncy-Qeticiw I
of Tasmania, and delegate to the recent'
Colonial Conference, to be Companions \
cf the wmc Order (C.M,Q.) \ \|
Sir William Mackinnon cfcabeaat of h.M J
Britlah-india Steam Navigation TtomphajLli J
and Mr. Joseph Kdgar Boehm. K A tti? ctfeVVC'
bratod sculptor, to be haroncis, ~ ~ \\ll'
Another ),B55 J )ef,e7 JJ
fcEop/jee r?y |
<>*<76- . 7 . ?)i ><7 a/Kr C./1
skft. 9 * «/ /-ova/fya 9 S~ _
7£ /?e Per r? toys \
*9* ?n,uiu/,
-/a *7&t S'**- -
Pare. « ? c/ cCoyS- Sorrow W/
Ps-onj Vlo*' *■ Oon-r/s/ttepf* a.rjcC enarry
‘ ' x tarJy StycC o/rSy'
- pl/D/J'fifc r*
ĵ
'7 v m
y * or Y e c Sc AP£so A -r£T
tV'E'LCO'*7/M(j y r '/\z£*S£y TEJ?
y 3 '# Tf/Z>Ay£ r /rA/yo* r-£~s
d sa.re « Queey dy
■ £>aoft/U)fap2'e. /3*x jj
ficcnct uJoulct- fore,
tee.* * */W ruMsr
//tin fo»y s fo* 9*
( Cd&.fe r ~^


[Mr. Dailey, it is cabled, is to have a monument somewhere in the neighbourhood of St. Paul’s.]
SIR HENRY (sol): “St Paul’s nay be good enough for a horator, but I’M going for to have ago at the Poet’s
Corner in the ‘Habby’—any way, this knocks the Dead ’Ouse scheme all 'oiler.”


QRESOKNT BREWING 00.'S
“AURORA”
XjSHIIT HI B BHIHJ B-
F. B WHEELER & 00.,
866 CLARENCE StEMT,
SYDNEY.
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Arcade )
Deposits received and interest allowed as follows i
3 Years 10 per cent.
12 Months 9 per cent.
« Months 8 per cent.
3 Months 0 per cent.
AU customary banking business transacted.
Communications to be addressed to
H LIKELY, Manager.
W H PALING & Ltd., 356 George Street, Sydney.
n. n, ! n STEINWAY ERiRD. CEBEL, FENRICH, LIPP. RONISOH. BLOTHSEB
H AY *ow!uS“ l/ JSSfH oMhe ESTEy’ ORGANS, No ,ooh VA.»T, o, »■—“ "» < “" B 0,1
Society
Her Gracious Majesty baa celebrated a
damp and ihsumatic Dlrthday in Australia, and
here and there a sodden Chinaman has baen
found letting cff a moist cracker in a baok-ja and
honour of the great event Here and there,
a muggy rocket has gone up about two wmd
the applause of a small boy wi'h bis soaked hai
flapping dismally in his eye, and a drenched hor
with a clod of mud at the end of its tail has won. a
handicap somewhere amid a drifting cloud of mi
and rain and flying slush, while a dozen people with
influenza raided a husky croak of
Oiher people with inflammation of the ° ™
tad put their money on the mud-pUstered mi e
that sat down and left its impression in the dirt at
the rear of the procestioa, failed to share in their
enthusiasm, and at an early hour the whole voci-
ferous gathering took rsfuge in a frczm hotel
where there was no fire, and soaked itsek m cold,
flatulent beer. Vancui disheartened admiras
and things came out with an umbrella and
fired a salute A number of enthusiastic
yachtsmen plodded forth upon the waste o!
waters, and hung about dejectedly and drooped
mournfully over the sides of their crafts, and in
between time) they lifted the flood out ofl thei boat
with a jam tin. A few sorrowing botanists and
other lunatics and deranged persons want out
into the country on horses that had got the
ahivers. and left these animals at lonely pubs,
while they want and fell into bogs in search of
ferns. Various flabby pedestrians clumped out
to sundry running-grounds and took off their
clothes in the murky atmosphere, and lost their
way amid the fog trying to run handicaps, and
couldn’t find their clothes again owing to the
tihi'kne'-s of the atmosphere, and are probably
running handicaps to this day in the hope of keeping
themselves warm. Feeble attempts at rejoicing m
different quarters ware loit in the s.ush, the
screams of the loyal population were besrd dimly
through a heap of mud. Now and then a
military officer would rise up through the fqeaffiy
gloom kicking a moke with a wildly dish, v lied
tail to jerk him along, and then he and the
ewamped beast under him would vanish in.o the
darkness again with a stucd like a bu.l droppirg
into a tank, and would be seen and heard no more.
G ivernor Carington came out and fell with a sti ed
“ plunk ” into the uncong snial elements and after a
while he fished himself sorrowfullyoutof the
midst of the rejoicingsi and was carced home A
N S.W. politician, who Dime home drunk after
imbibing to the health of his beloved Q-wen, *«
locked out by his wife and t pent the night m the
woodshed along with the fowls. Altogether Vic-
toria’s birthday hasn’t filled the bill as people
expected. m •
Nob very long ago the son tf a former
g vernorof a certain British colony, sat down to
ully unlimited 100 in a fashionable N Z dub, and
SI a few hours later minus which was re-
presented by cheques on a back in which he had
ni funds. His only asset was a a m vastedinh a
wife and to her he hied, telling her that if
she did not permit him to raise £I4OO on it he ha. 1
no recourse but suicide. The poor lady at once
gave the necessary consent to a deed f “ or g'
which was drawn up «i hout delay, and befcrs
bank’ng hours on the following day there were
sufficient funds in the bank to meet the cheques
and a hundred or so over. The loser
was profuse in his promises to his wife to
Reform and never touch a card again, as men are
wont to do under such circumstances. But the
verv next evening he called in at the club for a
bitters,’ and was drawn again into the fascinating
game and before midnight he was a couple of
thousands to the good. He redeemed his property
and he has never since been tempted to the 100
table. m m
The Princess, the new fashion paper pn 7*
eV^A^u^an^i^^lre^d^sur^Tn^a^egrad^d
nounSr i^ 1U S m House
jsfssr j&wss ss p
lion and the old mule with the spike m its skull
which constitute the trade-mark of the g lorl ous
(moire Following umgn a comes a long
list'of the Browns and Fergusons who
nrivileged to clutch the fin of the Deputy
Anointed, and sundry interesting particulars
aiMnit how his Excellency intends to rUJ k to b
leg-show and perform other public functions of
* i PBB wt ight and importance. Ihe rest of
the paper is now mostly notes about the o othes
worn 1 by 1 the retired publican’s “missis” and
recipes for compounding the clammy tea cake and
rhoanwhotaom. bun, .»d
like a la’.e proves on do e inspect! m to bo an
ad vert i sement concerning unbreak able slates.
.
A funny incident occurred at Broken IHU
a ffw weeks ago during the Home Rule.delegates
vieit. fc'ir Tflomas E ipinda was addressing
big crowd in the local Theatre Royal, end during
his speech he remarked : “ What would the free
people of N.S.W. think if sn editor were impri-
soned for publishing his honest ’
Then the audience, bearing in mind that Editor
Hammond was still pacing his 10 fe< t one way
and 10 feet the other in the township Fg. yelled
lustily, and one man called out : Weve
one cove in now.” E nnnde’s intended pathetic
climax was a dismal failure and fell as flat as a
dead pup frcm a balcony.
* • *
Even the Argus can publish something
humorous in the “In Memoriam” way, as for
instance—
“ Angels to their starry home
\ Called the gem we could not keep,
There the waits until we c'm°i,
Our darling Blanche bas gone to ileep.
The notion of Blanche “sitting up” for her
parents until she dozed off (in an angelic arm-
chair or upon a celestial sofa) is quite poetically
droll. She has tucked her tired head under h» r
wins? no doubt, and there she lies (or sits) dream-
ing of her pa and ma. The old theory that angels
are in a perpetual state of flying around, with
harps o! gold in their hands, Is exploded by this
funny poem. They can sno:ze 1 ke anybody else.
• • •
Au English juige states that a “gentle-
man ” is anybody who never does any work and
yet is outside the poorhcuse. In Australia a gen-
tleman is anybody who lives by borrowing money
aud elopes occasionally with another fellow s wife.
• * •
A squatter lately took a furnished house at
Manly Beach. Afoer a little while his wife and
family were stricken down with scarlet-, ever.
The squatter now discovers that there was fever
In the house last year, and he has issued a writ for
damages against the landlord. The tenant avers
that he would not have taken the place had he not
been positively assured that nothing was known
by those who let it to him of a nature calculated
j
Voun£ C£c£fa.d(tyo
"ifavs billUirSi o-,r^xK))
'titllWacCfooS
I tfy'oK; iff 'We.
a
ir rdfl T-
to make the residence an undesirable one. The
case promises to be a most interesting one, and is,
it is said, intended to serve as a lesson to land-
lords in general and as a text for legislate n r nJ;he
subject —should existing laws prove insufficient to
cope with such alleged wrongs.
* • *
Probably one of the saddest men on earth
is the Emperor of all the Chows. Nobody is
allowed to speak to him except on all-fourajno-
body can go out with him and paint the town red,
he is too awful in his majesty for anybody to play
cards with him or shake him to see who pays for
the drinks: he can’t mash a strange girl, for by
doing so he would bust up all the traddlona of hia
100,000 buried ancestors; and b O . IB alv vays s “
rounded by individuals wallowing in the dust and
knocking their heads against the floor in hw
honour. Two hundred books o! et q lette, all of
which he has learned by hearti in his youth, keep
him iq iare, and tell him what he bas todo in
eveiy possible emergency, and he is supplied with
Chinese information about bow be is to speak and
think and sleep and eat and glare in stony ab-
straction, and he has even ta die accordng to
fixed rulei. But all the two hundred books of
etiquette are unable to tell him how to go out and
have a high old time in a public-he use at the other
end of the town, and come back in she small hours
of the next day on a shutter borne by two man-
darins, singing Inoolyrently in Chinese that
he won’t go home till morning, and with ms
crown and sceptre conveyed behind him m
a wheelbarrow. He doesn’t know how toelcpe
with a viceroy’s wife, or get involved in a divorce-
es or go abcut in disguise and fight six rounds
wish a policeman, and he never had a lark in a 1
his life for he mvor even learned what the thing
means. He is the saddest, solemnest, dreariest
potentate who ever felt like an unbound volume of
sermons—a petrified Dead Sea of a monarch who
never had any fun—a poor, flattened out emperor
trailing wearily through a dryasdnst existence and
breaking up under the ten-thousand-ton weight of
his own hearse-like magnificence, and the world
would feel sorry for him if it only knew how
miserably bad he feels. He is too great to smite,
too lofty and important to cuss, too magnificent to
be anything but a wilted imperial rooster suffoca-
ting inside a crown, ini in a general sort of way
may Heaven have mercy on his soul.
• 4 *
When the Executive Commit slone? at
Melbourne Exhibition for one c£ the colonies was
relinquishing his cfficial connection with that
immortal show he approached the superintendent
of his cilony’s court and asked Me. Bhnk it he
thought-er—if bethought he-er—that is—er—
could he manage that on the day of his (the
commissioner's) departure the men connected wnh
the court, could be—or—induced to give him—
well, in fact, to give him three parting cheers, it
it cou’d be nicely and enthusiastically done he
would appreciate the compliment highly, and any-
thing he could do in return for dear Mr. Blank, &c.,
and so forth. The superintendent had h arm and m
Victoria that to get people to grovel to you it is
necessary for you to grovel to someone else, bo he
out his tongue in his chetk and promised that the
flattering compliment should be paid to the
departing commissioner. Ha rounded up the
decayed nobleman who dusted the show
the reduced aristocracy who ordered the visitors
to “keep their bloomin’ ’andseff them thera hex-
hibits,” and when the Commissioner passed
through the court, wearing a charmingly uncon-
scious air of great dignity, tha cheers were given
with a lustiness quite equal to the occasion, i aen
the Commissioner told the clerk to be sure and r ea
that the press representatives telegraphed the
touching incident to the leading jernils of hia
own colony, and so he passed away surrounded by
the halo of that variety of greatness that is tnrust
upon one by one’s self.
t • •
A very recherche Potta P pint cli c e are j ist
now caballing for the gore of a Victorian girl
visitor. While calling on one of the high
priestesses of the recherche circle aforesaid this
young personage carelessly lef 3 her visiting-lut.
la contained the names of 70 0r,8.) smart people,
but after each name was aa explanatory free-and-
easy note. For instance ; “ Grandmother came
out 7 in first fleet ” “ Always pesters you about his
uncle, the artist.” “ Braga incessantly abmt his
tiger shooting in India. Horridly v_ £ •
‘‘Seems a little mad.” “ Perfumes herself with
horrid essences and smells as strong ash« hus-
band's skin-warehouse. Vulgar. th
pretty, but pads with a
fringe.” “ A good-hearted vulganam 6
asked me if John was goicg to the lecvie I &o , &o.
• *
If an old maid has got a parrot that swe-rs
and a monkey that chews tobacco she doesn n feel
the want of a husband so very much, after all.
• * •
la the year 18 tO there were no less than
150 pakeha Maoris living with the N Z natives,
each tribe having one or more attach*d to it.
They were treated as chiefs and had a number of
slaves allotted them, in return for which they
were expected to do all the her term* and tradmg
in pigs, blankets, guns, ammunition, 3. borne
of these pakeha Maoris and the ir descendants
Sow wear fine raiment belorg to he upfercrust
of society, and would be contaminated by the
touch of a Maori. If you don t believe this, just
ask some of the “old identities in Auckland.
• * •
Here la anew marriage service, Invented
in America :
Minister :“ Do you wish to marry this woman ? Man:
■'l do ” Minister; "Do you wish to marry this man I
Wo nan: “Ido.” Minister: “Do you like the city as a
Minister‘ “Do you like the suburbs? Wcman. jno,
indeed • I prefer the c ly.” Minister; “ Are you a vege-
tarian in diet r- Man : “ No. 1 hate vegetables. Htn> oi
beef." Minister: “Arc 30a fond of , bee * . 'h o .™,
• I oan’t bear meat. lam a vegetarian Minister. ( Do
you like sleeping in a room well ventilated; “«>• *«;
I want the window down summer and winter. M 'l .
•• 1 )0 vou like muoh air ?" Woman : N’. 't wou dkl
me. I want all the windows closed Minister. Doyou
like a Ikht in ths room 'j ’ Man :“No ; can t sleep with a
light; want the dark." Minister: “ Are you afraid
in the dark?” Woman : ‘ Indeed I am. 1 have always
had a bright iiarhh in my room.” Minister:
many bedclothes ?' Man : “ All I can pile on. Minister
‘•Do you V Woman: “ No; they suffocate me.
ter: “I hereby pronounce you man and wife, and may
the Lord have mercy on 3 oar souls.” #
Goverror Lodi, a a was predicted Jn
Tee Bulletin at the time of his going home on
alleged private business, will not return in
August, That vice regal personage has postponed
li* apocryphal intention to be back until January,
when he will duly sail for bis little Kingdom of
Victoria “ unh ss specially directed otherwise oy
the Imperial authorities.” The goings and
comings of Loch don’t make twopennorth of differ,
eace to anybody, because tbs suns old sa.ary has
to be “anted-up” and one Governor is just like
another, exct pt perhaps about the feet. But as it
s- mi tolerably certain that the dis.ngenuous
cfficial is merely dodging around his Gracious
Queen in the confident expec at oa of being
“specially direc'ei otherwise,” why the dickens
is the fact that he has gone for eyah dribbled out
a little bit at a time in this ridiculous fashion I
Pshnw ! Tis a Tory device for making Governors
seem to be objects cf public iutereit.
ft i
We read that an endeavour is being made
to introduce scarlet coats for evening wear. This
ii novation should find favour in political circles,
as tending to tone down the glow of the nose,
♦ * *
A Ridramd (Vh.) saddler Inserts an la
Memoriam to his mother-in-law in a recent Age.
The following verse occurs in the falsetto wail :—
“ Rest, dear one. rest, your troubles o er
You roam the bright etfrnsl shore,
And play the harp where thousands sing
And high Jehovah’s pra'ses ring.”
That does not seem to suit the spirit of the times.
Try this : —
An article lira recent
Age is headed “How
We men Walk.” Our
experience is that they
tralk with the picus man
from Adelaide.
* • *
A promising breach-
of-prcmisc case has been
stepped at Melbourne by
defendant agreeing to
imarry plaintiff. The lady
f will doubtless be awarded
| damages in due time.
Some hoary nigger
feesil connected with a
mission church in the
New He b. ides recently
sen* Her Majesty a pound
of arrowroot, as a mark
of loyalty and grovel atd
admiraticn, and Kcuts-
ford wss graciously ccm-
manded to graciously
command his secretary
to command the junior
clerk to tell the office -
boy to write informing
the nigger that the stuff
had come to band And
now there is an undressed
black deacon in the coral
islands who has visions
of his gracious queen
fitting up at night to
eat his little testimonial,
whereas that sovereign
lady gave it to h r
secretary, who bended
it to the hall pcrter, vho
sent it down to the ser-
vants’ ball, and at last it
was looked at and re-
jected by the polio man
who loafs in cookey’s
pleasant bowers, tnd
ended its unhappy exist
ence by being fished cut
of the ash-beap by John
Brown’s dog, which John
Brown left behind lien
when he died and be
came an ethereal flunkey
in the realms of bliss.
The lata Duka of Cambridge—Field-
Marshal Gamp’s father— according to a re-
suscitated yarn of long ago, was such a dcosid
agreeable old gentleman that when the parson
arrived at “L-tuspray” the Dock used to say
“Certainly; with great pleasure.” That yarn is
true, more likdy than not, for politeness at Church
and other places of amusement was, and still is,
customary among members of the old school.
Once upon a time the present writer sat next to
two very antique noblemen in the stabs at London
Alhambra. The usual gorgeous ballet was being
transacted upon the stage, and the premiere
clan sense was a lady of Urge and exquisite pro-
portions. She did Utile enough dancing beyond
throwing up one leg, but it was a poem of a leg
and she threw it. oh! so high. And as she ad-
vanced nearer and nearer to the footlighls, doing
her level best to Veit the record, thoee two aged
nobles leaned back contentedly in their stalls and
sighed “Thanks, thanks very much. Wethink*
we hear ’em now.
* * *
The recaption breakfast to Smtley,
Menzles' Hotel, Melbourne, provided a good,
all-round display of vulgar stupidity in oratory*
Baronet Claike—who had as much business at the
dead one, rest Tour awful jaw,
Or, if you roam tie th'my shore_
Aul hold a lyre beaeath your wmg,
L h ! harp not on that same old string.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT AND DIS-
COUNT BANK,
Beaumont Chambers, 90 King Street.
Agencies In London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
kk® ÜBua l Banking Business transacted.
The following are the rates of Interest allowed
for FIXED DEPOSITS
3 years 91 per cent.
12 months per cent.
0 months 7i per cent.
3 months 5| per cent.
n fethe P ao t three years a Bonus of ONE PER
vJJtiNr. has been paid in addition to the above
1 from
Promptly attended to.
the country will be
T. S. RICHARDSON, General Manages.
A N.Z. paper report the case of a hoy
who was “partially run cv>r” by a train. The
other part of him was probably out stoning a cat
or else it would have befn run ever too. ’
Domestic (who has been citechhing pro-
spective mistress): “Well, Mrs. Sharply, you
heve rather a bad name among the gurls in the
town, but Oi think Oi’ll give you a try.”—Ex-
change,
Write for Plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited 96 Bathurst street, Sydney.
Dry Impbeiax, Champagnb.— Messrs. Moet and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
duoera m the world. Their “DRY IMPERIAL” 1884
vintage Is the pure Juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards ot 2600 acres In the choicest districts In France.
The Imperial Crown is in each corner of label, and 1881
branded on cork and label.
HWKtaT BOKOHIA the New Perfume. Mann*
faotured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistipuia." Sold everywhere. Price, 3s. 6d.,
55,, and 10a, Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORB. 138 Bonrke st.. Kas!
MELBOURNE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDTSR Tmq nr aa Q ™ J *
PKBM I UMS PAID being RETURNED cm an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event Vrovidet for THE WHOLE OF THE
TO TONTINE SURPLUS m %SSm Id all the OOtOVIW and Iv °he U«t«d kSodoii! * ' ' Pt ™' ” in tht Evtnt of Survival, FULL PARTICIPATION
head of the table ss the Man in the Moon—rose
up to observe that he was sorry the colony
wouldn’t stand higher rates for concert seats, and
then hoped that he might have the pleasure of
hearing Mr. Santley speak, as well as sing, “at
banquets.” Sing at banquets ! Great Scott I
Secondly, a parson explained that their dearly
belowed brother always attended church, or some-
thing to the same iff act. Next, a police court
attorney, long James M Kean, regretted they
hadn’t as much money as the noble Baronet in the
chair, and couldn’t pay more money to hear
S intley, but promised h’m they would come in
very large numbers, so that he would get plenty
of money after all. Under all these circumstances,
Santlsy’s talk about the race of great singers being
extinct (bar himself and one or two others) was
excusable, for the warbler doubtless endeavoured
to spout down to ihs level of the well-meanirg
snobs who were feediog at his business manager’s
invitation.
• * o
A publican sent his HU for £2 18s to
Gympie Borough Council lately on account of
dining and refreshing four aldermen who had
been told off for a special duty. The bill was re-
turned with a request that items should be given,
and on its reapoearirg it was found to read, “4
dinners, 6i, : 104 drinks at 61., £2 12a ; total,
£2 18i.”
* * *
An advertisement In the Melbourne
Argus calls upon the loser of “ a red and white
calf ”to apply at the offi 39 of that paper. And
now people want to know why a red and white
calf fhould be at that office, and whether it is in
the editorial department.
Some “ giant trees ”
of Victoria have at last
been aoourately mea-
sured, and discovered to
be about 50 yards under
their traditional height,
Practical searching for
legendary patriarchs of
the forest has resulted in
nothing more startling
than a record of 322 t.
and 55 ft. girth for a tree
standing in the township
of Ntentn. Which re-
minds us that the armour
preserved in the Tower
of London is evidence
that the gigantic mediae-
val warriors averaged
about five feat three in
stature and had no chests
worth mentioning.
• • •
A man was fined
beating h!s dumb wife
at Fitzroy (Vic.), tbe
other day. Some fellows
are never satisfied.
• a •
A Melbourne paper
thinks the information
that an ordained Angli-
can e’ergyman was work-
i ig as a harvest hand at
last season
worth ditsemlnatiug. He
was engaged “ binding,”
we presume.
• • *
The Melbourne
Heryld, the other day,
described a widow —wit-
ness in a police court—
as “assertive and self-
suffici mt.” Get out,
Hbhald, a widow is
n ! ver self-sufficient. She
is always looking out for
additions.
« • •
Excerpt from Mel-
bourne Herald : “A
man named Keogh was
killed by falling from a
scaffold yesterday at Sid-
ney.” Melbourne people
are asking : “ Which
woman is it this time ? ’’
9 • •
“ Why do yon keep
the *dog ? ” inquired the
Bench of a defendant in
a recent dog-bite case at
Melbourne. “Well, you
s 'a,” replied the old man,
“I have daughters.” They stopped him there
—that was enough.
• * *
A correspondent whose opinion on things
artistic is worth a good deal writes from Mel-
bourne :
I visited the Artists’ Winter Exhibition here. There
are three or four jroed pictures in the collection. The
beet is undoubtedly G. R. Ashton’s “ Toil aid Trouble.”
It tells a story. It h a fine, realistic, bold piece of work.
“rf presents the interior of a foundry. Tne beams and
rafters are bidden by steam, dust, and smoke. A dim,
ruddy glow suffuses the atmosphere, and light glints and
gleams on sweating faces and bare, sine® y arms. A man
stands in the dim background raking a forge-fire. In the
middle-distance a group of brawny workers surround an
enormous steam-hammer, and turn a glowing mass of
>roa bereath its ponderous strokes. Kvprywhire heat,
action, red fog, smoke, steam, strenuous iff.rt, and fierce
energy. This is the “ environment.” Right in the fore-
ground a tall, muscular man stands erect—no, not ereot—
there is a stoop in his shoulders, one hand is raised
wearily to his forehead, tte other rests listlessly on the
heft ol his hammer handle—the hammer, a sledge, stands
on the ground with exhaustion written all over it. This
man gives the picture its meaning—“ Toll and Trouble."
His is a good face, strong, powerful, but dejected. He
has jusl_ drawn away from the steam-hammer and the
glowing iron, and his jlaoe has been taken by another.
He looks thoroughly "kcooked up.” He is having a
“ spell,” tut he doesn’t enjoy it. “ Trouble ” is stamped
Eli over him. Somelhing is wrong “at heme.” Ha
50). a week, and perhaps there is a doctor, a sick wife, or
what-not, and he is spending £5 a week. It is the
struggle for existence in a parable, and it is done boldly,
realistically, with floe sentiment and strong feeling. It
is the finest picture I have ever seen painted by an Aus-
tralian artist. There is poetry and meaning in it. Excuse
this long digression, t ut I am an enthusiast in this parti-
cular, and I am so pleased to be able to praise any v. orr
by an Australian artist.
• •
If the tombstone of the lately-deceased
Lord Malmesbury (news of whose death was
cabled last week) should chance to adhere a little
closer to the truth than that class of post-mortem
slab gererally does a hitherto ignorant world will
learn for the first time that the defunct peer was
only an ordinary person named Harris, after all.
The lost and gone Harris wasn’t much of a sue teas
as a politician, but he wore tighter pants than any
other man In England, and could fix his hat
further over his ear without it falling off than any
member of the Upper House hitherto known. He
also wore a bright-blue tie and a horse-head pin,
and he had a weakness for brilliant vests with
large spots on them. Away back in the old days,
when Malmesbury was keeper of the Privy Seal in
the Tory Cabinet, these pants and vests once
brought the eminent statesman to woeful grief.
He Had trotted round at an early hour to Lord
A TOUCH OF NATURE.
[DOWN IN FIJI THE NATIVE POLICE TOGS CONSIST OF A CALICO LOIN-CLOTH ONLY.]
FIJI POLICEMAN (continuing his evidence against prisoner): “An’ whin I wint for to arrist him, yer honor,
he made a desperate resistance and TORE ME UNIFORM."
Salisbury’s mansion in St. James’ Square, and
entering the hall he fell against an Immense
flunkey—a whole Chimborazo of fat and calves—
who was spread out loosely in a chair and y&wi i ag
like tbe gates of Gehenna when they stand ajar
to let the draught under the big furnace. The
monument of grease and high feeding gazsd with
a lack-lustre eve at Malmesbury, and Malmesbury
g’zed back. Then the fl inkey sat up a little and
spoke in a hoarse tone of voice like tbe bark of an
unarreased dog by the side of the heaving sea.
“Young man/’ he said between two gapas that
nearly tore his face asunder, “ I s’pose you've come
arber the coachman’s place?’’ and Malmesbury,
too flabbergasted bo repudiate the insinuation,
faintly responded that perhaps he bad, more or
leap. “ ’ls ludship ain’t hup yet,” said the
bloated pyramid of flunkey help’esily, “ bub it
hain’t ’im you’ve got to see ; hit’s the stooard.
We ’ad a hawful racket in the suvvants’ ’all last
night and my ’ead’s as big as sev’mk ” “Isit ? 1
said Malmesbury, plaintively, feeling himself in
pieces to see if he was alive. “ Yes, we ’ad gin
an’ tiipe, an’ the Lord knows what, an’ the cook
did a step dance hon the table. You'll get on
grand with the cook hlf you come ’ere, an’ his lud
ship’s hall right, only the missis is puffeokly offal.
She’s a beast.” Malmesbury gasped faint’y and
fixed his hat further over his ear, and meanwhile
the flunkey did another tremendous yawn and
stood his hair up an end. “ Young man,” he
said presently, “ hif you’re a good sort you’ll just
take that ’ere jug and get it filled with’arf-and-
'arf at the pub. round the corner. Hi can’t gr
hout mystlf, an’ hi feels like a biled howl. ’Ere’s
a bob,” and with that he gently shoved Malmes-
bury down the front steps with a jug in his hand
and a look of petrifaction on his countenance.
And then, in St James’ Square, in the garish
light of day, there m’ght have been seen a
hereditary peer of the realm and member of Her
Majesty’s Privy Ocuncil, also a Cabinet Minister
and pillar of the State, jogging round the corner
for a quart of half-and-half. He got back alive
and shared the liquor with tbe gorged menial, and
accounted honourably for the change, and then
with a diimal grin on his countenance, he pre-
sented his card. Thera was a snort and a groan,
a chair that gave way suddenly under half-a-ton
of galvanised flankey, a view in perspective of a
gigantic stomach turning a somersault of awful
despair on to the floor, a wail accompanied by a
yelp, and an immense mass of calves and grovel-
ling plush was left in a partially insensible con-
dition in Salisbury’s ancestral halls.
COWEN'S CRUSHER.
Conductor Crwen has told"*au' Englsh
newspsper man that he found nt thing in Austr lia
but kangaroos, ’possums, and theeverJastiog gum-
tree, and that tbt ra was no available odour for an
Australian symphony.
When Ooweu came out with hla baton and band,
Toe sound of the fiddle was heaid in the land,
The horn and the harp, too, assisted to reuse’and
Enchant our dull ears, and —— we paid tim five
thousand;
Sonatas and symphonies sweetened our lives,
For we sat them all out with cur sweethearts atd
wives,
Our tone, e’en in anger, became more euphonious,
We grew, if less human, at least more harmonious,
Oh ! wonderful changes, t o many to tell,
Were wrought by great Cowen, his musical spell.
That vixm, our servant, would leave tte jam tart
To pound cut a passage from mighty Mozart;
The wife was at Wagner the whole afternoon,
The baby accompanying on the basocn;
Beethoven and Berlioz, Hayden and Handel
Were heroes of anecdote, fiction, and scandal;
Our home was the veriest nest of a hornet,
And yet we succumbed to a love for the cornet—
In short, not » juvenile, nob an adult
Remained unconverted to Cowen’a great cult.
When homewards his face the great man set again
We wept as we bade him good bye at the train ;
Our clothing was rent in the crowd shaking hands
(The pathos in which one, of course, understands) •
We sang ‘' Auld Lang Syne ” and we warbled a
glee
That rang in bis ears as he tested on the sea,
And thin we went back to a life of routine
That palled on us after the glory we’d seen.
But dear was the thought ’mid existing stsgca-
bion—
He’ll write us a sj mphony quite Australasian !
Alas, for the South, for the South’s disappointed
And grievously wronged by Apollo’s Anointed.
We re young, and great trials we’ve had to endure,
But worst is that told by the home interviewer—
That Cowen, on whom all our greatness depends,
Without whom our future to failure bub tends,
Found no inspiration in all that he saw,
Regarded our hnd as an overgrown flaw,
D< dared that a symphony couldn’t be done
Because cf available colour we’d none.
Great Soott! no available colour to trace
In story like ours, in the rise tf a race,
The birth cf a nation-a birth which, God knows,
Was cause bo the child of most terrible throes !
No colour in wilds of the prinueval years
Opposing the progress of stout pioneers ;
No colour in struggles for freedom and rights,
In dawning of D*y after blackest of Nights ;
No colour in triumph, in troubles o’ercome—
But only “the kangaroo, ’poisum, and gum !’’
So be it! we’ll nurse cur great sorrow in
was blind we must try to survive iU
T host, US fr ° m the tlme when we first P’ayed the
rw W< l m °!u Feb . ted abused ns the most,
m thus lavished, but dezzles the eyes
Oi men. who like Cowen, cannot sjmphonize
Oi d i?°r e r b v this prejudiced glance
Rn(ifi? Btr K la ’ u as mi3Bfd a right glorious chance •
Bub though such assertions as his are the rule ° ’
No available colour ’’ stamps Cowen a fool ’
H.C.
P n p( l9 )’ well edncat ed, experi-
en ed as clerk, awafis apjointment' Every-
th’ -J« cornea to those who wait, but that youmr
- gert ” will have to bustle a lit. 7 g
* • •
H re la a good storf, which has the advan-
ce 9 .of beiue .totally true The manager of a
oertam N S W pap=r recently a
nom deplume that he washed to buy up stock in
b)8 own journal. A nan who edits another pape?
m the sane city answered the advertisement
faying that he had a few shares to dispose of and
for Be,lippr them that “he
hp d B pP ln , - tbe ma . Ba^ 1 r ” Imagine the would-
be seller a feelings when he received a reply ac-
knowledging the crmp’iment, and at the same
t me intimating that it would be just as well if
long over-due arrears on said sbareswere paid nn
without further delay ! P d np
Vanities.
Mrs. Langtry s fe-cing costume, in whicn she garb s
hercelf for a daily bout with her professor, consists cf
b.ue serge knickerbockers, an accordion skirt falling ju*t
below the knees, and a s'lk Jersey skirt tucked Fnto a
crimson sash. Her stocking are blue and her pig-skia
shoes laced with crimson ribbons.
“Strayed, a strawberry cow. Reward, &c.” This is
Fr S“ b ™ fhecow <bat B ives th" s'rawberri s and cream.
Miss Maqmre. an Australian lady, is one of the lawn
teirn o, ampiors of Monte Carlo.
Matrimony has been rapresented as two ladders, one for
accent the other for descent. The rungs of ths first are :
Presentation, flirtat'on, admiration, approbation, hesita-
tion. declaration, agitation, aec ptaticn, and c'mumma-
ton. The descending gamut is: Rumination, alteration,
disputation, deeperaticn, detestation, stpare-
The follow ing is sa’d to be illustrative of the ways of
the so-enrn British society swell, end t v e mamma-riddm
maiden of modern England Leri Adolphus Fifzcrib-
bage sees Ledy Dorr thy. 'Aw. How do ? ‘ Jolly ball
isn’t it ?' Awful’y jolly.' « Hanoi this V A look at the
maternal duchess within touch meets with approval.
Yes, th a a nk’.’ A pause for a minute's sfasrgerirjr
about under the delusion t> at they are dancing. O om'n»
violently into colieonwitha nan whose rp'urned eyes
lest contentedly on the ceiling as be saiis round with his
and his ear ner’s arms sticking f lit like a jib-Niom, they
Ftop. 1 Too awful y crowded 1 o ebnee.* * Yet ft is *
‘ Hul ‘ y° u mucb * No, th a-a-nbs.’ An anxmrs ghnoe
over her shoulder at mamma, who’s nov boh* d“zen
yards a-vty. The duchess is smi ing graciously upon the
young E-rl of Tantivy, who is approaching aco'her
daughter, eo the does not see. 'Try again?’ ‘Yes
th-a anks.’ Another half mirute’s B‘aggericg, brouglt
ruthlees'y to a or nelusion by an inextricable serin mage
into which they and a dez n other couples have got and
ti:d themselves up in * Awfully tiresome.’ ‘Awfully’
• Wish people would learn to dance, don t yon ? • Yes'’
1 Going on to the Dough sads ? 'No. You?' ‘ Think I
shall.’ ‘Oh, do you?’ ‘Yes. Tey asrain ?’ < Yes
th-a-arks.’ The band steps suddenly. • How awfully
tiresome!’ ‘lsn't it?’ ‘Yes.’ ‘I wonder where mamma
The latest name for frocks made or e-balf cf onscoloured
raiteiid ard one of another is “ divorce robes,” because
they agree to differ. They ara cut nisi prim and lavishly
trimmed with revers of co-respondent, and are much worn
by the very best society.
In a recent English breach of prenrse case, the defend-
uni urged that the courtehiphad been merely a “walking-
out ” affair—he had merely trotted out innocent maiden-
hcod to see if she would “ dowalking out” being
very agreeable and not at all binding. This reminds me of
the wide difference between breach of promise and
divorce oases. Who ever heard of a divorce case where
the culprits walked a yard when there was a cab within
ccoee 1
From the S.M. Hbkald :
XyAKTED, a competent Tin-cbaser. Apply be-
T T * n the hollrB 0< 12 and 2to day, tiosre of
J. Lee Osborn.
Why, that's what we a’l are, isn’t it ?
A new notepapsr—" Ladies’ Club”—is anno meed to be
“ speolal'y made for ladies, and peculiarly adapted to
t’nir stils of handwriting” which is quite unneoesrary.
The modern girl imitates her brother’s fist to forgery-
point and dorsh't lequire any distinctive stationery.
Sie unburdens her foul eq-a’l/ joyously on a piece of
s igar-bsg or “ suprfloe rep,” and sends Romeo rotes in
a dashing s-rawl ibat would have given a 17th century
suiter the “jumps.” Ko. *e don't want our own note-
paper. Whi’st “brother” keeps his desk utlcoked we
om manage as it is.


Her MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager, Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10.45.
This and Every Evening, at half-past 7.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD as the
ROMANY EYE. ROMANY RYE.
PRICES—Ss., Ss., fs., and Is.
Box plan open dally at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
Box P»«^/maodoNALD, Acting Manager
THEATRE'
C T p«>p?ieto? vv John SolomoQ *
iiupiioru* •••
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUOIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
FRANK THORNTON’S SEASON.
Brilliant Success of
THE GREAT DOUBLE BILL.
TO-NIGHT,
MAMMA.! MAMM A ! MAMMA !
Mr FRANK THORNTON as
JACK FONTIFEX.
Prfceded by (a 4 ! 8 o’clock)
my MILLINER’S BILL.
ADMISSION- £2 U to Js.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIL
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Masgrove.
Lessee; Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman
Immerse S access of
BLIND HOLTS COMPANY
the RU L I n”g passion.
In Rehearsal, THE UNION JACK
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
“VT EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager. Mr John Solomon.
Musical Director Hmri Kowa sk
Manager for Mens K wa’sti ..Mr. Pol Smart.
Every Evening Mr. John PoLmon s
ENGLISH and COMIC * PE HA COMPANY,
Under the MnMcal Direction of
MONS HENRI KOWALEKI,
This (THURSO *Y) Evening at 8 o’clock
TH« BOHEMIAN GIRL
Admission-5s 3<,2e, and Is Box Plan
at Nicholsons,
General Manager, JOE DAVIS.
CoY y C c L l o°R r A a M m A a !
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama.
Battle of Gettysburg Cyclorama.
( Opposite the Railway Station).
Ophn Daily Prom 10 a m. to 10 p-m.
Sdndai s, 3 to 10 p m.
Admission. 2-. : Children, Is. Schools of 25 and
upwards admitted at a reduction of 25 per cent.
1 Every detail is true to the life
—A Gettysburg Veteran.
O'Y y C c L l o°R k A a M m A a !
B
ONDI AQUARIUM.
Australia, me »uiuu»
WAY. conveying passengers from Cun to UUn
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rlnb
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
la., Children. 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d.
ACK THOMPSON,
Member of Tattersall’s (Sydney), and Victorian
Club (Melbourne),
D’sires to warn the public of Austral a that he
has no connection with any advertised or other
consultation promoted by a person unng the name
of fI J. Thompson.” Previous warnings have
baen given but the swindle is still being earned on
successfully.
Books open on forthcoming events. Country
communications dealt with promptly.
jj Jack Thompson’s only addbksses are
220 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
TATTERS ALL’S CLUB, SYDNEY.
[Mention this paper ]
JUST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay
By Abthub Gayll.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
BY
"The Bulletin’s" weU-known Artists,
L. Hopkins nod Phil. Hay.
Price ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland.)
BOLE AGENT FOB QUEENSLAND!
J, H. THOMPSON, Bookseller,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Doyle’s New Hall, Junee, the best on the
SCSSta&ft a Wuthe d rn fi te£wSd
fCTS bS 0 L™
Moderate.
Skating Rink]
klinghrsl
[Skating Rink
AG1NTON - - Manager.
Just completed, and covering the whole
of that immense block of land fronting Forbes,
Burton, Liverpool and Thompson Streets, Darling-
hurst, near the corner of Oxford-street and
Darlinghurst Stopping Places for Trams.
Prof. Aginton, World's tkiispio# Trick Skater,
Will give Exhibitions of his Skill.
Skating Kink! iW" 350ft Long by 130ft Wide,
Will represent the Mikado’s Palace.
The Band of the 1st Regiment Volunteer Infantry
every Afternoon and Evening.
The Skate Floor specially imported from the U.S.,
and of best American Pine.
The Skate-rooms will be stocked with Winslow
Vineyard All-clamp, Raymond Extension and
Richardson Ball-bearing Skates.
A Large and' Efficient Staff of Conductors will
instruct Ladies S3T Fkee OP CHARGE.
« B i admitting holders on all occasions
reason ■ • CacwS) (including Carnivals), now ready.
Terms: Ladies’ Tickets, 30s; Gentlemen, 35s;
Floorage Tickets, 16s.
Admission Cue Shillings,
The Manager reserves the right to refuse admit-
tance to objectionable persons.
*TROcaderO*
KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
Most Complete and Elegant Skating Rink
in Australia,
Cool and Refreshing Atmosphere ! 'SI
ts- The Open Roof a Boon to Skaters!
Grand Orchestra. Gorgeous Appointments.
ELECTRIC LIGHT.
♦ Skates Unequalled in the City 1 *
tw TRAM CARS STOP AT DOOR.
Future Novelties! Future Novelties!
Open Dally. Usual Rink Prices.
GEORGE OUGHTON ... Gknkbal Manager,
METROPOLITAN SEAT1M R1H,
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
KW Nearest Rink to Redfern Raihoay Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony.
GRAND OPEX-AIK PROMENADE!
10 to 12 a.m.:
Ladles’ & Children only
Admission, FREE.
Skates, 6d.
2.30 to 5 p.m.: Ladies'!
„ Gentlemen/
Admission, 6d.; Skates, 6d.
,, Is.; M 6d.
7.30 to 10 p.m. : Admission to all, Is.; Skates, 6d.
Double Ticket of Admission, Is 6d.
Weekly Tickets—Sin cjle, 3s.; Double, 4s. Gd.
tw t'LOOHAEE EltEE.
Pyrmont and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
D, W. HIGGINS, Manager.
c
RYSTAL PALACE SKATING
ACADEMY COMPANY, Limited,
Yobk-btbeet.
THE MOST POPULAR SKATING RESORT
IN AUSTRALIA.
Beautifully Decorated to imitate the Ice 1 alaoe,
Montreal, Canada.
THE ICE PALACE OF AUSTRALIA.
GREAT ATTRACTIONS.
New and Beautiful Patent Composition Skating
Surface, no dust, noiseless, cool, equal to any
kating surface In the world, and second to none.
This Palace is lighted by thousands of many-
coloured Incandescent Electric Lights provided by
well-known firm, G. K. Kirkland and Co., 65
York-street, Sydney.
GREAT IMPROVEMENTS
Newly Fitted Throughout.
First-class Staff of Competent Instructors.
Good Music by Full Band
Superintended by Mr. George Vassle.
Grand Exhibition In Skating by the Best Talent
In the World.
A. F. SMITH, Manager.
E
LITE SKATING RINK.
The Rink has the reputation of being the
BEST-CONDUCTED RINK
in the Australian colonies.
Here you are sure to meet the Elite of Sydney
and Suburbs.
Admission, One Shilling.
Roller-bearing Skates, One f
Skates, Sixpence. Season dml^ io “ J iC be
Gentlemen, 45s. ; Ladles, 40s. Season Skate
Checks for all Skates purchased off us. Gentlemen,
15- . Ladies, 10s. Winslow Vineyard Lever
Clamp Skates, the best in the world, Season Skate
Ticket included, Gentlemen, 35s. ; Ladies, 30s.
Roller-bearing, 15s. extra ; Ball-bearings, £1
extra Skates, retail, at 20s. per pair ; wholesale,
17s 6d Elite Rink ’Bus leaves Railway Station
every five minutes for the rink; patrons carried
free. Redfern and Waterloo Trams stop at Bed
ford-street, opposite the Rink.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
Mi's Min; Fowlers,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRMCT OF SOMP,
Vinegar, Blacking,
ft«.» fta..
Biham Wobkb asd Bbhvthbts
BAS&IS STREET, ULTIMO, STDSEI
(opposite Goldsbrongh’s Wool Stores).
* Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent Consultations.
“ All the Yfab Bound.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
On these events Adam Bede will devote a
portion of his commission to Charities, com-
mensurate with his success.
NOW OPEN,
Coronailcn Handicap!
Run at Canterbury Pai k, Sydney,
June 29, 1889.
2,000 Subscribers at £1 Eacb 2)000
£BOO
300
200
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters, £3OO ; Non-starters, £100; to be
divided amongst them.
July Handicap,
Run at Rosehill, July 20, 1889.
1000 Subscribes at £1 Each.
First Horse ™
Second Horse *^oo
Third Horse „ 0 ™ 400 4.
Starters, £OOO ; Non-starters, £800; to
be divided amongst them.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Bbdk until after the races have been run.
Subscribers must register their letters to
ensure safe delivery, and must enclose stamps
and envelopes for reply and result, and add
la. exchange to cheques.
Addr6BB “ADAM BEDK,”
Care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
H
RIVER, SUMMER
AWKESBURY
SEASON.
BANITORIUM HOTEL.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and visitors, and having
seen built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
S Is well worthy the patronage of visitors to
the Hawkesbury River.
Hot and cold water, also salt water baths for
visitors- gas through the house (a novelty);
rapertl; ftwtiUhed; boating and fchtaKl
quarters of a mile fr»m the Brooklyn station,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains lor the con-
venience of visitors, and convey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give them an
opportunity of viewing this magnificent bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See yon go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &0.
For the convenience of patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on the shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resl
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY. Proprietor.
i
SQUAU & CDUTA88 CLUB.
5s. CONSULTATIONS. 5s.
An unlimited number of members
at 5s. each.
FIRST HORSE 50 per cent.
SECOND HORSE 30 per oenli.
THIRD HORSE 20 per cent.
■:+ : + t
m n The Squarf. and Compass Club closes all Con-
sultations at the hours advertised, posts and distributes
results half-an-hour before each race thus showing the
' l 0 f the affair. The rooms where the telegrams
ar”posted can be*visited by subscribers only The full
results of every event are always advertised in the
Slhday Timbs and Bkfbref, following the races.
Motto : “ Fair and Square,"
tr Look at the Dividends we have raid on the
Donoartkb Handicap ;—Rnssley, £•'•> 3s. > ■ >
Plutarch, £7 2«. l)d.; Lady Kmgsboro , £l2 3 h lOd.
Consultations on Every Event.
Note the address of the Original—
Square —and —Compass—Club,
Ca k k of M. Palm-
-65« GEOIUiE STREET 656
COLONNADE.
K W T O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
j
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material
PIANOFORTES, by R. LTBP and SOHN,
CARL RONISGH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. Newton & Lamb.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
• sizes.
REDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fiftken shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand,
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable ea'-ly
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate glass door ; Washsiand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Kail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glasi attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chans, lb guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
j
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Veey Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
j
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed — light, strong, and
handy, 10s. (id.
p
s
INING TABLES, wi h patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 fect^
m’ERTOlir WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
oxB,gx 8, 9 x 8,10 x 8,12 xB, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cord, 6xB, Os. 6d. ; 8 x 8,
9s -9xB, 9s. 6d. : 10x8, 10s. od.; 12x8 12s. 6d.
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O'Connell Streets.
j
i MERICAN PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER.
135 feet of hanging apace
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
j
S'' ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
V crandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehouseman,
Spuing and O’Connell Streets.
f AWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
| J Cast iron Standards, 14a. (id. each. Newton
and Lamb. _____
GARDEN SEATS, 10s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-arm Lounges.
N EWTON & LAMB. ___
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
15s. ; and largo variety of Chairs, from 12s.
(id etc. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O'Connell Streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O Council
Street. _
B
EDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates,
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell Street.
S
BRING MATRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON AND LAMB,


Harbour View, RRossman’s Bay,
ON THE GROUND,
Saturday, Ist June, 1889,
£lO Deposit
Eatonville, North Willoughby,
ON THE GROUND*
Saturday, Bth June, 1889
£5 Deposit.
Clar!k:e dz. 2v£‘ln.t3rxe
-A-VLctlon. eerr.
1>
j
s
T
O
•A33»US
sdiniHcnvssma
'SXNM^
The well-known horse Sultan, recently
sold by Mr. A. Johnson, of Cbetwynd (Vio.), for
40 guineas, has been re-sold for 1000 guineas. This
beats mining slock by many leagues.
CAUTION.
LOOK OUT FOU mm
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule's
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Org ans, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations tinder the
name of “ Hop Bitters ” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “Hop
Bitters.”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Sonle’i American Hop Bitters are tit*
Purest and Rest Ritters ever made.
They are compounded from Hope, Kucha, Tlan>
draks, and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and moat
Valuable medicines in the world, and contain all ths
bset and most curatire properties of all other Bittera,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, Liver Regu*
Ifitor, arid Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bittera are used, so varied and perfect are their
operation*.
They give new life and rigor to the aged and in-
firm. To all whose employment* cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters art
Invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
A 500 (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other genuine. Tatke no other.
NOW OPEN.
335 George Street SYDNET
(N- arly opposite Post Office).
The most elegantly-appointed Tobacconist's Shop
in the City,
The Best Brands of Cigars and Tobacco
Always on Hand.
Kooks Open on all Foi-llicoiulng Events.
Manager ... MORRIS DUSOHINTZ.
(Late of “ SPORTSMAN CLUB ” Cigar Divan,
Victoria Arcade, Castlereagh-streei)
NOW OPEN,
“ DOCTOR’S”
BSv Monster Consultion ss.
ON THE
ss. Birthday Cup.
CONSULTATION ON THE
k Si
Second Nursery, Steeple- A a I
chase, Selling Plate, Farewell / N M
Handicap, Carrington 75yds. i>Ml «Ul
And on all events at the
SYDNEY DRIVING PARK MB STING
TO BE HELD ON
WEDNESDAY NEXT.
Patronise “DOCTOR'S” PLiOB CONSUL-
TATIONS, as they will be conducted in the
fairest and most genuine way.
Results will be Posted half-an-hour before each
Race.
Country Customers kindly address letters to
“ Doctor,”
Cade of
MINING EXCHANGE CIGAR
SYDNEY.
NOTICE,—I beg to inform my numerous ouc-
tomers that I have sold the business In Oastlereagh-
street, Victoria Arcade, and that I will now give
all my attention and care to the new enterprise
and hope to give, through straightforward dealing’
civility, and politeness, satisfaction to all patron* ’
MORKIB BUBCHINTZ,
Manager,
MINING EXCHANGE CIGAR DIVAN,
335 George-street.
The Referee.
Mr. Jack Thompson, the well-known
Sydney Turf Commission agent, has requested us
to state that he has no connection with a sweep-
promoter who uses the name of “J. Thomp-
son.” Me. Jack Thompson’s only Sydney ad-
dresses are Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, and 220
Pitt-street, Sydney,
* ® *
Specimen of unwonted candour by the
Broken Hill (NS.W,) Athletic Club :
Broken Hill Athletic Club —Bookmakers’ and
Spielers’ Tickets are tuw ready for issue. Price, £1 Is.—
George C. Brown, Hon. Secretary.
• * *
Good old All Gold, the horse that made a
fight with Trident and Nelson for the Australian
Cup cf 1887, has been patched up sufficiently to
enable him bo win a handicap at Msternwick
(Melb.) the other Saturday. If All Gold is any-
thing like a ghost of his former self he should
annex another race or two, shortly.
» • •
Special attention is directed to Mr. Adam
Bede’s announcement in our advertising columns.
Adam informs us that he is preparing a startling
programme for the Melbourne Cup, for which
investors and the general public should be on the
look out.
• * •
The Y.R O committee have made the old
unpardonable slip in drawing up their Melbourne
Cap conditions by ordaining “the handicap weight
of the winner of the A. J.C or Y.R C. Derby of
1889 to be not less than 7st. Gibs,” Year after
year The Bulletin has pointed out that if a colt
and fiily, each handicapped below 7st. Gibs, for
the Melbourne Cup, run a dead-heat for either
Derby, the filly would have to meet her oo dead-
heater at a disadvantage of 51bs. in the big handi-
cap, seeing that the ladies have that amount of
allowance in the “blue riband ” events. Or if a
filly wins either Derby by a head, or neck, from a
colt already weighted at 7st. Gils for the Mel-
bourne Cup, she would still have the worst of it
in the two mile race. There can’t be a champion
of women’s rights in the Y.R.C, or this stupid
error would not crop up annually.
* • t
List Canterbury Park Rices presented
the usual features. The hungry eyed crowd
jostling and thirsting for “information;” the
blatant bookmakers roaring out “ Three to one on
the field,” when 20 horses went to the pest, and
offering to “ take six to four ” when ten started ;
the jockeys, stable boys, and hangers-on generally,
looking just the same lot of low, cunning,
sc mndrels that they generally look. These pro-
prietary race-meetings are just simply gambling
saloons on a large scale. The public patronise
them jast as the European public patronise Monte
Carlo, hoping to wia money ; but the bookmakers
lay such pitiful odds that the game is always a
losing one. No gambler would back himself to
pick out one card out of 20 at odds of two to one;
but the same man will complacently back himself
to pick the winning horse out of 20, getting odds
of two to one; of course he thinks he “knows
something,” and generally fiads ere long that he
is like the men who
“ Knew too much, and yet not quite enough,
And so we went to the wall.”
If owners were more frequently punished for
wilfully “ stiff ening ” their horses the bookmakers
could afford to lay a bit longer odds ; but nowa-
days they call hopelessly “Any price runners,”
knowing full well that most of the “ runners ”
i.e , outsiders—are stiff as the dead, and that the
public know it and will not back them. The
very horses get a hang-dog look abiut them, pro-
bably communicated in some way from the de-
lightful human creatures that look after them and
ride them. The first race fell to Artisan, a mag-
nificent colt bred on the Clarence River. The
Park Stakes was won easily by Fraud 11., but the
course is too narrow to let such a large field as
started in this race—viz., 20 horses —run anything
like a fair race. Euclid won the Sailing Race, the
well bveked Mormon finishing nowhere He is a
sour-looking brute and appeared to shirk it when
the whips were brought out. The main event,
the May Stakes, went tea very nice horse, Wil-
berforca, by Marvellous from Plum, and this
horse will very likely land another race or two
before long. The Welter resulted in a win for
Stamford, who beat Artisan after a game finish.
Then the crowd raced and drove and swayed and
cursed over the mile and a half from the course to
the station and went home to lay plans to make a
great “epout” on Queen’s Birthday.
Clifford, the crack N.Z. horseman, says
that the A. J.C. starter shows no mercy to anyone
unfortunate enough to hail from Maoriland,
• • •
Australians know some fanny little tarf
Wrinkles, but every now and then something hap-
pens which shows that Maoriland is a thousand
miles or so nearer America than is this land of the
Kangaroo. Quite recently the Auckland Racing
Club sought to compel the suburban clubs lacing
under its rules to increase the amount of added
money offered for competition at each meeting.
The largest of Ihe suburban clubs, however, has
met the d fficulty by adding a race to the pro-
gramme appropriately called “The Compulsory
stakes,” at the same time imposing conditions
that render bona fide entries f t the event im-
practical) e.
A sporting publican up Maitland way had
a re al red-hot dead bird for a recent big Sydney
pedestrian handicap in the shape of an aboriginal
who was handicapped on the limit, and had been
privately tried several times with a record of four
or five ysrds under even time. Tae darkey stood
cn the boniface’s books as a debtor to the extent
of £7O. A few weeks before the race a rival pub-
lican, also “ a gaffer,” got wind of the other fel-
low’s sprinter, inveigled him into his house one
night, filled him chock fall of rum, and by dint of
persuasion got him to throw over his first boss.
Next day he was off to Sydney to back his treasure
at long od Is, but Nemesis was on his track in the
form of the “missus” of Publican No. 1, whs,
reaching the city at the same time as he did, “gave
the gcoi thing away ” to the talent, and when he
sidled innocently in to 1 put down his dollars he
found that the *• best price ” was 4to 1 Taus
was a big coup knocked on the head, but there is
a darkey still a maiden who can scoop the first big
handicap he goes for.
♦ * *
Harry Speakman, late of the English
football team, is now captain of the Wallaroos at
Brisbane.
• •
The eternal Hanlan, en route to America,
was well treated in Auckland by the local cowing
men, who organised an aquatic carnival in his
honour, on 18th May. Ned liked the local whale-
boats bat thinks they should have sliding-seats,
* • •
The action of the N.Z. Government In
connection with the totalizator has met with
strong approval from the Metropolitan clubs, for
the magistrates have now power to prevent those
A STORM EFFECT.
' J
Last e>ufk
arfc/ (Las/fecTo/fn
ct senes U/
Pus srX-ercfiej V
aSouL % y/e&A
S7o//y rfn. / £/as
nt J/pS
, ///JppuA
*Serre. s o/ S&Sc/;^
a) fa \ v \ *
K fy
V&cpg $e /*/f
j6&/jfOS/0' fa Jffi/facAfa/'fa? /3#Affa>
faff/c <? /'A'/'fsr' %?e flrs'ft’s- £LSy/d
fa<t de/yfefa
2t«f £>/? //,e
porfyo/fc faj ,j a?/tyaf-jfk,
# yfi e - fa « 4/a #///>? jrtA/c
''Ay/ /Ate f /(j Aq6e.s /$ c(o
fryers f a/ S/f
r/ -—3 T r— .
j
abuses which have nearly run the betting machine
to death. Several obituaru s are already written
in connection with the mushroom clubs that infest
Maoriland.
• » •
The Auckland Racing Olnb Intend, as an
experiment, throwing their course open to tbe
public at their Winter Meeting ia June.
• • *
Pat Keogh and Barlow Madlgan, mem-
bers of the Maori Football Team, have earned
unenviable notoriety from their chums for the
way in which they threw the team over in the late
Manchester match. The split-up was caused
mainly thr. ugh Joe Scott refusing to lend them
money. While the match was in progress the two
rebels went amongst the spectators and gave “ the
boys ” away, bub the Maoris won nevertheless; in
fact, they never played a more brilliant series of
games than they did since the d fretion.
They have a aplendld brace of athletes la
Christchurch just now—Messrs. Reeves and Shaw.
At a Timaru meeting on Bbh May, Reeves wen
the 100yds. in 10 15th seo.; the Quarter-mile
Championship of N Z. in 52 sec., reducing the
standard by one second ; and the 250yds. Flat
in 27 sec., in the easiest manner. Shaw won the
120yds. Hurdles in the splendid time of 16 2 sth
seo , the record for the colony ; and ran third to
Reeves in the 100yds. Shaw is 23 years old, and
Reeves not yet 20 years of sge, standing 5 feet 11
inches in his socks; weight, 10A 81b.
Savanaka, ona of the gameat horaea that
ever faced a Hag, broke his neck the other day at
Barangarook estate, near Colac (Vic.) Savanaka
wes bred by Mr. George Lee, of Bathurst
(N.S W.), and was by Kingston—Sappho, In
1877 he was beaten by Chester for the Melbourne
Cup after a desperate struggle, but in '79 he won
the Sydney Cap, Chester being second, and he
also won the Australian Cup in the same year.
* * •
Place CoaanJtatlon-promotera ~ Regia try-
offic e-keep era.
• * *
Hanlan ia off to America to lock for a
man good enough to beat Searle. Just before he
left Auckland he remarked : “ Neither O'Cannor
nor Teemer is good enough for the Sydney boy,
and if I am lucky enough to find his better in
America 1 can pack this room full of sovereigns.”
• • *
The artist who presides over the gmn-
brush and scissors department of the Grey River
(N.Z ) Argus gave the following tit-bit of cable
news to his hungering readers the other day :
“An enthusiastic reception was accorded to
Drnovan, the pioneer.” The message, of course,
was the result of the Two Thousand Guines s
Enthusiast, Donovan, Pioneer- Which reminds
us of a Sydney journalist who filled a similar
message, “ Voracity, Tyrone, Lobster,” as fol-
loweth ; “ The hon member, in conclusion, stig-
matised Mr. Parnell as having the voracity of a
Tyrone lobster,” Next !
* * a
Mr. Henry Tollemache, M.P , now trot-
ting round Australia for the benefit of his liver,
is said to be the most accomplished horseman in
the House of Commons. A large number of
n ,ft ( T , L l Lnlt lfttor8 ’ howev9r > haven ’ b bunted for
Ih Oast century. #
A inti nf mnna t, u , ,
A lob of money has bean spent In ac-
quainiiag Australia with the fact that Mr.
Gossip ain’t win one game out of six at the New
York chess corroboree. Nobody ia interested in
such pultry items of gossip, and we would prefer to
swallows a drink
e.oh lime Black J.okeon


JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Lkttbbs Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
@ WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, i
may be as well ti let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT pure y
the product on of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and no else,
the principal of which is the EuCALAPPUS,
now so famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SOFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try fob Yourselveb.
Messrs. E, Row and Co. , .
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANa’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than W oeds.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:
0 Statutory Declarations.
“ Hewktt, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows
“ That 1 feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have besn tuffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so cahed liNDi-
GE 'TION or D V SPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW S
STEANE S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
"(Signed) G. HEWETT,
"216 Pitt-street.
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE
Is a safe and sure stimn’ant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by groats r depression
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take ROW’S STEANE’S wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persona. Younq Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TON 10 answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating q iality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and crea'e a drsire for food
instefd of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
S 9
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections. .
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. .
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will nnd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB,
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quanti'y of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Do,
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. You-s faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned
■■ I have for many been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, ind : gestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial (fleet, till at last, being
recon mended to try ROW S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
"lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excel ent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
" I remain, dear sirs,
" Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
" Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
0 Messrs. Bd. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW S YOU LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW S ASSORTED WINES.
_ —”“ (s
© Soli Peopbiktobb,
Edwtrd Row & Company,
O. «A, «T QBORQI ■TBEET.
VERY LIKELY.
“ Marina, who was that gfrl who sang so much 1
“ That !s little Miss Gaily. Her father played her accompaniments.
“ 13 he ‘ Gaily the Troubadour 1 ’ ’’—Life.
Foar ptylng proftsilons pawnbroker,
publican, politician, and policeman, and, tiitijiy,
dearly belcved brethren, parson.
Ott) Port Claret, Hook, Sherry, Roueillen, Madeira,
Muscat Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to’be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King-street.*
A Lovblt and Dblioatb Complbxion.— This Is oh-
talnedby using Rowlands’ Kaltdoe, an emo lie “ t and
harm less milk for the face, hands, and arms, it remove
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &0., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto. a MMtotooto;
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands
articles.
j
j
j
j
&
Of
.4
<y
g)
V
N/
0
&
0
&
&
S 8
o
9
o
V
£
a
r
4
,<r
<r
v>
&
<2>
.0
o
390 a GEORGE S T-
A strike occurred amongst the female P r *‘
scners at Sidney Gaol the other day.- A lock-out
would ha vo suited them better,
TATTBESALL’S
Monster Consultations
Are conducted on all the principal races through-
out the year.
See Evening News Brevities for full particulars,
or write to “ Tattersall,” care of Geo. Adams,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
DR. SPEER
42 MARGARET STREET, WYNYABD SQUARE
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr
Speer is a regular Graduated Physinan, educated at
Harvard College, U S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gaze te, January 21st. 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent remits. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their comp amts.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every ease he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO His reas.n for doing eo is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or.
in other wo.-ds, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly undeistocd that he does not claim
to perform Impossibi ities, or to have miraculous power,
he claims on y to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly inf/rmed in his epeoiality-CHROiNiC Atm
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can. by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
rot in any way interfere with their business. Exunina-
-10 to li a m. Only.
m
■
V"’
, M
. "I .1 : -«fr _j.F"
11
MIEJS
"■ ■""*' ; fEj
“■£
wm.
ElkotAU) PWtn'wiß. CO-. 8 'BBIDCE-STrt StONEKi
Thn Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor,
Se^rlxxgr
fOR IHK BOOf AHD TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
vr f,eted the NEW No. S and No. i MACHINES on an entirely Ne,o Sys'm.
Vow perfected, th sTOCK JUS t LANDINQ ,
P4UEIBB, mm i to., taw «l c¥
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
_ Bo.e Agents .0, the *« »- £L£S£S. Manner,.
Iso Importers of Requisites for theßoot J GLOSS, SATIN I OLISH,
L MAOKm6‘°T»^.^iSS »d 'Materials, indent. exposed oo lfa.oar.bl. Terns.
DU. RICHARDS.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Burgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
Insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment
in the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness dur-
ing the day, circles around the eyes, Giddiness,
Irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfullness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, Impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot honourably marry, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, and other symptoms
which lead to insanity and death, should consult
him, for he has mastered these difficulties. On
receipt of fid. in stamps he will send secure from
observation in a plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private o»
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though yon be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical a*'
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary lor the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment,
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any cir-
cumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
oases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. KICHAKD8,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
(off Pitt Street North).
Hy Mfrs to mention tkia paper when v>ritin§>
D» RICHARDS
DISEASES.
YOUNG MEN
OOWSULTATIOE FlM,


The Anglo-Urak Mnest, Finance
AND
LAND COMPANY (Limited.)
Capital Paid-up .. .. _ £lOO,OOO
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) .. 250,000
Rksbrvb Fund ... „ _ 60,000
Head Office: ■ 31 Hunter Street, Sydney,
Chairman — HENßY GORMAN, Esq., J P.
Vice-Chairman— P. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P,
London Office s - 31 Lombard Street E.C.
Chairman — Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
This Company was established in 1881, and, as
the result of wise and enterprising management,
has won its way to the front rank amongst Invest-
ment Companies.
The amplest security is offered to Depositors,
inasmuch as the Company has large and valuable
city rent-producing properties, besides its well
known suburban estates, which are mostly within
a very short distance of important railway stations.
Deposits received in large or small amounts,
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the
current rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES, Manager.
Egyptian Cigarettes.
MELACHRINO 'V
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELACHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO j
M. Melachrino it Co.,
Cairo,
Supply all the Courts and Embassies
of Europe;
All the leading British and Continenia
Clubs and Regimental Messes.
ET Hare the LARGEST SALE In the World.
Universally Aoknowldeged to be the Best
Sole Agents i
WAEEEI & SOWN, 11 Barrack Street) Srisej.
Public supplied direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price, No. 5 Cigarette .. 85/- per 1000 : 91- per 100*
.. No. 8 „ .. 66/- „ 7/- „
Orders from any part of the town or country, if acoom-
nicdby cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
receive prompt attention.
The Imperial lad, Stilling & Deposit Co.
(Limited), N.S.W.,
HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS, 171 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Managing Directors I
Alkx. Milsop, Esq., J.P., Chairman.
H. L. Summbrfibld, Esq. Wm. Martin, Esq., J P.
B. V. Manning, Esq. , . Wm. Byrnes, Esq.
General Manager:
William P. Smairl, Esq., J.P.
This Company undertakes all usual Banking and Build-
nji Society Business on the most favourable terms.
Fixed and Current Deposits received and Int' rest allowed
at the following rates:—l2 Months, 7 per cent., 6 Months,
6 per cent., S Months, 5 per cent. Advances to Muni-
cipalities on the Security of rates on very liberal terms.
On City, Suburban, and Country Properties at lowest
current rates. Liberal assistance given to build or pur-
chase. Annuities purchased or advanced on. Mortgages
guaranteed, the punctual repayment of interest, or
principal, or both. D.vidends collected in the United
Kingdom or the Colonies. Communications addressed
to the General Manager will receive prompt attention.
More then 70,000 dues already Oared I
Bke Greatest Saooeea V
ot Modern limes. J
OOBJSDM
f All Ohronlo Disease
\ are Curable.
«. I, E, lOTELIUII, CoaiulU&v Eclictie,
BKILLXD Sfkoialisi fox all Ohbonio DlSlAgXa,
M WBLHilikM ftFISEET, MEEBCtVBES.
Any suSeters uaablo to call oan write for a list of ques-
tions (fxsx) by which they can be treated equally well at
Say distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and la perfectly unique and original to himself. If
y°P we suffering from any form of disease do not fall to
Obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
■nderstand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
will tell you at once what it is, and the cost lor a
templets cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
■sed by him.
Read the following testimonial, one of thousands morel
[OOPT.J
„ Olenhope, ICIh July 1380
E - *• KuaiLMAfra, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, Ac.
,"**r Sir,—This Is to certify that I, Frank B. E. Knight,
v opß| was taken 111 with a eevero cough about July,
jaea, but, thinking It was only a severe cold, I did net
wxe any notice of It lor about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
Men thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
"I®,®* Mo Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
wisaiuß reo riving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
Luu yi ™ of considerable repute for six months, and.
1 fai!ed to ob<iain the slightest relief, ha told me
lift.iv 88 all only requiring warm weather to com-
ing o ,.. B , Qure > which statement I did not believe, and
!",™*hingly consulted another doctor In Eyneton, and
mrormed him of the statement of my previous medical
h*l e m? an J’ y h en he informed me that I was In a most un-
Boauny state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
InmT^P o®^ 0 ®^^ 8 * he honestly informed me that my oaee was
mourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
, 6 ad vised me not to take any more chemists’ medl-
ad * .h ftd taken for the last 15 months was poison.
_. ” en Pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
Dlnk«* j°P antly inform ed me that I was suSering from
ed k un K® olf Consumption, and that I was quite In-
-sri?P‘- t Duri “K the time I was attended by the above
AotnM* Waa not able he down In my bed, and ex-
lonM.? “ any fi ua rt® of blood and matter from my
,oBt weight rapidly. About this time 1 saw
■ld and decided to consult you, which I
Kl™*' 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Main* minutely of the exact nature of my oom-
wlthotiw hout J ny . glving yoa acy information, and even
•Stonißhm° U * having sounded or examined me. But my
Ton inoreaBed when you told me that
i definite agreement.
«hllrelv ,f itf* monthB ’J ,reatment the expectoration and os3gh
• result lilT* an . d 1 I had * ained over two stone In weight,
•Uious a?i?, h “ y *” e " dB considered little short of mlra-
Mme fthankl! 1 * peoted 1 wou,d 800 n d,e j »nd from that
have no* ?° you f moflt wonderful skifl and ability) I
•re as strong a.“ y ret k u l ! rn of my °ompl ai nt. end my lungs
M hard aria^-t 8 eve £ the , y welre • and 1 oan do as good and
leased a„Y I w ° rk « 1 eve r did. lam sure that people
•reatment Bllou ld avail themselves of your
no * delay M 1 did until I was given up to
ln ' ev ‘* thankfully yours FRANK K. M.
„ Rsolared witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhopa,
Ky»eton.l, b S e A “®^% 6 ‘h ( day o, August. 1888. at
Noiin/T,, Au c *»wlt»tl«i Free, «
Jr® v !des that 7oS u !RnEd ent gives which
*0» ism, 11 Irourred la Ihs event at Qpxi
AT the Federal Help Company, WANTED,
general Servants, Cooks, Nurses, House
maids, &o.
Comfortable Waiting-room provided.
Servants’ Luggage Stored Free of Charge.
Offices; 72 Elizabeth street, near Hunter-
street.
J. STRAFFORD DIXON,
Secretary.
Western Australia,
Destined to become
A NEW BRITANNIA In another World.
The man that hesitates is lost.
Then be wise in time ’tis madness to defer.
Sand at once for Marked Plans.
MOORE PARK ESTATE, City of Perth.
WOOLLAHRAES TA 18, Albany, King George’s
Sound*.
Good Building Sites; low prices. E *sy terms.
Torrens’ Title. Free deeds. Land is, and must
always remain, the best of all securities.
T. TATE & CO., 158 Pitt Street.
The recognised Agents for Western Australian
Freeholds.
Australian Roller Flour & Grain Stores,
GRANVILLE,
Sydney Office: 17S CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
BRUMTOM’B
Patent—Eoller—Flour
awarded
Tlie Highest Order of Merit
At every Competition, and “ Special Recom-
mendation ” of the iurors of the Melbourne
International Centennial Exhibition, 1888-9.
A B. GAS. GAS.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No, 110 Elizabeth Sireet, S/dney.
E. W. CURNOW, Manager.
Office Hours ; 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
vm
t * ' NT :
:fc *
•* s *
SaSrrsrS
w
W& :
I;' il'X'-ife
IK.
In
cxii
m
■'**•• ..V,
.. 1 »’.-
FETfY 3 # FHPiiLY MOTEL, York Sydney.
—: i :}-
m LETTERS and telegrams promptly attended to. h
Slejc©xa.<a.oKL 3Hot©l, 1^©,33.137-.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
A T j*; e HOTEL > Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
° n In the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
,~;“ er ; you can sn |°y from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country i
!n^J^i B o°Ki y ° U ° a i? *J ave B° od company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can <jlbly make one
i° a “^ e i 01 i n n atth i 8 a eallyflrst ' clasB hotel, Fishing and Picnic artl nrovided. Table
" P " ed by Kn ™™ *° "“* e
Eire. KILMIHSTER, Clarendon (total,
Oppositb OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR,
m
THE
“ Plum ”
RAZOR.
F
OR PRIVATE USB Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground 5 set ready for use.
Never requires grinding, and we guarantee each razor for two years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. 6d. 5 or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
& AITKIEUp Potosl Hair Catting
“ Nine Hairoutters always Employed I ——
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Saloon,
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic «» Stock «» Importers,
ftato Kishinev A Os., s* O’ComaeJi Mraet.
TT lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, baring effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN. and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hontbb Stbkbt and thb Gbnbba& Post Ofpiob—trust that they win receive as
generous and continuous patronage in the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavour to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
8188 6EOROE STREET, SYCHEV.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
MICK SIMMONS, Hay market
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par excellence, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up, but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New ! Something New !
Tlic <£3 Package, “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
Smoker's Companion!
containing the following :
11b. Williams’, Jib. blocks
11b. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
11b. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. 1 H S Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Electro-plated Vesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
BSP” Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its p’ace. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved ! 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address:
MICK SIMMONS,
“Can’t B Beat,” Haymaeket, Sydney.
j
Fashion,
PIT, t and
Finish.
JUDGE FOR YOURSELVES
We have in Stock
AND
Make to Order
THE FINEST
Hand Sewn Bools Slices
AT PRICES
THAT
Defy Competition !
A Visit will Prove tlie above Assertions.
j
j
res co-opesativs ca
376 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
(Opposite David Jones and Co).
ACHING EXTRAORDINARY
£20,000 SPENT TO AMUSE AND INTEREST
THE PEOPLE.
Since the 11th October, 1880, Mr. P, J. Rumney’a
“ WONDER” STAGE COACH
has covered no less than 163,595 English Miles in
perfect safety, and Mr. RUMNEY intends to run
it again this year between HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, PICCADILLY, and the fine old
cathedral town of ST. ALBANS. The trip is one
that no intelligent colonist visiting England ought
to miss, as it will rejoice his heart, purify his
b-ood, and enlarge his views of English scenery
and manners.
Take it down in your pocket-book Mr. P. J.
RUMNEY, THE “WONDER” COACH,
Hatchett's Hotel, Piccadilly, London.
F. C. NICHOLLS & CO.
WHOLESALE
Confectioners and Pastrycooks,
City Buildings,
736 GEORGE STREET,
n A.Y nyc A.IR EOT.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 511 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes , etc., Made to Order.
Kofi’s V'ew s
Of SYDNEY,
JBNOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&0., &0.,
815 BEDBK BT., Betnn BnnUr-at., i B.P P,
H. HILDER,
BOOT-UPPER MANUFACTURER,
Importer op
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
ELASTIC WEB, GRINDERY, &0.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
639 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
FREE
PRESCRIPT lONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS
DEBILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy
of this book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six
Penny Stamps. Address—
S. WARD tc CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Addlv
Buhbtin Office. y 1


WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Tho Coming Colony.
NOW la the time to Invest your
TO BTT.AP very shortly your
PTCW POUNDS
THOUSANDS.
ElizaToetla Street, SycLrresr-
Father Damien's last written words were :
i: I am going to my Golgotha.”
Loud groans from the associated evening
Press —“ Mr. A. Brown is to introduce in the
Assembly a Bill to prevent the publication of la*
proceedings of an indecent or obscene character.
It turns out that “ the gallant English
officer ” who saved the Calliope at Samoa is an
Irishman. If it had been Patrick Mulligan, fined
5•. for being drunk and disorderly, this mistake
would never haVe happened, so far as several Aus-
tralian papers are concerned.
We never hear the nameif the present
N S.W. Minister of Lands, Mr B unber. without
being reminded of the following story of Professor
Person—famous as a Greek scholar and bonmvant.
Person went on a continental tour, and on his
return was asked by his brother dons to give them
pc ins account of his experiences. I
Frankfort,” he said, “and got drunk with that
most learned Professor Runcik. I went to Berlin,
and got drunker with that more learned Professor
Bruncker.”
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
May 28. 1889.
Tenders for public works and
supplies. „
For conditions see “ Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and
Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Works, Torpedo Station,
doir Bfty
Erection of Police Officers’
Quarters, Urana
Supply of 1000 Ironbark Tram-
way Sleepers
Supply of Compound Liglnes-
without boilers for Sand
Pump Dredge. Contract No.
51 Svdmy Sewerage (Waterloo
and Rsdfern)
Biidge, Wilsons Creek, Road
Olunes to Byron Bay
Construction of Masonry and
Timber Landings, Spit Jerry,
Middle Harbour
Additions, &c* Wharf, Seven
Oaks, Maoleay River
Erection of Shed and Mooring
Piles, Wharf, Tweed River
Erection of Two Weatherboard
Cottages for Engineer, &i,
Trial Bay . , ,
Erection of Three Weatherboard
Cottages for Warders, Trial
Bay
Erection of Three Weatherboard
Cottages, Sydney Water Sup-
ply # t
Bridge, Back Creek, road Major s
Creek to F.irfield (fresh
tender.) __ ,
Blakehurst Bridge, K garah
Road
Erection of Stable, &c , Police
Station, AdePng
Additions, &c Public Buildings,
Dubbo
Bridge Karuah River at Wash-
pool Crossing .
Newtown Court House Paint-
ing, &c.
Wednesday,
June 5,
at 11 o’clock.
Wednesday,
June 19
at 11 o’clock.
enair», &o Police Build ngs,
Wagga Wagga
oulburn Old Court He use, Re-
pairs
I’est Kempsey Gaol Alterat'ous,
dadulla Polios Buildings, Re- Wednesday,
• p &o * nlv o,
•epairs, Courthouse, Moruya | at 11 o’clock,
ridge Darling River at Wil-
oannia. Ironwork Contract
No. 1 t 1
iridge Darling R ver at Wil
esnnia. Ereciion, C 'ntract
No ‘2 _ .
irewarrina Post Offic 0 , Repairs
TVRrmE SMITH.
Chubb & Praeger,
PHOTOGR
(Late of Recast street, London)
■i [moire Ga leries," Beale’s Chambers
GEORGE STREET.
"VrOTWITHSTANDING the less and inoon
J\ venience caused by cur premises being
damaged during the late heavy rams, we bf* to
assure our Patrons, and others who may visit us
that we have made arrangements to P re vent delay
of business, and will in a few days be m full
W< Weinvlte Inspection of Show Oases and Rooms.
All ordf rs entrusted to us will revive the greatest
attention, and as the firm are Practical Artists
themselves we can ensure our work being properly
done.
WESTERN hotel,
WAtIRNAMBOOL.
IHI3 old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First C ats Hotel with home
°°li f “ te to full view of the sra and within a short
distance of the Picturesque Scenery of the Hop-
kins’ River, which affords the finest Rod and
Fiv Fishing in the colony. ,« . j
Arrangements made for the hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, &0.,
supplied. Good Shooting in the immediate neigh-
bourhood. It is also within Two Minutes Walk
of the Hot and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are
unsurpassed in the colonies.
livery and letting stables.
Booking Office for COBB and Go’s Coaches.
Thomas Cook and Sons’ Hotel Coupons Taken.
- Proprietor.
T
GEPR6E W. CARE
is
&
<*
&ctu
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER
Sufferers from NERVOUS DEBILITY can get ft
dear insight into their cases by Dr.
Fletcher’s Treatise on “Nervous Complaints, then
Cause, Symptoms, Treatment and Cure.
This admirable treatise is specially written to snow
a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretion in early life, overwork, irregularity m eating
or drinking, etc., etc., all of which bring in their tram
a number of diseases which are generally classed
under the head of Nervous Complaints. Dr. Fletcher
has spent a great many years in the study of these
diseases, and has treated a large number of cases
during his private practice, and, in consequence oi
the success that has attended his efforts, has decided
to bring his medicines more prominently before the
public, and to give to sufferers generally the benefit
of his great experience in these diseases. Dr. r let-
cher wishes it to be distinctly understood that he
reserves to himself the right of refusing to undertake
any case, but if he does undertake it, he is willing to
give a Written Guarantee to cure same, or return
all moneys paid. Persons of both sexes who ex-
perience the following symptoms, viz.. Dizziness,
Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the Back, Defective
Memory, Loss of Energy and Vitality and Will Power,
Constipation, Premature Decay, Liver and Kidney De-
rangements, &c., &c., should send for this book at
once, as it contains in a concise form, simple directions
to overcome same. .
Remember, Dr. Fletcher does not wish to infer that
he can perform miracles, but merely claims to be
thoroughly skilled in the treatment of these diseases.
Thousands have been cured by him, and he invites
sufferers to investigate his statements, by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. Dr. r let-
cher’s treatment is both simple and effective, and
within the reach of the poorest. The treatise will be
forwarded on receipt of two stamps, to cover postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance:
Dr. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, Q.P.0., Sydney.
Private Residence : “ Clonmel,” Waverley.
Western Australia,
The Coming Colony,
Ts rapidly progressing. Her vast Mineral re-
sources are being opened up, and property is
hardening in value.
Make a Profitable Investment and Purchase
Land at
PERTH
The Capital City.
Allotments right in the C.ty 1
|£T FROM £33 Ei ‘ H 11
Allotments close to the City !
From Ten Pounds each Lob.
Good Land. Well Situated. Esy Terms.
Title Gu'ranfe d Indisputable,
Pamphlets and Marked Plans PO >T FREE to
any address on application to the
Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
fttt Bafhiirst Street, SYD'F.If.
W. J. Douglas, Manager,
r
HE CLYDE ORB -CRUSHING, AMAL-
GAMATING. AND CHLORINATION
COMPANY, OF SYDNEY.
works: CLYDE, NSW.
Hiad Omoil 46 CASTLERKAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Dirrctors :
Jamss Flrtohbr, M.P., Sydney; JaMRS A. Brown, Neutral
Bay • Hbnry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Syd-
ney •’ T. D. Mrrton, CunningarWorks, Harden; Chablbs
Hardt, Wagga ; P. Hann, Wagga.
These works have been erected at large cost for
the purpose of treating aurlferous-bearlng stone of
every description. ,
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable bv the old process
of treatment) opens np a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the de-
velopment of the auriferous Ifadnstrles of the
colonies. ... , , ... . .
These works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated. . . . ....
Ores In quantities not less than one ton will be
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The works (which comprise the most modern
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
chlorination, together with a complete assay and
analytical laboratory) will be under the Imme-
diate direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has suc-
cessfully worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further information, apply
W. B. FLETCHER.
peapes & Shaw's New Establishment
Acknowledged by all who have yet honoured them with a Visit
-TO BE
The Limn M02T COMPUTE GENTLEMEN'S OTJTPIITKS WASEH0B5E AMBERE,
Either in the COLONIES or the OLD COUNTRY.
PEAPES and SHAW are now shoving the whole of the Coeds contained in the Two
Beautiful C«ea recently shown by
WELCH, MARGETSON & CO., at the MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Visit Peapes and Shaw for Stylhh Tailoring.
For Beautiful Ties and Scarfs.
For Newest Shapes in Eats.
For Perfect Fitting Shirts.
For Cheap and Good Beady made Suits,
VISIT
Pcapcs
<&
Sltaw
For Boys’ Beady-made Clothing.
For Newest Shapes in Collars.
For Your Winter Overcoats.
For Boys' and Youths' Eton Suits.
Visit Peapes and Shaw when you want anything for Travelling.
—R EMEMBER!—
The Largest and Choicest Selection of Goods
FOB
MEN, YOUTHS and BOYS,
IS AT
Peapes su:n.cL s.
Right opposite their Old Shop in GEORGE STREET.
WMmrn.
THE PREMIER TOBACCOMSTS.
Our Only Address : G PARK STREET, SYDNEY
■ “ (off George Street)
American Cut Tobaccos.
Long Out ...
R.O. Rubf, .
Oak
GoldLaf
2 zs., 9 I,
2 jz'., 9 i
2 7A., 91.
2 z 3 , 91.
Mixture ... ... ... 2izb.,9J.
Nailroi 2 u,91.
Barretts’ 2cza., Bd.
Cavendish 2oza , 8 I
Colonial and English Cut Tobaccos.
Fine Out (dark) .
Fine Out (blight)
Gold leaf
London Shag 2oza,Gl.
Mixture 2 z», GI.
Bristol Birds Eye 2 z\, Cl.
These Tobaccos Cut Fresh Every Day. Special Reductions for 11b Parcels
Note the Address: 6 Park Street (only).
r&N
THE
&
NEWEST INVENTION—GRATEST NOVELTY.
Patent Diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabrie.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says-—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman
ship all that could be desired.”
Gold Media, New Zealand Exhibition, 1888
Gold Medal, Highest Award
For Corskts, London Intrrnational Exhi-
bition, 1884.
latest Award I J ! «-<•"' Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1S8C.
CAUTION- —Beware of worthless imita-
tions Every genuine Y & N Corset is
stamped “ Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
Sou, „ ALL DBAPLL, AKD LAH.LS' OLTP,™ » T„. UN.T.O KmOPOM AEO COLONnSL^
j
d
TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORS
®MMEE : OUSHIONS, &0. s MADE ON THE PREMISES.
(8)M Sable* re-fitted by «ar own mam. „
I igyiSjBAliLife stock, *1*®SEI-CKET,LAWN TENNIS&S®
BITBBOUGHES & WATTS,
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MAPS
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. bo 21a.
849 PITT ST.* SYDNEY (Near Tnll«r«a».)
—■{
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather,
— i'.y —
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
LONDON FASHIONS
AND
TVesh Goods Every Fortnight 1
I Trade supplied wholesale at a areal advantage
EPPS'S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
John buck h a M
449 Elizabeth stbeet, Melbourne
TENTS, Tarpaulin?, Wool, Drav and WaWP®
Covers (greased or oiled), Canvas Water Bottk ’
C’olerp, Whim Bucke's, Baker ■ ,Cart
Horae ling?, Nose Bag?, Oi’ed Loin Cloths,
Apron?. Send to, or call at
.lOIIV IUK'KII AM'S,
440 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Oldest Established House in the Trade.
HOLT & WINNING,
THEATRICAL CONTRACTOR**'
42 Down Strrnt,
OOLLINGWOOD, MELBOURNE,
ALL KINDS OF SCENERY MADE ON T* 1 ®
SHORTEST NOTICE.


- • . fjf < ■'
ows
EMBROCATION
{
; \E\/ERXWHERE(\
j
JJIBBLB & COMPANY
SI«V WKITBBC
AMS
—ABT ++ DECORATORS—
N Ssatiaa-easM itsre*l«
One Doob feom King Stbbm.
jgROU’S INJECTION
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE,
Cures promptly, without additional means, al
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs
Sold in Paris by
«J - F £1 B BE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 me Riohnl^-
Musical. —patent scale
TOR, for pupils learning the PIANO
Price 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of MUSIC
Ba. 6d., posted to the Country from INGHAM’S
Sydney Aboads. Country Agents wanted
Stationer'"
.
BOWOfN
OOWDEHS
BS*
BOWDEHST’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Strbbt (near Hunter St.), Stdnbt.
JOSEPH C. BOWBIS - • Proprietor
LONG’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
Toowoomba,
Acknowledged the beat Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation, Private
Suites, First-class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
rhe Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Company, Limited.
NOORPORATID UNDBR COMFANI3S ACT, 1878.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sydney Office;
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street East,
(next door to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Meroantilr
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay
able by Instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bilk discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
3 months, 6 per cent.
6 n 6 it
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 mouths
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, Vj per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager
Robert butcher & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesrle Wine
and Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst & Liverpool Streets),
WINES, SPIRITS BEERS, in and out o“
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
Timber Xsrchnts, ad Iteam Joi&en (
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Oolonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &0,, in
Queensland.
Builders' Ironmongery A speciality.
Country <t Station Orders promptly despatched
I TWEEN’S PATENT UNBREAKABLE
XV SADDLE COMPANY, Limited.
Factory and Office—24s Oastlereagh Street.
The Manufactory of our New Patent Unbreak-
able Saddles is now carried on at our new premises,
I 245 Oastlereagh-street, Sydney, where trade orders
will receive prompt attention.
None Genuine without our Trade Mark.
CAUTION.
The sole right of the above patent having been
! purchased by the undersigned, saddlers, and the
public generally are Cautioned against any in-
fringements of the same.
For Keen’s Patent Unbreakable Saddle Company,
s _ Limited—
F. O. HEDEMANN \
L. C. HENDERSON J
Trustees.
Ip HE FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
A INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL
COMPANY, Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
CAPITAL, £200.000
SYDNEY OFFICE, SOI PITT-STREET.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia,
Immediate Advances granted Bills Discounted
daily. Communications from the country promptly
attended to. The following are the rates of in-
terest allowed on Fixed Deposit:—3 Years, 10 pet
cent.; 12 Months, 9 per cent ; 6 Months, 8 per
per cent.; 8 Months, 7 per cent. By order of the
Board of Directors. A. W. MILLER, Manager
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUI
Ths lost In thn World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS t
Mu BiUilt S ti,
CLARENCE STREET.
BEHAN’S
Black Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
USES, CATTLE i K
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY. 188S.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGEj
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern,
Wholesale;
Elliott Bros., Australian Drng do., S. HoSmmg
and do., J. Brush, Son and do., W. H Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Bntler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbane ; E. Fletcher, Jtmr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
JT. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Bedl«n,
PRICE Ss. 6d. Per Bottle,
Solid by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS.
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS, UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, Ohalrs, Furnltnre Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mats, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cate Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 50s,, Chinese Cane Lonnges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters, Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces “and Fall-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER’S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods Is con-
sidered, It seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address—LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER - & SONS,
Gbnebal Impobtebs and House Fubnibhxba,
SYDNEY.
Established 1886,
ELBOURNE
trams pass
EVERT FEW MINUTES
IEALAC e hotel
m
Hi
K ® T? g
L- Vr
-
I
m
m
mm
m
K'.y'
m
SB
->.W
iLr
aomjoaj
NOSIIM'VT
.C.W.CLARE
MANACER
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE
THIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close prox j
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
—— THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatoet Basin, Hot andjDold Watbb, and Shampoo Spbay.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatokies and Bathbooms, and every Room is Lighted bv tht
Eleoteio Light and fitted with Electbio Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
m TWO PASSENGER OTIS LIFTS. “fa
LADIES BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS
is
mr NOW OPEN.
Terms i WE EE JOH, 2s. Ed. w MI
/ Entitling the Ocrnpter to the prtTtlege of
I using the tubule Rooms of the Hotel.
<*" MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM o*
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Eull particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may he obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
HIGHLY NUTRIT4VE
oeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELtED TINS OB PACKETS THROUGHOUTTHE COLONY.
Magic Meal
FOB FATTENING) ALL KINDS OF
Stock anO Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonial* t
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyrt
“I have tested a sample of the ‘ Magic Meal’ foi
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Arsenic and
have to report, after a most careful examination, that I
have been unable to detect a trace of anything that
would be injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion
that this article should fulfil all the conditions specified
in the handbills enclosed in each bag.
Ur. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon I 11
find It greatly increases the flow of milk from my oowt, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
S old in Sags — 7lbs. Ss., Ijlbs. 6s. Sd., 6Slbs.
18s. 6d,, and sent on receipt of stamps or P. 0.0.
Parcels of 661ba., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Fort within the Colony,
A. H. PHILLIPS.
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlsbiaoh Stbmi.
SYDNEY-
p
ÜBLIO NOTICE,
To the
LICENSED VICTUALLERS, BREWERS,
and
GENERAL BUSINESS MEN
of Sydney.
LEONARD GWYN
baa the pleasure to Inform hia Friends and the
General Fublio that he has commenced Business as
Hotel ltd Semi Booms Broker,
and trusts to merit a share of their support. It
Is his intention to sell all classes of Businesses on
COMMISSION ONLY
r also wishes to draw the attention of hls
future clients to the fact that NO CHARGE will
be made unless a sale la effected, and In the event
of a sale being completed the charge will be
STRICTLY MODERATE.
8 POST OFFICE CHAMBERS
(First floor),
PITT STREET.


Evirybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’B Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
beet in the market.
Land at Perth, W.A., the beet Investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment 00,, Ltd..
96 Bathnrot-street. Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Pno»ell street. TVfELBOTTBN^,
Dlngmau’a electric soap, a cleaning
medium which is warranted to whiten anything
but a besmirched political reputation, has just
made its appearance in the Australian market.
It will cleanse clothes without boiling and with a
minimum of “elbow-grease,” and acts equally
well in the case of cashmeres, woollens, flannels,
muslin de lain 'S, and the finest fabrics It re-
moves paint and grease stains from clothing with
very little labour ; indeed, if it will perform half
what is claimed to be within range of itis powers,
its introduction into our households will be quite
a startling domestic revolution.
Bee Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus:--
j
•crsiß
liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
s
WHE^/lip/
Com
FLEXIO
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
An emollient milk for beautifying the complexion, and
warranted free from lead or grease. It removes Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Sk.n; is
most cooling 1 and refreshing to the face in hot weather,
and produces soft, fair and delicate skin. No lady should
be without it.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Prevents hair falling off or turning grey, and is-also sold
in a Golden Colour.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
Whitens the teeth, prevents decay, and sweetens the
breath.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA, a pure Toilet Powder in Three
Tints — White, Rose, and Cream. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROAVL AND S’ Articles,
of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England. - t ‘
American Hotel,
/ Corner of George Street \
\ and Queen’s Place, /
SYDNEY.
J. B. BENJAMIN, Proprietor.
The American Exchange
Hotel, which has just been
opened, is situated in the heart
of the city, and in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks,
Exchange, Post Office, Govern-
ment Buildings, etc., etc.
The BEDROOMS ventilated, and
furnished very handsomely,
equal to any hotel in Australia.
He BHHHOn £ ~
spect and worked on the Ameri-
can principle.
Drawing, Smoking,
AND
Reading Rooms.
Full particulars as to Tariff, &c.,
may be obtained on application
at American Exchange Hotel.
Telegrams and Communications
promptly attended to.
. ..
HOTtU
m K’ICAN CL
Q
©
:
Lever Clamp.
American Club Roller Skates.
rrHE age for Cheap, Inferior Skates Is past, and no skater of to-day can become expert on wheels or eniov an
X AtrAnSnrv nn QlrnfoU urif.Vinnf fVI OXT OVO An UAm a QAAII rollr.fo of onoH oiv. Ar, IV, ; m_ J _ _ ■ . * *..
evening on Skates without they are on some securely-fastened, smooth-running Skate, such ns is offered in the
“American Club.” It is acknowledged by all skaters on ice that the “ American Club” fastening as used upon the
most popular Ice Skate in America, England and Europe for the past 13 years is more quickly adjusted and more
secure than any other mode of fastening ever invented. Roller Skating has now become a popular amusement and
the demand for a Skate for experts has caused the production of a first-class Roller Skate with the “ American Club ”
fastening. Sizes, 7J to IX J inches. Special Prices to Rinks and Clubs.
-) (-
Wholesale: If. S. HILL, S Bridge-street; Retail; SEBBLE WHITE & CO., George-street, Svdner.
) —(
To arrive—Some very fine Lithograph Carnival Posters.
A Bomance at Sea.
kTHE CAPTAIN REMOVED FROM HIS VESSEL.
iK ;
London, Saturday.—The directors of the British-India
Steam Navigation Company have removed Captain W. A.
Burkitt from the command of the R.M.S. Jumna, owing
to hia having married a lady passenger, betrothed to a
Brisbane doctor, on a recent voyage from England to
Queensland.— Cable,
“Sober reflection nsnally follows the act,”
says a Melbourne reverend. Especially the Act
of Parliament, eh ?
A Ballarat (Vic.) clergyman preached on
“ The Wonderful Spread of Christianity ” the
other Sunday. We have noticed the feet of the
clergy.
A Port Darwin alligator chawed off the
leg of a Chinaman recently, and next day was
found dead. The Chow is no good, alive or dead,
except as a poison.
The patrifiod body of a man haa been
taken out of a marble quarry near Orange. As a
proof of the antiquity of the form of marriage in
Australia, we may state that the man was bald.
There ia a rule in the Union Shipping Com-
pany of NZ , unalterable as the laws of the
Medes and Persians, that, should a captain lose
his vessel, he at once relinquishes his position in
the company’s service.
A Spanish writer has been sent to gaol for
libelling a Royal personage. He described him as
being mean beyond comprehension :
“ Truth is mighty and will prevail,”
Gammon ! it’s nearly all in gaol.
Lord Chief Jnstlco Coleridge aaya : “I
know a case in which there were 140 affidavits,
and the witnesses all swore exactly the same thing,
in exactly the same words, and yet when they
were cross-examined they all broke down.” So
much for the value of an oath.
We clip this from the report iu an English
paper of a meeting of the Women’s Suffrage
League:—
Moved by Miss A. L. Browne—“ That the affiliation fee
be fixed at £1 instead of 55.”
Takes a bit of thinking over, doesn’t it ?
A man fishing near Sydney caught taree
schnapper one night last week. He wrapped
them up in a certain evening newspaper. When
he reached home, half-an-hour after, the fish had
turned bad, It was the police court reports that
did it.
Juvenal, the Latin satirist who was a
pleader in the courts of his day, says that where
human life is at stake no investigation oau be too
long. More than one colonial judge would do
wall to cut Juvenal’s opinion out as given here, or
as in the original calf-skin quarto, and paste It in
the front of their prayerbooks.
Sir Thomas Gladstone was very Ilka his
distinguished brother in face and form. On one
occasion Sir Thomas happened to be at Ports-
mouth to see W. E. off, and the crowd, mistaking
him for the Liberal leader, gave a hearty cheer.
Stop that cheering,” shouted Sir Thomas; “I
not my brother,” and stalked away without
ttering another word.
Not long ago five Boston eltlzma dial
within a short Dime of each other. All of them
enjoyed the benefits of medical attendance, and
he doctors in their certificates attributed the
deaths respectively to pneumonia, typhoid fever,
meningitis, bowel complaint, and Bright's disease.
It was afterwards conclusively proved that the
whole five had been deliberately poisoned b/
arsenic. There is food here for reflection —and for
medical experts also.
G. R. Sims tells a story of a farmer la
Normandy who ordered a couple of casks of wine
from a firm at Bordeaux. A fortnight afterwards
tarrived at the station, and he sent his carter to
bring it home. The carter brought two casks, but,
to the farmer’s astonishment, only one cask was
nil; the other was empty. An examination of
the cask showed that it had not been tampered
with, and there was no trace of leakage. Evi-
dently an empty cask had been sent by mistake.
The farmer at once wrote to the Bordeaux wine
merchant to complain of the carelessness. In due
course a reply was received, which was as follows :
" Bear Sir,—l am sorry for the mistake made by
my man, but you can easily rectify it. If you
will fill the empty cask with water and leave it for
a fortnight you will find the wine alright. The
ingredients are at the bottom of the cask, but my
man foolishly omitted to add the water. Waiting
your further orders, I am, sir, yours, &o.”
Some stories are still fcold of
convict life in the Valley of the Hunter. A year
or so ago tbece died ai a very old age a broad-
shouldered man who had charge of an iron-gang
in the dark days, and of whom it was related that
when any new arrival joined the party he was
immediately brought! before the b ms whose first
question was, “ Well, my man, do you know
where you are?” * s Yea, sir, in Mr 's gang.”
“ You a*e not—you’re in blank blank Sheol, and
I’m taa blank blank;adjective blank devil —there,
now, my man !” i m " j
In 1800, an English regiment was serving
in Holland, and at Egmontop-Zee crossed bayonets
with a French regiment. A ball, fired during the
retreat of the latter, passed through the jaws of a
soldier of the former, named Robert Hullocb,
who, in the course of the afternoon, was buried in
the sand-hill where he had fallen, by a soldier of
his regiment, named Carnes. During the night
Hullock recovered, and, having been lightly
covered with sand, crept out and crawled to a
picket of his regiment posted near He was sent
to the hospital, recovered, and was serving with
his regiment in Malta in 1806. Hullock’s face
being much discolored, and his voice scarcely
intelligible (a part of his tongue and palate having
been carried away), he had for some years served
as a pioneer to his company ; a soldier of it died,
and Hulloek, as a part of his duty, dug tha grave,
at which he was found, on the arrival of the body
for interment, stiil at work, though it was then
near ten feet deep. On being drawn out and
asked the reason for making it so unusually deep,
he replied : “ Why, sir, it is for poor John Carnes,
who buried me, and I think, sir, if I get him that
deep, it will puzzle him to creep out, as I did.”
On the burial service being read, he proceeded to
fill up the grave, aad actually buried the man who
ten years previously had buried him. Hullock was
discharged and pensioned In 1814.— Exchange.
A lucky man la Mr. William MI I wraith,
of Rockhampton. That is, lucky as a journalist.
He is now, after only a few years labour, in a posi-
tion to let his pen rest and re-visit the haunts of
his childhood. • Mr. M‘ll wraith is a relative of
ex-Premier M‘ll wraith, and when he arrived in
Brisbane land-grant syndicates wanted a greater
number of capable men to work the Archimedean
lever than the natural produce of the colony
afforded. Hence the new hand, William, was
ordered to strip for work and tackle the imple-
ment. Mr. MTlwraith want with a will into the
pursuit marked out, and interests in several news-
paper properties in the capital and suburbs
were placed at his option. Ha longed for a sub-
stantial slice of the Ooubier, but the grip of the
owners was tight, and they rather wanted at
the time to freeze out a certain small share-
holder than to take a new partner in. He got
shares here and there, however, and in various
metropolitan papers proved that General Feildlng
and his crowd would be the salvation of Queens-
land. Then he started for Rockhampton and
settled solidly into the Morning Bulletin of that
place. The Bulletin had a good reputation and
under Mr. MTlwraith the reputation has been
maintained. Like the ex-Premier, he is a straight
hitter and despises heartily little schemes of every
description. Big schemes fascinate him. The
scheme itself is not so much the fascination as is
ts bigness Mr. MTlwraith leaves, it is said, for
England, but it is safe to say that that is only a
suphemism for Scotland.
How the Chinese economise la thus ex-
plained in the North China Herald
The Chiness are pre-eminently eeonomical, whether it be
in limiting the number of waits, in preventing waste, or
in adjusting forces in such a manner as to make a little
represent a great deal. Tha universal diet consists of
rice, beans, millet, garden vegetables, and fish, with a
little meat on high festivals. Wnolesome food in abund-
ance may be supplied at less than a penny a day for each
adult, and even in famine times thousands of parsons
have been kept alive for months on about a half-penny a
day each. Tais implies the existence of a high degree of
culinary skill in the Chinese. Their modes of preparing
food are thorough and various. Tnere is no waste;
everything is made to do as much duty »s possible. What
is left is the veriest trifle. The ph/sioal condition of the
Chinese dog or cat, who has to live on the leavings of the
family, shows this; they are clearly kept on starvation
allowances. The Cnin-se are not extremely fastidious
in regard to food ; all is fish that comes to thrir net, and
most things oome there sooner or later. Certain dis-
turbances of the human organization, due to eating
diseased meat, are well recognized among the piople, but
it is considered better to eat the meat, the cheapness of
which is certain, and run the risk of tae consequences,
which are not quite certain, than to buy dear meat even
with the assurance of no evil results Indeed the meat of
animals which have died of ordinary ailments is rather
dearer than that of those which have died in an
epidemic such as pleuro pneumonia. Another example
of careful, calculating economy is the construction
of the cooking pots and boilers, tae bottoms of which are
as thin as possible that the contents may boil all the
sooner, for fuel is scarce and dear, and consists generally
of nothing but the stalks and roots of the crops, which
make a rapid blaze and disappear. The business of
gathering fuel is committed to children, for one who can
do nothing else can at least pick up straws and leaves and
weeds. In autumn and winter a vast army o? fuel
gatherers spread over the land. Boys ascend trees and
beat them with clubs to shake oft tha leaves ; the very
straws get no time to show which wav the wind blows
before they are annexed by some enterprising collector.
Similarly prof ssional manure collectors swarm over all
the roads of the country. Chinese women carry this
minute economy into their dress ; nothing comes amiss to
them ; if It is not used in one place, it is in another, where
it appears a thing of beauty. Foreign rasidents who gave
their cast-off clothes away to Chinese may be assured the
career of usefulness of these garments is at la»t about to
commence. Chinese wheelbarrows squeak for the want
of a few drops of oil; but to people who have no nerves
the squeak is cheaper than the oil. Similarly, dirt is
oheapar than hot water, and so, as a rule, the people do
not wash ; the motto “oheapar than dirt,” which the soap
dealer puts in his windows, could not be made intelligible
to the Chinese. To them the average foreigners are mere
soap-wasters. Scarcely any tool can be got ready-made ;
it is so much cheaper to buy the parts and put them
together for yourself, and as almost everybody takes this
view ready-made tools are cot to be got. Two rooms are
dimly lighted with a single lamo deftly placed in a hole
in the dividing wall. Chinese, in fact, saem to be capable
of doing anything by means of almost nothing. They
will give you an iron foundry on a minute scale of com-
pleteness in a back yard, and will make in an hour a cook-
ing range, of strong and perfect draft, out of a pile of
mud bricks, lasting indeflnately, operating perfectly, and
costing nothing. The old woman, who in her last moments
hobbled as near as possible to the family graveyard in
order to die so as to avoid the expense of coffin-bearers,
was Chinese.
Australians who—thanks to the autocratic Knuts-
ford—are still compelled to compete against
Chinese cheap labour should study this story, if
only to learn how very oh*ap their competitors
really are
TO CAPTAIN BURKITT.
You’re a sly ’un, Captain Burkitt,
Well you knew then how to work it:
Lonely lady out at sea,
Wave and wind around, above her,
Absent friends and absent lover,
Constant care is sure to move her,
We have all been out to sea.
Black clouds rising out to nor’ard,
Great waves rushing on to for’ard,
Fragile creature helpless quite ;
Gallant captain, brave and sprightly,
Fold your great coat round her tightly,
Cheer her spirits, flatter lightly.
Guard her from the chilis of night.
Phantom-ship and pirat= stories,
And how far her native shore is—
Subjects that Othello used;
Legends wild and sea-yarns glaring,
Deeds of bravery and of daring,
Life on sea and shore comparing,
Burkitt, yes we feel amused.
Oh ! you nautical Othello,
You’re a very cunning fellow
Thus to play your cards so well;
Bat ten years hence you may wonder
How you made so great a blunder,
And you’ll wish you had gone under
’Ere you met that fetching belle.
FRANK CHANDOS.
There was a young girl of Colac,
Whose hair it was glossy and black ;
But one night—you will scoff,
Someone pulled It right off ;
And her head was as bare as her back.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
£
51
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELT^M
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
[DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
Complete ■with Suspensory Appliances from £l, 0. 0 and
towards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence
■nd all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Sack, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nerrous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt bj
the wearer. It has great improvements over all othei
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
«ade for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
■did, soothing current of electricity through all the weak
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
•ven the worst case permanently cured m three months,
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will b«
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fgi
tn N voltaic belt company
Box 916, Q, P. 0„ Stohit.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
IRANIS ""> INVALIDS
Sm aa ENORMOUS SALE In England, and
te now being introduced into the colonies.
Bverj Storekeeper should get a supply
M every wise mother -will certainly
use It.
Dr. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Life preservation
BY
Dr. J. D LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
19 Lonsdale Stbket East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
On health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
Sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Confiden-
tial Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
tollable curative treatment without the aid of
Quacks. 1
Price per mail Ss. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
do., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
EUCAt-Y-PTE Olk&
&
w
THE TREE OF LIFE
m&SSst
Victory Ointments
The only pure Knealjpte In the World.
WARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest and
-hugs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc. Oar VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
Manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Bair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
lamed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
oefore the public for young Children and aged
POOple. Also* makers nf the TTnf>n 1 imto T.e’ro-ncreq
S'*, uie voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
oydney Wholesale Depot— 227 Elizabeth Street
vj v » » RUlclSalo / Cjljl/)AdJCI li oIKtCUT
posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware of Imitations.
Medical.
4 ramp ,
Beecham’s Pills
#
patent
M
.
PILLS
as
*
38
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos- ,
tivenees, scurry, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, Ac. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of "
Fills, and they will be acknowledged to bo
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, sad
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders I
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the [
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “PACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society: and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sals of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Gough Pills;
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial I
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &a, these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the |
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression I
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the I
patient of rest. Let any person give Bmcham’s Cough {
Pills a tial and the most violent Gough will in
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro
piietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
J^BEVOUS
DEBILITY.
Consult by Letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous |
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-.
addressed Id. stamped envelope, forward advice.
and bis Medical Book Free. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Box 208, Q.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
IJI O SUFFERERS.
Consult Personally or by Letter
Dr. ANDERSON
(late Cowan and Andersen).
—SPECIALIST ON—
CHRONIC NERVOUS DEBILITY,
SKIN CONTAGIONS,
And a U Disease* of the Oenito- Urinary Organs.
Consultation Free.
Abednte Bsorssy observed in oB Oases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, eecarely packed, tc
aU parte of the
Dr. ANDEESON,
165 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
A Wonderful Discover \
e
Rose's Celebrated Eye Lotion.
This valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure Swelling an'
Sandy Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimucr
of Sight, eto. It will be found very beneficial and ooolln
to those who have weak eyes, or whose work compels the i
to strain their eyas. Highly recommended by the leadim
Oculists.
flon+iAn f The public are requested to notice th
V-/HULIUII i wordai .. ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYI
LOTION,” with the Trade Mark (a Rose ) on Dark Blui
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing th*
Lotion, without whioh it is a forgery.
“... ROSS'S CELEBRATES E7E LOUSE,
Not for Rose Eye Lotion,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmer
00 on yon for the genuine article, thus misleading th>
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
B, A. BOSE, Sininitr 1 Uutuiv Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses
Established 1858 (By post, 3s. 6d )
iar Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH VN’SIGOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
JUST PUBLISHED
A most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL and HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains information most valuable in Nek
VOUB and other Diseases, for its Hygienic Rulee
are worth its weight in gold. Send your full
address, and we will send Post Free One Copy,
given away for the next Six Months Only. Write
to Professor R. T. SELBY, Cleveland Street,
Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements,
%
—Wu Oak Bsooioonm—
B. EUGENE’S
(team Puto)
SADIES’ akd GENTLEMEN'S
Hairdressing: Saloon
Am tin took* Central and w«o> Appointed
of any In the City.
BT WKH«n« and Bint WORK* «
ft—h and English Perfumery. Totlel Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the
Hot* the Address %
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(• hm icon from G.P.0., next to Colonial BnIt),
MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Bkanchus:
64 PITT STREET, and 688 GEORGE STREEP.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal dllee
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which p»> be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIB LIN, Acting Manager.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, atiS
Private Enquiry Office, 63 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George Streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, T.Tmer.
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE*
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Haute
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address : 53 SYDNEY ARCADE.
" Tor Framing a Picture Heat asi Will,”
x: x
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
e Stork, 399 George Street (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c„ carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
•Special attention paid School Drawings. Plnsh
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c., &o.
Cooperage :
387 KENT STREET & 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
f
m
m
j
m
m
'M&A
m
35S®S3$^.1
:
—.
MANUFACTURED 6/ - S.
JjNfS C//M/VO& J/aricvrS* <T
Sold Iru a It Sst aCt-’U) I SSoraAetAerv **
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout®
FIRST - QUALITY.
ĵ
Bass’s Pale JUs.
SOLS PURVEYORS to tha
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
Br Special AppoiatwA
Wl*lmle ifwiii
SALCEIS, JOBIBIOV ul Cft,
Oomaoui Oiukuu, Boro St., Sroror.
UMBRELLAS
mcowemi*
STUDY lOOVOMY
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Paraaols Re-Lined and made
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’i
641 George Street,
BatOKriiLn Hill, Snanr,
between
Liverpool <t Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match 0»
tumes. Repairs neatly dOMt
j
llANUtoCTUftm
« or "
HATS CAPS it
r— v
436CE0RCE ST
3YDNEY
Cft/rosite LtaseCCera
//
S>
Branch:
§78 GEORGE STBIIt
BRIOKTIBU) HTT.T.,
(Next to Craig and Aitkan.)
So\s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS '
GEORGE STREET
S YD N ELY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
ft
H
OGG
CONSULT
CORE Sc
THE EMINENT
1 SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases cJTths Genitourinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1, OOBSBTTS BUILDINGS, comer of George
and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
CONSULTATIONS FRBB, PERSONALLY OR BY LBTTER. I
Box 88 G.P.0.) Book eent on receipt of id. stamp.
Hotels,
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNS VILLI.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Fnonunoa.
P BINOB OF WAllfl* HOTIL
near Opera House, Bourko Street, Seat.
This well-known Sporting House {* conducted
m First-class Stylo. Brery convenience. Centrally
Situated. *
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Oove Rivers. Annlv
RITT T onvrmr AmtstA..


MASON BROTHERS,
:
i
(IiIMITBD,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Salb
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN AND CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Brittenberg & 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wyntard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Hr.
RABONSKI, shelving sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Host Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address “ Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
I BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
Regular shipments *of the best Backboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 x 16 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Fassanger Backboards with pole,
&c., 627. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ;or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine
Road, Brisbane (South).
K, ZjARKIM,
IMPORTER OF
tS WI3STEIS, SPIBITS, BEERS <ScO_, &»0„ “W
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wtae’B
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerao’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported aad Bottled by P.ILL.
tS The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. tST All Brands of Colonial Whies.
The leading brands of Bottled Alb and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
\ s J
Prince off Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesa e and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
ts SEND EOR A PRICE LIST. T*
minim ladies 1 sefsTshment - room ad latatori,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdbbn & Sons).
Produce stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
LLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AKD
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, TREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
WOOL. WOOL.
xnx
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency
Company, Limited,
BRIDGE STRE39X, SYDNEY.
Oaptiax, M, 800, 000. Reskbtb, SSt&£ok
Wool Soasoop 1888-88.
REGULAR SALES 07 WOOL HZSO
THROUGHOUT THE SEASON.
THE greatest care bestowed on the ValiMpm
and the Displaying and Protecting all Wow
entrusted to the Company foe sale, wfaethe* fcaSßi
large or small dips.
KST Growers Advised and Consulted eothk Mm
Sales of their Chips are made.
Liberal Cash Advances, where desired, os Whß
Hen of ensuing Clip, and on Wool and other las*
dace, whether for side in Sydney or ls
London.
Auction Sales of Sheep Skins, Marsupial
Hides, Tallow, Ac., held regularly.
Every information supplied on application.
G. a CAMPBELL, Manage*
SYDNEY WOOL A GRAIN WAREHOUSE*
Bbidob amd Lorres Stbsuts.
Genuine Swedish made • oboww
BRAND" HORSESHOE-NAILS
are superior to all others and lower in psia*
Samples to be had at any leading Iroomosgp**
or from
0. A. FALBTSDT,
Sole Agent for Australia,
148 PHILIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted.
A BLESSING IN KTERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMBHI.
There is not a country in the oilvUsed world wbSi
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have notbMl
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordbngf
ailments of humanity their benefloient action is hV.SMi
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for theft «SS
In every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Uaa»
factored only at 78 Nkw Oxfohd-st., London. AST
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and IMA
If the address is not 628 Oxford-street; London, ffcey M
spurious
INSPECT THE SWEET
BURG PIANO
AT THIS
SEWIHB MACHINE DEPOTS
JX
VIO T O
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windbob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
BOHUOA ...
BEBOHW ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swans ion Street
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
69 Bwans ton Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Store*.
66 Moorabool Street.
Main'Street, next Aesohimann’a.
High Street.
Camp Street
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wo/se/ey Sheep Shearing Machine
PABIOEALISTB are notified that, to avoid disappointsa«*
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
ifilXlll
J. T3L. Co-,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
um t. m»no.
BXSINEXM, OOPPBMMFPKfI, FIMISHIBS, FtCMMlfc
Brass Sc Bell Foundaw, Ship Sc General Smith®,
Qasfittwm, Akt amd Mbddbval Mstal WobkkMt
j
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.
Sr?H
si^*
m
&
M4 S .
*****
o
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD,
-W-
Ur Have obtained GOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
: y
The American Waltham Watches are oonstracted upon the soundest principles of horologies! art and of
the very best materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents coiling of the hair-spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the American Waltham Watch Co. _ , ,
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Cases, either English Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
cf qmohdqbaphs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’ Watches. The “No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. „ . . x 7-. . . . q ..
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and ail the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof. _ . . ,
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
' Waltham Watches, from their manifold ad vantages, are preferable to all others.
WALTHAM Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
*
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY,
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
