

akjyowr
Grocer for
Fry's Malted Cocoa .
J. 8. FRY A SONS, Bristol, London and Stokit*
“ An ordinary onp contain* move active properties of malt than a pint of the beet Ale ov Porter. —Lancet.
Centennial
Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
NEWGA-STIiE,
Hot Cold & Shower Baths on each Flat.
33111ia,rd.s- ZBilliaords.
m
a.
1886
rSS
P
Ui
6'i^r
ST!
£
tIKTENNIALHOTtI
37
m
'/>
.
m
I 1
i
Wines, Beers and Spirits a Speciality.
HSilllard-S. Billiard, s
THIS Hotel is now OPENED, and admitted to be the BEST PITTED and FURNISHED HOTEL in the Colony It is
beautifully situated, being directly opposite the Staamars’ Wharf and adjacent to the Railway Station, and convenient
to all the Public Buildings.
A Porter meets all Trains and Steamers. Letters and Telegrams Promptly Attended to-
WALTER SIDNEY Proprietor.
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
[II
IXSOPSOM
*
m
o
Q
☆
o
On qV
SIR ROGER
—* ■ ■ ■ " 1 ■ ■ **» ■
o
50
o
r
fiDa
mm
OIXSONS
gfZOILBIOB HOTEL, CHARTERS
2i TOWERS.
Second Brlok Hotel Building erected In above
altneted corner o 6111 and Church Street!.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
CARLSBAD
NATURAL MINERAL WATERS
are now imported in bottles and used in treat-
ment of CHRONIC GASTRIC CATARRH, HYPER-
(EMIA of the LIVER, GALL STONES, CHRONIC
CONSTIPATION, DIABETES, RENAL CALCULI,
GOUT, and diseases of the spleen arising from
residence in the tropics or malarious districts.
THE NATURAL
PARLSB □ SPRUIEL - SALT
In small and frequent doses is an efficient
DIURETIC,but as an APERIENT it should be taken
BEFORE BREAKFAST, in doses of from 1 to 2 tea-
spoonfuls, dissolved in water. To increase the
APERIENT action of the Carlsbad Mineral Water,
a teaspoonful of the Salt, previously dissolved
in water should be added.
SOLE CONSIGNEES for the U.K. and the Colonies
INGRAM & ROYLE, 52, Farringdon St., London,
A di of all Chemists throughout the World.
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
t
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE.—For Affections of the
Liver, Biliary Organs, he.
CELESTINS.—Forthe Kidneys, Gravel, Gout
Rheumat sm. Diabetes, &c.
HOPITAL. —For Stomach' Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent T able Water.
Or AM CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLANG
OPOPANAX
and other wall-known Perfumes are
aequalle I for tlu-ir delightful and
lasli ig odour.
Of all Delia s, and of the .Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark AVhitoRose "on Golden
Lyre, with Address in full.
. LLIM A. MARSHALL A CO.,
" Enqinbbbb, Coppersmiths, Bbabs and Bell Founders,
fuiiHns, Plumb kbs, Gabfittbeb, Ship & General Smiths, Art ft Medieval Metal Wohkexb
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use-
importers and-Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Taoht and Boat Work of every description in
lios or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
Ml iOCO» FORES, I Macnnaric Place, Sydney, and Btanmere Road, Petersham,
M‘LEAN BROS., RIGKx, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANT*,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<o
s>
SRO
IRONMONGERS
X
0
H/
o
m
<b
$
ţ
SPECIALITIES;
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light,
ELECTRO-PLATED WAKE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o.
’S
insmiu teast rona
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SOBS ITOTB FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TEA-CASES, PASTS'?; Ac..
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN HADB WITH
Williams’ Australian Toast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH. AND THE SEA,
BKWARB OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
BOLD IN TINS AT Od. THE HALF FOUND.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
14 COLLINS STREET EAST.
__ 0&P"* 1 -
and Aocraed Capital
Baoelred _
Made
liaani _ _
Tui ending
Oat., 188*.
£180,426
61,680
08,681
128,148
900,106
Tear ending
Oot., 1886.
£860,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
461,086
Tear ending
Oot., 1887.
£431,126
206,685
891,356
807,828
797,990
Tear ending
Oot., 1888.
_ £580,000
251,015
- 1,123,949
625,826
- 9,048,951
•firms** received at following Bate* t—U month*. 7 per cent.; 6 month*. 6 per
•ant.» * month*. 6 per cent. Special Term* for longer period*.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
afr» wi
pram
lit n
ffs I*anon* who deelre tojput by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
etah to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
T DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK.
f Ka.NOH offer* thi very best opportunity. Depositor* in this branch
n jr/FJS per cent, per annum upon their DaUy Balance.
*«H2 rOXIS for Borrowers. TG&HS LIBERAL.
I
ISB~
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST
£25 Contributing Shares
£JAN BB OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of It.
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are le
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interact,
amount to £25, when that sum Is paid over to their holders in Cask .
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received in October
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed «*%
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hen. JOHN HIM 10, M.F., J.F., - . Cbnlmuut.
WILLIAM DOHKRTV - AlttM-lterttary.
mm
■
;-v
Js
»■ *
THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALACE
OOBJTBK OT
Sing' <2z Colllrrs Streets, ls£©lToo-axrr©,
Containing 560 ROOMS, Is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of YUltors.
PRIVATE SUITES off ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and TaWfr
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL ■ GROUND FLOOR,
With excellent MeaA, presided over by an experienced CMf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOMft
, HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
Ganrne CnH«w • Maitapif*


The Bulletin
Vol. 10—No 471.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1889.
Price, id.
mtut-
DOW.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ' 0 P 2 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
" Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
•whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 U'ords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
u The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But xve
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
cf such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct <o The Bulletin' Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tub Bulletin - posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23. 1889
Wanted—Manhood Suffrage.
The gilded Imposition falsely described in
New South Wales as “manhood suffrage”
has gone through another trial, and has again
proved Itself an ignominious failure. For
the hundredth time the Democracy has been
swamped by the cumulative vote of “Pro-
putty,” the silent, irresistible force of hoarded
wealth, the suffrages of b ink-balances, the
voice of houses and earth, the material in-
fluence of stones and dust and decayed vege-
tation : all these, and a hundred other forma
of affluence have gone to the polls and
manned down the landless musses ; and the
masses, seemingly, have learned nothing by
old experience, and still fondly imagine that
in New South Wales all men are free and
equal.
« • *
And, if the truth is to be found in the
parrot-like iteration of such apostles as
Burdekin, and Wise, aud M‘Millan —the
men who perspire wealth and weep bank-
notes as they contemplate the sinfulness and
apostacy of the age —the privileged c’ass
who retain their privileges by preaching to
the somnolent masses that in Naw South
Wales all mankind Is privileged alike—the
mother colony of the Australias Is the home of
freedom, and the land above all others where
men are alike In the eye of the law. Yet,
in this same land of boasted equality a drink-
sodden Imbecile, who has never learned
to real, but who owns a Chinese gambling-
den in one electorate, and a public-house
and a rag-depot In two more, exercises three
votes at the poll ; and when the country Is
called upon to decide a qu sstlon which may
affect Its destlcns for ages to come his
opinion is counted as being three times more
valuable—because of the gambling den and
the public-house and the rag-depot—than
would be the suffrage of a Gladstone or a
Disraeli, though either of these two re-
tained all his Intellectual force and lacked
only the one great requisite—property. The
possession of six unkempt buck yards in six
different suburbs, all within half an hour’s
walk of the centre of Sydney, has power to
confer upon a recently-discharged felon fix
times the political power which could be
wielded by George Washington or Abra-
ham Lincoln if one or beth of these great
statesmen could be resurrected to occupy a
hired lodging by the shores of the Beautiful
Harbour. The ownership In fee simple
tf a shop for the receipt of stolen pro-
perty and a fever-den for the slaughter of
diseased horses is sufficient qualification to
bestow upon any bleary ruffian twice as
large a share In the government cf the
country as would be entrusted at the polls
to Lang, Wentworth, M‘llwraith, Sir
George Grey, Parke s, Berry, Dalley,
Griffith, or any other among the prominent
figures of Australian history, so long as they
owned only brains but were devoid of the
sordid qualification of money—whether
honourably or dishonestly acquired Is cf no
account. But the old lie about manhood
suffrage still goss round, and while the
Democracy Is swamped by the block vo*e cf
festering tenements and unwholesome bone-
yards it goes on its peaceful way in ass-hke
contentment, hardly even inquiring how it is
governed, or by whom.
“Manure,’ wrote Mark Twain, “is the
Black Forest grandee’s main treasure, his
title to public consideration, his envy, his
recreation, and his first solicitude when he
gets ready to make his will.” New South
Wales, however, has attached an additional
value to this substance which was omitted
from the category of the ex-pilot of the
Misfissippi la the old colony, which has
failed to acquire wisdom with advancing age,
manure Is a political influence, and If there
were only a sufficiency of manure within its
borders it could make and unmake Govern-
ments, drafo new laws and abolish old ones,
and shape the general policy of the nation.
The manure-depot confers a vote ; the man
with a dozen manure-depots judiciously
scattered has a d zen votes by virtue of his
stock of fertiliser, while the man who Is
only the greatest genius, the greatest philan-
thropist, the most prominent scientist or
philosopher of the age has but one. One
imbecile cripple with twelve guano-stores,
when he appears at the poll In New South
Wales, could swamp the combined suffrages
of Gladstone, Andrassy, Gambetta, Henly
George, Garibaldi, Lincoln, Castelar,
Darwin, Huxley, Isaac Newton aud
Shake- peare, supposing all these were
living electors of New South Wales and
didn’t own any guano. And just here an
old, tlred-out delusion collapses in a heap.
It Is manure, not men, that ii free and equal
in New South Wales.
• •
Wealth ii always conservative. The man
who has acquired riches la content with the
system which enabled him to heap up hla
accumulated thousands, and views changes
with suspicion lest they should Interfere i a
some way with the plan which has made the
world a pleasant place for him to live In. The
faetthathe owns more than hlsdue proportion
of the earth’s assets necessarily means that
some hundreds of others have come eff badly
in the general distribution, and he loathes
any scheme of reform which appears to aim
at improving the condition of the poor, lest
their poverty should be alleviated at the cost
of some portion of his riches. In the history
of every country the aristocracy of wealth
has ever been found voting for the policy of
stagnation ; In every hi cameral system cf
government framed on the Australian plan,
the nominee Chamber —the one which In-
variably represents elderly respectability
and ponderous affluence—acts as a clog on
the movements of the House which reflects
the views and desires, the advancing en-
lightenment and the progressive education
of the people. The vote of the manure-
depot la always given for the support of old
traditions and venerable institutions which
the country has long since outgrown, and
when this influence is multiplied by the
suicidal system of multiplex voting which
prevails In New South Wales there is
always at command a solid phalanx of Conser-
vative electors, whose property suffrages can
outweigh ten times their number of landless
electors. When the demand for needed
reform threatens In any way the monopolies
of the wealthy section of the community
reform is impossible unless fully 80 per cent
of the voting power of the country Is pre-
pared to ei force the needed change. Any
smaller proportion Is manned down by the
double and treble and quadruple suffrages of
the men whose qualification lies, not In
brains but In terraces, and country estates,
and slushy wharves, and corner allotments,
and coal mines, and the other Inanimate
things which rise to prop up the cause of
public stagnation wherever stagnation can
be found.
• • •
“One Man, Oie Vote,” is the watchword
which should be adopted by the party of
Progress in Australia, and the abolition of
plural voting is a necessity which even over-
shadows such urgent questions as Protection
to Local Industry, Land Nationalisation,
and the assertion of the Independence of
the Australian Nation. It overshadows
them—not because it Is In itself the goal
of national progress, but because it Is the
only means by which serious reform can be
rendered possible. Land Nationalisation
must begin by a struggle between the land-
less multitude and those who profit by the
land monopoly, but so long as the landowner
can exercise In his own single person any
numbsr of votes, from 2 to 107, according to
his capacity for land stealing, the struggle is
a terribly uneven one. The man who
demands reform Is the man who possesses
nothing save his brains and his manhood ;
the men who have Instituted great reforms,
and led great movements, and overthrown
great tyrannies have invariably been the men
who possessed nothing, while those who
have struggled to the last gasp to oppose all
beneficent innovations, who have taken
their stand on the track when the engine cf
Progress was In motion and have only
realised their mistake when they were
ciurhed under the wheels, have always been
the men of property—ignoble martyrs whose
faith was Property and who perished in de-
fence of their creed. In New South Wales,
as in other countries, Property votes for the
preservation of its own vested Interests, and
the property holder, by voting at half a
score of different polls on behalf of as many
separate items of wealth, Is multiplied
tenfold, and smothers with his own dead
weight the vast majority of the electors,
who wish to ask him, according to tha modes
provided by the Constitution, why he should
be a hereditary oligarch to rule over them.
• * •
Protection, like Land Nationalisation, has
a’so been crowded out so far by the polyglot
vote of property. The question of Prctac-
ti n and Freetrade is virtually a struggle be-
tween the manufacturing and agricultural
industries which represent Internal pros-
perity on the one hand, and on the other
the importing monopoly which seeks to
crush out Internal production In order to
compel the whole population to purchase
goods of fc reign origin that yield a commis-
sion of from 20 to 50 percent, to the merchants
c f Sydney. Butalong-contlnuedForelgn-trade
policy has centred the wealth of New South
Wales In the hands of the Importing mono-
polists. The rich manufacturers wh© might
throw their double and triple votes Into the
Protectionist scale, and thus hold the balance
level, even under the present vicious system,
have no exlster cs ; and the fight lies almost
entirely between the M‘Millans and Bur-
dekins of the Freetrade party, with their
five or ten or more suffrages apiece, and
tte Impoverished workman or struggling
selector, who gives his solitary vote
for Protection, In the hope that it may
find him employment or provide him with a
market for his produca. The fact that the
majority of the bloated millionaires of New
Sou h Wales have their residence In Sydney,
is the reason why that city has so long gone
solid for Freetrade. Fully half the Im-
porters and business men of the old metro-
polis combine, each In his own individual
person, votes for East, South, and West
Sydney, Paddington, Red fern, St. Leonards,
Balmain, Can* erbury, Newtown, Central
Cumberland, and the Glebe, more or less,
all of which he duly registers, together with
a few stray votes in country constituencies,
which he is also roused up to exercise if the
exigencies of the party make it necessary to
do so. The suffrages held by the residents
of these two small aristocratic quarters—
Potts and Darling Points—are almost as
tutmrous as those of the whole huge suburb
of Rsdfern, with its population of labourers
and artfzans, and the warehouses and offices
of York-street, if all the multiplied votes of
their owners and hangers-on could be con-
centrated In one electorate, would probably
swamp the proletariat voice of Newtown In
one act. It is only at a serious crisis that
the monopolist interest requires to bring
resurrected citizens from the graveyards to
maintain Its interests at the ballot-box.
Wood and stone, bricks, mortar, earth, and
concrete, asphalt, grass, and swamp all have
votes in New South Wales, and it Is a cold
and depressing day when these combined
influences get left.
• • •
When the question of Australian Indepen-
dence is brought to a practical Issue, and a
Ministry Is forced to appeal to the country
on the question of freedom v. continued ser-
vitude, the same influences will be found,
not wholly but In great part, on the side of
“ loyalty ” and dependence. The men who
make revolutions, and build new nations, and
overthrow old despotisms are the dlscon-
tented and restless spirits who are abhorred
above all other earthly things by the placid
soul of “ prcputty.” Discontent la the
result of hunger and misery, snd “pro.
pu'ty” is filled to repletion and cannot
understand that these two troubles exist
anywhere on earth. Discontent means pro-
gress, and “ proputty ” Is satisfied with
things as they are, and has no desire to
worry with improvements In a world which
—ln its old, unreformed state has*
blessed it with good d'nners and a large
bank balance. Discontent has been the
inspiration of such men as Columbus,
Galileo, Bruce, Tell, Kosciusko, Edison,
.Arkwright, Captain Ook, Livingstone,
Stanley, Humboldt, Gladstone, and
myriads more, all of whom were spurred on
to their great achievements because they
were ci satisfied wich the ignorarca, or the
cowardice, or the servility cf the age, and
wished to add something to the mass of
human knowledge, to do something to fire
the souls cf the downtrodden nations, to
create something, or to destroy something.
Contentment has given the world the an-
wieldy glutton Yitbllius, placidly gorging
through his last days in the imperial palace
of ancient Rome; Selim, “the Sot,” the
Incarnate ruin of the Turkish state, and an
Interminable line of crowned drunkards,
dreamy, paunchy monks loafing in their
cloisters, and ponderous, Ignorant ecclesl-
as*ic3, happily convinced of their own salva-
tion, and preaching to a people still more
Ignorant than themselves that the way to
attain Heaven was to ba contented In their
stations, and love the squire and his rela-
tives, and pay due reverence to their betters.
Contentment means narrowness, bigotry,
selfishness, self-satisfaction, stolidity, corpu-
lenee, good clothes, good houses, carriages,
rich dinners, fatty degeneration and other
adjuncts of wealth; discontent—the one
influence which keeps the world from settling
down to grow mouldy and putrid from sheer
loss of energy and purpose —has Its origin In
poverty, restlessness, and a ceaseless desire
for progress and reformation. Every great
question of political and socisl reform brings
these two forces into concussion, but hither-
to, so far as New South Wales is con-
cerned, the multiplied vote of “ proputty"
—as represented by the fat and well-fed
apostles of national stagnation—has been
able, as a rule, to suppress the voice of the
great majority, which demands that the
nation should continue to move instead of
settling down to rot and rust and decay In
indolent loyalty and self-satisfaction.
• * *
Of c ourse it may be, despite all signs to the
contrary, that we have committed a mistake
in assuming that the cancfe of progress would
benefit by the establishment cf manhood
suffrage, and by the abolition of a system
which makes “ proputty ” lake the place of
brains as the ruling Influence of New South
Wales. Yet, even In such a case, It is the
established axiom of constitutional govern-
ment that the majority must rule, and what-
ever the consequjnce, we call upon the
statesmen and the people of the country to
demand that the opinions of three-fourths
of the nation should no longer be overruled
by a f faction whose only special qualification
is its wt alth ; and wo appeal to all creeds
and political factions to prove the sincerity
of their boasting by aiding in this work.
The Foreign-trade party has declared for
years that it represents (he soul of the
people : that the tolling masses are united
In their determination to shore it up to the
bitter end, and that the Protectionist body
consists of a small array of monopi 1 'sts, scout ad
and despised hy the country at large; arc!
therefore we call upon the Foreign-trade
party to aid In establishing a genuine system
of manhood suffrage in order that this much-
cursed Protectionist monopoly may be scat-
tered to the winds, and the country be
allowed an opportunity to proclaim Its un-
dying devotion to the Foreign-trade system.
If the party refuses to take this opportunity
of asserting Itself it can only be because it
knows well that it Itself lives by monopoly)
and Its action will effectually give the He to
all the empty ravings of the past. The
Orange faction, which has announced In s°
many pious orgies that the one living senti-
ment of New South Wales la embodied lu
the war-cry “To hell with the Pope,” is
Invited to lend a hand so that the Cornstalk
raco may be enabled to rise up in Its might
and crush, by the votes of men, and not the
suffrages of backyards and senseless earth,
that “Roman conspiracy” which la p 0f ‘
petnally drivelled about by the Illiterate shoe-
makers and cheeky, lazy Insolvent failures of
the yellow organisation. The “ loyalists ”
New South Wales are also offered an un ‘


I FOREIGN i»ND COLONIAL EXCHANGE
1 BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite Custom House).
Directors :
R. H, REYNOLDS, Esq , Chateman,
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Intkeest on Deposits :
12 Months 7h per cent.
ft ill
T. S. RICHARDSON Managing Director.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whit*
Patbnt Rou.br Fi.cwb It Is the greatest success of the
igs
equaled opportunity of obtaining decisive
proof of that universal adoration for the
British Crown which is said to be the life-
current of the Australim people, and every
other fed or branch-fad or deputy-asaistant-
lunacy In the land is also urged to assist in
the good work, that the electors may have
an opportunity of declaring that they
are ready to suffer and die In order
that the earth may revolve for ever on the
axis of one particular crank. The policy
0 f “One Mau, One Vote,” In fact, recom-
mends Itself to every party which dares to
put Its theories to the test of honest public
opinion, and therefore we call upon all, with-
out exception, from the Foreign-trade
millionaire down to the Social Purity drudge
who toils in a slum with his overworked
gimlet, to aid in the establishment of genuine
manhood suffrage in New South Wales.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A “Disloyal" Chief Justice.
Some little time ago Sir Thomas MTlwraith left
Australia for England that he might see and
admire at closer range the glorious institutions of
that country, and view the outward evidences of
that deep sagacity which is supposed to be the
ear-mark of the British statesman; and he re-
turned to record his tixed opinion that the entire
British Cabinet—the Colonial Office especially—
consisted of a “pack of darned old women, ’and
that the Government of the beloved mother land
was a composite grandmotherly old wreck who
was tottering with a handbag and a cotton um-
brella towards an open grave. The recently-pub-
lished correspondence between Sir Henry Loch,
Governor of Victoria, and the democratic Chief-
Justice Higinbotham, lends a further air of reality
to Sir Thomas MTlwraith’s convictions. The
independent attitude of the Victorian Chief-
Justice has long been a bitter aggravation to the
faction which bows and scrapes around the doors
of Government House. He is regarded as a
heathen, dontyerknow; an awful republican pi rson
who has no respect for old-established traditions,
a party who actually criticises the Governor and
doesn’o cheer for the Prince of Wales, a fellar —
would you believe it—who doesn’t tighten the
binds as it were—sort of individual who
oight to be put down by some fellar; and as
the Gillies party grows more and more abject in
Its sycophancy the conviction that Higinbotham
ought to be “put down” because he doesn’t
hooray for the Queen gathers new weight, and a
feeling is beginning to grow up that somebody
ought to write to the papers about him, or call out
the Permanent Force and mobilise the fortifica-
tions at the Heads. At length matters have
reached such a point that Henry Loch and his
advisers have brcome convinced that the Chief
Justice is nob sufficiently “ English ” t > be safely
entrusted with the administration in the absence
of the Lord's deputy-Anointed. Among other
things Mr. Higinbotham found it necessary to
point out to the Governor that his “ Instructions ”
were, in some respic's, at absolute variance with
the public law of the colony, and that when the
two came in collision the law must override the
hide bound regulations drawn up by the Red-tape
Off! je and initialled by the clerks of the Petty -
Bag Department; while Loch, on his part, main-
tained that the statutes of a common, ordinary
colony were of no account as against the written
expression of Her Majesty’s “wishes” duly
stamped with the cotton umbrella of a toothless
Administration. Further, the Chief Justice ag-
gravated his offence by stating that: —
A native-born population is rapidly taking the place of
t’ee English born, and there is necessarily a uniform feel-
ing o( suspicious dislike of England and her government,
not without justifying cause ; and it depends upon the
relations to be established, whether that feeling will not
soon become, amongst the native Australians, one of pro-
found and general a'ienation.
Apparently, this last expression of opinion con-
vincsd Her Majesty’s overpaid representative that
Chief Justioe Higinbotham meant chaos ; and he
proceeded to annul, to the best of his small ability,
ths constitutional right of the Chief Justice to
represent the Crown in the absence of the cus-
tomary wooden figureheid kept fo: that purpose.
To effect this he resorted bo ths knock-kneed sub-
terfuge of professing to have received a communi-
cationfrom Mr. Higinbotham, in which he said that
he would prefer to be annulled—a communication
which Higinbotham promptly declared he never
m ade, and had no power bo make ; and finally the
whole revolutionary correspondence was referred
Home,” that the Law Officers of the British
Crown might sit upon it, and weep. Then, as a
desperate expedient, the Governor explained, by
letter, to this irrepressible Judge, that he did not
grovel enough for his position, and that unless he
could grovel more, the administration of the colony
®ust be placed in other hands :
Sir Henry Locif informed the Chief Justhe that in the
svent of his being called upon temporarily to administer
the Government of the colony, and if he should be unable
to correspond wuh the Secretary of State in a manner
j T Mai-.sty's Government considers esiential, the Secre-
cy,01 State wou’d be obliged, however reluctantly, to
consider what course should be a opted, under such cir-
jNunstances, for the temporary administration of the
Government cf the colony. Mr. Justice Higinuotiiam
jop.ied that, in his opinion, the mode of correspondence
osistel upon by the Secretary of Slate was inconsistent
wn h, and opposed to, the public law of Victoria.
The epistles filled with “ Your Excellency ” and
iour Majesty,” which Gillies indites on his
wk-u knees, and the superhuman politeness
which leads him to telephone on all fours when the
humblest representative of monarchy is at the other
ha of the wire, are probably the modes which are
considered “essential” in corresponding with the
soretary of State, but Higinbotham is con-
nected on a different plan, Like MTlwraith
a b ?c:)vere d that the Empire is governed by
“J™ of old women, and being a sturdy demc-
th r 18 objects to being at the beck and call of
rs« u me Ci1m °* Downing-street, And as the
Ob'f~r W0 H’ we venture on a prophecy ; if
hief Justice Higinbotham lives a few more years
h« -J, f *ther be removed from his high office or
will be one of the principal founders of the
aerated States of R publican Australia.
The New Parliament of New South Wales.
fiuh South Wales general election has re-
Troti ? retiurn of (59 Foreign-traders and (5G
hre e , c “ 10D i 8< i8, together with two gentlemen who
quentJ pr f 8e P t claimed by both parties, and conse-
kev j • imported rooster crows in a smothered
sirnila 81DK ? a hu& k’ er war-song than he did on a
»r occasion two years ago. If Messrs. Green
and Wilkinson, who both preached Protection
on the hustings, but whom, nevertheless, the
Foreign-trade party claims as its own devoted
adherents, resolve to sit behind Premier Dibbs,
then the terewth for which the Herald and the
Telegraph lift up their voices will be in a
majority of only owe, and to make sure of even
that one 1 nely vote the party will be reduced to
the dire extremity of greeting John Haynes as a
man and a brother. If, on the other band, the
two gentlemen above-named ally themselves to
the Foreign-trade gathering, that boastful faction
will show an advantage of five votes over its
opponents, in place of the majority of 42 which it
possessed in a much smaller House two short years
ago. The Protectionist phalanx of 1887 consisted
of only 41 members : in 1889, it numbers 66 or 68,
being an increase of over 50 per cent, in 24
months. One solitary Protec ionist electorate has
gone back on the principles which it adopted at
the last general election, and against this 19 “Free-
trade ” constituencies have resolved that they have
had enough of Foreign-trade and poverty, and
want a change to some policy which will give more
employment and lees pauperism. Out of thirteen
newly-created seats, eight are occupied by Protec-
tionists, and only five go to strengthen the
Foreign trade interest. Quite a small host of old
Foreign trade members have been returned as
Protectionist converts, while of converts from
Protection to the Parkeaian camp there is not
even one. Protection is coming, and coming with
ten times more certainty than in 1887; the cry
that “the Protestant religion is in danger” has
lost its_ old magic influence, and the electors are
beginning to turn a deaf ear to the warning that
nigger made goods are the only bulwark against
Roman Catholicism, or Buddhism, or Mohammed-
anism, or some other danger equally shadowy in
its character. The bitter disappointment and
wrath which fill the angry columns of the Sydney
daily press are sufficient proof that the caure of
M'Millionism is at gasp. The same
papers which cursed Parkes because he resigned
after being twice defeated by majorities of 28 and
14 respectively, now curse Dibbs because he does
not instantly vacate his place as Premier on the
assumption that his party is ia a minor ry of
one ; and the Telegraph in particular seeks for
barren consolation in a glaring untruth concerning
the superior cohesive power of its own gahg of
prophets. It says
Oa the one side we have a heterogeneous assemblage of
Proteotionists. supporters of sectarian education and
squatters. On the other side wa have men bandad
together on the single issue of Fraetrade.
This tale sounds eminently probable in the pages
of a journal which was the first to bid the electors
of New South Wales return Orange Lodge
fanatics, Social Parity cranks, cold-water faddists,
footballers—anyone or anything, in fact, which
would vote against Dibbs ; and its probability is
considerably enhanced when it contradict its own
assertion and eats its own words in the same
article, and only a few lines further on—
The present House has been returned, every individual
member has been returned, oa a clean-cut issue cf Free-
trade or Protection.
And so the gory shirt drops in the dust I The
Telegraph goes back on the old, tattered, half-
mast rag which it itself was the first to hoist, and
denies all the old ravings about the religion of our
buried fathers, and the chaste and Christian
slaughters of the venerated William. With all
the multiplied property votes of the Sydney pluto-
crats in its favour the importing moaoply has
fallen on evil days, and has sunk to the lowest ebb
it has ever yet reached in New South Wales. And
if the Dibbs Government has the courage and the
opportunity to establish a new system by which
every citizen in New South Wales will have one
vote and one vote only, and the policy of the
country will be decided in future by men in place
of tenements, the hollow shell of the Parkes
aggregation will collapse into impalpable dust.
*
The Halzc Problem.
A certain elaborate problem concerning the maizs
emp of New South Wales is just now agitating
the Sydney Telegraph, and as usual the unhappy
Pulsfohd has risen to the ccsasiou and ru-hed in
where angels fear to tread. Mr. Slattery, a
member of the present Dibbs’ Government, wrs
the first to awake the slumbering agricultural lion
by pointing cub in the press that under the fiscal
system which was built bo encourage cheap nigger
labour at the expense of local production, the
imports of maize were fast increasing, the exports
were falling off to an appalling extent, and the
local production was making little progress, a
result which was especially alarming in a country
which depended mainly on the sale of raw
material—and on the floating of public loans—for
the means wherewith to purchase the necessaries
of life This statement at ones roused the com-
bative Pulspoed bo action, and in an infatuated
moment he published a table of figures to show
that New South Wales was absolutely wallowing
in maize of its own growing, and that things
agricultural were all that fancy could paint them.
According to his statements, the production of
maize has increased in the 12 years, 1877-1888, from
3,879,537 to 4,953.125 bushels, or an advance
of 25 per cent ; the imports have risen from
49,747 to 152,010 bu hels, equal to 300 per cent,
advance; and the exports have fallen ctf from
834,000 bushels ia 1877 to 242,000 bushels in 1888,
which means that three fourths of the trade has
vanished ics'de 12 jears. The local consumption,
meanwhile, has spread itself from a fraction over
3,000.000 bo 4,800 000 bushels; and on the strength
of these figures Mr. Pulsfohd calls on New South
Wales to rejcioe with an exrceding great joy at
the prosperity brought about by Freetrade. To
us, however, it seems as if Mr. Pulsfohd had
hopelessly damned his argument with his own
figures, and that his salary has been rated from
half-a-crown to two shillings. According to his
own showing production is fast falling in arrear of
demand, and the colony which, in 1877, met all its
own requirements and had 834,000 bushels left to
sell to other countries, now just manages to supply
itself, and is going backwards with such undeviat-
lag regularity that in another year, at the present
rate of progress, she will find herself dependent on
foreign supplies for one more article of local con-
sumption. The demand, in fact, is increasing
twice as fast as the production; the income
received from the tale of maize abroad has almost
entirely vanished; and the time is nearly arrived
when New South Wales will have to raise money to
buy maize from ladi», South Africa, and oi her lands
where cheap nigger labour enables the growers to
wipe out the insolvent Australian farmer at their
pleat u re. Pulsfohd, however, professes himself
satisfied, and even joyous at these results, which
is another striking evidence of the blessed condi-
tion of him who expects nothing, and the great
probability that he shall nob be disappointed. And
while he is in this state of felicity, the hired
Foreign-trade arithmetician might also take a
glance at the wheat trade of New South Wales,
and demonstrate the prosperity of this industry
by the fact that the colony was compelled to pay,
in 1877, for 1,489,996 bushels to feed a population
which is not able to grow its own breadstuff* in a
land which carries 3| persons bo the square mile,
while in 1886 the same impoverished country was
required to purchase over 3h million bushels from
foreign growers, her own production having mean-
while remained practically stationary. If these
things are evidences of prospei isy, we would prefer
ruin on the ground that there is probably more
money in it than in the description of affluence
over which Pulsford rejoices. That gentleman’s
theory, reduced from figures to plain English, is
than a country which contains two men and 20s.
total assets, is in a state cf prosperity, and when,
a few years later, the population has risen from
two to ten, and the assets have increased from 20s.
bo 25s , the riches of the land are swelling with
remaikable velocity. Whether ben men with half-
a-crown apiece are richer than two with 10s. each,
is a problem which is beyond his mental range.
+
Wanted —A Newspaper.
To attempt to establish Protection ia New South
Wales without adequate representation in the
morning press is about on a par with trying to
run a steam-e ngine_ without a toiler. Not only is
a morning Protectionist paper required to fairly
repreient the people’s cause but to prevent the
other side from deliberately misrepresenting it—
and above all, from misrepresenting it at critical
moments. As matters stand the reports of all
political movements in Sydney can only reach the
public eye after being subjected to a rigid capi-
talistic censorship at the hands of the two morning
journals. The result is that we always find
M'Millan presented wearing a halo round his
saintly political head, while Dibbs is depicted
with horns and a barbed tail. As a political
sharpshooter the Protectionist evening paper does
good service, but the functions of an afternoon
paper are mostly confined to this, Eor the heavier
sort of campaigning work the merning journal
holds it at a crushing disadvantage. The false-
hoods of the Heeald and Telegraph are
allowed twelve clear hours’ start every day,
whereas, if Protection had a morning organ
it would be a level race from scratch for both
sides of the question. Never were the auspices
more favourable for the foundation of a great
journal of this kind than they are now. All the
best and most forcible writers in Sydney, and in
the colonies for that matter, are Protectionists with
Nationalistic leanings, and a company with money
enough could go to-morrow and pick the eyes out
of the staff of every Ereebrade daily in Australia.
A Protectionist morning paper must eventually
become bo New South Wales what the Age is or
used to be to Victoria The place cf the Age
has been left vacant in Sydney, though that of
the nondescript Melbourne Daily Telegraph has
been filled by che King-street people, who, coming
first in the field, blunderingly pegged out the wrong
journalistic claim. The paper for the New South
Wales Democracy must nob be run by men who
merely exchange the white choker for the white
waistcoat and a hundred or two a year to boob.
Already schemes are on foot for the establish-
ment of a genuine people’s paper with a
clear c at National policy, embracing such lead-
ing principles as Eree, Secular, and Compulsory
education, Oae Vote for One Man, Payment of
Members, Australian Eederabion and Protection to
Native Industry. In the tar iff-list for local labour’s
protection against foreign slavery, Cardinal
Moran s rad bat, Primate Barry’s black apron
and Boibor Curnow's white waistcoat must each
be treated with the strictest impartiality,
There is at present lying in the gaol at Young,
New South Wales, a prisoner charged with the
crime ui murder. The colony has just had paraded
before it the specticle of a woman being executed
for a similar crime This woman lay in gaol some
months, and on the morning fixed for her trial,
when put to the bar, she was found to be unde-
fended. The presiding Judge assigned to her
unpaid course!, who, within a day or two,
had to take such instructions as he could
to defer d the life of his client. The Bulle-
tin hopes that the Minister for Justice,
who in his private capacity as a member of
a firm of attorneys charitably gave his profes* ional
services in the Collins’ appeals, will at once tee,
now that he has the power, that the man in
Young gaol has all the legal assistance necessary
to insure his having a fair trial for his life. The
custom in Victoria is to hand an attorney a lump
sum out of which he fees counsel and procures wit-
nesses for the prisoner’s defence. New South
Wales in this at least ought not to be behind her
neighbour.
♦
One South, of Melbourne, convicted of stealing
books from the local Supreme Court library, “ be-
haved himself very violently when brought up for
sentence before Judge Casey,” and was awarded
what under the circumstances was the outrageous
sentence of three years’ gaol, Judge Casey, who
seems also to have lost his temper on the occasion,
subsequently had South brought up again, and on
his own responsibility reduced the sentence-from
three years to three months, a punishment which
very much more closely fits the offence of stealing
law-books than did the former term. “It now
appears,” say the papers, “that South was not in
tbe beat of healtn or in the possession of his
senses.” If South is not in his proper senses,
then his case is one for the doctor and not for the
gaoler. The Bulletin is very strongly of opinion
that Judge Casey ought, tinder the circumstances,
to go to the doctor too. A judge who awards a
three years sentence for a three months’ offence
is evidently abnormally irritable, and in med of
seclusion and the shower-bath.
+
Dear Bulletin, —I observe in a recent ipeech
by rx Premier Paekes that that perfect
gentleman goes out of his way to state to
the public th.at Premier Bibbs “ia not a
gentleman, and I wish to draw your attention
to one circumstance which has, possibly, some
slight bearing on the question. Some years ago,
as most people are aware, Mr. Bibbs failed in
business, and was forced to Income insolvent. He
stained his certificate and was legally cleared of
all liabi i iss. Some years afterwards he came to
acc * paid me over £4OO, being the amount
which he bad owed me at the time of his insolvency,
together with interest up to date; and all hia
other creditors—not one or whom had the slightest
legal claim upon him—were treated in like manner.
1 have been in business fcr many years, but Mr.
Bibbs is the cnly mm whom 1 have met who
ever paid me a single cent of a debt which had
been wiped out by the legal process of insolvency,
and as far as I can learn from all my business
acquaintances he stands alone among public men
in this respect. Now, Paekes has been insolvent
once cr twice or so, and yet I don’t hear any-
body saying such things about him as I have
la 8 * 1 Ti Sa Bibbs, Possibly, however,
Mir, Bibbs’ fine sense of hcncur in this respect is
in Paekes’s opinion—one of the signs that he is
n °t a gentleman, and in fact the difference between
the two men makes it certa'n that if Paekes is a
T- naan then Bibbs is not. The old man him-
self, I remember, openly declared in the House
that “ honour does not consist in paying 20s.
TO- 1 I ’ or y ears P ast » tbe New South
Wales daily press has run a crusade against Mr.
Bibbs, as the same press always does against
every man whose motives are above its mean
comprehension; and its ceaseless mud-throw-
ing has raised a prejudice against the present
New South Wales Premier which it will take
many yews to efface. But in private life
Mr. Bibbs is beloved by all his acquaintances,
is a favourite with all his employes, and is
esteemed by every one to whom he ever owed
money, while as for Paekes—well, ask the men
who still remain from the old staff of the Empiee,
ask his North Shore tenants, ask me men whose
names figure on his insolvency-schedules —Yours,
etc , A Peeeteadee, but not a Parkesttb.
Me, S. W. Mooee, Foreign trader, late member
for Inverell (N.S.W.), has quittsd political life on
the ground that his principles do not allow him to
be_ a Protectionist, and his morals prevent him
being a political associate of Paekes any more.
Consequently, he retires to wash himself and get
disinfected and to undergo a process of recovery
from the awfulness of his late associations, and he
addresses this sad outcry to his late constituents
to let them know how he feels
lam called upon to take my stand beneath the banner
of i reetrade. Well, I refuse to da so, although lam a
Freetraders Freetrader who be.ieves that there is
something far above Freefcrade, viz., eoop honest
government I refuse — to da what? Why. to help to
bring back iota pover the party that I helped to turn out.
freetrade, forsaath! Free-broken promises, Free-mis-
managemant, Free-shirkicg- of - the - financial - difficulty,
r ree-jugglery-with the-publio-acoounts, Free-roadmaking-
cn private-estates, Free-State-house-foolery, Free-law-
breakmg, Frf e- centralisation, Free-staving-off-needful-
legislation, Free failure 1 lb is idle for the party to now
repudiate this Pheb-List- without their aid it would have
been impossible, ffo! I vi 1 not help this party to
scramble back on to the Treasury benches.
+
Somewhere about ben days ago Sir Henri
Paekes endeavoured at Parramatta bo bolster up
the Foreign-trade interest by a stupendous, glaring
cram concerning the woollen trade of Victoria;
and despite the fact that his story was almost
instantly refuted, he has so far shown no sign of a
desire to explain his reasons for inventing one of
the mcst astonishing inaccuracies of bis very in-
accurate career. His object at the time was ap-
parently to hocus his audience into crediting the
old Foreign-trade lie that Protection lowers the
wages of the world ag-man, and with this purpose
he tired the following statement at his auditors :
fa Geelong all the tweed factories were closed and will
not open till the men accipt fs. a day.
Half astounded citizens promptly tele-
graphed to Geelong, asking for confirmation cf
this statement, and inquiring whether Geelong
wasn’t going to close up bodily in the face of such
general ruin, and the reply as promptly came back
that the Geelong tweed factories were going on
just as usual, that they bad five or months’
orders on band, and that no one in the district
had heard or read or dreamt of any 4i a day since
Geelong first existed. Excepting Paekes, in fact,
no one in the world knew anything of the ruin which
was supposed to have swamped the Victorian town,
and as Pabkes's alleged fact was not obtainable
anywhere, except in his own inner consciousness,
it becime tolerably evident that that statesman
invented his ideas as he w,ent along. Bift the
assertion, hopelessly thin and idiotic as it was,
served its purpose at the moment, and Parramatta
voted for Freetrade. Few of those who listened
to the thunders of the ex-Kiama Ghost stopped to
enquire into the probability or possibility of his
statements; they felt mostly that a man with
hair like that must be reliable, and they accepted
it all blindly, not on acconnt of Paekes but on
account of Paekks’s hair. If anything so glar-
ingly absurd had teen told them by a man with
short hair and a e’ean shave, the speaker—were he
Demosthenes himself—would have been greeted
with howls of derision, but the preat tangled mat
of the old man s thatch carried him through, and
Parramatta once more voted straight for mane
without enquiring about brains.
Peter Talor.
(DUED, FEBRUARY 9, 1889).
Tcey laid old Peter in his grave;
That honest-hearted “traitor,”
Who Austral’s flag first dared to wave,
Went home to his Creator
Respected in these latter days
As peace-preserving Speaker ;
As rebel Lalor won his bays—
His epitaph’s “Eureka.”
The spirit of the golden times
In Ballarat no more is,
And rhymesters, in a hundred rhymes,
Have mourned it’s faded glories;
The men were strong whom Lalor led,
Their sons may be not weaker,
But smoother paths in life they tread,
And half forget “Eureka.”
But when the Chief of ’54,
The honest-hearted traitor,
Had joined the heroes gone before,
And knelt to his Creator,
He took his place beside the Throne,
Not as a former Speaker :
Only the rebel God had known,
And angels sang “ Eureka I"


It Is said that Mr. John M‘Laugh] i a has
commenced a libel-action against a Sydney daily
which he alleges deliberately misreported him for
political purposes.
Now that It has become evident, through
the even baltmce of parties in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, that another election must shortly ensue,
the proprietors of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine have
put on a tremendous spurt to be ready for the
occasion. At times of great mental strain the
demand for Nervine is awful to contemplate.
Store Cattle for Saik.— looo male and 2000'
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill,
Queensland.
Write for plans £10 Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 9G Bathurst-street, Sydney,
B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFIOB
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. H. HACUBDT, .
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithograph! o
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookblno
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o.
Madardy'i AS Boa of Stationery a specialty. Send I 0 *
List of Contents.
Note Address— ——
819 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas 0» r
am) Fancy Goods. Inspection Invited.
CORRESPONDENCE
" j.F.”(Cooktown): Letter regarding Sir James Maoßains
antecedents received. Isn't it strange that when a poor
than has ascended the ladder of fame, somebody always
turns up to call attention to the patches on the dome cf
bis pants ?....“ Alpha” ; Hemyr King, photographer,
George-street. Sydney “Trundle Lagoon” writes
denying that Hon. Mr. Lyne was concerned in the de-
spatch of the Soudan Contingent, But Mr. Lyne ap-
proved of the despatch of the Soudan Contingent
“Melbourne”; Verses spirited, but deficient in interest
how; Try again....“ Kismet ’: iTou ask an honest
Criticism of your verse. Well, it is so bad that you could
get it printed nowhere save in the Brevity column of the
Noose “Soot” (Parramatta): Received “AI M.":
Education, if compulsory, should be free.. ..“Afialter
March ” : Has the N.S.W. excise duty on beer ra’sed the
price of beer to the consumer ? “Scribo”: There are
ho newspapers in New Guinea, anymore than there are
any at S veer’s Island.... “A. M.T.” : Stoi y unsuitable....
“Cjoktown Subscriber ”: We can vouch for them.
. “H.C.”: it was by compromise that a Pro-
tective tariff was introduced into Victoria
“A.W.B”: Many thanks "8.T.M,” (Portarling-
ton, Vio.): Do you really expect us to priat such
things ' “Jacko”: Yes, Governor Carington is very
pop rlar—as popular as Dan O’Connor. • •“ T. Carleton
(N.Z ); Will read as soon as possible. . .“Didaskalos” :
Yes, send it along... .“Bald-head” : Kerosene is refined
petroleum, but we presume that it would do. lou
must rub it into your scalp. By-the-way, if a
bald-headed man rubs his scalp with kiroieae
he won’t improve his popularity with the giilfi
and hs wi.l have to keep away from the footlights..
“W.J.C.”: Your poem, “Intercession for ’Eary,” re-
ceived ; The Bulletin respectfully declines to publieh it,
chiefly because it considers that its subject is past pray-
ing lor “R.L.” (or “R. 5.,” Delegate, N.S.W.): Please
send us your full name and addte;s. We wish to write to
you “A L ,” Auburn ; Thanks, but we want apolitical
parody “5.8.” : Many thanks “Jackass”: Your
poem is quite up to The Bulletin standard for “dis-
loyalty,” but in other respects is unsuitable "E.M.J.”:
Toe “alleged" letters from “Working Man," and
“Working Man’s Wife,” inserted in tome of the Foreign
Trade papers, are too evidently the productions cf the
over-pail reporter who “ does ” the Police Courts and the
produce stores records “Bloomer”: “Pome” under
consideration “ Riohard Gaitcn” (Laura, S.A):
We can recommend them “Harry B.": How
can we tell what they are worth until we have
seen them? “E, Wilson”: Judge Docker is
quite right and not quite wrong, as you appear
to think. The system of appointing honorary magis
trates to the polios benoh is a corrupt system in the main.
Th seoftnialsrollupto try oases in which their friends and
associates are interested, whereas there are very few
police magistrates who are approachable by litigants. The;
Bulletin considers that no func ionary who dfipsnsei
justice should be engaged in trade of any kind, nor, what
s more, should he be a mem’:er of any secret society.
Many a time and oft have we s:en a betoh packed with
grand worshipluls and all the risi of it....“ The Cook”:.
Will consider “Bumbora” : Many thanks —“Con-
stant Reader ” : His not b iog in Parliament makes his.
office vacant “A Daughter of N S. W.” : Many thanks
....“C.C.”: It was by compromise that a Protective tariff
was introduced into Victoria Yambo ” : Mr. J.hm
MaoLaughlin, if he really had at heart the Protectionist?,
interest, would surely not have subjected Mr. Barccs, tie
looil Protectionist candidate for Qundagai to the expense,
of a oonte.t H.T.D.”: Welding versei rather
but not quite good enough “D. R. Watson” (Mary-
borough, Q); Many thank? “ Biuenose ” : Hand, d to>
artist “ Lignum ”: Before you go to any expetse in
the matter you had better consult some literary autboiily,
as to the value of the M.S. With regard to printing,,
better get estimates from various firms “loaius”-
With practice you should be able to write good
verse “S. J. Burton” : What does Mr. George Rtidf
know about England? He has never been there
“ W.H.J.’’: We don’t think much cf Brewer Inch politi-
cally. There’s something in an inch cf whisky, but am
inch of beer is not worth talking about....“ P.A.M.”:.
Many thanks....“ Query ”: Yes, Mr. Dibbs had to pay ini
fult~..“Oid 4T9R” : Glad to hear from an old friend.
Poem under consideration “ Kiama Ghost” (st.
Leonards): Come round early next week and explain
your joke,... “ H C.C.” (Melbourne); Not bad verse, butt
ncident weak. May, use some day —“ Dlosßcmflaldl
Poet”: It won’t do “M.Q.”: The Bulletin, as yam
know well enough, but do not care to think, la indepan ■
dent and unsubsidised. It was the first of the existing
papers published at Sydney to advecate
has advocated Protection on principle, irrespective oft
profit, and it hopes that you are equally sincere in your
attachment to the dying cause of shoddy “ Constant.
Reader”: On their published utterances, neither. Groan,
of Grenfell, nor Wilkinson, of Balranald, can be accounted!
a Free trad 0r....“ Native ” (Copmanhurst): ’Thank*
“ J.C.C.” (Stanmore); Thanks “W.H.”: Thanks for
coloured map, which we may use shortly .... “ Sparkes ”:
‘ I D. J. S. Levuka ”: Toanks for your interesting letter
re Samoa. The Australasian people, who already number
four millions and are settled on the best lands in tem-
perate Oceana, have little reason to fear hostile oolonisa- .
tton by a European power. The nucleus of the great
southern nation is outs ; by and by, without bloodshed,
without diplomtey, merely by the survival cf Ihe fifes l ),
we shall assimilate ail others. The Gentians and French
are only working in the South Seas for us, after all.
“MADE IN GERMANY.”
(THE WAIL OF A FREETRADE BRITON).
When my liver’s out of order, and my nerves are
all awry,
And I want to sit) in corners and to tear my hair
and cry,
When a demon slands behind me with a razor or
a knife,
And suggests the use of either as a short cut out
of life,
When the gloom outside my window is the gloom
inside my heart,
And the ghostly sounds about me make me shake
and make me start,
Then I walk about my dwelling, but my sorrows
do not flea
When I find my goods and chattels all were made
in Germany.
The globes upon my gas-lamps bear that exquisite
device,
It is worked lipoti my carpets hud the trap that
catches mice;
It is stamped upon my dusters, and imprinted on
my hat,
And I half expect to find it on the collar of my cat.
“ Male in Germany ”’s the motto on my knocker
and my bell,
And the scraper and the door-mat have it written
large as well •
From the basement to the attic all around thosj
words I see,
And e’en my patent chimney-pots were “ made in
Germany.”
Then I wander forth for shelter from this legend,
but in vain,
For it polks in flaming letters through my agitated
brain ;
It is stamped on all the lamp-posts and the flag-
stones at my feet,
And I see it on the helmets of the bobbies in the
street.
“ Give me respite from this legend ! ” in my agony
I cry*
And my gentle Albert Edward says to comfort me
he ll try 5
But while weeping on his bosom there is no relief
for me,
For, like everything about me, He was “ made in
Germany*
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENG. CO., [?]
W. H. TRAILL,
SENIOR MEMBER FOR SOUTH SYDNEY.
PHOTO. BY FREEMAN.
The Australian people’a William—“ Billy-”
tea,
On. dit, that Railway Speight, of Victoria,
now in England, is to be knighted. For his ser-
vices, see lime-sables.
Hypodermic Injections of strychnine have
ibeen tried with much success in two Australian
cases of snake-bite. The propounder of the treat-
ment is Dr. Mueller, of Yackandandah, Vic.
On dit that at a meeting of the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade (or Parkes ridden) Press on Satur-
day, in Sydney, a common corns a of action was
decided on in view of the seriousness of the pre-
sent political situation.
It is related of a certain eminent N.S.W.
barrister that he lately advised a plaintiff and tcok
his brief, that he subsequently advised the defen-
dant and took hi.s brief, and that finally he ap-
peared in neither case, and pocketed both sets of
fets.
Alliheultra-Conaervatiyeß.C.s of Sydney
—the Hugheses, Mullinses, Heatons, Jenningses,
Austins, and so on (members of the Kyardinal's
particular set)—are Foreign-traders of the bluest
type. In a word, every “Roman” who calls
himself a ‘ Oawtholic ” votes for Calico Jemmy.
It is not generally known that the late
R.C. Archbishop Vaughan, of Sydney, was a
most enthusiastic Freetrader and a great admirer
of G. H. Reid’s fiscal platitudes. He com-
plimented G.H.R in an autograph letter,
with which Mr Reid has quietly “shtiffened”
many a hostile Mick at Aist Sydney, begorra.
By the death of his venerab e mother, Mr.
Sydney Burdekin, M L.A., aheady a Croesus,
succeeds to an estate worth, it is said, somewhere
between one and three millions sterling. The
Calico cause thereby picks up a big political wind-
fall, as it is understood that Mr. Burdekin will
“part”freelyinagiganticetforttostem the progress
of Protection. Apropos, the N.S.W. Foreign
trade game now is to rush in and force the fighting
ere the National party recover its financial wind,
supposed to have been pretty well exhausted by
the last bout,
Thoae of our readers who desire to take
tickets ia “ Adam Bede’s Benevolent Consulta-
tions,” on the Newmarket Handicap and Aus-
tralian Cap—two out of the four of his sweeps
which are chargeable with the three-tenths chari-
table deduction—are reminded that the list cl sees
in a few days, and that early application is neces-
taty.
It Is neither safe to speak nor to keep silent
in the “distressful country” just now. A magis-
trate, in sentencing a Mr. Finuoane to ‘ fourmonths’
hard” for being present at a meeting at which
someone else had said something objectionable to
the authorities, said ; “ Mr. Finucane was present
at this meeting in May. He heard it stated that
the man Qailty was only fit to be treated as a leper,
and that he was to be left actually to die of star-
vation. Yet he never opened his mouth to con-
demn such language.” The magistrate had no
option but to find him guilty.
In this issue appears a pot-trait of Mr.
W. H. Traill, formerly editor of The Bulletin,
who was returned at the head of the poll for
South Sydney at last N. S. Wales general election.
Mr. Traill has had no previous experience of
political life—a circumstance which is probably in
his favour—but he is widely known by his writin gs,
and is recognised as a man who has done an im-
mense amount of service to the democratic cause
in Australia. In these days of the Yellow Pup it
may be worth while to add that Mr. Traill is not
au Irish Jesuit in disguise—he is only a Scotchman.
M. Eoytral’a Income-tax schema has been
approved by the French Cabinet. Only one-half
per cent, is to be levied on earned incomes—that
is to say, incomes acquired by exertion. All in-
come in the nature of interest on land, capital
&c., is to be assessed at one per cent. Incomes
from all sources under £BO are exempt, and the
assessment is abated for incomes under £2lO
Under the proposed Act all coupons and dividends
are made chargeable with income-tax as they are
received. Every taxpayer having an income above
£BO a year is to be compelled to deliver before the
Ist of January at his mayoralty a statement of
his various receipts or profits. Foreigners tem-
porarily staying in France are subject to income-
tax on that part of their income received or spent
in the country.
According to the Samoan correspondent of
the Sydney D T , Messrs. William McArthur and
Company ‘have for a 1 ng time held possession of
vast traces of island land amounting to upwards
of 300,000 acres, despite a judgment given by the
Supreme Court of Fiji, confirmed by Her
Majesty’s Privy Council, to the effect that they
are not In rightful possession. Captain Sinclair
proceeded to take possession of one of the planta-
tions last week, when be was forcibly ejected by
several of the employees of W. McArthur and
Co , assisted by several half-castes. For this
assault, defendants were fined £3 each and costs.”
Messrs William McArthur and Company, it may
be explained, is the big London firm of whom
Mr. William MacMillan, M.P., is the chief Sydney
representative.
Here are some of the reasons why the
English aristocracy sing “ God Save the Queen,”
and uphold the British constitution :
There are 33 families of dukes, with 519 relatives, hold-
ing 1013 offices, who from 1850 tD 1885 had relieved the
country of £0,760,090 ; 33 families of marquises, with 02.6
persons, holding 1252 offices, who during the same period
took from the British public £5,305,6)50; 200 families of
earls, with 3391 relatives, holding 5693 offiiei, who re-
ceived £48,181,202; 60 families of viscounts, with 963
relatives, holding 1561 offices, and absorbing £11,241 292 ;
wh’le 211 families of baroos, with 2492 relatives, holding
4099 offices, have managed to get hold of £31,120,188 ; the
grand t .tal of moneys reo ivedbv these aristoora’ic out-
door paupe s being £108,014,632. Making the very
generous assumption that half of this money was given
lor some kind of real service rendered, even then up-
wards of £54,000,000 was taken ultimately from labour
by worthies people during a period of 35 yeas.
Speaking of the trouble between,!. Htn-
niker Heaton, M.P, and his alleged speech-
writer, Dennis, the London correspondent of the
Melbourne D.T., says :
The denouement of what promises to be a cause celeb, e
will be awaited with interest, especially as it is now
rumoured that at the next general election Mr. Dennis
will oppose Mr. Beaten, claiming return on the ground
that, as the author of his opponent’s speeches and letters,
he is the real Heaton and the present member for Canter-
bury only a shade.
If this holds good, we would advise Dennis to slip
down here and lay claim to Henniker’s share in
the Noozk, and Down and Gum trek Jkrnkl also.
He may yet prove that J.H.H is not even a
shade, but merely a myth like the Kiama Ghost
or Mrs. Harris.
There Is a Rev. Mr. Crackling in Mel-
bourne. Well-done, good and faithful servant!
Edgar Newman Scott, a clever and expert-
enoed pressman, once on The Bulletin, departed
this life at Melbourne cn Valentine’s Day. H e
was son of a Scotch Presbyterian minister, had
been married two years, and was only 32 when he
died.
The wolves and hawks of the London Stock
Exchange successfully boycotted the South Aus-
tralian loan because the fixed minimum was bo
high. It is now the clear duty of the Australian
Governments, in borrowing in future, to boycott
the brokers.
Miss Alice Cornwell, “Princess Midas,"
has taken up the scheme for making a brand new
harbour at Largs Bay, S.A. She leaves for Lon-
don, via N.Z, and Rio at the end of this month.
The scheme is carried through Parliament by
Rowland Rees, M.P., who also intends to visit
England on the same mission.
A London paper thinks “ there is some-
thing in the contention that to extend the lodger
franchise to women will add to the electorate a
proportion of hitf'tly objectionable persons.’ 1 It
doesn’t matter They are certain to be struck off
the rolls by “Jack the Ripper,” and then the ele-
torate will be whiter than enow.
The new Eoglish libel law, just passed,
protects newspapers in the publication of reports,
as distinct from comments. This it does in two
respects (1.) It shifts the onus of proving that
the reports were “of public concern” frun the
newspapers to those who proceed against them;
and (2) it requires the latter to prove that the re-
ports were neither “of public concern” non “for
the public benefit,”
When the late Peter Laior was a “rebel
at Ballarat in 51, W. F. Stawell, the Attorney-
General, on behalf of h's Government, offered a
reward of £5OO for the head of the insurgent chief
Twenty-one years afterwards Stawell was acting-
Governor and Lalor one of his Ministers giving
him advice ! Eleven years after the Battle of
Eureka, Peter was Chairman of Committee sin tha
Legislative Assembly.
The Atkinson (N.Z ) Government are
pledged to retrench or burst, and this is how they
retrench —we shall know how they burst early in
next session : A Government railway-bridge was
recently to be painted at Mauriceville, and a
painter, whose wages were Bs. a day, was sent to
do it, accompanied by a clerk of the works, to tea
tha job was done properly, whose salary was Kb.
a day. Advance New Zealand !
Melbourne Herald his a personal griev-
ance against Chief Secretary Deakin. A man was
brought before the City Court on a “horrible
charge,” and “the Chief Secretary gave instruc-
tions that the matter was to be kept from the
Press, for what reason did not transpire.” The
Herald was the reason which didn’t transpire,
and that enterprising journal was deliberately
cheated out of an appalling “double heading,”
followed by two columns of revolting details.
Deakin will have to go.
Said Cmon Farrar recently, preaching at
Westminster Abbey
“ Wnat shall I sav of the rich ? I say there are scores
of men in London who could save our hospitals and
Chris i an enterprises from anxiety almost without feeling
it. Look at the very reoent art sales: £2OOO for one
diB8 c rt-service, £l2OO for tvo flow<r-pots, £3OOO fora
ohimn''y-oraament, £lO,OOO for t -o rose-ooloured vas s,
£303 for a slnarle lady’s dieu, £lOOO for the flowers of a
single ball, Id ' not criticise this expenditure. I only
s -y if there be in Loidon such a Paotolus of weal h for
ttuse gewgaws of silk and clay, can there be by com-
parison only a drop or tvo to heal the bodies and
anelior ate tne souls of men? Why should the runnel of
charity dribble on as it does, while the fall tide i f luxury
is sdll at flood? ”
After a fend of over 15 years the Mel-
bourne Herald has nale peace with the local
Typographical Society. This unexp°cted occut-
rt nee is assigned to various causes. Some people
say that the “ rag ” wh’ch emanates from Little
C ollins-street wants to court public favour before
the long-threatened rival evening paper appearf.
Others aver that Editor Winter means to become
M L. A. for Richmond, an honour cf which cnly
the hostility of tbe comps, deprived him at a
late election. From authentic information The
Bulletin can, however, give tin true reason.
Daring the recent land boom advbs. flowed in
like wildfire and the Herald had to come out as
an eight-page paper. The result is that the
managing editor las become prosperous, genial
and kind-hearted, and, ai a matter of course, has
fallen off in his sweating. In coieequence of this
latter change he does not consider himself equal
to managing a composing room filled with “rats,
so he has invoked the aid of the Typographical
Society.
It will be remembered that that expensive
libel-war, Dibbs v. Sydney Daily Telegraph,
arose out of an article apparently written m
pique at the refusal of Mr. Dibbs to accept the
private suggestion of the D.T.’s conductors that
the present N S.W. Premier should join Mr.
Barton, now Attorney-General, in forming a
Government of the Young Australian pattern.
Had Mr. Barton and Mr. Dibbs coalesced at that
time, Mr. Barton would likely enough have be-
come a Protectionist all the same; and, what is
more, the D.T. might nov have been a Protec-
tionist paper. Anyhow, Mr. Barton did not join
Mr. Dibbs, bub was retained as counsel by th o
D.T. against Mr. Dibbs, and as the second libel-
action is a continuation of the first we now eee
the N S.W. Attorney-General fighting in the Law
Courts against his own leader. A very cynical man
might here be tempted to remark that it n ® o . ®
trouble Mr. Barton, inasmuch as, law heme
eternal, the Dibbs libel-case may after all WJ*
longer than the Dibbs Government But this
extremely poor consolation to the D.T’s share-
holders.
There was a bad man of Madrid,
And what do you think that he did ?
He endeavoured to blow
Up the Palace, you know,
Containing his monarch, poor kid I
The bombshell went ( ff with a bumb
And struck all the courtiers dumb ;
But that bomb didn’t bring
Any grief to the King,
Who was placidly sucking his thumb.


ffi j n n^°*rn a spec’alty ; qualiliy, fit and comfort Mudi-
• My Tailor.” 154 King street, Ne »to*r.
p“°iYou go fishing? Eastway Brothers, 411
iii J? RCI * E STREHT > Sydney, have a splendid oollec-
f i®. °* a H kinds of Tackle for hand, rod, or net
ev ln B* We have tackle suitable for all (each and
p one ) fishing grounds in Australia. —Eastway
“Others, 411 George-street, Sydney.
Stork Cattle for Salk.— looo male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
c
OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM,
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Sydney.
Amusements and Attractions of all kinds.
Saturday Next!
Saturday Next!
SOMETHING
NEW T
The Great Sensational Race,
SKATES VERSUS BICYCLE!
Down the TOBOG3AN PRECIPICE
(102 miles an hour).
N.B.—This daring event will positively take place on date
advertised, and will be accomplished for
THE—FIRST—TIME—OM—RECORD !
A. E, STOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
ROTAt.—" Captain Swift” p. 14,
The Vendetta ”, „
ObitBBION.—“ Forbidden Fruit ”
“Captain Swift,” on the strength of ibs
vwnneim reputation, was greeted with tumultuous
ovcitement on Saturday night at Sydney Royal,
Pi un tu the general uprising has cleared away
nd the pit is % little less active in its violence it
ill be difficult for the frantic populace to decide
whether it really likes the new drama or not. In
Mneral it ,s a comprehensive thing that wants
thinking over, and the hero is more comprehensive
nd wants more thinking over than the rest of it.
He is a youth of elevated birth who came into the
world under a cloud ; his childhood whs spent in
a hovel along with a foster-brother, who grew up
? log a fixedly atrocious pirate with a cold, fishy
eve that eminently fitted him to slink about the
outskirts of a shearers’ riot, with a water-logged
wild-cat mine and a bushman knocking down his
cheque in the distance 5 and through the hero’s
happy boyhood he and this astounding human clam
dropped their “h’s” together and hit each other
with rakes. Then at last, the youth grew tired
of the monotony of the cottage, with the green
unwholesome orb of his foster-brother shining in
its stuffy attic 9 , and he struck out for the golden
land of Australia, where he rioted in different
rabbit infested districts, and was known on many
a back-blocks selection as a hunky kid of danger-
ous tendencies He became a gentlemanly buth-
ranger, too, and stuck up a squatter who was
riding home with several thousand pounds in
notes to pay his shearers (a class of men who
in real Australian life are generally paid by
cheques —we have been a shearer, and have
always been paid by cheque)—but he never
killed anybody, and bis career as a gory
freebooter had no gore abcut it. When
he grew tired of Australia he started for
Europe, and in the streets of London he arrested
the wild career o! the only cab-horse that was ever
known to travel in a hurry except when its tail
was on fire, and made the acquaintance of a tot
teiing person inside, who invited litn to his
stately home. And in that heme he found his
mother, the plundered equatter, and the foster-
brother with the mabgnano cat’s eye, all waiting
for him. He had started out loose into the world,
and in all the stupendous area of its 200,000.000
square miles he had been brought, by the machin-
ations of one improbable cab-torse, to the only
spot where he could possibly be bowled out. If he
had bit a split pea with a brick at a three-mile
shot, when he was trying above all things
to avoid that particular split pea, it would
have been nothing in comparison. In his new
sphere the stately dignity and gentlemanly a:ccm-
plishrrents which he acquired while hitting the
clammy insect of his early associations with the
rake, and which bad been afterwards perfected
among shearers, bullcck-drivers, and flat-headed
Australian murderers, stood him in good stead; tub
his mother’s tears, a bad habit he had of jumping
seven feet in the air, and falling all over the place
when any chance allusicn seemed to point to his
early career, and a slow detective, who was on his
track by protracted cattle-train, ultimately com-
bined to break him up. He deposited his corpse
on the carpet of the already-injured squatter, and
left that patient gentleman to pay for the funeral
on top of his other losses, and Capta’n Swift —a
man who might, under happier auspices, have
been a successful monarch, and eaten himself to
death-had joined the incalculable precession of
the dead.
* * •
The company which supports “Captain
Swift” is in several ways an expensive failure.
Mr, Flemming makes the one unalloyed success
cf the piece, for Miss Ada Ward, whose acting at
the beginning promises to carry the house by
storm, is frezen in her finest scene by the stony
impassiveness of Mr Warner, and grows tired of
wasting her fire and fervour on the dull brick con-
sciousness of the returned but bran ger. Mr.
Warner is of a stolid, red-brick character all
through, except at the moments when be gives
himself away by firing his limbs all ever the
place, and then he is only excited with his feet —
hia face remains much the same. Mr. Alfred
Phillips, as the foster-brother with ohe eye. is
almost preat in bis oily, rusty vileness, and Miss
Grace Warner plays her part prettily and grace-
fully as usual. The rest is upholstery and
dramatic ashes.
*# * #
Any gentleman who has lest a comedy,
and has reason to believe that the bones or other
traces of the strayed production are lying around
somewhere to mark the spot where a literary gem
faded away and foundered, and was busted up,
might do wors3 than call in this week at Sydney
Criterion; and if he recognises in “Forbidden
Fruit 1 ' the missing offspring—the tender plant
which was reared in the flower-pot of bis soul—he
might remove that production to a great distance,
and drop it into some tremendous abyss three
miles deep, or else he might burn it, and then tie the
ashes in a bundle with a hundred pounds of lead at-
tached, and sink the whole lot into a bottomless
quicksand inTimbuctoo, and swallow the records of
118 last resting-place, so that its fate might remain s s
Profound a mystery as the sepulchre of Moses.
Py these remarks we intend, in our own unassum-
mg way, to faintly insinuate that “Forbilden
rrmt” isn’t all than we expected. It depends too
much for its interest on the moral grandeur of the
old red sandstone gag about the man who wants
to go out on a great imperial “ burst” without his
wife’s knowledge, ard the customary phanta ma-
Roria of unearthly strife which fo’lows that act of
deception flits before the bewildered eye in a series
m pictures too wild for human comprehension,
■f.usie is first a sketch of Dove and Buster plan-
air K a carnal gorge of oysters and champagne
Mtng with a joyous, short-skirted maiden who
makeg her cats by being shot out of a gun, and
Writing to tbeir wives that they are off by
he night train to hunt up a pious female wic-
j ® aged 92 and as ugly as sin, who is sick
Then follows a hurried diagram of Dove
Ud Buster’s wives dropping upon them before
heir infamous scheme can be put into execu-
! faint outline of Buster led away in chains,
Gove’s wife sr eing Dove off by train so that he
ill have to wander about the Midland Counties
1 hjght. a homeless outcast on the railway
“.stem cf the dear old motherland; shadowy
s 1 mpse if Bustir trying to lose his wife at the
hhow, the cat show, the cow show, the horse
tv, i v tlor > °f era , and other places, in order
at he may get back to look for Dove ; also in-
distinct view of Dove escaping from the train and
coming back to rake the earth for Buster. Hazy
spectre of Dove later on, in disguise, doomed
bo drive about dinnerless for fix hours in a
lame cab on a wet night because he has not
enough money to pay the cabman and get
rid of him, and praying that he may meet
Buster with some coin and be saved ; another
faded sketch of the cabman, drunk, and
wallowing inside the cab, while Dove drives amid
a howling storm and reduces the vehicle to eternal
ruin and scatteration against a dustcart; one
more fleeting semblance of Dove, cold, wet, pen-
niless, clammy, muddy, hungry, tired, and lamed
for life by the dust-cart, ordering dinner for four
at Cremorne with no one to eat it but himself, and
asking if this is the joy which Buster had pro-
mised him ; Dove again in a dismantled false nose
acting as waiter and bringing refreshments to his
own wife who is having supper with the other
fellow ; then the voice of Buster, escaping in the
distance, heard dimly like a heavenly song under
six feather beds, and Buster’s wife in pursuit—
and behind this, ruin, disaster, hallucination, ag-
gravation, general wreck and earns ge of idiots,
shatteration, and horror.
* * *
The clammy and expensive slaughter of
“Forbidden Fruit ”is preceded—and alleviated in
some degree- 1 --by a one-act gem entitled “In
Honour Bound,” in which Messrs. Boucicault and
Titheradge, Miss Emma Temple and Mrs Robert
Brough take all the honours, but otherwise the
show is not worthy the Criterion’s reputation, and
is rough on a company which is indisputably the
best at present to be found in any part of Aus-
tralia. An aggregation which includes such names
»s Anson, Titheradge, Brough, Bouc'crult, Owen
Harris, Myra Kemble, Pattie Brown, and Mrs.
Robert Brough, was meant for better things than
“ Forbidden Fruit,” and we trust to learn shortly
that that post-pliocene apparition has been in-
terred in the voiot less grave, and squashed with
the granite slab which has been dumped over the
bottomless resting-place of to mary other second-
rate literary efforts.
# * * #
“II Trovatore," as performed by the Italian
strangers at Sydney Opera House, differed from
the previous production of the same old favourite,
chiefly because the unfortunate illness of
Madame Lablacbe compelled that fi ry little
artiste to temporarily yield up her part
of Azucena to Signora Fabris. The opera,
however, suffered only a little by the change,
and the strong-willed foreign person who raves iaa
cavern with such dramatic intensity, found a good
exponent. Miss Flora Graupner—who was under-
stood to have fled permanently from i he scene —re-
appears as Margheritain Gounod’s “Feust, ’ which
demoniac storm of music is now in full blast sup-
ported by the entire strength of a company which
plays together with a will; and row that the ex-
pensive Cowan has quitted the scene there should
be scope for a successful run—unless, indeed,
the “music-loving public,” of which we have
beard so much, is really as dead as the venerable
dragon which burst up somewhere in remote parts
—Cappadocia, we imagine—ever so long age.
# * * #
“ The Vendetta ” —being “ Barnes cf New
York ” ground small by the literary mill of Mr.
Gilbert Parker—will be produced at Her Ma jesty’s
(Sydney) next Saturday with all the brilliant
gprctacular effects, paint, varnish, lime-light, and
other accessories for which that stone-built institu-
tion is famous.
* * * *
Mr. J. T. Williams, the Australian para-
chutist, calls upon Professor Baldwin, the eminent
American who also scrapes the sky with his um-
brella, to parachute against him for any sum from
£lOO to £3OO aside, and should the challenge be
taken up tn exciting contest will probably ensue.
In his advertisement, however, Mr. Williams
totally neglects to specify the points on which a
parachute contest is to be judged. If the winner
is to be the man who gets down first, the chances
are that the money will have to be paid over to
something with eighteen broken bones and no
head, and if the man who stays up longest is to
take the prize the contest resolves iaself into a quee-
tion cf which balloon can carry the most v'c teals.
Grace and elegance in com f ng down, and an in ■
parial dignity of demeanour at the momeot of
hitting the earth, are abstract points which do not
admit of much comparison, and a lofty men at
tha moment of letting go from the balloon would
have to be judged through a telescope—an unre-
liable medium, as the judge could not look at both
men at once. Moreover, the much-advertised
Baldwin has twice gathered an expectant multi-
tude to see him come down in Sydney, and on
neither occasion did he parachute worth a brass nail
—in fact on the second day it is understood that
while an anxious crowed was looking up to the sky
in search of a falling man the Protestor was
far on his way to Brisbane with his bal-
loon, his umbrella, his manager, and all his
other traps; and accordingly Mr. Williams is
issuing his challenges to a person who doesn’t
seem to be on the job. Altogether the parachute
business is not worth betting upon to any fatal
extent.
♦ * * ♦
The Bondi Aquarium Company, with a
noble fearlessness, have invested in two tigers
from a Brisbane menagerie—a cheerful pair of
animals which breke out one day and nearly ate
Brisbane alive. There were many cold shivers in
the sultry city when it was known that the twin
monsters were cn the loose; shopkeepers tt re
rourd putting up their shutters; men, women and
children scudded before the wind looting fer shel-
ter ; Orangemen took refuge in Catholic chapels ;
Jesuits burst perspiring into lodge-rooms
where Dutch William was held up to public
veneration ; respectable Hebrews bolted into pork-
shops, Rechabittes into pubs., and elderly parsons
collapsed on the greasy floors of opium-dens. At
last, however, the two zoological curiosities were
ar res tel, and in an hour or so all was calm, and
the only trace of the late riot was a brief legend
on the door of a leading sharebroker. It had been
w ritten hastily, in a hand that shook with emo-
tion, and it ran thus : “ Back in two weeks.”
* * * *
“Pep'ta” appears (o meet all the re-
quirements of a degenerate age at Melbourne
Princess’s, and that piece of leg-worship was at-
tended by large and devout congregations every
night last week A second investigation of
‘ Pepita” reveals more cause for suspicion that its
airs bmught the property black bull with sorrow
to bis grave, and also c mfirms a previous con vie-
sion that the Triumvirate have no better ready-
money customer than the man who hath not music
in his soul, excepting only the gushing female
with a highly-cultivated ear. To those who have
allowed their ears to run wild it is a matter of sad
surprise that Miss Nellie Stewart doesn t
interpolate some plain everyday melodies,
instead of wasting her beloved soprano
upon compositions which deserve to be re-
arranged for the bagpipes, or made into a large
movement for Oowen’s next symphony. If the
only Nellie and Fanny Liddiard sang something
while seated on their donkeys it would give the
op' ra a certain tone that it now lacks ; also,
things might brighten up if Mr. Walker Marnook
were to mount a third donkey and then fall off in
all his massive splendour. Meantime, “Pepita”
is largely held up by Mr. Elton, an artist whose
natural humour in the conception and interpreta-
tion of a character is not less remarkable than his
inability to “ gag ” with success.
** * *
Sowing the gaims in the wayside drains
Sowing the germs in the Yan-Yean nouns,
Sowing the germs in the milk and meat,
Sowing the germs in the dusty stre-eet —
O ! What will the harvest be-e e-e, &c.
Typhoid—an accursed monster that will one day
career through Marvellous Smellbourne cn a
pals steed, visiting the sins of the city fathers
upon the children who had noses but smelt not —
has attacked Miss Lilian Gillmore, and tem-
porarily eclipsed the gaiety of our Hemisphere.
Poetically and dramatically speaking Miss Gill-
more is one of the brightest gems in the Southern
Cross; anyway, she is a fairy whose intention to
marry a mortal was recently announced. There-
fore prayers for her speedy convalescence
have been offered up in The Bulletin office,
and if those neatly-phrased petitions don’t restore
the roses to her cheeks, physic must be adminis-
tered in moderation. Miss Gilltnore’s regretable
illness has seriously affected the general health of
“ Sweet Lavender,” at the B'jou. Two changes
in the cast weakened it at each place, and a play
of intrinsic beauty is gradually declining under a
load of adverse circumstances, including Miss
Brenda Gibson’s white frock. Mr. Frank Thorn-
ton does his best to distract attention from that
fatal garment, and the polished art of Mr. Hilton
and the rich vivacity cf Miss Annie Taylor are
lavished upon a work of atonement for the white
frock being there. But it gets there all the earn®,
and funher expostulation would be useless.
## # #
At the Alexandra they centime to show
Marvellous Smellbourne its own image in a drama
which touches upon every matter of local interest,
except the drainage, and contains more good
Eceuery than was ever before presented to the
public gaze at prices from the humble tanner up-
wards. In either of five characters, Mr. Dampier
is generally dropping heavily upon the villain at
the close of a scene, and he finally bursts up that
miscreant at 'a suburban land-sale, whither Mies
Lily Dampier—whose waist looks nice as usual—
has been tracked by a telegiaph-boy, bearing the
glad tidings that her horse won the Oup. Her
faithful lover also arrives upon the jural scene
from Little Bourke-street, where he was long kept
chained to the wall by one leg became he would not
consent to something, after which Miss Lily buys
all the land sale with the money she is to draw
next settling day, and expresses her satisfaction
in accents full of ghostly feeling. As a night-
mare constructed on purely commercial principles
“ Marvellous Melbourne ” is above criticism, be-
cause it has filled the Alexandra for five weeks,
and is good for another five yet. Under these
circumstancss the sweet melancholy cf Mr.
Danqier’s daughter is opposed to the real facts of
the case, which show no satisfactory reason why
the dark eyed nymph should signify the presence
of a heart bowed down by talking Hire the sad sea
waves.
## # ♦
The Royal pantomime shook Its gory locks
at creation for the 50ah lime on Saturday night,
but nothing else is known against the show, excepb
that Mies Sophie Harris seems to be a pleaeir g
sort of vision in blue tights of linked sweetness
long drawn cul. Any fellow would gladly lay
down his life for this young lady, if he couldn’t
die any other way, but there are visions in this
same spectacle which fill a fellow with wild
longings to die on his own account and be buried
where the neighbours’ little children will c r me
and play on his grassy mound. Talking
of apparitions — Melbourne Op ra House is
still in successful possession of Hicks’ Coloured
Minstrels, but those tinted Apollos go to Africa
or Geelong on Saturday, the aching void being
filled by the Silbon Company. Saxon-bred negroes
at Victoria and St George’s Halls, see nothing
worth mentioning about those yarn-dyed other
niggers, and feel quite pleased to think they are
not staying long enough to vitiate public taste in
minstrelsy. Many other shows are doing well,
particularly Pain’s Fireworks. They had a “ com-
mand night ” last week, when “Sebastopol” was
taken under the immediate patronage of Governor
Loch and daughters. On this special occasion,
Pain’s army was plied with “tanglefoot” before
going into action, and the British troops fought
like demote.
** * *
Madame Schiller, in concert with Madame
Christian, appears at Melbourne Town-hall on
February 27, immediately after which this brilliant
punisher of the piano will take up her instru-
ment and cress the waste of waters that separate
us from Tummy and his royal Ma. The Schiller
farewell is expected to prove a toney function be-
cause Lady Loch will be showing her beneficent
countenance in public for about the last time
before she takes up His Excellency and also sails
for their own beloved home. The overwhelming
Mr. R. S Stythe, in his capacity of business
manager, will also cast a balo of enchantment
round the emotional occasion.
*# * *
Mr. G. C. Miln Intends to give the Im-
mortal Bard a fair look in at Melbourne Opera
House. The season opens in March, and Mr,
Miln has engaged the strongest company avail-
able, including such capable people as Mi a
Isabel Monii and Mr. J. F. Cathcarb. Cathcart
appeared as Henry VI. to Barry SulLvans
Richard 111. when our old friend played hi* last
engagement at Drury Lane. That would be
about 12 years ago.
** * #
Remenyl, the cfb-drowned violinist, has
again been heard of at Capetown.
** * #
Rockhampton (Q ) Is going in for a new
theatre on a large and generous scale. For our
own part we have generally considered that a
serviceable pump was more in demand up that
way, but possibly the citizens know best.
♦# • #
The much -".ravelled Smjthe offered Cowen
£5OO to conduct 12 concerts in Melbourne Town
Hal) b/ way of a grand finale to bis profitable
pilgrimage, but Cowen felc cimpelled to decline
the “monkey,” because the voice of Europe was
howling for his immediate return, and the kings
of the earth would die if he didn’t turn up. Mr.
Smybhe, we may remark, does not consider that
£5OOO was excessive remuneration for Cowen’a
services at the Exhibition, having probably built
up this opinion upon the basis of his own offer.
To most people it will occur that the temporary
value of Mr. Cowen was created by the Exhibi-
tion commissioners when they engaged him, and
that the unexpected success of Messrs. Rignold
and Allison’s speculation was not so much owing
to the Centennial Orchestra, or to its conductor’s
skill, as to the glamour which surrounds a gentle-
man who has just pocketed a cheque for £5OOO.
If a hitherto unknown artist can effect a genuine
sale of one picture for £5OOO, his next will fetch
£4OOO on the strength of the preceding deal.
*# * *
Phil Beck, in a howling bell-topper and
the well-remembered eye-glass, is back again.
And we thought he had “ gone for ever.”
** * *
From America we learn that the Gaiety
girls bad no sooner established themselves at the
New York Theatre, than a delegation of “John-
nies ” arrived from England—about 20 in number.
“ Nellie Barren is the prime favourite, and as she
comes out of the stage-door, and crosses the pave-
ment to her brougham, there are cries of ‘ Good-
night, Nellie!’ from every side, ‘Goodnight,
boys,’ she calls out, as the brougham drives away.”
Heigho ! the dude is just as great an idiot under
the Polar Star as h 3 is under the Southern Cross.
#* * *
Between two and three thousand of the
Adelaide public attend the concerts given at
Glenelg by the local band. The average contri-
butions provided by the gallant three thousand
aforesaid for the band-fund is 45,, but on a recent
night when the collection-boxes were opened the
munificent sum of tenpence was exposed to view
—for dirision among 18 men.
*# * *
Isaac Selby, the Freethought lecturer,
who from Brisbane made several ‘ 1 Peeps into
Hell’’has “verted” to Protestantism, in conse-
quence, it is said, of the high temperature prevail-
ing up North. In a recent number of the Protes-
tant Standard be expresses sorrow for what he
has done as an atheist, and declares that the rest
of his life shall be spent in atoning for it. It is
probable, say his enemies, that had he been
enabled to do a little more on the Secular! s tic side
he would not have left it so hurriedly. His wife,
“ Miss Tessie Chapman,” is a’so, judging from the
altered title of her lectures, a convert,
** * *
What is a benefit tendered by a conductor
and his orchestra ? We refer to Mr. Cowen, who,
as we have already stated, received the ridiculously
small sum of £5OO for conducting 12 concerts.
When a man invites you to dinner because, as he
tells you, he is under an obligation to you, you
naturally do not expect he is going to ask jou to
pay him a fee for caning, but this is prcciiely
what Mr. Cowen did. From whom the proposal
to benefit Mr. Huenerbein came we do not
know; but the announcement that it was
mainly through the energetic services of
Mr. Huenerbein the “Coven concerts” had
been rendered possible was allowed to go un-
challenged. and additional statements were made
to the effect that notwithstanding that the
proposed beneficiare had been favourably before
the Sydney public for 14 years this was the first
benefit ever accepted by him.
• • •
Monday afternoon arrived, so did the
people in crowds, so did Mr. Cowen, who upon
arriving ask e d for the man agement, and after i eceiv-
ing a cheque for £3O for conducting the “ benefit ”
concert, which, it was alleged, he had generously
tendered to Mr. Chas. Huenerbein, consented to
mount the rostrum, conduct the concert, and re-
ceive a testimonial, to which, by the way, Messrs.
Rignold and Allison subscribed handsomely ; and
in very questionable taste and more questionable
English proceed to pat the audience on the back
for “ th« appreciative manner in which they had
appreciated good music,”
a • •
The benefit (?) concert concluded with
“ God save the Queen,” the air of which was en-
thusiastically taken up by Nd r. James Allison prior
to Mr. Oowen’s departure from Her Majesty’s
Theatre. This outburst of enthusiasm on Jimmy’s
part was mainly due to his being presented ty
Mr. Frederick Cowen with a gold medal.
* * *
Upon minute inspection, this gold medal
was found to be a jubilee half-sovereign, to which
a small ring had been attached, and from which
about one-third of its value had been removed in
order to allow of the engraving of a suitable in-
scription. Mr. Cowen, during bis stay in Sydney,
has made us more familiar with, and introduced
us to, many inspirations, but his final cronum
opum was his presentation ; and the only occasion
upon which Jim Allison was known to quote the
classics correctly was when he undid the tissue
paper. # # ,
Mr. Cowen has departed, leaving behind
him a great musical reputation, a jubilee half-
sovereign, and an addition to the vocabulary of
Mr. James Allison.
• * •
Ic is rumoured that on hla return Mr.
Cowen is to receive some distinction from his most
gracious sovereign. This is right,fur certainly
during his stay amongst us, he did not give her
quite away, but i lasmuch »s he has undoubtedly
been accessory, at least after the fact, to a mis-
demeanor, or what used to be a m 1 (demeanor —■
viz , that of defacing the current coin of the realm
—his loyalty may still be doubted.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
la more Wkolesomt fchaa
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And la «
Purs Ralraahing Bavaraga
Be Orelol ro«' ?b*ala Wom'l
High Abt Photoobaphy. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of OHARLE MONT
Si 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high,
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oavlngton
" By Appolntnownt."
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs beoanse
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Grown Psepumkrt Co.’s
Stands In the Mel boa rue Kihihitiva All tfelbourn*
I* oo lbl» Scant
Sir William Butler asserts that the
African slave-trade only means the African ivory-
trade. Boycott the use of ivory, he says, and you
will abolish African slavery. Pooh! does he
think the leisured classes of England would do
without billiard-balls even if each were made out
of a nigger’s skull ?
At the TiMES-Parnell Commission the
other day an old Irishwoman, whose husband
was murdered, was put in the box to give evi-
dence. “Was your late husband a member of the
Land League?’ asked the Attorney-General.
“ No,” answered the old lady, promptly, “ but he
was mcighty fond of whisky.” Then there was a
roar of laughter. “Ob, yez may laugh as yfz
like,” sez Mrs. O'Hone, “but there’s nothin’ like
tellin’ the thruth !”
Fourteen hundred Wolseley shee p shearing
machines have been ordered from the agents,
J. H. Geddes and Co., Sydney, for next wool
season. At Dunlop, on the Darling River
(N.S.W.), last season, 184 000 sheep were shorn
by the machines in 14 weeks, and the proprietor
testifies that the sheep were never cut, that
they seldom kicked, and that the fleece was
one uniform length of staple. The wool after
scouring was compared with that of a neighbour-
ing flock of the same class of sheep, and there was
found to be a difference of half a pound of wool in
favour of the Wolseley machine—a value of 8d.
per sheep. Another equatter, Mr, H. Ricbeteon,
of Aratula, Victoria, says that through using the
machine he had 150 more bales last reason, and
had he shorn the whole of his sheep by that means
he would have had 426 bales more wool. The fell"
mongers, at a recent sale of sheep at Homebush
which had been shorn with the machine, asserted
they were Od. to 9d. per head too well shorn for
them.
For civility, comfort, and all the luxuries
of a really first class establishment, the Grand
Hotel, Wynyard-square, canrot be surpassed. 1“
is supplied with sp’endid billiard-rooms, tlegaut
suites of apartments, and unrivalled liquors, and
is fitted up with every appliance invented b?
modern civilisation to make life pleasant. I ''®
cuisine is second to none in Sydney, and no effort
is spared to make the patrons of the Grand Hoto
thoroughly comfortabe.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, —Though shocked at the
ferocity of the Western Australian squatter who
excuses in print his flogging of an aboriginal, such
an incident is no surprise where John Bull
governs the coloured man. When the writer
was looking after the editorial part of a Mofussil
journal in India, he saw a griffin (new chum)
pick up a stick and remark, ‘ 1 What a capital
stick to beat a nigger with !” The next leader
commenced, “A nigger is a creature to be beaten
with a stick, A stick is to be valued by its
adaptability for beating a nigger.” The article
then went on to show the inhumanity—and worse,
the folly—of indiscriminate and sometimes of
methodical bamboo bucksheesh, Strange to say,
the Lieutenant-Governor of the province, a pious
Presbyterian Heelander, sent for the acting-editor,
and gravely reprimanded him for commencing the
article as described, “For ye ken, Mr. Awbeef,
some folks jist read the fairrst sentence o’ abscure
papers like yours ; and mony a Hindoo, that can
barely spell, hasna time tae read mair than twa
lines. But we’ll say nee mair aboot it, I hope to
see ye here on Sawbath evenin’. Mr. Mao-
Twaddle will hold a special service, though it’s
like the voice cryin’ in the wilderness.’ —Hiram
Abiff.
In the way of seasonable religious services
the Hon. W. H. Suttor has bit on rather a novel
notion. Instead of praying for rain always he
thinks Australians should occasionally pray for a
drought, as the one is as much a part of the great
beneficent plan as the other lor two years end-
ing last February the N.S.W. rainfall was exces-
sive, and splendid crops were utterly ruined in con-
sequence. The country became covered with rank,
unwholesome vegetation, and animals standing up
to their knees in green grass died in hundreds
from parasites and other diseases. Fortunately,
however, a drought came and checked the trouble;
but no sky-pilot understood his business well
enough to call for a day of thanksgiving for that.
» • •
Dear Bulletin, —In the good old cram-
ming days we used to have two or three universal
stock essays in French, German, Hindostani,
Latin and Greek. These were committed to
memory, and no matter what the subject de-
manded, in went the prepared theme. Thus my
French and German essay was, say, the “War in
Russia.” Now, if the examiner demanded a
foolscap page on the “ Danger of Mutiny,” I just
planed it down to the required shape. With a
little care a general es?ay can be concocted that
will fill a page on anything The bucolic inhabi-
tants of Hume County, N.S.W,, have, however, far
exceeded cur ingenuity. They have taken unto
themselves a general substantive and that is
Affliction. Here are some samples. “ What
affliction are you riding to-day ? ” “Tommy was
cob walking with his affliction last
“Now then, old woman, dish op the affliction.”
“Do you remember the affliction in cords that sat
next to Mary at supper ? ” It is a capital word,
fits everything, and is a million times easier than
VolapUk. I must, however, remark that the
Howlongites have non-plussed me with this sen-
tence • “ I don’t think the Eternal Genei&l will
file a bill.’’— Scotty the Wrinkler,
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —It will scarcely be
believed that the Burns-Withers-Smith case has
done a good deal of damage to a well-known agri-
cultural implement maker. It arises thus. On
the dissolution of Parliament it is computed that
the following sentence was used 5382 times.
“The Hornsby work was scandalous.” Now, this
statement was generally made in public, and al-
though not addressed to the passing cocky (not
Cocky Burns, but farmer you know) it was in-
stilled into 13,255 willing or unwilling listeners.
Allowing that only two per cent, of these agri-
culturists were in want of a reaper and binder,
the putative loss of custom to the Hoimby
machine-makers is 265 machines and there is no
redress for the libel. I have my statistics from
about the same source as most of such trash is
taken.— Scotty W.
In a certain back-region of New South
Wales, where every other man is a Ryan, and the
intermediate man is a Hoolihan, excepting only
one individual who stands out in solitary state as
Malacbi O Grady, a prominent Irish family re-
cently underwent a bereavement. Mike Hoolihan,
after fulfilling the duties of a husband and a father
for 40 years, passed in his brogue and his other
assets to the Recording Angel, and there was a
wake over his remains, and much liquor was spilt.
Most of the town was there, and Flanigan, from
the adjacent parish, came around with a long
symbol of wee on his head, to sorrow over the
remains. He took off his hat, and dusted it reve-
rently with the tail of his coat, and then deposit-
ing it carefully on a wooden form, he lifted up his
voice, and addressed the corpse: “Ah! Moike,”
he moaned, in accents of woe, “ an’ there ye lay,
atritched out in an illigant coffin ; there’s yer
melancholy remainders, f’r sure, an’ ye’ve lift all
the bhoys behind ye. Ye was a dacent husband
an’ a good father, so ye was, as is well beknown
to all here prisent, incloodin’ Mrs. Hoolihan an’
the rist o’ the prisint company. Faith, many’s
the time when we’ve fallen into the ditch blind
dhrunk together ’ —one of the mourners was so
much overcome by the pathos of the address that
at this stage he sat down heavily on Flanigan’s
tall hat—“an’ I wish I was wid yez, so I do, an
angels playin’ beautiful choons on a harp ’’—here
the mourner rose off Flanigan’s bat leaving that
article a crushed-up wreck like a concertina struck
by lightning and run over by a tram-car—“ wid a
crown like an illigant golden taypot, an’ now I
must be goin’, an’ I’ll pray f’r yer sowl, so I
will ” Mr. Flanigan picked up the shattered
debris of his hat and looked at it incredulously
three times, knocked the sat-upon crown out again
with a tremendous punch, stuck the dismantled
weapon on his head, then took it off and glared at
the company, and finally concluded in a voice cf
thunder and madness: “May the Widder
Hoolihan »n’ all the pridnt company, ircloodin’
the corpse, all go to the divil an’ shtop there.”
The visit of condolence terminated without further
remark.
* * *
A giddy tourist from Glasgow (Scotland)
called F. Napier, now on a visit to Dunedin
(N.Z ), offers to bang down £lOO ! —if the Dune-
dinites will raise £2900 ! —for the purpose of erect-
ing a monument in that sloppy city, to a
gentleman described as the “ Scottish hero,
Wallace.” We don’t know Mr. Wallace, but no
doubt a monument would do him a world of good,
especially as bis friend, F. Napier, seems to
think so. At the same time we rise to
observe that Dunedin contains no monu-
ment of Adam. This omission should be rec-
tified even before Mr, Wallace’s mausoleum is
proceeded with. Likewise, in the same city, there
is not even a soli 1 ary bust of Noah, and as in
Dunedin the consumption of whisky, especially on
the Sawbawtb, is generous and unintermittent,
the memory of Noah should certainly be kept
green there. Also, The Bulletin, when visiting
Dunedin, would wish to deposit a fragrant tear
on a stately sepulchre to that great and good
Scotchman who invented burgoo, and hang the
ŧ
A HARD CASE.
JONES (to undertaker): “WELL, MR. SMITH, WHAT’S UP? YOU LOOK
WILD."
UNDERTAKER: “WHY, ITS ENOUGH TO MAKE ANY MAN WILD
YESTERDAY. DR. SAWBONES TOLD ME SOMEONE DOWN THE
ROAD WAS GOING TO PEG OUT. SO I WENT AND SHOVED MY
CARD UNDERNEATH THE DOOR. I’VE SINCE BEEN DOWN THERE
THREE TIMES BY TRAM AND THE BLINDS AIN’T DOWN YET.”
wreath of respectful admiration on the shrine of
the benefactor who patented boarding-house hash,
who-judging by the relics of skean-dhus, cairn-
gorms, and bits of bagpipe found in that comest-
ible-must have been a large-hearted Scot with a
hundred horse-power bump of heroism. More-
over. we ache to see the tomb-stone of Fish,
M H.R.
• * m
There was a bad harvest in Yorkshire
(Eng.) last year, and the question aro?e whether
there should be the usual harvest thanksgiving.
The Church Review puts the matter succinctly,
as follows :—“ What we should recommend is
that, while thanking God for what He gives, wo
should make the services of a less festal character.”
Just so I Payment by results—mitigated thanks.
Now, some miserable copyist will propose that the
clergy should be paid by results,
* » •
Thomas Hodgkin was stung by a wasp at
Mitfa Miita (Vic.) the other day, and his friends,
finding him rather badly affected by the occur-
rence, endeavoured to cheer him up with strychnine
iDj'ctions and ammonia applications, in conse-
quence of which Thomas terminated fatally very
soon after. This sad death is the result of new-
fangled ideas iu treating poisonous bites. When
we tramped the wilds it was the fashion to load
the patient up to the head with rum ; then, if
he had to die, he was too gloriously drunk to
notice it. There’s no sat isfaction in being snake-
bitten now a days when restoratives like strychn i ue
are resorted to. Many a bushman will regret the
old henuepathio principles—like cures like —srake-
juice versus srake-juice.
ON THE DISTAL PHALANX OF AN AUS-
TRALIAN ABORIGINALS FINGER.
A fragment of a savage here you see,
Poor victim of a wondrous destiny,
From off the face of his own fair ccuifry
By the pale stranger civilised was he.
This token clearly doth proclaim to all
The law that some do very cruel call;
That in the struggle for existence fall
Invariably, the weaker to the wall.
SUGGESTED BY THE DROUGHT.
’Tis welcome music of the spheres
When raindrops on the roof one hears.
The Brickbat
[SLUNG BY “TITUS SALT."]
The other day a Melbourne weekly founded
anew branch of veterinary science by issuing a
chart of a horse so arranged as to “show at a glance
many of the diseases to which that animal is sub-
ject.” Ailments of various kinds were closely
printed all over the shattered beast, and even then
many important c:mplaints were crowded out, or
carried over to the other side of the ruin, and a
considerable balance were held over to be printed
on anew horse next week. The result showed
that no horse can hold all the diseases now cur-
rent, and unless the horse can be enlarged, a few
of his troubles will have to be left out But this
is only a minor point, and what we really hunger
to state is that we don’t want to know how many
diseases a horse can have. We object to having
our digestion ruined by ghastly diagrams of heaves
and spavin, and glanders, and ringbone, and
splints, and we decline positively to start sorting
out all this unholy combination of complaints un-
less there is some money in the job. We demand,
in short, in the name of public respectability that
that Melbourne paper should stop publishing its
morbidly ruinous horse, and should give some-
thing fresh instead of the unhealthy beast which is
now prejing upon public credulity in its columns ;
or, if it is absolutely necessary to adhere to this
line cf science, we would suggest that some
rather less hopelessly incurable animal should be
selected to have the blind staggers in a weekly
organ which is either very much exposed to the
public eye or else is possessed of the best circula-
tion liar in the Australias. Agricultural and
veterinary science in its abstract form does not
interest us much, but still we rise to propose that
there is nothing in a sketch of anew harrow or a
reaper and finder or a combined patent hog-trough
which is likely to shock the human optic, and
until these subjects are completely used up there
is positively no excuse for the publication cf a
horse which is blasted all over by deep-rooted
complaints, and is forced to drag a dozen diseases
behind him from sheer want of room for them to
roost on his miserable frame.
• * •
According to Lord Wolseley’s account of
Ashantee military tactics, that dark nation at the
back of the Gold Coast has constructed a system
which is as far advanced as could reasonably be
expected. The army go's to battle in three lines,
and when a man cf the first line retreats from his
post he is promptly killed by the second line. The
chief purpose of the second line, in fact, is to kill
the first line if it doesn’t ero straight ahead and
win, and with certain death behind and only pos-
sible death in front Ashantee is seldom disap-
pointed in its hope that the first line will do its
duty. If the vanguard is demolished the second
line comes into action, while the third lies in
wait for it, and obliterates everybody who
turns bark. Behind the third line scattered
parties drift about pawing the earth and looking
for victims, and any man of the last reserve who
lights out unexpectedly for home is seized and
beheaded. At the back of these parties roost the
executioner and his assistants, who execute every
stray African spearmen who attempts to get
past, and behind this latter emblem of Ashantee
law the commander-in-chief whoops and howls
and waves his clammy mace, and flourishes the
bone of office in the air, and executes somebody
every five minutes to make the rest of the army
hurry up. Even when things are going reasonably
well the second line closes up at intervals and
impales semebody in the first line as an
incentive to patriotic fire, and in between
times the third line starts to kill the second line
baoause it isn’t killing the first line fast enough •
and the roving squadrons in the background rush
in and take somebody’s head at intervals because
he doesn’t seem to be exerting himself sufficiently •
and every time things threaten to get slack the
executioner sails in and executes a man who isn’t
howling loud enough and waving his spear with
sufficient vociferation; and if the executioner
isn’t uncommonly smart at this work the com-
mander-in-chief comes up behind and butchers
him, and appoints another executioner on the spot,
The only person who is even comparatively safe is
the African in front who is screaming in the
thickest of the enemy’s ranks, and consequently
the Ashantee gets to the front as fast as he can
and stays there. The happiest man, to all out’
ward appearance, is the commander in-chief him-
self, for he has nobody close at the back
of him, but in his case appearances are de-
ceptive, for even he has an eye upon him
which he cannot dodge. Away at Ooomassie,
perhaps a hundred miles distant, the old King is
wallowing among human bones and tkulls and
similar things, and waiting for news of the battle,
and if the news is not satisfactory he has the com-
mander executed by return of post. The system
stops there. Its one great defect is that there is
no one handy to execute the king, but at some
future time, possibly, the Ashautees may recog-
misa this failing and remedy it, and then they will
own a military system which is practically com-
plete in every detail. It is not necessary to make
provision for executing the man who executes the
king, for every private citizen is executed sooner
or later in Ashantee, and the general hangman is
dead certain to strike an average on this last
official some day. He must do it, in fact. If he
doesn’t he it morally sure to be executed himself,
and if he does he will be executed too—a little
later on.
• * •
Dear Bulletin, —I am mak'ng frantic
clutches at existence with the hem of my coat-
tail, but it is a difficult game in this insolvent gob of
mortar and concrete which the misguided wretches
hereabouts misca’l Melbourne. I love not this
huge parallelogram of ecgfiy masonry ; in short I
Hat: —capital H please printer—this accursed and
much-by-myself anathematised city of the abound-
ing Southern Cross. Its characteristics are ap-
palling—printer, kindly put in a metal rule here—
dost in clouds, cold winds freighted with
road-metal one hour, hot winds freighted
with pestiferous whiffs from the jaws of perdition
the next, and, close behind the latter, icy blasts
again, carrying bricks upon their bosom and
breathing forth lumps of lime and paviag stones,
horrible smells—in plain, unvarnished Anglo-
Saxon, stinks—bad drainage, typhoid, bragging,
boasting, blowing, low, dirty larrikinbm and
general scoundrelism everywhere. From-the
bevel-edged and copper fastened vice-regal person
on his great white throne in a damp Domain,
down to the degraded member of a six pounds
a-week Parliament, or the lost and lucre-
lusting worm that runs a praying-warehouse
there is not a gentleman in Melbourne. The
whole blastiferous of pawned intelligences
down here, sneer, jeer, and gibber at everything
outside their own rotten, fever-smitten, typhoid-
soaked, scandal-den; t*>ey brag, brag, brag, in a
shameless, blush’ees, brsz n way about their soap-
and-cande Exhibition, about their wide, shade-
less streets, about their trams, their sudd-n
deaths and premeditated suicides, their snakes,
dudes, flies, whisky, bad roads, broken bants,
busted building societies, dogs, distempers, ard
ague, and above and beyond all, about their Shake-
speare Society—a congregation cf toothless pillars
of information whose name is mostly Smith, who
have floated a spectral loan on the ghost of a past
age, and who amuse their senile intellects by
reading essays to each other on the number of
hairs that Antonio plucked from Shylock’s beard
on the Rialto, and the fighting weight of Hamlet
two days before his mother got married a second
time. At any rate, this sort of thing makes the
skill of man press heavily upon his thinking
organ, and he teels out into the vastness of the ab-
stract for some shadowy wherefore to establish the
foundations of his whyness upon. The common
or vegetable herd shunt Shakespeare and pre'er to
water the flower-pot plant of transplanted loyalty;
they bowl “G:d Save the Queen,” and take off
their hats all the time, and when they are not
howling “ God Save the Queen ” and waving their
brain-thatch with disregardful promimuousnees
they are manufacturing elaborate plots to rob
their neighbours, or convert the blacks, or float
some new grovel concerning “Wales.” Melbourne
is a ghastly wilderness dumped down by the deep,
sad sea and alongside Yarra’s smellful sands, and
I am weary of it with a great and ghastly wear!-
ness.—Yours,
ANARCHY.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
jHihat Pemell’s Snow-whit* Patbnt Boll** Floub is the
oeet In the market.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
That famous old Sydney hostelrie, the
Grand Hotel, Wynyard Square, has changed
hands and is now under the management of Mr.
P. Hust, a name synonymus with a first-class
cuisine, the best of liquors, good attendance, and
every other essential that goes to make a first-
class hotel.
JOHN RI'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers <Sb Partnership Agents ,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
45-pnge Country Properties, Farms, Or wing
Properties, &0., bo.
85-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Vlllai,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, So.
Printed list *ff BuiieiiM fsr Isis toned Bsiii.
All Lists posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Sydney possesses an Armenian detective.
Max O'Rell is a heavy loser by the Panama
canal failure.
Sir Alfred Stephen was called to the Bar
60 years ago.
John Hal fey, of Melbourne Evening
Herald, left £750,000.
The late John Wilson, squatter, cl Vic-
toria, left behind him £300,000,
John Ford, one of the discoverers of Bal-
larat, has just bottomed his earthly claim at 82.
Over sixty barristers have been “ called ”
to the New South Wales Bar during the past ten
years.
Amongst Gaorge Augustus Sala’s treasures
is a bust, in kauri gum, of Tawhiao, King of the
Maoris.
The heir of Half-crown de Bressl is going
to marry Miss Idena Neville, a daughter cf Lord
Abergavenny.
The Dibbs New South Wales Ministry
consists of seven Australians, two Irishmen, and
one Scotchman.
John Hurley, M.P. for Lltbgow, has
travelled the world more than any membsr of the
New South Wales Assembly.
Patti told an interviewer r ecantly that she
passes 12 hours out of 24 in bed, and that “ plenty
of sleep ” was the secret of her beauty.
The worst that is known about the new
New Zealand Governor, Lord Onslow, is that he
is descended from a Lord Mayor of London.
Before Labouchere started Truth he con-
tributed many an article to the World, for
which he received the weekly sum of two guineas.
The father-in-law of President elect Har-
rison has a £230 a year clerkship in the Pensions
Offiaa at Washington—but a better day is coming.
Demean Gillies was Peter Lalor’s mate on
the Ballarat goldfield—in times of peace. Duncan
never fought and bled at the Stockade. Not
much.
There is, living in quiet retirement In
Blue’s Bay, North Shore, Sydney, a fellow-rebel
of Peter Lalor, who took part in the fight at the
Stockt.de,
Lord C.riogion's aunt, the late Lady
Willoughby D'Eresby, will be known to fame as
the inventor of the lap-dog described as the
Willoughby pug.
Tae morbid pleasure which Queen Vic-
toria takes in funereal celebrations has boen
happily described as “ the Royal appetite
for bereavement.”
The January number of the Ncrth
American Eeview contains an article entitled
“Stage and Sodety, by Mary Anderson.” But
she didn’t write it.
To prevent her subj c's from noticing the
ravages that time has made on her once beautiful
face, the Empre 8 of Austria has not been photo-
graphed for 20 yean.
Lord Knutsford, the Secretary of State
for the Colonies, is a nephew of the great Lord
Macaulay. Which goes to show that talent does
not always run in families.
Colonel Templeton, who has just resigned
his post as Chairman of the Victorian Public Ser-
vice Board, commenced life as a private school
teacher at Filzroy, Melbourne.
Seme of the London papers are noticing
that the Prince of Wales is beginning to break
down in health, the outward and visible sign of
which is an exceedingly irritable temper.
One of the most prominent mining specu-
lators at Sandhurst, Victoria, commenced his
career as a Catholic priest. The Church is pretty
often a good training-ground for the “ financier.”
Mrs. Maria Bate Wise, mother of Mr.
B. K. Wise, the rejected Foreign-trader of South
Sydney, has been in receipt of a pension from the
N.S. Wales Government of £2OO a year for 25
years.
The Irish relations of an individual who
left Sydney for his native shores rome weeks ago,
via America, bearing with him a substantial
fortune, are now offering a small reward for infor-
mation concerning him, “alive or dead.”
Bishop Thorold, now on a visit to Aus-
tralia, where he arrivad per medium of a mail-
steamer saloon passage, after the manner of the
early Christians, enjoys a screw of £3lOO, with a
princely residence thrown in. He is accompanied
by a chaplain who also travels in the saloon.
Gustave Laohal, one of the boss Mel-
bourne land-boomers, has just filed his shovel for
£330,000, alleged assets, £393,000. Two or three
more boomers went to pot while the compositor
was setting up this paragraph, and now the smash
is going so fast that we have given up counting the
breakages.
Sir Henry Parkes, by the way, always
tacks high-toned names to his cottage residences.
Toe little “lodge,” ai Tummy’s son called
it on the mountains, is named “ Faulconbridge.”
Eau’conbridge, by the way, was a bastard. The
Px-Premier now dates from Hampton Villa,
Balmain.
The Bishop of Rochester la reported, on
the authority of a number of disinterested wit-
nesses who have enjoyed his society at dinner-
time, to be one of the heartiest feeders and the
worst sailors who was ever observed looking pen-
sively over a ship’s side into the depths of the un-
certain sea.
Daan Macartney, of Melbourne, will be
DO in April next, and is still working in ecclesi-
astical harness. His father was Sir Joan Macart-
ney, a member of the Irish House of Commons in
last century, and the Dean is thus the last
surviving link with the Parliament “ that sat
at College Green.”
Jules Jouberb has been engaged to manage
the exhibition which is to be hold at Dunedin
next year to celebrate the Jubilee of N.Z’s
colonisation. By a strange coincidence 1889 will
see the fiftieth anniversary of Joubart’s landing in
New Zealand, so all iteratively and really it will
he Jules Joubart’s Jubilee.
Thus an English paper : —“ The Prince of
Wales, so the story goes, understands that Colonel
North is worth two millions of money. H R.H.
thinks that no man should possess so much w ealth,
and intends, when a favourable opportunity pre-
sents itself, to explain himself more clearly to the
Colonel. Good old Prince ! ”
The father if Mr. Barnes, the newly-elected
member for Gundagai, N.S W., was murdered in
the lawless bushranging days. Mr. Barnes, senr,,
was a gold-lujer, and, driving in his buggy near
Wallendbeen, was shot dead. It was presumed
that the murderers were under the impression Mr.
Barnes had a quantity of gold with him, but they
were disappointed. The assassins were never cap-
tured.
Dr. Tador Hora, who has just died in
Melbourne, was the defendant years ago in that
city in a cause celebre A Mr, and Mrs. Bilson
sued the doctor in the Supreme Court for damages
for having, as alleged, feloniously assaulted the
female plaintiff at her own house on one occasion
when he came to see her sick child. Hora abso-
lutely denied the charge, and tha jury found a
verdict in his favour.
The new President of tin Uclb;dS.ates
and the present Lord Mayor of London are tee-
totallers, and Lord Salisbury hao never smoked in
his life. Bismarck, however, drinks he rby the
quart, and religiously sucks a pipe which holds
half-an-ounce of tobacco. And, as Bismarck
weighs heavier in the scales of greatness than
Salisbury, the Lord Mayor, and the President all
combined, we shall hold on to our beer and baccy
as before.
Mr. Harold Wilberforce Hinimarsh Ste-
phen, the newly-elected member (in the Protec-
tionist interest) for Monaro, is a son of Mr. G. M.
Stephen, the “ faith-healer,” by a daughter of
Governor Hindmarsh, who ruled South Australia
in its infancy. Mr Stephen was born in Ade-
laide, where his father was at one time Colonial
Secretary and Acting-Governor. Mr. Harold
Stephen is also a nephew of Sir Alfred Stephen,
the ex-Chief Justice of New South Wales, and
represented Monaro two years ago.
The subjoined, from a French paper, bears
on the recently-cabled deaoh of the Austrian
Crown Prince
"Tae Emperor of Austria fully appreciates the miecon-
duot of his son, the Crown Prince, and does not blame
Princess Stephanie for wanting to leave him. But he
opposes the idea of a divorce, because the young couple
have no son—only a daughter—and some of the states of
the empire are und?r the Salic law. Should this little
princess ever succeed hor father, therefore, there would
be a breaking up of the empire. ’
A Canadian paper has just published a
glowing article on great men, particularly those of
modern times, and, in the course of lis burning
eloquercj, the writer mixes up Ferdinand de
Lossepa with Lord Carnarvon and “Douglas B.
W. Sladen, B.A-, L L.B , a gentleman who is
crowned with many laurels.” A Boston journalist
also alludes to the man with the captive alphabet
in front of his name as the “ Poet Laureate of
Australia,” and altogether it wculd seem that
Dougl is B W. has struck a soft spot in the great
American soul. And in this same connection a
Queensland journalist gnashes his hair and tears
his teeth, and calls Douglas B. W. the Poet
Laureate of the Dust-Bin and the Bard of the
Ash-Heap, and asks if the transatlantic pressmen
ever considered these immortal lines of his, in
which he says :
“ Her baby was better and more cheerful,
And condensed milk appeared to agree with it”—
and having hurled this anathema at this alleged
Poet Laureate, calls for an able-bodied volunteer
to go over to America with an axe and perpetrate
a Deed of Gore upon the gilded imposition from
England who poses as Australia’s national poet.
A handsome creature is Ki ttore,
The softer sex will quite adore,
And let those lines convey a hint, or
Folks might pronounce his title /vmtore.
POLICTICAL POINTS
Fuller’s earth —Kiama.
There are 15 lawyers In the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly.
It costs the British taxpayer £2,000 OJO
per annum bo coerce Ireland.
Only 29 votes stood between the Escaped
Haynes and political extinction,
A Protectionist morning paper, with a big
capital, is on the tapis in Sydney.
Thera are 72 items liable to duty in the
Customs tariff of “ Freetrade ” New South Wales.
Irishman eats Irishman. The Times
articles on Parnellism and Crime were written by
one Flanagan, the son of a judge.
Parkes says it doesn’t matter a bit to him
whether or not he is Premier—he has just as
much power either way. But, Henry, you haven’t
as much money.
“ Jack ” Want’s friends say that when he
returns from Japan he will have something nasty
DjJlfkoJS
fills IT ON
rji
KAIL!
ţ
FELL AT PADDINGTON AND BROKE HIS JAW.
to say to Sir Jack Robertson for nominating him
for Paddington as a Freetrader.
While Parliament is in session lb costs the
New South Wales people £23 a night for trams
and special trains to convey members of Parlia-
ment to their suburban residences.
The Evening News has lately been pre-
tending to favour the Irish National cause, and
by this means tries to offer a Nationalist antidote
to its sectarian poison Too thin.
It now comes out that President Cleve-
land permitted American interests in Samoa
to be sacrificed, in order that the Americo-German
vote should be kept solid for the Democrats
Mr. John Cash Nalld’s explanation of the
Adelaide Exhibition cash-account is straight
forward and to the point. He says he got the
money to spend and he spent it like a man.
A syndicate has offered the N.S.W.
Government a large sum annually for the right of
advertising on the back of postage-stamps This
is, no doubt, due to the extra attention devoted
bo stamps since the Q men's head was scratched
off.
The Down and Gumtrbe Jbrnil, In a
recent issue, takes it upon itself to state that “ all
men need truth as they need water.” This pro-
bably accounts for the exceeding lack of veracity
patent in certain Freetrade candidates for Parlia-
ment.
Premier Gillies, of Victoria, it Is said, re-
gards Fletcher as the best and most formidable
leader to be found amongst the N.S.W. National
party. The result of Fletcher’s recent electioneer-
ing tour tells its own story. He was victorious
wherever he went.
The Fortnightly Review contains an
article which deals comprehensively with the
plays, novels and poems of the Norwegian
dramatist, Henrik losen, in whose dramas a
stronger, deeper, fuller note is sounded than by
any man since Goethe,
John Dillon, M.P., leaves Eogland for
Australia in March. John Dillon’s advent, The
Bulletin prophesies, will be seized upon by the
Parkes party to make the Pup’s chain longer. If
Mr. Dillon consults the political interests of Aus-
tralia he will carefully stay away.
The present given by the Queen’s children
and grandchildren to heron the occasion of her
Jubilee, was made in Germany, and a writer in
an English paper wants to know — beastly low
Radical that he is—if the present, a matsive piece
of plate, paid the Is. 6d. per ounce duty on silver,
or if it had been smuggled.
A certain Sidney newspaper proprietor,
for whom Mr. John Haynes acts as right band
man, acting on the advice of John aforesaid bet
Duncan Gillies, the Victorian Premier, a level
£3O that James Eletcher, NSW. Minister for
Works, would be beaten in the Newcastle election.
That newspaper man lost his little £3O.
Mr. Cairuthers, M.P. , tells the people of
N SW. to seek some more liberal leader than
Dibbs —to get a leader who would work in the
interests of the colony, and make it the Greater
Britain foreshadowed by Wentworth ! Wentworth
the Protectionist! If we swallow Wentworth,
Mr. Cariuiihers, let us swallow him whole.
The Evening Neavs, having jnst had io
knuckle down to Cardinal Moran, to whom it has
publicly apologised, doesn’t feel very well disposed
towards His Nibs. Nor does it feel very kindly
towards the Freeman’s Journal, whom the
Bennetts are now suing for libel. That is one
explanation of the “Ominous Silence” article.
It Is wonderful how the Sydney Foreign-
trade press have abstained from abusing a certain
defeated candidate of strongly pronounced Protec-
tionist and Republican principles. This abstention
may be accounted for purely and solely by lie
fact that the gentleman is the head of a firm that
advertises as largely as any in the colony of N.S.
Wales.
The Pall Mall Gazette caustlcly
alludes to the fact that the Times has failed to
acknowledge the £59 voted by the Victorian
Orange Lodge “ bo assist the Times in its attempt
to prova the charges against Mr. Parnoll.” Tae
P M.G. suggests that it is possibly this unfortunate
phraseo’o >y that has prevented the Times from
acknowledging the gift.
“I he N S.W. Protectionist party will
return only 5G members. We shall have a glorious
majority of 20 cr 30 If my prophecy doesn’t
come true you need not b-lieve me any more,”
said Parkea a fortnight ago. His failure as a
prophet hasn’t shaken us a bit; we believe in
bimjost as strongly as ever we did. But then
we never did believe in him.
Eoglard and Wales have mire able-bodied
paupers than the United States—with twice the
population—can show of all kinds, including
idiots, cripples, tramps, aged persons, and
every other inaginable variety. This in
ep te of the fact that all the paupers,
idiots, and criminals that Europe could ship off,
have been shot into the States daring the latb
50 years.
Overheard In the crowd in King street,
Sydney, cn Saturday night week: “ Hoorah for
Hughey Taylor! Byrnes was a Freetrader and now
he’s a Protectionist. He’s only a thing—he changed
bis opinions.” Mi d voics in the crowd : “ Bow
about Hughey Taylor changing his religion V
For answer the “Mild Voice” got a “ wonner ”
under the ear and was soon under foot in the
crowd. Such are N.S W. politic?.
St. Stephen's Review states that Mr.
Stead, of the P.M. Gazette, has caused the Queen
“intense annoyance” by his “unwarrantable use”
of her name in connection with that of Fraulein
Weidemann, and expresses its regret that Victoria
has not the power that lay in the hsnds of the
“Virgin Queen” 300 years ago, so that Stood
could be chained up and oast into the dungeon
underneath the moat. Nice liberal paper St.
Stephen's Review !
A Berlin professor of Arabic has reeled off
the following profound grovel for bis Imperial
master
Let us lift up the cup of joy ! We drink to the patron,
the son of glorious ancestors, the shoot from a noble stem,
to William, the Emperor. His manner is like the s'ft
smile of the zephyr, and of his attack the lions afraid.
Hail to thee, Sovereign, thou who ait far above Alexander
in greatness, and above Cyrus in juGice. May the brilliant
sun of the glory of thy r< iga never set. While Tanfik Ihes
he will dedicate his sing to the German Emperor and to
the German nat’oa.
A new constitutional government has been
proclaimed in Japan, the people to elect a Repre-
sentative Assembly in 1890, We have not yet
heard whether each Jap. is to have one vote, and
one vote only, or whether the common Japanese
workman, who has no terraces and no allotments,
is to have only one vote while the retired policeman,
who has accumulated many terraces, and now
keeps a public-house, is bo be permitted to drive
about all day, from one constituency to another,
recording votes so that the working-man may ba
kept in his proper place.
That no chance of pushing forward a
Foreign-trade candidate should be lost, the grand-
lodge officers of the N.S.W. Good Templars
actually recommended to the electors their well-
beloved brother, Frank Farnel), as one in whom
confidence might be placed. Mr. Farnell is a
wine-and-spirit merchant. His father was not a
teetotaller, and his grandfather or great grand-
father was the first Australian brewer. Next
election we expect to hear that the cold-water
wire-pullers have recommended Brewer Toohey to
the suffrages of the faithful.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1889.
1
* _. ..
- /h?rS//epry ss
yt e *foa./fer' , y£>cL tygs/- /e/7 ; p c - /
4 n?o-9 n,a y
a- jbr*.r r/'V
\ <J«e b-T&fe/
7,
If/ OLD MULE' Mitk
'ti/u/tT/*"*
ry
7&U. v'
gosJ fae&s&y
/2
&//. -Oy- hf*l /* U
' <?>
f/ M//
0. // to/ /eases ap/a/s ft/eu. y x „
/K./W Tfievare. sl//
i<J>t ft* *■ 9jC Jpy***
Jor, _ V ~,// Caskey ye */
jC 0 r Tp. ' ° />/^ 7 p p tu.// parpfaj e- .
t
//, a.jetf," e./’ec/-o>-a/l -day ?
rifer -y a - *
' "/f£ fa?**-
+ r/' ,
frohrteTor ep /A/'/ns ft/
/o/-er~ /pCey*p/~
s *
u __ " /Veil y oil
*rsjfsee fijyrar***
Xoroper/fei ''€?///*■
' fr a Kore /y misery
e/ec/vra/e O/- csyc/~
tf&y ctyd <ifu£utSs.
a?cc/o fa&ts/'/fy&yJ
Z//Al/f/y/l5fD
OA/fOZ
z\ r®
L\' ( U\ s
L.^a^
ST V Vn


Ojpe Afar) V'ot c- yQ, f o/?& yap rote* m of/p>j
I Of A
k
kr
t
yj// / JzA/PAjP^
m! mP' M.-s. # r r y o r *
/ W[ </•' ri h
i> i °
/
/ .
HJt
°
Je e ft /r - 'ofact
bn cLoye* S'
/.amp 4 iff Mr - , 'J / I/ef£ |
?ff fctf vo* ■/**'
Vo/jl CMO*//y&r'
MpS/aycz, " |
Pctrly - V)
•a b a -f r / t "' /
fey
liifc fl b / ach t r t
Lnit!
(iff W 1? a f & bo^/ re
(Lfoi ty** r
/ ! / ..
fDoES THE
IFICATIO M /\FPRES£NfC/\P/-
TA it L / S TE N [
AjONSy LFMDFff fUpj
: n/d /Ardufo
T/ya oo/d&e s oy a?/ y^ cof ~
Oro/ber//s/f, “£/ y»U /*/*/
AisoAe s esp ■/?&&
ctoyF JpoA /yo />Fo/?er/'Sp~
oy Sp /yuQy/pSyes Ayugy/cCye.6 cS<?yf
l/o/-<i a/p/F'
ONE MAN ONE VOTE: AN OBJECT LESSON IN DEMOCRACY.


gWBBT BOKOWM. the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from th West Australian " Boronia
MegisHouia." Bold Everywhere. Price, Ss. 6d.,
Bs., and 18s. Post free to any address In
Australasia. Be sure yon get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONQMORE. 188 Booske-st., East,
■nitiiH
Most and Ciiandon's Champagne.— Messrs. Moot and
Chandon are the largest vineyard proprietors and
champagne-producers in the world. Their “ Ory-
Impcrial" 1884 vintage is the pure juice of selected
grapes from their own vineyards of 2500 acres In the
choicest districts of France. It can now be obtained
through any Wine Merchant in Australia. The Imperial
Crown Is In eaoh corner of label, and 1884 branded on
ork and label.
Dry Imperial Champagne.— Messrs. Moot and Chandon
are the largest vineyard proprietors and champagne pro-
ducers in the world. Their “ DRY IMPERIAL’’ 1884
vintage is the pure juice of selected grapes from their own
vineyards of 2500 acres in the choicest districts in Franoe.
The Imperial Crown Is in each corner of label, and 1884
branded on cork and label.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
■ESTABLISHED 1151.
VHB LEADING HOUBI
FOB
Planovp Organtp BiuslOp
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention la called to the following
Exceptionally Flrst-cl »s»
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LBOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Onr Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano eve*
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
BSTBY ORGANS. BSTBY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which apeak for themselves! The Bstef
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class Instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work*
manshlp and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY FART 01
THE COLONIES
on shell
LIBERAL TIME PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. N. PALING ft 10-, W.
188 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.o>
Society
A temperance-lecturer, a few weeks ago,
took Lord Carington to task for going on board an
immigrant ship and cautioning the immigrants
against the vice of intoxicating liquors, while at
that moment in the “ hold *’ of the same ship were
some two hundred cas c s of choice wines and spirits
consigned to his Excellency.
• • •
The old foreign shepherdess who piped
melodious tunes while watching two scraggy sheep
and one goat prospect for herbage among the
broken marble columns of broken-down Greece,
in the days when that common threepenny State
still scratched feebly in the backyard of history,
has been dished up till she badly wants a rest;
and consequently we have resolved to let that
poetic heroine slide and construct an idyll about a
Kanaka damsel from the coral islands. She arrived
in Queensland by a trading schooner a few weeks
ago; she was fat and twenty, and was twenty
times as fat as might have been expected. She
was short, desperately wide, good-humoured, and
wore grease in her hair ; she had a great, affable
smile, and a countenance like a bag of bran,
and her clothing was simple, and there wasn’t
any great excess in the quantity of it. When she
was In repose she looked like a tired mountain on
two pillars, and when she moved she seemed to
be the Day of Judgment in a used-up condition.
But she had lovers in plenty all the same. The
very first week of her residence eleven sheepish
Kanakas came and languished on the doorstep of
her hut, and at the end of a fortnight eighteen
black brethren were incapacitated for work
through pining after her, and seven days more
saw another six niggers lay down their hoes and
E rostrate themselves in the dust beneath her
alf-ton feet. The plantation got demoralised and
the old order of things began to break up beyond
repair. Through the day the male Islanders
roamed aimlessly around, and watched Susan as
she encumbered the lean earth with her tre-
mendous bulk, and at night strange sounds were
heard, like the cats on the ruined walla of Jeru-
salem, which meant that some musical Kanaka
was endeavouring to accompany himself on the
cocoanut as he sang a song a hundred and eighteen
verses in length outside Susan’s over-weighted
bower. At last the planter who owned this cart-
horse siren could stand it no longer, and he
resolved that Susan should give the vast steam-
crane of her hand and arm to one favoured lover,
and thus end the difficulty. Accordingly he mus-
tered the contingent one morninr, and having
shored up the placid bride against some handy
object which looked strong enough to stand the
heat and* burden of the day, he addressed the
gathering in his best pigeon dialect. “Now
boys,” he said sternly, “you see Susan come
longa Queensland big ship. Susan good girl;
plenty heap boy like Susan. Too much heap boy
like Susan altogether. No good all heap tov like
Susan. I yabber Susan look out one boy. Busan
yabber me it like one boy. Then me give Susan
one husband. Now, march!” The contingent
marched past in single file accordingly, and Susan
kept her eye oa each one as he passed. At last a
huge Kanaka obscured the noonday sun, and
a faint smile broke out on the outlying
flanges of Susan’s visage and struggled across
the extensive property of her countenance. The
procession was stopped. “Susan,” asked her
master, solemnly; “you like’im big Charley?” “Me
like ’im,” answered Susan, bashfully, and Charley
was brought across by the ear. Then he stood
straight up, while his blushing bride came softly
across with feet that sounded like a tame elephant
filled with thunder, and planted herself with her
back to him. There was no parson handy, and no
prayer-book, [.but it didn’t matter. The planter
climbed up on a chair so as to attain a command-
ing position, and extended his hands above them
in an attitude of benediction a'lee same missionary,
and then he knocked their heads together with a
vigour which brought tears to the eyes of the
new-made wife, and the ceremony was completed.
It doesn’t take long to marry a Kanaka girl in
Queensland.
* * *
Ib was on a Gippsland train. The leaden
mule, which someone in a burst of poetic frenzy
has erroneously christened an iron horse, was toil-
ing painfully along, and the cows were keeping
ahead to escape the dust. In a second-class
carriage sat a pretty country damsel with a milk-
and-roses complexion, and a set of teeth as pure
as the whitewashed tombstones in a country
churchyard, and along with her was her weather-
beaten and stalwart ma. A lean, consumptive
dude newly out from “home” occupied the op-
posite seat and worried her with remarks. He
said that—haw —he was surprised at the English
aspect of things—the girls, don’t you know—
almost as lieautiful as anything in the old country
—weally, now—haw —aw—dontyerknow—so Eng-
lish, yersee; but for « long time there was no
reply. He cffered the same remark six times
before he succeeded in attracting the young lady’s
attention, and then he was just beginning his ob-
servation for the seventh and last time : “ The
girls, dontyersee ’’when she spoke. “ Ma,”
she said in a plaintive voice; “why don't they
put it in the catole-truck along with its mother ?”
That was all. It left at the next station.
• •
The rumour la again current that Sir
Henry Parkes will shortly go “ home ” as A geot-
General of N.S.W. As is well known, the old
gentleman has a hankering after “ honours ” and
as a newly-married man he has a very natural
desire that Lady Parkes should be presented at
Court.
• * *
Mrs. Driscoll, of South Melbourne, ap-
peared at the local police court, the other day,
in a c audition which suggested that she had
unjustifiably attacked a tramc’kr, and accused her
hu band of having come home in a dissipated
state and kicked her on the head ; but when she
was asked if her lord and proprietor had his boots
on at the time the confessed candidly that she
couldn’t tell “because it was so dark.” This
seems to be pretty well as mean an insinuation
about the horny character of Driscoll’s feet as
could well ba conceived, and if that man of hard
extremities has any sense of shame in him he will
never kick anybody again except by daylight.
Ib would hardly do to say <l old Parr”
Parkes. In pronunciation it might sound like
“ Pa ” Parkes and that would not ba nice.
* . *
The latest craze amongst the actresses of
America is the hand and arm photograph. They
spend no end of money posing their hands to have
pictures taken of them. Almost always they hold
something in the hand that is to be pictured—a
wine-glass, a diamond ring just touched by two
d*inty fingers, a visiting card, or a silver coin.
Those who are proud of their arms have them
photographed, often the full bare arm and
shoulder without a hint of clothing, or just the
trace of a short lacs sleeve, with a shapely limb
issuing from it. Some non-professionals are be-
ginning to share the craze.
* • *
Captain Thomas late commandant of the
Victorian Navy (save the mark !) and Mrs. T. left
for England by the Carthage, last week. As is
the custom of his cloth, Captain Thomas takes
home with his colonial experience an Australian
wife. He married the daughter and coin of
Robert Power, of Toorak.
• • *
They were at the theatre and she had
thoughtlessly eaten, at dinner, some soup with
the flavor of onion in it. “Oh, Mr. Howling-
swell,” she said, adroitly, putting a morsel of per-
fumed lace and cambric to her face, “do you
notice that some one near us has had the bad taste
to eat onions before coming to the theatre to-
night?” “Why, no, Miss Smith, I hadn’t
until you spoke. ”~Ex.
• • •
Another gem from the Ncoze :
I MRS. DOUGIN, hereby publicly apologise for
, the language I usfd to Mrs. Burgess, as I have
cot the slightest foundation, and not one word of it
was true. (Signed) Mrs. DOUGIN.
A lady without the “ slightest foundation ” must
certainly be off her base.
* * *
A full-blooded Maori patriarch, named
Ngauah, cf Te-Aute pah, having been asked his
opinion of missionaries, gave vent to the following
—“Missionary very good man, yes, very good
man —for himself. He hold one hand up to the
sky, you look up—then he collar your land, your
crop, your horse, cow, and pig with the other.
Oh, missionary very good man.”
• * •
A certain doctor, who lately left a central
Queensland district with much precipitation, bad
a very narrow escape of being tarred and feathered.
The crowd were there right enough, and so were
five gallons of tar and a feather bed, but the
doctor was not on hand. He sneaked off in blue
spectacles and a false beard, and by crossing a dam
in flood-time, evinced the possession of more pluck
than ever he had been suspected of owning.
* •
How Is It that when a special train Is put on
to take passengers from Spencer-etreet, Melbourne,
to Williamsbown for embarkation by the mail
steamers leaving for Sydney or Adelaide, as the
case may be, the passengers while waiting for the
train have to stand unsheltered in the web or the
sun ? Surely the Victorian railway authorities
might provide some shelter oa such occasions. All
Mr. Speight’s work is not yet done.
* * •
“ Hang it, madam 1” said the dade in the
tram-car, oa whose foot a stout lady had just
trodden, “you’ve crushed my foot into jelly.
Rejoined the stout lady tartly, as she yanked her
bustle to starboard and shook herself out generally,
“It’s not the first time that I have made calf’s-
foot jelly.”
a *
The other day in a certain Australian
parliamentary election a young man succeeded in
beating an older man. The young man had been
a suitor for the hand of the old man’s daughter,
but the parents would not consent, and now the
you ag man failing to win the daughter wins the
constituency.
Daring the recant Mayoral elections in
Queensland the result in South Brisbane and
Bowen was a tie. Needless to add that, in each
place, both parties would have given way but for
“ pressure from friends ”
An Invention Utilised.
1. Mark where jon lordly Coffee Palace rears its majestic what-you-may-
call-lt toward the vault of Heaven. A party is seen bo arrive with a box (filled
with bricks) and an ostensible umbrella, the former as a guarantee of good faith,
and the latter to be used as shall hereinafter appear.
2, “ Oh, csrtainly I room 9999, top floor, will answer admirably. My box I
shall not require at present; put it in a safe place, that’s all. And serve my
meals in my room. I will take my umbrella along with me in case the
roof leaks.”
3. Day after day for a week or more good victuals were sent up to 9999,
top floor, regularly. But it occurred to the landlord one day that he hadn t
noticed any money coming down.
4. “ I’ll soon know the reason why,” said the landlord. Then he went up
to room 9999 and knocked emphatically on the door.
5. “ It’s time I was getting out of this,” said the boarder. And he left
per parachute, merely leaving a note behind directing the landlord to take his
pay in bricks and give what was left to the poor.


In ten years New Zealand has exported
70,000,000 rabbit-skins, value £750,000. During
the same period Victoria exported 20,000,000.
A syndicate of Australian j a Tellers have
imported a man from Europe bo do certain work
ter them which could not be done here previously,
ihe imported article resides in Collins street,
Melbourne. The other day a Melbourne man
sent some jewellery-work from that city to be
dine in Sydney, where he was bold it could be
oesb executed. A little while afterwards he
dropped into the workshop of an a.quaintauce, a
,ie Teller, four doors from his own place in Collins-
straet, and there happened to see his own piece of
Property which had been sent to be dealt with.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED.
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES (WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS. —A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOLE OE THE
PREMIUMS PAID b«t»» RETURNED as an ADMTION TO THE SUM in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival. FULL PARTICIPATION
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. Mr BiMtbei In *ll the Cotoviw *od In the Übitwd Kibodom-
V
lb ia an open secret that when a certain
tolerably well-known man took home the other
day a bride with three ready-made children, his
legitimate daughters walked out of the house.
* * *
A very large number of more or less dis-
tinguished persona, i deluding Governor Oarington
and all who do ordinarily pursue him, have during
the last week visited Herr Karl Kahler’s collection
of pictures at Beale’s Gallery, George-street,
Sydnev. The chief item of artistic interest is
Herr Kahler’s clevarly-paiitei representation of
the famous N.Z. White Terraces, which, as the
world knows, were unhappily destroyed by an
earthquake soma years ago, and which will
live in the recollection of those who ever saw
them as the memory of a beautiful rainbow
or a beautiful dream. But all the same, we
don’t think Herr Kahler was quiffi justified,
even by artistic license, in representing the
lower basement of the terrace as bearing black
moss round its edges, for we very clearly remem-
ber that there was no black moss on the original.
Popular interest centres in the artist’s ‘ 1 Melbourne
Derby Day,” a mediocre picture in which, as in his
“Cup Day,” art and commerce are judiciously
blended, inasmuch as nine-tenths of the people
whose well defined portraits appear on the canvas
very likely subscribed for a very large number of
photogravures For instance, we dare say that
L. L. Smith, who is depicted to the life—shirt-
front, diamond studs, hair-oil, and all the rest of
it—will have to see quite a large number of young
men who don’t feel very well before be can pay
for the copies he will take, and we are pretty
certain that when the artist placed the neat,
gentlemanly, calm-looking Mr. Reginald Bright
right alongside Miss Essie Jenyns he had
a sort of idea that Mr. Bright might in the
long run be “struck” for at least a guinea or
two. The genial J. S. Batters is there, but by a
singular oversight he has not been placed along-
side anybody who is particularly good-looking. A
large number of the leaders of Melbourne society
are on the spot —each being, as is the
custom down south, in company with the
other man’s wife or the other woman’s hus-
band. Then we have in a corner of the
room a picture of the artist’s studio, which, on
canvas, anyhow, rivals in splendour a Moorish
palace of the past. The Kahler picture combina-
tion is stupendously strong. It is personally con-
ducted by the Much Travelled, junior, and the
artful Griffiths Brothers have a finger in the pie.
• • *
British lojalby finds expression in an un-
governable desire to possess personal articles that
have belonged to the Royal family, and as a con-
sequence, even the sacred wardrobe of the Queen
itself is not safe. There is scarce a morning that
the Queen does not have to raise Gain amongst her
maids of honour in consequence of the disappear-
ance of a stocking that has encased a royal leg, or
the embezzlement of a mouchoir on which a royal
nose has been blown. There is now weekly stock-
tsklng of the royal under garments, but to such an
extent does the pilfering still go on, that should a
revolution occur suddenly, the poor Guelphs will
have positively nothing to flee to France in.
•
D<ar Bulletin, —The Indies of Brisbane
are enraged with you. They consider that your
suggestion as to the refreshments in their new
club does not come well from one whose hands are
full with keeping Potts’ Point fashion in the
straight but narrow path The new club will be
worked upon teetotal principles—for the present.
But blue will not always remain “ the latest thing
in ribbons.’ A.B.
Such a strong family likeness exists among
the Boucicaults that Dion's brother, Arthur Leslie
Boucicault, was recently accosted in Elizibeth-
street, Melbourne, by a man who mistook him for
another brother living in London. The children
of the gifted but giddy Dion, all participate
in a general resemblance, and pretty little Miss
Nina is the very “ spit and image ” of her younger
brother “Bertie.” Talking of all which reminds
us that our own particular Boucicault —Brough’s
partner—though Dion’s son, has no baptismal
claim to the style of “ Dion, junior,” because his
godfathers and godmothers called him Darley
George. The real Dion junior died like a young
hero in 1876 He was travelling to London by
“The Flying Scotchman ”express from the North,
when the train ran off the rails. Dion escaped
from the smash with nothing worse than a broken
arm. He went to the assistance of three ladies
lying helpless on the “up” line, and had just
planted the last of them safe on the embankment
when another train came along and robbed the
world of a brave heart.
BABY BALLAD.
(AFTER SIR HENRY PARKES, G.C.M.G.)
Baby, see the foolish old ’un
Dream a dream of future golden,
Ext alone for younger chappies
In their after-dinner nappies.
See him in his youthful manner
Gaily wave the Ereetrade banner.
Or at leisure writing, maybe,
Ballads for a future baby.
See how now the gay old party
Makes believe he’s hale and hearty,
Leads a bride unto the altar,
Though with age his footsteps falter.
Do not heed signs of encroaching
Second childhood—swift approaching,
Hear how lightsome still his talk is,
Never mind how aged his walk is.
May the great big hat above him
Ever shade some one to love him
While it proves to him a cover,
Then it shields his chiefest lover.
Up a Northern River.
(BY JAMES EDMOND.)
It Is early autumn —the season when the
cart-horse bard of the Australian plains dodders in
smothered verse about the leaves that are getting
brown, and the songful goat which stamps on the
bank of the brown and muddy river as the saddle-
coloured current staggers feebly towards the
distant sea, and lifts up his voice concerning the
bugs and tight boots of his beloved motherland,
like wise the snakes and the ague, the stumps on
the highway, the wattle, the wild pigs, the dis-
temper, and other cognate themes. The bare gaunt
claws of Nature are spreading out over the earth,
and through the crisp night air come strange
mixed sounds —the “ awk-awk-awk” of some un-
distinguishable reptile, the “z-z z-z-z-z z ” of some
flyiag insect with a red hob tail, and, above all,
the accursed, soul-destroying “ toot ” of that pass-
ing steamer which plods in and out of the remoter
sea-ports bearing exasperation on its wings and
spreading human demoralisation wherever it goes.
* * *
What Australian is there who doea not
know that deceptive little craft —the broken-
down, one-horse vessel which steals alongside the
wharf just after the expectant traveller has given
up all hope and gone to bed, and then creeps away
again before he is awake, and leaves him hopelessly
behind, a lost atom with a portmanteau blaspheming
in a fifth-rate public-h ouse—the flat-bottomed steam
failure with an inflated whistle, which is supposed
to call twice a week in the dead waste and wilder-
ness of the night and which is 20 miles away before
the morning resurrection ? The places which this
vessel most loves to haunt are the weary, moulder -
“IF YOU GINTLEMEN WANT TO STAND THERE, WOULD YEZ PLAZE
MOVE ON!”
ing, prematurely oil, bush-grown little ports of
the northern rivers, »ni it comes cut of its lair to
lie cff these spots and toot its aggiavaling whistle,
and then it slides away into outer darkness and
leaves its intending passengers to walk. As a rule
the belated traveller who intends trusting bis soul
to this means of conveyance arrives by land a day
ahead, with his heart full of he pa and his shirts in
a capacious bag, and hunts up the dismal, tangled
clerk who represents the local shipping interests
in a dismantled fortress beside the wharf. There
is a certain tired, shock headed raca of clerks
who appear to grow for this especial branch of
industry, and the representative of this outcast
race is generally found keeping his weary watch
in company with a dog-eared ledger and a three-
legged s l ool which was made out of the wood of
the true cross. He is an individual who knows
nothing and knows it worse than any other man
on earth, and he doesn’t even know enough to
know that he knows nothing, but booms along
with a serenity which is little short of sublime.
• *
Still he ia In a position bo report that tho
steamer will most likely come along some time, if
she doesn’t die on the way. She calls in every
three days, except when she is a month and a half
overdue, and then she calls in twice a week every
day except Sunday, and that day she calls every
alternate fortnight and three-quarters only. At
present, however, there is a bitch in the time table
arrangements, and consequently she only arrives
semi-occasionally, and sometimes nob so often as
that by a good deal, bub she will probably be along
about the middle of the night, or from that to the
early part of the week after next. Then you pro-
bably inquire if this unreliable Flying Dutch-
man hasn’t been signalled from somewhere or
other along the coast, and he explains with a pity-
ing smile that there is no telegraph in these parts,
but an orphan boy who was up on the top of an ad-
jacent hill, about the centre of yesterday, saw
some smoke on the horizon which might have been
the steamer, or on the other hand again, it
mightn’t. It further transpires that the witness
in this case died early the same morning, so that
he can’t be further questioned on the subject, but
by way of corroborative evidence, it is mentioned
that a subscription is now being got up to buy his
mother a mangle. At all events the shock-headed
commercial youth has got a bill of lading for 187
bananas duly mads out, and he trusts that the
vessel may came along shortly, and remove that
festering luggage out of sight.
. • •
After this you can wander up the dreamy
gra’s-grown thoroughfare and muse in the swelter-
ing sun, and have dinner at the licensed sepulchre
in the next street, and wait the course of events.
Sometime in the tangled wilds of the afternoon, it
may be, an unhappy native floats along, and you
can curse him with your acquaintance and blast
his soul with your personal friendship till he
withers away and becomes a hollow-minded and
mysterious wreck, and then you can spread your
moral infection around until it appears to be time
to move your soul back to the silent wharf and
enquire some more about the steamer.
• • e
Generally this second visit breaks up the
shock-headed clerk, and he informs you sorrowfully
that he believes the company has made arrange-
ments to avoid this particular port in future as if
it were a serpent. They tell a tale to this day
about a clerk on one of the northern rivers who
was in the act of explaining something like this to
a demoniac traveller, and the latter in bitter irony
propounded to him a mysterious conundrum,
which was meant to be a sarcasm upon his com-
mon sense, about certain circumstances under
which a door got tired of being a door and became
something else, and asked him if he thought this
fact should be taken three times a day in a glass
of water, and the clerk considered about it till he
died and was buried in a leafy spot under a
spreading tree, but the circumstance is not suffi-
ciently substantiated. Towards six o'clock, how-
ever, the inky menial generally brightens up, and
if he is struck about that hour the inquirer may
possibly be supplied with some fresh ignorance, and
may acquire a disjointed paragraph to the effect
that the expected steamer may possibly show in
the river about ten o’clock, upside down, with the
captain swimming alongside and carrying the
boiler on his head. Sometimes the tangleheaded
one adds that he will call up at the hotel and
advise you when the cough of the asthmatic
monster is heard upon the bosom of the deep,
but this is merely a premonitary sign that he is
going out of town at once and won’t be back for
three days, and is- not by any means to be relied
upon.
* * *
By this time the tea and flies are ready as
your mausoleum, and two clump-soled men who
live by prodding the paunchy bullock to his doom
at the butcher’s shop are blaspheming at the table,
and then the evening drags wearily along while
you smoke and wait and drink and curse and
pray. By eight o’clock the local liquors have
eaten away your vitals ; by ten you have smoked
till you are a hollow mummy, caked all over on
the inside with soot; by eleven there isn’t any
sign of the steamer, and nobody in tie place has
ever heard of such a means of conveyance in his
life. At midnight you wander down to the collec-
bion of ancient tea-chests, where the shipping
cannibal is generally on view, bub all is silent and
deserted, and the loafer who hangs about outside
is quite sure that the place is only a potato
store. The tide is falling in the river,
and where there used to be water there
are only the footprints of an alligator on
the long, slimy sand banks, aid finally you
drift back to bed with a conviction that a raft may
possibly come along about the back part of the
day of judgment, but till then business is sus-
pended.
• • 9
Shade of the great original alligator ! la
that, the whistle of a steamboat after all? The
belated stranger comes out of bed with a crash,
and hurriedly gats into his portmanteau under the
impression that it is his clothes. An iron-clad
insect with eight legs and four horns is walking
across the floor, and a horror the size of a dinner-
plate is roosting on the curtains. Something with
long feelers and a tail and a general aspect like a
small edition of the rooster which sasecl the holy
St. Peter is sitting on his hat, and while escaping
it he squashes a general sorb of reptile which seems
to be there for no particular purpose except to
look myataiious-lika and fill ths bill. Thera is
only oae chair in the room, and he falls over it
unto seventy times seven, but at last by the exer-
cise of a sagacity which is half bloodhound and
half Job ha disentangles himsalf from this weapon
for sitting down upon, and splits down the street
with one pair of socks in his hand and all the rest
of his baggage left bahiad in the darkness. There
is more whistling on the river, mo-e insects, the
shadow of something that looks like a kangaroo
spreads across the road, somebody is yelling at the
top of his voice on the wharf, somebody else —
• • •
Thera la a mud-barge aground on the
shore, and the shade of a half-grown tug steamer is
trying to get it off and is blowing an unearthly
toot about twice in five minutes. The steamer
came in and left again half an hour ago. Some-
body had stuffed a cork in the whistle so that it
had to leave without saying anything. It won’t
be back for a mouth, and the other steamer which
travels that way went ashore last night and won’t
be fit for work for eight weeks. There is just a
faint possibility that a ketch laden with fertiliser
and condemned fi sh may put in about 2 o’clock in
ths morning next Tuesday fortnight, but this
point is uncertain because the captain has gone
mad, and the mats recently hanged himself*
Anyhow, you better not stand on them bannaners
for the captain wouldn’t take them on account of
there bein’ a lot of scorpions about them, and if
you wouldn’t mind givin’ a haul on this rope we’ll
have this ’ere mud barge off in two jiffs.
“Bless the man who first invented the steam-
boat system on Australia’s Northern rivers,”
A rabbltter on the Nevii River (N Z.) dis-
covered a rich alluvial claim beneath a rabbit bur-
row. He washed £lOOO worth of clay in a few
weeks.
Some seven or eight years ago there
landed at Auckland a splendidly mediocre lawyer
named Seth Smith, one of whose chief recom-
mendations lay in the fact that he was a
nephew of the local Anglican bishop. By the
influence of his right reverend uncle or some
other means, Seth obtained a resident-xnagis-
tracy which should have been the fair reward
of any one of a score of more experienced and
capable men, Seth had studied in England, and
thoughhehad nospecialknowledgeof New Zealand
law, he contrived to rub along very nicely. A
district judgeship rewarded him in due time, and
now he has been shot into the positiop of chief
judge of the Native Land Court, a responsible
position which should only be occupied by a good
Maori scholar. Able men of nearly a quarter of
a century’s service, possessing the best qualifica-
tions for the position, have been coolly passed
over, but then, of course, they are not the nephews
of an Anglican bishop.
For years the late Rev. Dr. Bleasdale
(R. 0.) used to do the same kind office for con-
demned criminals in Melbourne which Canon
Rich has done so long for Church of England
hangees in Sydney. Some of the Melbourne
priests were too nervous to perform the last rites
at the scaffold, but John Ignatius Bleasdale was a
portly Lancashire man of 6ft. lin , who thought
no more of rubbing shoulders with Bamford (the
Victorian Nosey Bob) than au cfficiator in the
abbatoirs does of knocking over a bullock. When
the last (and probably first) woman was executed
in Melbourne, a quarter of-a century ago, J. I. 8.,
was there; it wasn’t the lady who required his
attentions, but a gentleman friend of hers. Dr.
8,, who was a great judge of wines and precious
stones, died in ’Frisco not long since. The late
Governor Castieau, of Melbourne Gaol, used to
say that R 0, culprits met their fate best.
The fate of head-masters of New Zealand
secondary schools has not, so far in Maoriland’s
educational history, been deliriously happy. A
few years experience of most of the Governing
Bodies invariably drives these scholastics to drink,
to suicide, or madness ; or the goaded pedagogue
reaches down a Latin delectus and retires with it
to some secluded corner and refuses to eat, or
drink, or kiss the baby, and so, pining, sickens
and fades out to those abodes supernal where
governing he-frumps cease from troubling and the
weary boy-whacker is at rest C. C. Oorfe, head
of Christ’s, Christchurch (N Z ), has for 15 years
successfully negotiated the small, second-hand,
cheap divines and pompous old lay platitudes
puffed with unearned increment—his governors.
Failing to kill him they have given him a year’s
salary in lieu of notice, on the plea that 15 years
is long enough for a man to hold his position.
Oorfe, aitat 10, has hardly reached his intellectual
prime, is of superb physique, a noted athlete, a
general favourite, and aB.A. of Cambridge. His
successor will probably be some Anglican parson
of the kitchen-garden variety, of no intellectual
distinction, of approved ’umbleness, and with a
gumboil and one short leg, for of such is the king-
dom of heaver.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, ft 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer. Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
Intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
Jnd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style,
gth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods ; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
j
mmm
BKALE~PAXENS NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
□resserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shut^ 1 ®" 11 , '
So tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
SS material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
/
Stale Patent Washer , Wringer and Mangle.
S Si.''doiiy . iT if«y ward ,';°-- l r T;
._j h and a very small expenditure of strengun
sr£ SfpSJK Jek ssAJffJ
.*
ie most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
rstem of washing. Everyone h«• ngtaoai that
leir clothes seem, to be aB much worn by washmg
, This is caused by the tierce r “ uul 8
ffS bottom, .nd nothing to MOmnn-
» e d°Pri»Ll.U P... b, EC.
BEALE AND COMPANY.
Ml 434. 4W. Gbobo* 8td»«I
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608, 610, 612 GEORGE STREET,
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS. UPHOL-
STERERS, AND CABINET MAKERS.
IMPORTERS OF
Bedsteads, 06airs, Furniture Coverings, Carpets,
Floor-cloths, Rugs, Mata, and Art Curtains,
Overmantles, Pictures, and Electroplated Ware,
Java Kapok, in 751 b. bales, at 7id. per lb. (free
from seed), Cafe Tables, Iron Stands, Marble
Tops, from 30s. to 505., Chinese Cane Lounges
and Chairs, Green and White Balcony Blinds,
Water Filters. Ice Chests, Butter Coolers, and
Meat Safes, Boots and Shoes, Ready-made
Clothing, Hats, Neckties and Collars, General
Drapery, Gloves, Umbrellas, Laces and Frill-
ings, Furnishing Ironmongery, Stoves, Coppers,
Furnaces, Mangles, Earthenware, Glass and
China Ware.
All may be had at
LAWLER S, 608, 610, 612, George Street,
At prices so low that, when the old and well-
known superiority of the Goods is con-
sidered, it seems almost impossible.
Estimates Free. Patterns upon application.
Write for the ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
with Price List.
Communicate freely ; you will be promptly
answered.
Telegraph Address - LAWLER, SYDNEY.
J. LAWLER - & SONS,
Genebal Imfobtkbs and House Fubnishees,
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
m
r
G
A S.
GAS.
GAB.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEO
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. HO Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
J
XT 8 T PUBLISHED
"188 BULLETIN’S"
History of Botany Bay,
Bt Abthub Gath.
tar profuii
BT
Tbs Bbustih’h well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Pbioi • ONE SHILLING.
Psi Post. is. Bd. (except Queensland).
au idim.
good business offer.
£2O
inducements.
OJA P er Heady Money.
T 0 Jb 4: UNo capital required. Special
Pleasant and healthy occupation.
LOCAL AGENTS WANTED.
Full particulars,
R. B. JONES,
6 Beidge Stbeet, SYDNEY.
H
RIVER, SUMMER
lON.
SANITORIUM HOTEL.
AWKESBURY
SEASON.
PEAT’S FERRY.
This Hotel being now replete with all the re-
quirements of tourists and vitnors, and having
been built on a specially-chosen and picturesque
spot, is well worthy the patronage cf visitors to
the Hawkesbury R’mr.
Hoi and cold water, also salt water baths lor
visitos; gas thiough the house (a novelty);
superbly furnished; It eating and fismg; three-
quarters of a mile fi'3m the Brooklyn eta ion,
through the railway gates.
The steamer will meet all trains for the con
veGence of visitors, and cmvey them free of
charge to the Hotel, and will also give thetn an
opportunity of viewing this magnifiemt bridge
over the Hawkesbury River.
See you go there and be pleased.
The choicest wines, liquors, spirits, beers, &c.
For the convenience oi patrons boats and wag-
gonettes will meet train on receipt of telegram.
Picnic parties supplied on tbe shortest notice.
Special consideration allowed to permanent resi-
dents. Terms very moderate.
JEREMIAH MURPHY, Proprietor.
“That low, nervous fever, want of sl?ep an! weakness
calls for Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters."
Hors ford's Acid Phosphate
IMPARTS RENEWED STRENGTH
and vigor where there has been exhaustion.
A Queensland editor ragaa violently In hia
paper over ihe theft of an axe from his office.
It was the axe he had to grind.
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
Melbourne Herald aaya “John Hartley
was found drowned in the Campaspe last night.
It is supposed he lost his life through drink. The
accursed water this time.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-whith Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread will be ae white ae enow.
S. Freeman & Sons,
Importers and Manufacturers,
hill's Baking Powders,
Orient Square Blue,
EXTRACT OF SOAP
Yinegar, Blacking,
ftSii &Ot, 4li
Steam Wobks and Bbkwbbt :
BABSIS STREET, SLUMS, SYDNEY
(opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee: Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer: Mr. Goodman.
Ninth Week of
Mb. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by a
Most Powerful Dramatic and Comedy Organisa-
-1 ion in
“ CAPTAIN SWIFT ” in SYDNEY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Macbay s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Lessees ... Messrs Rignold and Allison.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.30, carriages 10,50.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
YOUTH.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
THE VENDETTA.
PRICES-5h , 3 s., 25., and Is.
Bex plan open daily at Vestibule from 10 till 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CRITERION THE AT RE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. J ohn Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr, BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
EVERY EVENING at 8 sharp.
TWO DISTINCT SUCCESSES.
READ WHAT THE PAPERS SAY I
Sydney Grundy’s delightful Comedietta
IN HONOUR BOUND,
followed by
FORBIDDEN FRUIT.
ADMISSION—£2 2s to Is
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse.
General Business Manager ... Mr. JOE DAVIS
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Clin
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitorp.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is ; Children, 6d. Tram runs to Gates—fare, 4d
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.46.
Tremendous Success of
The Gband Ohbistmas Peodcotion,
YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH
PRICES, Bs., Ss., is., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to B.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Managua.
arl KAHLER.
The Remarkable Rice Picture,
THE DERBY DAY,
THE DERBY DAY,
THE DERBY DAY,
by
CARL KAHLER.
On View Daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Large
Room of
BEALES BUILDINGS.
484 George Street.
THE WHITE TERRACES,
THE WHITE TERRACES,
THE WHITE TERRACES,
And other works by the same Artist also on view.
B
C
Admission
ONE SHILLING.
N
ERVOUS DEBILITY
Consult by letter Herr RASMUSSEN, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous
Diseases. He will, on the receipt of a self-
addrested 4d. stamp’d envelope, forward AOv.ce
and his Medical Book Fbkk. Address—
Herr RASMUSSEN,
Bex 208. G.P O , Sydney, NSW.
Stork Cattle for Salk —lOOO male and 2000
mixed. F. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Peith,
Western Australia Intercolonial Investment
C ompany, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wilc-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N t ß._Only two hours * rom Melbourne.
The j oubh of Woolloomooloo are reared on
goats’ milk. The principal provender of the
Woolloomooloo goat is the Evening News and
the decayed circus-poster. That is why we have
no hope for the future of the youth of Woolloo-
mooloo, _ ,
Bona fide announcement. Highest Cash 1 rice
given for all kinds of Gent.’a Left-off Clothing.
Dress suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
•SS to by QUITTENTON 8R&3., 11l
Kussell-street Melbour
JJ’KWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooks and Mandiaotobt :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
iMips
m
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH. L. NBUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
EDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes los
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Sfbino and O’Connell Stbebtb.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstaad
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNBLL AND SPBINQ STBEBTB.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable earl*
English designs.—Wabdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Tablb,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Odpboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Ohaibb, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbinq Stbeetb.
ţ
A USTRIAN BENT-
J\. WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Vbbt Oomplbti
Absobtment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
ť
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. id.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and np to 80 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.: 12x8, 12s. 6d.J
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Oonnell Streets.
i
A MBRIOAN PATENT
BHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
186 leek ol hanging spate
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
ŧ
pANYAS FOLDING
OHAIBB.
Babalanllal and Light.
Bailable (or Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prlee Yeif Low.
NEWTON * BA MB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Bpbiho and O’Oonnbii Btbbb*b.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, eft. long. BMM
Oast-Iron Standards, 14s. Bd. each, Naw®Oß
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 18s. Verandah Chair*
Indian Lono-Abm Lodnom.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah irom
IBs. } and large variety of Chairs,
6d., etc. j special designs, extra quality. NbwxoN
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring an
O’Connell streets.
BDSTBADS, all sizes, at .towertPriJ*
Nswton A Lamb, Importers, OOonnei
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rate 1 '
Nbwton A Lamb, O’Oonnell-Btreet. _
SPRING MATTRESSES, Wove* Wire, hei
soak*, also Spiral Spring, from 14a.
NEWTON and LAMB


Stoek Cattle fob Sale. —1000 male and 2000
Mixed, p. Hamilton, Milton Hill, Townsville,
Queensland.
"Mt Tailor," 164 King-street, Newtown, Don't forget
Suite to measure for £8 Be.
t>
d
M
s
T
O
U
m
yUULTS:.
DELISSAIPHILLIPS
Barack Street.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings. 410 George Street, near King Street.
Write for plans £lO Building Sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
An Adelaide insolvent, while under croes-
examination, yawned repeatedly, to the great
annoyance cf the ci cos examiner. The Judge,
when appealed to, said he couldn’t help the wit-
ness yawning. It is understood that the insolvent
finally explained that he came from Sydney,
where yawning was a habit sanctioned by the very
highest authority. Hereupon the Judge cordially
expressed his approval of gaping and yawning,
and having, as a loyal citizen, call'd for three
cheers for the Queen and Lord Caringtou, said
that the cross-examiner ought to be aohamed of
himself.
READ
"WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the pnblic
has ever met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
It stands to-day the best known curative
article in the world. It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues. It does all that is
claimed for it.”
“ Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-half
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re-
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for your medi-
cine.”
“I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of in-
digestion, debility, weakness, and in all
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and loss
of appetite, with the most perfect success.”
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthener, and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.”
“For all cases of diseases of the liver,
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, I daily recom-
mend the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters."
“ In my practice I am constantly prescrib-
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found every
case relieved by their use.”
“ I can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
“Gentlemen. —Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail.”
CAUTION.—See that each bottle
has genuine label, bunch of green
hops on white paper.
* Adam Bede’s *
Benevolent (Consultations!
“ All the Ykab Round.”
TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC,
In accordance with the suggestion of the
Sydney Bulletin, “ Adam Bede ’ will devote to
specific public charities three tenths of his com-
n i« i )n on all ewaous upon four of the great events
cf the year, viz : Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cap, Great Metropolitan Stakes, and Mel-
bourne Cup, In the three tweepi advertised
hereunder and in all sweeps except tho:e above
specified he reserves to himself the lijht to give a
bonu. to charities commensurate viih the success
cf the sweep.
Autumn Handicap,
Run at Hawkesbury, April 13,1889.
4 000 Bubs c rH> era at £1 Each. 4,000
First Horse £lOOO
Second Horse £6OO
Third Horse £4OO
Starters, £600; Non-starters, £BOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Sydney Gold Cup,
Run at Randwick, April 22, 1889.
10.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 10,000
First Horse £4OOO
Second Horse £l5OO
Third Horse £lOOO
Starters, £1500; Non-starters, £2OOO
(to be divided amongst them).
Easter Handicap,
Run at Auckland, N.Z , April 22, 1889.
2.000 Subscribers at £1 Each. 2,000
Fir ,t Horse £BOO
Second Horse £3OO
Third Horse £2OO
Starters, £300; Non starters, £4OO
(to be divided amongst them).
Adam Bede’s is the onh fair method of drawing.
The names of the holders of the Winning Tickets
will on no account whatever be divulged by Adam
Buds until after the races have been run.
Subscribers are particularly requested to re-
gister their letters to ensure safe delivery, and
must enclose stamps for reply and result and
add exchange to cheques.
Address
“ADAM BEDE,”
care of H. N. Abbott, Post Office Chambers,
Sydney.
Next Event ADELAIDE CUP (£2000)
May 9 th, 1889.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Gusranlee Company, Limited.
NCORPORATBD UNDER COMPANIES ACT, 1872.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Sj daey Office :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Offices—2B3, Collins Street East,
(mxt d:or to National Bank of Australia).
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Street.
The Company grant immediate Advanc'-s upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all desses of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at vei y reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
3 months, 5 per cent,
b i> b >i
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months,
2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
And a Bonus declared fo Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent 6 months, lg per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
REED’S ‘'MAGIC ME A L.”
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
Stock and Poultry.
Extracts from Testimonials:—
G S Ybo, Esq , Mulerave Stud Farm, near Windsor :
“I tried the ‘Magic Meal’ on a horse bad with worms
and he seems to be improvicg fast."
Mr. H Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon: "
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time k-eping them in good condition."
Robt. A. Hill, Esq., Butteibone, Macquarie River; “I
tr'.ed the ‘Magic Meal ’ cn a horse which would not fatten,
and now he is in gravid oond tion. . . . I consider it
of especial value, as it saves horse eed.”
Sold in Bags — 7lbs. 3s , llflbs, ss. 6d ~ 66lbs,
18s. 6d , and sent on receipt of stamps or P. O. O,
Parc.ls of 561bs , Freight Fald, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony,
A. H. PHILLIPS,
17 Victoria Chambers, Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
L
ONG’S IMPERIAL
Toowoomba.
HOTEL
Acknowledged the best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First class Accommodation, Private
Suites, Firet-class Sample Room o '.
Conveyance meets every train.
JOHN LONG,
Late of New Zealand.
O\A/D
1!A
MB-
UGWULN
WOEHS
Horn
BOWDEN’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (near Huater St ), Sydney.
JO&EPlI C. BOWitESI - - Proprietor
ROONEY & Co.,
SAW-MILLERS,
Timber Merchants, ml Steam Joiners,
TOWNSVILLE.
Largest stock of Oregon pine and
Colonial Timbers, Sashes, Doors, &o, in
Queensland.
Builders’ Ironmongery A speciality.
Country & S'ation Orders promptly despatched.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
t
PIPES
Tha Bast In tha World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS i
Mi: Sillsiiiilt & Hi.
23 CLARENCE STREET
The Referee
“ Tommy " Horan has played 24 times In
tha Intercolonial cricket matches between NSW.
and Victoria. “ Tommy ” is a clerk id the Trea-
sury at Melbourne, and it is rumoured that he
fills the part of “Felix,” the cricket scribe cf the
Australasian.
• * •
The principal rowing event In N.Z. la the
champion whaleb iat race at Auckland regatta—a
time-fionoured fixture which creates no end of in-
terest, and almost as much betting as a sculling
championship. For the last contest ihree
crews were entered, two from Auckland and one
from the Thames. A foul occurred rounding the
buoys between two of the boats, and the carsmen,
looting go their oars, came to blows over the
thwarts They fought for several minutes, when
the third boat came up. and the pugnacious crews
resumed their oars and finished the race, wh : ch,
though won by the Auckland crew, was awarded
to the Thames representatives on the foul.
• • •
Oil wells have been discovered at Yorke’a
Peninsula. This should be welcome news to
Professor Miller who is no longer likely to run
short of material to lubricate his hair with.
# » •
The Maori footballers arrive In Australia
per Oroya.
• • •
Auckland proposes to celebrate the jubilee
of N.Z. next year with an aquatic carnival, the
prizes in which will total £2000.
* • •
There Is a jockey with a cork leg at 0:ago,
N.Z. Fortunate fellow—he’s only gob one leg to
break,
o * *
“Jumping Joseph” Darby, now exhibiting
his agility at the London Aquarium, is 27 years of
age, weighs 12 ,t 9,bs, and measures 18in. just
over the knee. He clears at a stand three lots of
chairs, seven chairs in each lot, placed in line,
thus covering over 33fti, and uses 9Jib. dumbbells,
while wearing clogs weighing lib. each. His high
jumping is not so wonderful, bub his trick jump-
ing, especially when he alights for a brief space on
the crown of a hat, or the face of a prostrate
attendant, is very clever.
• * •
Hon. James White has won £80,000 In
stakes s : nce he has been on the turf.
* • •
M’Au'lffe had bis nose broken In his fight
with Jackson. He had most of the rest of him
broken as well.
• •
The Rosahlll racecourse authorities re-
cintly announced that they were making arrange-
ments with the Railway Commissioners which
would add to the c tmforb and convenience of the
public. At the last meeting the “ specials ” took
o/er an hour anl a half to return to Sydney.
Why, bullock teams would beat that record.
The redoubable showman-prizefighter
Mr. Jack Brrke, has at last been inveigled into a
nog, to meet a man who really meant to hit him,
aod who did lit him, wish the result that Mr.
.burke was bad y doubled up, inside of three
rounds As a prize-fighting marvel Mr Burke can
nrw follow t:e example of the little boys in
Bemell’s v c rses who —
“Subsided anl became
Among the things that were.”
The question nor naturally arises, how is the
other man—Mr. F. P. S avin He is justabcut
this good-he is the best man in Australia
at the present day. When B'.aok Jackson
comes back, if the two meet, go your whole pile
cn Slavin. He will “do up” Black Jackson just
as sure as fossibK We dr not say this because
he beat Burke, nor because he beat Dooley, sine i
neither of these men are really firs , qua’ity ; but
to any one who has studied men and their physical
development, he shows all the signs of a real
athlete. Acoodjudge of men can pick out the
most likely-looking customer among a lot of prize-
fighters, in just the same way as a good judge of
horses can pick out the most likely looking horse
from a mob in a yard. It isn’t the size or the
weight which tells, but there is a combination of
strength, wirinesa and endurance which stamps
the true gladiator. As an instance of what we
mean—let anyone contrast the English football
team that came out here with the American
haseballers. The latter were undoubtedly the
bigger men, and incomparably more “flash '’: the
papers all raved of their wonderful physique; but
if the two teams had been turned loose into a room
together, to tight out the quest on of which were
best men with natures weapons, the Britishers
would have chawed up the others, big as they
were. In the same way Slavin has grand physical
development. He is a giant; his great «iry
arms hang down alongside his deep ha'ry chest
and his ribs are round and full and he has, unlike
Jackson, good legs and the muscles stand out all
over him. Plemy big men are not athletes, but
Slavin is as hard as nails—a born fighter. If he
ever thinks at all, he must do it with his feet, as
ha has no forehead or brain-developement what-
ever ; this is all the better, as the presence of brain
only makes an athlete worry and lie awake at
night The reader may remember, in the Christ-
mas number of this paper, a picture of a huge
miner whose head was shaved by a Chinaman ; the
back view of the miner as he looks at himself in
the glass, is a magnificent picture of Slavin, One
might almost think he had sat as a model. It is
good telling >’s that any nigger ever born or
bred can beat a man of that shape and style.
Jackson has gcod arms, anl grand shoulders ; but
he has too much waist; he is not ribbed home, as
the horsey men say. Besides being a big man
and a good big man, Slavin can fight. There is
too much of the keep-away out-of-danger business
among the pugilists of the present day. They
are all very scientific, no doubt, but they stand
about too much and don’t hit enough. When
Slavin goes into the ring and circles round after
his foe, you can see that he is possessed of ona
idea cnly,—he is simply yearning to feel that
j tremendous right hand of his s nash against ths
other man’s face. He does very little defensive
work. He tores in and chances a smack or two
for the sake of landing a gocd flash hit cn the
o'her man in some place where it will be appre-
ciated. This is the right way for a big nr an to
fight. Any other man would have been dancing
about the stage for eight rounds after Mr. jack
Barke—advancing, retreating, feinting, counter-
ing and so forth, wasting his strength and making
the inevitable draw. Slavin simply started in
to hit him and chanced anything he might get in
return, ani he decided the matter so effectually
that the police had to interfe r e. If you want any
stronger evidence of Slavin being something
uncommon, just remember that he, a professional
prize-fighter, has actually ccmiderably hurt two
men who stood up against him. What more can
you want ?
' * * *
Mentor, the winner ef last Melbourne
Cup, hs s come to serious grief in one of his hind
leg?, and the case is regarded as hopeless.
* * *
It is surprising to find that glove contests
are allowed to take place in Adelaide, but the
city of tea-fights turns out en maise on these
occasions, and theSunday-sohoolspreadisneglected
for the time. Several good fights have recently
been decided, bat the climax was reached on
February 1, when Peter Boland and W. Williams
of Broken Hill, fought to a finish. Boland who
scaled lOst 81b ,to his opponent’s 12>t. 51b., acted
on the defensive until about the sixth round, when
he came with plenty of wind and strength, and
succeeded in settling Williams in the tenth round.
Both men fought well, but Williams in condition
was above himself. Garner’s Theatre was packed
on the occasion.
• * *
The Melbourne Evening Herald and the
Melbourne Sportsman (papers which are pub-
lished at the same office) aver that they “do not
know whether ‘Adam Bede’s’ Sweeps are genuine
and likely to be honestly-ooaducted,” aud they
further assert that “ they have no means of gain-
ing such knowledge.” With reference to these
assertions it may be here remarked that the
Herald or the Sportsman or any one else 6ona-
fi.de. interested in the matter will be cheerfully
afforded full info.mition with respect to the Con-
sultations in question on application to “Adam
Bede’s ” representative, whose address is Post-office
Chambers, Sydney, and who will be glad to see
duly accredited pressmen or others at the draw-
ings It is sheer affectation on the part of these
Melbourne papers (the Sportsmen, by the
way, has a much greater interest in helpirg
other interests than in countenancing any
sweep, however squarely conducted, consider-
ing that the Victorian law prohibit i a news-
paper making money out of the publication
of sweap-advertisements) to pretend to be
unaware of the nature of tha project which
“ Adam Bede ” has in hand—at the suggestion of
The Bulletin. Let us repeat the story. In brief
it is this. Ten per cant., or ten pounds in every
hundred, is the rate of commission ordinarily
charged by sweep-promoters, “Adam Bade”
charges ten per cent, but, instead of putting the
whole of his ten per cent, commission into his own
pocket and keeping it there, he undertakes on
the sweeps or the Newmarket Handicap, Austra-
lian Cap, Melbourne Cap and Metropoli'aa
Stakes, to hand over three pounds out of
every ten he makes to specified public
charities. He will thus divide the commissions
made by him on swe?ps drawn upon the principal
turf events of the year, and in all tha other con-
sultations which he may hold he reserves to
himself the right of presenting a bonus to
the chaiibies when tha success of the consulta-
tions warrant inch exercise of his liberality.
As to the Herald’s remark that the name
of “Adam Bede” is “one quite new in turf
sweep circles in the Aus'ralian colonies,” we have
only to remark that the Herald, considering
the communications already made to it, is here
guilty of a vary artful suppres i ioa of tha truth,
a suppression which certainly looks as if made
for sinister motives. The Hervld and Sports-
man authorities are fully a ware that for 20 years
“Adam Bede ” has run the biggest and practically
the only N.Z turf-consultations, at Auckland.
The Bulletin having made the suggestion
which led to the institution of a fairly-con-
ducted consultation on a semi-benevolent basis
means to see that tha system is a success
the efforts of adversely interastad parsons not-
withstanding. If sweeps are tolerated at all,
the time will come, and that b afore long, when it
will ba useless to attempt to get the public support
on a basis of 10 per cent, oommissioa without dis-
gorging to the charities.
• • •
Kenny, of Victoria, baat Cavill, of Sjdney,
easily in a half mile swimming match at Adelaide.
# • •
Several Californian football clubs play
und-sr “ New Zaaland rules.” Waat are they ?


J> EA D, MARK, LEARN.
Ear-seeing men who know somewhat of the
wonderful development of the Eastern Colonies
during the last few years will tell you that ere
long Western Australia will be one of the
wealthiest of Australian colonies.
Everyone should send for a Plan of the
PADDINGTON ESTATE, PERTH,
Western Australia, close to the City.
Good Land. Well situated.
LARGE LOTS ONLY £lO EACH.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms, or Discount for
Cash.
BEST ALLOTMENTS ARE SELLING
RAPIDLY.
[They Cannot be Replaced at the Pbioe.
Good Building Sites on the Paddington Estate
are now obtainable at ridiculously low prices, but
now that Responsible Government has been
granted to the colony and the coal and gold mines
are proved to be extensive and rich, Western
Australia will forge ahead rapidly, and property,
especially in and around the Capital City, will
greatly increase in value.
THERE IS NO TIME LIKE THE PRESENT.
BUY BEFORE THE SURELY COMING
BOOM.
Marked plans, pamphlets, &0., posted to any
address on application to the
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO., Ltd.,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Josh Rmnrou,
(Late of Say well’s Tobacco Co,),
Wholesale and Retail
TOBACCONIST,
532 George Street
(Opposite TOWN HALL),
SYDNEY.
HTHUR D. SPALDING,
HOMOEOPATH, ALLOPATH,
HERBALIST.
35 BLIGH STREET (near HUNTER STREET)
1 have discovered a new method of treating
Chronic and Special Diseases of men and women
without the aid of nauseous drugs so psrnicious to
the system and so objectionable to the palate. I
will guarantee a
COMPLETE CURE IN A FEW DAYS,
or will refund the money. Now what can be
fairer for both parties ?
The time is over when, it was necessary
to use substances nauseous, such as Copaiba
and Cubebs, by which so many evils were
caused. The diseases alluded to above are, as any
sane persons must admit, purely local affections,
which can (as I will prove) be cured by local treat-
ment, without the use of any Caustic, Styptic, or
Astringent Remedy, such as Sulphate of Zinc,
Nitrate of Silver, Permanganate of Potass, Sub-
limate, &c,
I will not make you call constantly so as to pay
several fees. My terms are One Charge Only, or
NO CURE NO PAY.
Up country residents treated on furnishing full
particulars by letter. Medicines forwarded and all
communications treated as strictly confidential.
Private Consulting Rooms and Laboratory,
35 BLIGH STREET.
Hours 10 to 12 ; 2 to 4, and 7 to 9 p.m.
O OBKRT BUTCHER ft! CO
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
8 drlt Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WIKES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out ol
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
One Japanese mine-owner employs 50,000
men.
The small bore of the new rifle to be served
out to the British army renders the use of the
leaden bullet inadmissible, and the authorities are
now experimenting with pellets of nickel and cop-
per. The former, it appears, is preferable to cop-
per. An English paper relates that for the purpose
of testing the effect on bones, the skeleton of a
horse was recently fired into with nickel ballets
at a range of 500 yards. The bullets went
through the bones like a drill. The result was
not entirely unexpected, but, on the whole, the
experiments are not considered by experts as satis-
factory, since a bullet would be more effective
which would shatter rather than cut through a
bone.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maocassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’Kaltdor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old For*. Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllen, Madeira,
Unseal, Tokay, fro. Unequalled High-claw Wines are
only to be had from Hookinss of 110 Oeorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
E. C. ELEY
ţ
&
&
&
$
&
Of
r
y>
A
*
&
s
D
<3
<b
r
\S
\S
&
&■
<0
5?
o
*
£
G 1
*
o
&
Q
*
O
o
0
v
v
£
*
<C N
A
O
390a GEORGE S T
SYDKTBY
An Irish footballer, in order to avoid pay-
n a small fare, jumped out whilst the train was
in motion and was terribly mutilated. His last
utterances, before he died, were : “My arms and
legs are on the line. This was all for the sake of
twopence.”
Rev. Gr. Walters, the Sydney Unitarian
minister, who was four years in Melbourne,
during which time a small and feeble cause was
transformed into a large congregation, paid a visit
recently to that city. The “ dearly beloved
brethren ” on the Melbourne Church committee
objected to his occupying the pulpit of the church
which he got built for them. His friends made
up their minds to hear him somehow, so Sunday
services were arranged for in the new Foresters’
Hall. There was a capital audience in the morn-
ing, and in the evening the Hall, seated for 350,
was crammed. On that same Sunday evening
there were just 35 persons in the Unitarian
Church,
William's Australian Insootldd li death Is all lussts.
Simple in application—rare In elleot. this la the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of Insects, while It Is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquuoa
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing oil a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, SB7 King*
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs lllletl Bros,
and B. Prosser & Co.*
£2O
BUCKBOAKD BUGGIES
£2O
Regular shipments of the Beat Bnokboard
Buggies In the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, aize, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buokboards with pole,
&0., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash: or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
RITTENBBRQ fc CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 CiiABHNOs Street, Wtntabd Squabb.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
FREE BY POST for six penny stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &c., without consulting a medical man.
Address Parisian, P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
EM AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
II
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tcra.es’ So’wira.g' lv£aclxirres,
for the boot and tailoring trades. ——
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence,
FABLEI6B, NETT HI II & Co., Tanoera and Leather Uerchanls,
16 Y 0 R K SIRE E T, SYDN E Y.
Bole Agents lor the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
o
.equlsltes for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all Details. Including Machinery,
&o. | and of the following Special Lines s PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
TNO T«bi«h Too). M RT«snt«d o» V»wonr»bl* Turin*
Also Importers of R
Imported Leathers,
nyTkian m.ADK
DR. RICHARDS.
OM
RO
LT
NSU
CO
DS RICHARDS
» umsa »
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Ohlsl
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invests
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
D&wslness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
dlsoontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Bd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation In a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
to BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private os
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though yon be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
pn receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
aL*d courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability.
assist yon materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by firs,
and patients may rest assured that their oases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves*
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 26,09*
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All common!***
Mens should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
r Spring Street, Sydney
el Pill Street Norik).
Be isri to mention this paptr token tortttn(h
OoJV9UI V A f J ON f B MM,
THE CHEISTMAS PANTOMIME.
Tommy (at his first ballet): “Oh, Mamma! Where are they now?”
Mamma, (after glancing at programme): “This represents the ‘Celestial Realms.’”
Tommy (in great excitement): “Why, this is Heaven! It’s lot’s jollier than I thought!”
—LIFE.


Business Announcement*.
brunto s
BOTAfi PATENT BTHHL BOEEIB
FLOXJK
Bn its obtained thvonghont New Bonlb WiltSi
Queensland, end Vltaorla,
SYDNEY « « 84 PiW BMISi.
BRISBANE.., «,Edwasd Bum.
MELBOURNE _ . Bnusgn Bobbh.
EPPS’S
Grateful —Comforting
COCOA
Medical.
More than 70,000 Oases already Cured 1
fhe Greatest Success Y
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All Ohronio Disease
\ aye Curable,
Hr, B, G. BBSGLBiBS, Consaltin* Ecktic,
Skills© Specialist for all Chronic Disbasbs,
89 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE#
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
llons (FRBB) by whioh they can be treated equally well at
' Kusrelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
tou are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
Sbtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. Tou can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
toe following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886^
«a H. E. KnaiiiMANN, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank B. E. Knight,
el Olenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1888 but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
lake any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, whioh statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
lor five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medl-
Dines as all 1 had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
lieotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
angs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, whioh 1
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
- plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse ; expeo-
berating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
■kin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve veryiast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
» result whioh my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as 1 ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK B. K.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Olenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1888, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
«T All Consultations Free. H
Notice—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred In the event of Odm
nor buns Effbotbd.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OE BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ATJi CHRONIC DISEASKS.
THEY Treat and Cure all Chbonio, Nbbvods,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
H.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely yacked, to aU parts of the Colonies.
Note the Addbesb :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensabt,
182 Elizabeth Street, Brie Park, Sydney.
ATRIMONY.—A Bachelor, 25 years, tall,
dark, good-looking, wishes to correspond
with a view to Matrimony. Has good home to
ofler on first-class station In North Queensland.
Applicant must be ladylike, fair musician, affable
disposition, and under 30. Send photo.
Address X.Y.Z., Post Office, Hillgrove, Queens-
land.
Car the Deaf.—Nicholson’s Patented Art
Vioal Bar Drums. Cures Deafness In all Its stages, the
m ° 8 t astonishing cures have been effected. Bend for 188
Paged Illustrated book containing "Essay on Deaf near,
limitations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letter!
,Bm Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eta., who have bees
JJWsd by these Drams, and who ssoemmsad Ikoas.—D»-
■IQBOLBOE, S| Wiviiam Inm, Vtihaarasr
a- X 3 -A. IfcT 2D I HOTEL,
OOStRIB Of
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
MM
d cosenov*
CO |
i
i I
r>t\
9m
□rara
L
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. OOSGROYB (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) Peoprmtbiss.
HAI m CUT 6d,
At the POTOSI, the largest Hairdressing Saloon in the Colonies.
Nine First-Class Haircutters. Cleanliness and Civility Guaranteed.
i:).
C®AIQ- a-aacL AITKBW,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Yon will not be talked to death at the POTOSI as all the Hairdressers are dumb.
Faison’s t G-iape | iSsuHaa.©-
IRADB MARK—“THB OEBBNWIOH OPSBRVATORT."
Specially prepared from RIPE FRUIT , and it the best of all Fruit Salinet.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor i
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Aqbnts:
W. H. FLETCHER & 00., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
LEA &PERRI NS'SAUCE
AUC
i«TpkHRi
,Tn consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAIfCE . which are 'calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pemns
have to request that Purchasers see that the Label on every bolt Id
bears their Signature thus —
wiihout ivhich no (bottle of the original, WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE fs genuine .
Ask for LRA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name-on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export , by the 5 Proprietors, Worcester ; - Crosse and
Blackwell, London, drv,, &"c.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
LIOHTNER & KILBURN,
818 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Photographic m Stock m Importers,
Late Llclitccr A Co., 32 O’Connell Street.
X lOHTNER & KILBURN beg to notify to the very many friends, both
amateur and professional, of the late firm, that, having effected a change by the
admission into partnership of Mr. D. 0. KILBURN, and removal into more com-
modious and centrally-situated premises—at No. 318 a GEORGE STREET, Between
Hunter Street and the General Post Office— trust that they will receive as
generous and continuous patronage In the future as has been accorded for the
past years.
They also take advantage of this opportunity of returning thanks to their
numerous clients for favours bestowed and will endeavous to still deserve their
kind attention in the future.
LICHTNER & KILBURN,
318 A GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Assurance Companies.
TUB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MAMAOH-
BURNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY. Limited.
(SeeiEpesated by Aot of Parliament, II Tie.,
Ms. 19.)
Reslitcred Capital m M m« f11.118.11l
Paid-up and Subscribed m m M 1,191
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKEST, K*d., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receivei deposit! at the following
rates of Interest
For 8 year* T per cent.
For 0 months I per cent.
lei 1 jmi - B |ii mil
Toi B months. I pei cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons tor INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, art
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Boana granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOB EUILDINQ
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Bents, ets.. Oollested.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auetion and
Private Contract.
HiAD Omai-11, h IS HUNTBB STREET 1
JNoTb. NEILD, Manager,
Hotels.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
“COMLEY’S HOTEL,
EMU PARK,
ROCKHAMPTON.
EKED. COMLEY, Proprietor,
Acknowledged the Finest hotel on
the Coast. Overlooking the Bay, with
every convenience. Dining Hall GO x 40.
Conveyance meets Every Train.
IMPERIAL HOTEL
EMU PARK,
William Toon ... Proprietor.
This First class Hotel, close to Beach, has every
accommodation. Shower and Plunge Bath. .Good
Stabling and Paddock. Best Brands of Wine
and Spirits only Stocked. WILLIAM TOON.
Prince of wales’ hotel,
near Opera House, Bourke Street Bast.
This Well-known Sporting House is Conducted
in First-class Style. Every Convenience. Centrally
situated.
lulHin lumimnM.
K'NG’S V'EWg
Of SYDNEY,-
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUE I^OUN'i'AlNßi.
&0 , &Oiy
315 GEOS6S ST,, Bitraa Btfntgr-st., I
TATTBRBALB’B
IDISTEI tllllllilllll
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Tear. For full particulars sea-
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ TattersaH’s," care’
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies 1 and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites*
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(» tew doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bankt,
MELBOURNE.
FOR BABB.—Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta t»»* Daw* Appi*.
Bs ami* 0#««


DOWS
['■EMBROCATION.
■ /
|everxvw)ere4
BP
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL.
BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
.°^ t , WILLS ’ certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
.■?L B i?, - k ftvin & established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is In a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to bis care.
Business transacted in four different languages,
No connection with any other office.
Address, 63 Sydney Arcade.
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
SIGN WRITERS
AND
—ART ++ DECORATORS—
M CMtlereach Street,
One Doob feom Kino Steeet,
gRO U’ S INJECTION,
HYGIENIC, INFALLIBLE & PRESERVATIVE.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
*J- E E IR ZR El .
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
vr, JAMESON A CO.’S
“MARROWBONE LANE" WBISET,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
"JJtri/
y&n
" They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed} Marie Rote.
Y
IHB W &
PATENT
DiiJoml Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams nor
tear in tile Fabrio.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y AN Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 110," In oval.
Three Qold Medals 11
•old by all Drapers and Ladles Ontfltlers.
ť
Weak Back, Pain and Weak-
ness across the Kidneys, Shooting
Pains through the Loins, Lack of
Strength and Activity, instantly re-
lieved and speedily cured by the new
process. Apply by letter, Box 1081,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Claiendon Hotel, 2v£a,n.l3r
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
x *
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
amner, you can enioy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country i
, a ~° you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can) o?<Jibly make one
ble can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic art! i>n vided. Table
at } 01 °'° ck dail y Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilmins'ter to make her
▼illtora comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon
Opposite OCEAN
Hotel,
BEACH, MANLY.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Groavenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHVBCH Hill, RTDMBT,
overlooking the Harbour.
mHIS Maqntficknt HOtbl is now open,
and will be conducted on the beet
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, le built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
Salubrity of its situation renders Ft
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Tblbgraph and Tblbphonb Oppicbs
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended In
Furniture.
tt is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smokb Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which Is
Reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Ghosvbnor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now Invited.
J. KOITAI, Manager,
m
•
2
3ft
scss
m
!&
.;.'• ■ rv
:
WM
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
v'i*
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAYBE OBTAINEDIN labelled tins oryackets throughoutthe colony
ELBOURNE
TRAMS PASS-
EVERY FEW MINUTES
a
PALACE HOTEL
mm
i 0 m P
OS
M® vs IL
r> w
tSm
m
wm
n
J.A.WILSON
PROPRIETOR
.C.W.CLARE
JjE F MANAGER I
T
The PALACE HOTEL, BOURKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE,
is
kt NOW OPEN.
HIS fine Hotel, which has just been finished, is situate in the heart of the city, in close proxi-
mity to the principal Banks, Exchanges, places of amusements and Churches. It contains
THREE + HUNDRED + (300) + MAGNIFICENT + BEDROOMS—
Which are Lofty and Well-Ventilated, each fitted with
Fixed Lavatory Basin, Hot and Cold Water, and Shampoo Sprat.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells.
These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious Modern Style, and not to be equalled in a
Hotel in the Colonies.
tar TWO PASSE VtIER OTIS LIFTS. TKJi
LADIES’ BOUDOIR, DRAWING, SMOKING and READING ROOMS.
Terms I [ME BEOEOOM, 2s. SI. per MI
(
Entitling tlie Occupier to tiic privilege of
using the Public Rooms of the Hofei.
t3t MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING HALL, GRILL-ROOM, or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
Full particulars as to the Tariff, See., may he obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
’vmviisvjL ‘■oj.saaiinvi
§ □c.W's-ssisisc
■ * -
■'
1
mg
m
*-w . '.ji.
3L
-
ii
■ .
i Finch Liters & Bantu (bare a Ctccialiti S* Bow. Crate Frattain.
A. DEli-KUSE .. •. ... .. .. ... Proprietor.
TEETH LdKE PEARLS
\jMte And sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvrns, mad dellghft
Mils' fragrant breath can beat be obtetad % dlsoardto* *ri% booth ijowdarp oatf c«M woihED
jafi ®*ing dally
ftowland^
Odonto
W Ifharl Centhfirtoe, « white powder composed of the moat recherchf Ingredients of the OrleaM
lintebal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients ; it whitens and praservsc
ih® teeth, prevents and arrests eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives «
possibly be as efficacious forpollshlag the teeth and pr»voia' , *a* decay as ®
tooth powder: inch BOWJUdNM’ OJOOKTO JhM Mwsjfs yja»7*fi
Jima-gritty
H o other'Odomto 4s newkao.
HoWlanDS MACASSARS
Qcte and golden-haired people and ohildiram.
ilB S&Q om I He O fjoilta Uw
ROWLANDS' KALYDOR to.«itW«s the complexion, eradicates all effitewtsw)
Jiefects, and renders the aMm soft, smooth ffiaufi iMftsste. Att anywheim for TOWSaASEjj
artlclss. of ». Hatton Qaipflwh, ILwhlad., Bad oveftfi OTOEflsraffl aarfl iWHafistoco )>3i®fcC!k«cUb
Wholesale and Retail Amenta—Bmorr Bbob , tod B Pbohhih ft Do. Sjrdner


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOUBS.
Orrosm Railway Tkbmxnus, Spenoeb Stbeet,
patronising the above hotel, whiefe
V has lately had an addition of over IN rooms,
will find til modern Improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public
toom, iifeuMitg-voom, hot and sold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
telephone, md all other hotel requisites, act to be
surpassed its Australia. Visitors can rely upon
being sailed for early morning trains. Letters
tad telegrams promptly attended to. Prises very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical,
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
{Salween George ted York Streets.) P.O. Bex 810. Drl
ipeer is a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
Harvard College, IJ.B. (tor oenflrmatlon see New Zealand
flasette, January list, 18861 also New Booth Wales
faiette, April 17th, 1868). the doctor has devoted 14
years to the etndy of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
IFICIAL DISEASES. Four of these were In the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury need. He will guarantee
a positive ears In every case be undertakes, or forfeit
ASOO. His reason for doing so is this—when there Is no
organic disease, and nothing bnt an Inorganic trouble, or,
la other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there Is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes It distinctly understood that he does not claim
10 perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
Co claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
IPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
,'Hidlng at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail be treated at home. The coarse of treatment will
sat In any way Interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges’ moderate. H. J.
tons, M.D., 41 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 020. Office hears,
Uam.to IS a.m. | Bto 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
If to 11 a.aa only
|||g
I Hbb
PBBB6BIPTIOWI ue to
be found in the "LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, fto. A copy of
Ola book will be cent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny
Stamps. Address—
a. WARD ft 00 ,
Sydney Pharmacy,
78 Hunter Street Sydney.
Mesmeric, magnetic, and electric
INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
of DB. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
American Remedy Company. All Diseases
Cubed, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode oi
Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only. his motto being:—"Nature cures Nature’s
decay.” Cancers, Tumors, &0., painlessly and
positively onred, without catting, in from three to
foar days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self in being the only person known in the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Tongne without Surgical Operations of any kind;
la fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
incidental to suffering humanity, even when all
other treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete enre. N.B.—
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that yon get
nothing bat the genuine article. A Fact —This
lathe only Institution of its kind in the World
where all Kinds of Cures are Effected with little
Mr bo medicine.
Please Copy the Address—
DR. ST. VINCENT,
iff Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
Eucalypti Qu-sa
THE TREE OF LIFE
Victory Ointments
W The Only Pure Eucalypte In the Werld.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURB for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds, Coughs, and all affections of the Chest ana
%ungs; also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
9t«. Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and Skin Diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Euoalypte
Stair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
lamed Euoalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young children and aged
paeple. Also, makers of the Euoalypte Lozenges
lor the Voice. Manufactory— Oootamundba.
Sydney Wholesale Depot— 227 Elizabeth- street.
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Bold Svery-
Beutnre of Imitations.
Business Announcements.
'-‘TV.
ftWfOflicAS or
mtmh
4384E0RCE ST
JVMevrr \i-rs-r-:-.
SYDNEY
£yy{ttf fi JLa*st(Urj
Branch :
678 GWORGE STRE E^T,
BBIOKFIKLD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitkens.)
TO EUNHOLDBRS, FARMERS, ANI
OTHERS.
460,000 to Land.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES ,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & 00., Stock, Statios
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, N Pitt
street, Sydney.
A SOVEREIGN REUEDI
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolobkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days !
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CUBE FOB BLIGHT ,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling' and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
BSI George Street , Only,
JU Bj PUBLISHED,
1 A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
Sold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.-—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sae every Friday at
(he office, George Street, or from the runners In
the street.
THE ORIGINAL
: mm§m
ANo^i^rso«i-Y
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
ok ■ ; ■ ' ;f:
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
& ,
USTNLBBEST IMTHE WORLD!!
N ON’E OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RfCE 5 VEDTHE f NTERN ATION A I.
P R I Z E M E DAL
Manufactured by James QiannoM
Harbour S t SyoNtv
Sold by All Grocers and Storekeeper*
Medical,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
a
£
i*
A*» tmirsnally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Herron*
Disorders inch as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Heals, Dizzi-
ness* and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Coetireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
tes Sensations, *c. The flrrt do#e will fir* relief
So. twenty minute*.
Brecy *ufferer i( earnestly invited to try one
te*K oi t hie* Pill* and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
S’®? fsmalea of all ago* these Pills are invaluable,
OS Ei few doses of them carry off all homom* ana
kstes about all that is required. No female should
fea vl&out them. There is no Medicine to be found
©sjacd to Beecham’s Fills for removing any* obstruc-
ts tst irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
(ftVg to the directions given with each box, they
wEf seen restore females of all ages to sound and
ro&rost health. This has been proved, by thousands
wlba have tried them, and found the benefits which
053 assured by their use.
ato a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
SHeacdera of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
favr doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strsaptben the whole muscular system, restore the
kag ust complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appstite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
at health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
bee? guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BXBOHAM’S PILLS have the Largtrt Bale *f »n$
fsisrf Medicine in the World,
Beeoham’s Magic Cough Fills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheasiag, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
an the beet ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty ef breathing, which nightly deceive the
yattoat of rest. Let any person give BEICOELAM'B
ODUQH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will ia a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Be tail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
eaafeare, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s. Pd. tank.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
SOL—Full directions are given with each la.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Bbanohes:
84 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Fald-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. * -’TBSM
Drafts Issned and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained k on
application. nin
N. F. 6IBLIN, Acting Manager/.
0
gOUNOB CONQUERS DTSEASit
The Sncoessfnl Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
MSordlng to the Laws of Nature and thr
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No IIOBfI MERCURY ob otheb N axioms
StomaoHir Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertialng in Australia whe
holds., the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, bat
established the
“Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”
18. FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
lot the scientific and effectual cure of all phases ol Net
vans Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Afleo-
elone, Oenlto Urinary Disorders, and ail morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what youi
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and gel his
honest opinion of your complaint. 1? it Is curable, he
will tell you so i If not, he will tell you also, lor he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident ol effecting a
«nre. It will cost you nothing for consultation, eo satisfy
yeura that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
BmSeven ean be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that 1 do not olalm
16 perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
i «aim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly Informed In my epeolalilv.
Note Addreoa—
PSOSEESSIVJ VESICAL lISTIT7TI.
58, Fundbbs SißEirr W„ Mmbocbnb
tW Mo MfiHMtfon eeitk any other Medtcml Institute in
Austndim Box 158, G.P.O.
FOR BALE.— Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Gove Riven. Apply
Hmxarrw Ortire.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’a Extra Stout,
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment,
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
Balchin, Johnston and Co.,
OswaireUl Chamber*, Bond-Street? Sydney
fIRST
QUALITY
Bass’s Pale Ale.
: AS RE j SOtfs i
Manufacturing matters 1
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
HOSIERS OF All THE
*E WEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT BRISBANE,
O"'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into tha
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
, _ LONDON, ENGLAND.
C. STEPHENSON
HAS OK SALS—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, tc WHISKY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, IfcO.
COOPERAGE.
IST KENT STREET, and 17t SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Streets
WALDKR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Make*.
296 PITT STREET.
MABQUBKB ON HIRH.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
g
TP OT ICO
m* root onlwH»
eorered. and J
F*ra*ei» r*>lined and i
to Kew. at
J. SULLIVAr^
Ml Gsorgs StfMfc
BrtckdsM EilL bnM
and- Bataund
ftrudlt mads to «|| '
Repairs naaflr
aim
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NBA 1
aad »fNll."£: g£l: -fl
D BERNARD'S Piotubb and Mocidibc
• a«?oai. 399 Georgeatreet (opposite Roy*
Hotel), U aknawladged to be the Beat and
Cheapest la dse Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully itrstohed and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to sew. Mounts sot with seal gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Flask
work a speciality. Inspection Invited.
X IFB PRESERVATION
Da. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
If LOHBDAII BbBBSS SABI, Ml&BOSIft
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac
eurately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, In-
discretions and other enervating Influences with
|helr associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that Is of Incalculable use to al
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Oon
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy an£
reliable curative treatment without the aid cfr
quacks.
Price per mail Bs. Bd. (any colonial stamps), ffc
be had of all booksellers or the Otto PuhnsMtci
Do., 4 A’Beckett Street West. ilelbonrw».


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON UADI
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a. lo 21a.
*49 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Near Tatteraall’a.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long as
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
f3T LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
%
MASON BROTHERS,
&BSKk» ■: MHHaSy. (limitkd,)
263 TO 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
P. R. liARKIN,
IMPOBTBB OP
or WIN WS, SIPIUITS, BH WBS &C., find, T»
George and Glpps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.B.L.
tST The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. £3T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince off Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Streets Sydney.
«• SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' SeWsHMEHT~ ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Produce Stores, > - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Bead.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACE BROTHERS.
BEHAN’S
Blacls Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
tob
DEB, (ITU IH.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Sears.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL. SYDNEY, IU9.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing lor FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS.
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGEi
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MBNTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Bedfern.
Wholesale:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag 00., B. Hoflnang
and 00., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Slmpaoa
and Son, 383 George Street, and Batter Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHM, T.S., 33 Pitt Street. Bedfcrai
PRICE ... Ss. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMKN3.
There is not a country in the oiivlised world wbert
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not beta
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneflcient action le at ones
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their net
In every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. 4V Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they an
spurious.
INSPECT THE SWEET
KAPSBURG PIANOS
AX CHI
SEWINQ MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
I O T
R X
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Wwdsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
ECHUOA ...
BEECH WORTH
Hamilton
w * rrnambool
sale
Maryborough
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
69 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street. ’
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
66 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aesohlmann'e.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
THE
Wolseley Sheep Shearing Machine
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTS t
J. EC. G-EDDES Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES,
The Working Man’s Watch. Made suitable for Hard Riding and Rough Wear and specially
rated for the climate. Supercedes all other English Levers ever introduced into this market.
TO BE TTAT> FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS nr TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., B 3 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdriau Co.
IRDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
870 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rubber Vaaves, Washers, Gaskets &0., &o. Moulded to any Size. Rubber good* for »U purpos®®?
Lists and Samples on Application.
it r
sr?H
55*5?
ide
MA SS
•'
THE BEST TIMEKEEPERS IN THE WORLD.
-•ill-
O' Have obtained OOLD MEDALS and FIRST PRIZES at every International Exhibition where they have competed,
l-.y
The American Waltham Watches are constructed upon the soundest principles of horological art and ot
the very beat materials throughout; they are calculated to stand the wear and tear of a lifetime, and are not
liable to get out of order.
Every Waltham Watch is fitted with “ Logan’s Patent Breguet Hair Spring,” hardened and tempered in form. This
prevents colling of the hair spring, so common an occurrence in watches with the ordinary flat hair-spring. No other watches
in the world can be obtained with “ Logan’s ” celebrated Breguet Springs, the patent for same being the exclusive property
of the .American Waltham Watch Co.
All parts of Waltham Watches are constructed upon the interchangeable system, whereby repairs can be effected in
any part of the world where Waltham Watches are sold, as effectually as at the Factory in Waltham, Mass., U.S. A.
Waltham Watches can be obtained in Gold and Silver Oases, either Bnglish Hall-marked or of a guaranteed standard
of value, U.S. Mint assay. . M , . . . _ , ,
Waltham Chhonoobaphs, infallible for accuracy of timing, register l-sth of second, start, stop, fly back.
Waltham Presentation Watches, unsurpassed for elegance of design and beauty of finish.
Waltham Ladies’" Watches. The “ No. 1 Size” just introduced in Australia is the most exquisite gem of horological
achievement, and is the smallest and most perfect watch yet made. _
Waltham Railway Watches are used upon the Government Railways of New South Wales, Victoria, and South
Australia, the Indian State Railways, and ail the leading lines of the United Kingdom.
Waltham Watches. Dust-proof, Water-proof.
Waltham Split Seconds Chronographs and Minute Recorders. Unequalled as marvels of constructive genius.
Waltham Watches, from their manifold advantages, are preferable to all others.
Waltham Watches are Sold Retail by all Watchmakers and Jewellers.
'*«//
w
*
CHRONOGRAPH
0 m
VA>
&
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATC
Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
