

AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY.
At the Melbourne Centennial International Exhibition, 1888-9, the American Waltham Watch
Company obtained the FIRST AWARD for their New Non-Magnetic Watches.
The following Report is hy the Chairman of the Jury on Horology at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, wherein the First Award for the Waltham Hon-Magnetic Watches is recommended:
Company, a non-map«io watch for the p.rpose of"''SsVknmrt II pSilrf
known as Palliard’s.’ 1 J
•are made. The balance and hairspring are not identical with those
renort "fe forw f^ e . d me a report from Captain Joseph, who carried one of these watches with him while occupied about the dynamos in the electric lighting department. This
i 1 r s .i~ A the w f tch had a gaimng rate of 30 seconds per day. After wearing it for some days, and finding this rate fairly constant, the watch was used in timing tests of dynamos.
1 tien regulated it so as to bring it to gaining rate of 20 seconds per day. This being constant for six days/the w&tch was again used in the
The rate then changed to 90 seconds per day, losing.
dynamo-room, and without affecting the rate. I have worn it constantly, and it has been brought several times in contact "with dynamos at \TOrk/having^Vmagnetic fielTwhkh I thfnk w/uld'have
ruined an ordinary movement; but its rate still remains gaining about 20 seconds per day ’ ’ ' P g u Iiave
after r ® 1 > 0rt ? f ful experiment with one of these watches from Mr. R. C. Fletcher, engineer in charge of electric light instalment, the result of which shows that these watches,
itfl-hl . Lt/ 1 th f-!,/ ihe lar t e at work for on f° r two minutes, and .afterwards regulated-'and then exposed again for twenty or twenty Jive minutes, did not appreciably alter their rates. Mr.
Fletcher was so pleased with the results that he purchased one of the watches for his own use among electric lighting machinery,
these reports in connection with former trials and time tests, I recommend that the Waltham Company be given a FIRST AWARD for their NEW
» 11. 0. J. Ml iL EllY, E.il.S v Chairman.”
The following is a List of Awards gained by the American Waltham Watches at International Exhibitions • ••
PHILADELPHIA, 1876, Pour Prise Medals i PA5I5,I57S, firli Medal j J®,. 15§0, field Medal, with Two Special and Four First Prises; MELBOURNE, ififil, Two field Medals;
KEW ORLEANS, 1685, Five Prise Medals; INVENTIONS EXHIBITION, LONDON, 1505, field Medal; MELBOURNE CSNTApiAL EXHIBITION,IBS3-S, First Award, Non-"' ' ‘ ‘
, Ooiistituting ajrecqrd unequalled by any Exhibitors in Horology. -
The treat'Northern Railway Company have ordered Twenty NON-MAGNETIC Watches of the American Waltham Watch
AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCHES.-GOVERIMEHT RAILWAYS’ CONTRACT.
for the ensuing year, the preference was given to the celebrated
w « b w i 0t th o AMERICAN WALTHAM WATCH COMPANY. This is the tlhntth fhnseeoMe Year daring which the WALTHAM WATCHES have been
CiiosGii by til© JSTow houth Whiles GtovGXTiinGrit as tiiG best cciiot most T6ii&blG for railway purposes W ATjTT~I A1VT oro 11Q£ ,j dal iv- /s ■■ x d *r s i c ■ at
South'Wales, Victoria and South Australia, and also upon all the Great Railway Lines of tfce ffi Kingdom andthe itdianstate' RaL% s * Government Railway Officials in New
AMERICAKT “W ALTHAM WATCH O O M J*L. "3T,
Sole Australian Agency ; WALTHAM BUILDINGS, BOND . STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE COLONIAL MUTUAL: LIFE . ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
Policies issued under the Ordinary, M:oc3.id0.eca. Tontine and Mortuary. 3D 1-%7-ica.exxca. Systems.
BONUS YEAR. — Books will be closed on 31st December, 1889, and the Quinquennial Investigation at once entered upon with: a view to Distribution of Bonus.
BURRO UGH ES & WATTS
(LONDON),
Billiard-Table Manufacturers,
jfik.ll Requisites for the GS-auxxxe.
Also laawn. Tennis, Cricket &; Football.
8 BOND STREET, SYDNEY
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coih’EBSMmis, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths, •,
G A SKITTERS, Akt & Me DI M V AL Met AL WORKER 3
KOUKR SKATES' (any make) with (BRASS or WHEELS.
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description m
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
Send for
Illustrated.
—OF—
Catalogue
SODA-TOR APPARATUS and SUPPLIES usd in making CARBONATED
Insteuctxon and Syeup Book FREE.
Finest
Extracts
AND
Flavours,
&JB!
tt Hk
yv
Pure
Fruit
Juices,
THE MATTHEWS TUMBLER-WASHER.
Marble Apparatus, Draught Columns, Tumbler Holders, Coolers, Block Tin-lined Steel
Fountains, Generators, Gas Washers, Bottling Setts, Snowflake Marble Dust, Bottle
Boxes and Shipping Cases,
Manufactured by TME FIRM OF JOHN MATTHEWS, New York, U.S.A.
I B. MILLNER, Agent, 82 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The LONDON & SYDNEY TEA COMPANY,
IMPORTERS OF HIGH-CLASS TEAS,
409 KE3XTT STREET, SYDNEY.
Packed in 12, 20, and 40ib Caddies
@ Is. 6d., Is. 9d., and 2s. per ib.
-■
s.
r
C
r
Delivered free to any Railway Station
or Port in New South Wales.
“ No > John » no more Tea from you- I buy now from the London and Sydney Tea Company.”
The Bulletin


TOBACCO
I®
m
m
Mil
lER
111
U
DIXSOPSONS
'p
a
o
X
S
V
yavx
SIR ROGER
50
o
)r
o
DIXSONS
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS abd INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England
and is now being introduced into tbe
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every Wise mother will certainly
use it.
PR. RIDGE’S ROT AD FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
“Can’t B Beat.”
“CAN’T B BEAT.”
Mick Simmons, Haymarket,
(The Originator of Cheap and Pure Tobacco),
In spite of competition, is still, par rxwUenee, the People’s
Tobacconist. The old veteran still leads. Imitators spring
up. but he “ Can’t B Beat.”
Something New! Something New !
Tire £2 Package. “ Can’t B Beat ” (registered)
"^ SH ” Smoker’s Companion I Ks
containing the following
lib. Williams’, Jib. blocks
lib. Imported Dark Victory
11b. Can’t B Beat, pure
American Tobacco
11b. Aromatic Victory Twist,
pure American Tooacco
lib. Mixture, finest quality,
pure American Tobacco
50 No. IBS Manila Cigars
1 Silver-mounted Briar Pipe
100 Cigarettes
1 Durable Pocket Knife
1 Handsome Tobacco Pouch
1 Klectro-plated Yesta Box,
finest quality
1 Meerschaum and Amber-
Cigar-holder, in Morocco
leather case
Jib. Rough Cut Ruby,
American
Jib. Long Cut, American
Delivered Free at Redfern Station or any Wharf on
receipt of Post-Office Order or Cheque for £2. Any article
not required can be left out and others of equal value sub-
stituted. _ Cross out what you don’t want and state what
you require in its place. All can be accommodated. 50
per cent, saved I 50 per cent, saved ! Note the address :
B.
MICK SIMMONS
"Can’t B Beat,” Haymarket, Sydney.
KITTEN BERG & CO.
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarenc® St., Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs, and. Mouldings.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Rf.nownrd
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
. Trade Mark—“ White Rose'on“Goiden
•a Lyre," with Address in full. .
T. LAWLESS, JuNR.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
NEVER
WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
j
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS]
ALL NOXIOUS INSECTS.,
FLCAS.FLIES. BEETLES MOSQU ITOES.
COCKROACHES.AND IS^
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE,
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOG!
FOWLS OROTHER
ANIMALS - : m,
si
in
jh
j
FELTON-CRIMWADEUC’i
MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
ADC
JTri Consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Per-nnt
have to request that Purchasers tfe that the Label every bolt is
Hears their Signature fhus~~
without > tchick no bottle of the, original'■> WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ash for’LEX Otuf PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name-on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and
Stepper, Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, lVon.esur, Crosse «
Bloc karriI,- London, ire,, ire.; and by Grocers and OH*nm throughout the World.
WILLIAM --- CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2 6 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
Building: Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
Year ending
Oct., 1885.
Subscribed Capital .. £180,425
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 61,630
Deposits Received .. 93,581
Advances Made .. .. 123,248
Total Income .. .. 200,106
Year ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Year ending
Oct., 1888.
. £580,000
351,015
. 1,133,049
633,830
. 3,048,951
Deposits received at following Rates :
12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.
Special Terms for longer periods.
. . ...... _ ..... To persons who desire to put by
SAV MRS RANK BRANCH small sums of uncertain amount,
UnHIIiUU UrilVIV UllnllUlli and who wish to secure Interest
upon such sums at a Fair Rate, and for EVERY DAY THAT THEIR
DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK, this Branch offers the very best
opportunity. Depositors in this Branch receive Five per CENT. PER Annum
upon their Daily Balance.
Terms Illiberal.
Ample Funds for Borrowers.
a
m
I
n
PREMIER
Building* Association,
54 COLLINS STREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
£25 Contributing Shares
Can be obtained at any time upon payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are Is. per
Fortnight uiltil such Payments, together with Compound Interest,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in
Cash. The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received
in October, 1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had con-
tributed only £l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years-
■!: E
Hon. John Himmo, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
William Doherty, - Acting-Secretary.
Everyone should read “The Bulletin’s”
“ HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by “The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists,
li. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - ONE SHILLING ; per Post, Is. sd.
May be had from Agents, or direct from “The Bulletin” Office.
Agents—Victorian : A Benjamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
Launceston; Queensland; J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George Street, Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Vol. 10-No, 500.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1889.
Price, 6d v
The Road to Jericho-With Variations.
"Then said Bruce Smith, the Levitc, unto him that had fallen among Capitalists, ‘Lo! before I help you I must wait until I hear the Capitalists' side of the story
likewise. And he passed him by on the other side.”—LUKE X.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.T 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable iu advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-year! y ... ... 0 12- 6
Quarterly ••• 0 G 6
Cheques, Drafts , etc., and all Business Cmtrmmications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
ARCHUiAIJ).
.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—-which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin 7 posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
|
7^
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1889.
“Thou art the Man!”
The revelations made before the Committee
of the House of Lords as to the London
sweating system were so gruesomely inhuman
that they visibly affected even that unparal-
leled piece of mechanism for the absorption
of lies and cant, known to a sorrowing
universe as British Public Opinion. This
was particularly the case with regard to the
London Dock labourers, and it w r as manifest
to the Socialist leaders that, as a determined
strike for a better state of things was likely
to be backed up by British Public Opinion,
this mflant a real chance of success. They
bided their time, therefore, till the teeming
labour market was as slack as could be hoped
for, and then “went for” the dock com-
panies. No one who knows the condition
of the London labour organisations in
general, and the pitiful attempt at a
union in particular/ which , for years was
a hopeless failure among the dock-men,
can fail to be astonished at the tremendous
result. Two hundred thousand went out on
strike ; the whole of them being handled
by the central Socialistic organisation of
London and British Labour. Even the
cablegramists have said that the out-and-out
Socialist chief, John Burns, held iu his
hands the leash of the dogs of war. The
battle is no longer one ot mere wages. It
is the first skirmish.in the coming death-
grapple of Labour with Capitalism.
■ # * - , #
No clearer exposition of the infamous
tyranny of Capitalism iu Britain could he
desired- than this. Indignation has been
worked up, and will be worked up con-
tinually, against the contractor and sub-con-
tractor, the sweaters. It is more than probable
that the Dock Companies will turn dog on them
—declaring that they were ‘ ‘ quite unaware of
the extent to which things had been carried,”
that their delicate moral organisations were
powerfully “ shocked by these dreadful re-
velations,” and so on, and the genus sub-
contractor, alias sweater, will disappear from
the scene of the London Docks iu a thunder-
storm of popular execration. But the
scapegoat trick, like the confidence trick, is
wearing rather thin, and can gull only those
who, by nature, and still more by inclina-
tion, are willing to be gulled. Sociologic
science argues from effect to cause, from
cause to effect. Like Nathan of old, it
sardonically faces the David, who is indig-
nant over the story of the rich man and the
poor man’s little ewe lamb, asseverating that
the robber should restore his robbery four-
fold, and says, bitterly: “Thou ait the
man !” Who is the man who is responsible
for the sweating system in the London
Docks ?
Fifteen years ago labourers at any of the
big metropolitan docks were able to earn on
an average 245. a week. In good seasons
it would rise so high as 30s. The six great
metropolitan ship-depots are the London
and Saint Katherine, the Albert and Victoria
(belonging to one company), the East and
West India, the Tilbury, the Millwall, the
Surrey Commercial, and the Regent’s Canal
Dock. There has long been among them a
steady movement towards unification, the
advantages of a monopoly and its power to
extort high prices from the ship-owners
being so obvious that to-day this monopoly
is established. A joint committee of the
directors of the two big companies that prac-
tically run the docks, practically presides
over the destinies of 100,000 dock labourers
and their wives and families.
# # #
How is it that we can point with such pre-
cision to the date which marks the point of
wage-declination r l Wages have been driven
down now to a weekly average of 7,6, and
even 5 shillings. Even 30 shillings a week
is no munificent pay for a man to keep a
wife and children on, hut what about ss, 1
It happens that what was considered an im-
portant legal enactment for the protection of
Labour in England came into force 15 or 16
years ago, and it was the deliberate con-
spiracy on the part of the big monopolistic
companies to escape its provisions which
begot the system of sub-contracting alias
sweating. This fact enables us to give the
actual date on which the rapid descent of
the Dock labourers into a living hell was
initiated.
# # #
The work of loading and unloading ships
is not only onerous but perilous. The extent
of the latter characteristic of it is not usually
realised. Not a week goes by in any of the
docks without the death or maiming of a
man. Now, as these accidents are almost
always the result of the reckless speed with
which the work is carried on, it is not saying
too much to declare that a good 60 or 70 per
cent, of them could be brought home to
the companies’ officials. The Employer’s
Liability Act, alluded to above, was ex-
pressly designed to meet such cases, and the
big monopoly was faced with the prospect of
meeting a big bill for mortality and casuality
to its employees. What was to be done 1
If this Bill was to be met, dividends must
suffer, and a bond-holding public won’t sub-
mit to that. But the capitalist is full of
evasions and the responsibility was evaded.
Instead of employing the men, they let the
work out on contract, and thus shifted the
onus on to the contractor.
* * #
This being done, the unhappy Dock
labourer, already exploited by one enormous
robber, was now handed over to two. The
contractor, of course, must make his profits,
and where must those profits come from ?
Obviously from the men’s wages. Very
well. Lower the wages. And the wages
were lowered.
# # #
But this was only the commencement.
The contractor didn’t like that liability any
more than did the monopolist. It struck
him also that smaller profits without incur-
ring the risk of doctoring, crushed carcases
and supporting widows and orphans would
be preferable, and so he sub-let the work to
a sub-contractor. But the sub-contractor,
of course, must make his profits, and from
whence must these profits come 1 Obviously
from the men’s wages. Very well. Lower
the wages —and the wages were again lowered.
At the present moment none of these con-
tracts go through less than three hands : and
often through as many as seven ! Thus the
last of the leeches, the one who actually
engages the men, is such a wretchedly small
blood-sucker that the idea of saddling
him with an enormous liability onus is mani-
festly too ridiculous. He could not pay a
hundredth-part of it. On whom, then, does
that onus fall ? On nobody. If a man is
killed or maimed for life, that is the chance
of war and his own look-out.
# * #
It might perhaps be said that the big
monopoly is now directly responsible for
this abominable process, whereby able-bodied
men have been slowly beaten down to hire
out their bodies for starvation wages. This
is not so. The big monopoly—that is to
say, the directors, that is to say, the bond-
holders —are directly responsible for the last
stage of hideous exacerbation of this process
which has made the Dock labourers and
their w ives and children a horde of the most
miserable and degraded of human creatures.
The big monopoly very soon “dropped”
to the sub-contract dodge, and how the
work of loading and unloading which they
were letting out at 20d. a ton w 7 as
being actually performed by the men at
4d. 3d. and even 2d. a ton. Then they
began to chop down the price of contracts,
and, as all the sub-blood-suckers, and sub-
sub-blood-suckers, and so on ad infinitum,
must have their gore, the cutting down was
general and the line that separates mere
subsistence from starvation by inches was
reached and passed by the men. Ultimately
when the system which it had founded was
thoroughly worked out, the big monopoly
stepped in to scoop the results, and, as
Colonel Du Plat Taylor, of the India Docks
Company, put it with brutal truth in an
interview of remonstrance with Mr. Tillet,
the secretary of the Dock Labourers’ Union,
he would got the labour for 2d. an hour if
lie wanted, and the Union might “go to
hell.” At that very moment men were being
crushed to death at the dock-gates in their
struggle for the tickets dispensed by the last
of the sub-sub-blood-suckers. And the total
sum secured for the dangerous work guaran-
teed by these tickets ranged from 6d. to
lOd. ! It had come to this. Men in London
in the year of grace 1889 have been trampling
one another to death to get the chance of a
few ill-paid hours’ work, with the risk of life
and limb thrown in.
•# % %
And how was it that the men never before
combined to stop this ? The answer is
simple. In the first place, there were always
three men to do the work, of one. The
iniquitous land-laws of England, the aggre-
gation of vast estates, the ruinous process of
rack-renting, The swallowing of the small
farmers by the big farmers, of the agricul-
tural labourers by both, has flooded the big
cities with a vast horde of men, women, and
children. Crowded in “ rookeries,” deci-
mated by disease, -hopelessly,degraded by in-
human labour, they have been com-
pelled to sell whatever they had for
whatever they could get. Union was
simply impossible. We have just had one
glimpse of the male side of the picture—the
labourers trampling one ano her to death
under foot at the dock-gates. ‘ ! Jack the
Ripper,” by the lightning-flashes of his
murderous insanity, has given us glimpse
after glimpse of the female side of the pic-
ture. The two are, in reality, one. They
stand for the harvest of the seeds of greed
and lust sown by English Land and English
Capital. They stand for the crime of King
Property, fortified in his castle and sur-
rounded by his park and game-preserves ;
for the crime of King Credit in his factory
and flash town house ; for the crime of King
Bond-holder in his shop and respectable
home. It is not the sweaters who should be
cursed and kicked. It is the directors of
the Dock Companies who are guilty, the Ibir
Tomases This, or the Colonel Dicks That,
and the Mr. Harries the Other. Their hands
are as pure as their livers. They have no
grease and blood on them, like the hard and
horny claws of the sweaters who do all their
dirty work for them, but what of that ?
Truth and justice see farther than the club
that dashes out the brain or the knife that
severs the heart. Truth and justice look to
the hand that wielded the club and the knife,
and that is the lily-white hand of the English
classes, whose purity is ensured by the disease,
degradation, and death of the English masses.
* =» #
What has now banded together in an
organised and heroic resistance these men
who only yesterday were trampling one
another to death for a crust, sunk to the
level of brute-beasts ! It is the New Reli-
gion, it is the New Gospel, it is Socialism.
Jesus said that He came to bring not
peace but a sword. And Socialism has come
to bring not compromise but conflagration.
A new spirit is animating mankind. The
Army of the Night, drilled by adversity,
sombre and sullen, falls into its ranks. The
old isolated combats—the strikes against de-
pression in wages with no idea of anything
further—are giving way to skirmishes and
out-port engagements, behind which is felt
the presence of two tremendous forces slowly
marshalling for the ’ death-grapple between
Capital and Labour. Europe—America
Australia, it is everywhere the same. The
Cause is the same : the " Fight is the same.
It is for ustp show that we perceive this At
one leap from 100,000 to 200,000 men who
have suffered for years' the lowest depth of
wretchedness and degradation, have tran-
scended themselves, and stand as,the heroic
protagonists of the Righ s of Humanity.
Yesterday with the brutes : to-day with the
gods. Australian cheers ring in their ears—
Australian gold assists to drive hunger and
defeat away from them. This help must bo
continued. They must not perish unsup-,
ported at their outprst. Let them know
that 16,000 miles across the seas they have
comrades and fellow-soldiers—who under-
stand how and for what they are fighting—
who look to them with passionate sympathy,
and adrairatipn and love.
Captain Taylor’s Bill.
Australian Democracy and the Scaffold.—
The People versus the Judges.—Victoria
Leads in Reform. v - A
“ In the Victorian Legislative Assembly a Bill provid-
ing for uniformity in the punishment of offenders was
moved by Mr. Tavlor, who justified it on the ground of
what he characterised the outrageous sentences passed by
the Judges. The principal provision in the Bill is to give
the jury an opportunity of saying, when convicting a pri-
soner, whether he is guilty iu the first, second, or third
degree, punishment being regulated accordingly. The
debate was adjourned on the motion of the Attorney-
General, who said he would he able to satisfy Die House
that the strictures on the Judges were entirely unde-
served.”—S.M. Herald.
Vox Populi vox Dei! Let us preach from this
text the funeral sermon of James Morrison, how
lately died on the scaffold of the Law, but not at
the hands of the People.
The essence of democracy is the principle that
the public power shall not be delegated, but shall
on all possible occasions be directly exercised by
the citizens themselves. To disregard this law
means to institute a tyranny.
The execution of Morrison was the result not
of the direct'exemise, but of the delegation and
consequent usurpation of the. people’s functions ;
in the hanging of this man, despite the merciful
recommendation of his fellow-citizens the jury,
we see the handiwork, not of ourselves or our ser-
vants, but of our masters—of a class which says
that in it and not in the populace shall be vested
the supreme authority.
The greatest of the victories recorded in Magna
Charta is trial by jury, not trial by judge. Mor-
rison was hanged by Judge, not by Jury.
The foreman of the jury publicly averred that
he and his colleagues would have brought in a
verdict of manslaughter but for th ■ judge’s riling
that Morrison’s plea of self-defence was techni
cally bad, inasmuch as he could in no case have
been legally justified in resisting arrest by the
constable whom he shot.
These twelve citizens thus dutifully sacrificed
their individual sentiments to the letter of a law
from which their consciences possibly revolted.
But the law, that Moloch of hemp and horsehair,
prizes not this loyal offering of disciplined senti-
ment laid on its altar. It takes what is written in
the bond.
This always happens. This disregard of the
people’s will is a long-established system on the
part of the administrative caste and of that of the
powerful legal caste, which latter is an open enemy
of trial by jury, and clamours in press and Parlia-
ment for its abolition.
What should be the use of a jury? What are
the functions of a jury from a democratic stand-
point, not from the standpoint of the existing Law,
that Law which feeds on gold and is the enemy of
democracy ?
The democratic reason of a j ury is that the dry
letter of the law may be brought into harmony
with the feelings and aspirations of the people.
The law is altered, humanised, by the recurrent
decisions of juries in certain directions, but never
is it humanised by the wish or action of the legal
caste. As the surgeon fondles the knife the lawyer
fondles the warrant.
The law of England knows but one capital
offence. Who made the New South Wales law,
with its twenty-two offences punishable with Death?
Who made the flogging clause whereby a man
may be flayed at the triangles for writing “ John
Smith ” in lead-pencil on a public building ? Was
it an apathetic people, or was it the active and
ever-aggressive lawyer? Who made the code
which, as it punishes capitally for an attempt as
well as for an actual crime, conduces to murder on
the principle that a man may as we'l be hanged for a
sheep as a lamb—that he may as well commit
actual murder to efface the evidence of a crime
punishable by death as run the risk of hanging for
the minor offence only ?
Did the people evolve that brutal code from
their experience and necessities and inner con-
sciousness—or did they not find it already cut and
dried for them by a man who had been a lawyer
for GO years ?
The lawyers arrogate to themselves the privilege
not only of framing, but of making laws, not only
of formulating, but of inventing the aspirations; of
the people. They have marched as a phalanx ;
the people have been divided -and to-day the
making of laws is, on great occasions, tacitly re-
cognised as the prescriptive right of a caste which
is a curse to the democracy.
See how the laymen stand aside ! It was lawyer
Martin who made that ghastly Treason Eel ny
Act with which Mr. Parkes, his colleague, now
says that he (Parkes) “had nothing to do.” it
was lawyer Stephen who framed that Criminal
Code concerning which Sir Henry Parkes, when
it was debated in Parliament, “ said nothing.”
A jury of twelve are not better fitted to decide
regarding the guilt or innocence of a prisoner than
a bench of judges—trained logicians, men of large
brain and great experience. But the juries come
from the People, in whom warm blood runs. The
people are of flesh and blood ; the lawyers are
made of law.
The function of a judge in a democratic State
is to interpret and expound the law, to' marshal
facts—and register the jury’s decision to the final
letter. He is merely an animated rubber-stamp
of record. In Australia, through the supineness
of the citizens, he has been permitted to become a
cast-iron obliterator of the stamp- made by the
■people’s hand.
The function of a jury in a truly democratic
State is to say whether a prisoner is guilty or inno-
cent, and, if guilty, how guilty.
The recommendation of the jury in the Mor-
rison case has been impeached as illogical. The
Bulletin holds that it did credit to both their
heads and hearts. But it showed that they had
not studied the history of the New South Wales
Judges and Executive.
We honour that jury because we could not our-
selves, in a case of life and death, have made so
great a sacrifice to the dry form of an indi-
scriminating and savage law.
Premier Parkes lately said in Parliament that
the punishment of flogging was ‘ ‘ barbarous and
unequal.” The barbarity of the triangles as of
the scaffold is increasingly apparent to every
modern jury, but look at the hideous inequalities of
the scaffold ! It is true that you can do no more
than kill a man, but you can legally kill him in
New South Wales under conditions at the opposite
poles of turpitude.
Who had been the last to die on the Darling-
hurst scaffold ? Louisa Collins, the cruel and re-
morseless woman who, a jury found, had placed
arsenic in the,medicinepf the husband whom she
had brought to his death-bed by her poisoned food
—the woman who,, with unfaltering hand, had
given poison 20 times —who, therefore, had com-
mitted murder 20 times.
And had not Nicholls and Lester also died
there— Nicholls and Lester, the ghouls who,
preying on the desire of poor men to obtain em-
ployment, had decoyed them into boats and assas-
sinated them for the sake of their shabby clothing
and their little trinkets?
The jury wished to differentiate—to give effect
to what, was in their hearts. Morrison had killed
a policeman in hot blood. The policeman had
clubbed his skull during, or prior to a struggle,
and the jury thought prisoner might havekillpd
the constable in self-defence—that the officer might
have been, as many policemen are, unduly violent.
We must keep in mind the fact that the jury
found there was no evidence of burglarious intent
on the part of Morrison.
Where is the man of the world who cannot
picture it? The two men utterly alone in that
silent street. The young, inexperienced, en-
thusiastic policeman, with his spurs- to win, six
feet high, handcuffs on one side, baton on the
other, covered by a uniform winch alike sanctified
his person and his word ; conscious of the posses-
sion of physical strength which made him more
than a match for ninety-nine out of every hundred
men at random.
The man runs when accosted ; the policeman
grips him ; a blow, then a baton-blow ; a shot —
and the deed is done ! The exact truth as to what
took place between those two men, now dead, will
not be known till the crack of doom. And so
thought the jury.
The time has come when the people should take
it into their hands to say not only whether a
prisoner is guilty but Aow’guilty he is. *
They have often tried to do it They recom-
mended Johns to mercy, and he was hanged by
Judge and Executive. A fortnight afterwards
two drunken men chopped up an officer of the
law, Constable Hird. The Judge told the jury
that the act was murder or nothing, but the jury,
remembering the Johns case, found the prisoner
guilty of manslaughter only, thus disregarding
the law. Such a nullification by a jury is, s» far
as society is concerned, a hundred times more
disastrous to the principle at stake than the
breaking of the law by a mere felon. The jury
also recommended to mercy He wart, the miserable


drunkard who killed his fellow-drunkard in a
police cell. But the Executive hanged him.
Despite all legal sophistries, the alternative pre-
sented to thousands of honest jurymen under the
present system is—enforced perjury or voluntary
murder.
The finding of the jury in the Morrison case
was alike a submission to existing law, an expres-
sion of reverence for the judicial oath, and an
honest endeavour to make the punishment fit the
crime, It was an effort in the direction of assimi-
lating the operation of the Australian murder law
to that of France and America—and perhaps even
to that of regenerated Italy, where murder is no
longer made h ly by law—where the degree of
guilt is fixed and the punishment therefore appor-
tioned by living human hearts and brain-cells in-
stead of by musty sheepskin.
The day of autocracy, even of the autocracy of
the law, has gone—except in Australia. Where
the blood of a fellow-citizen, be he saint or felon,
is concerned, democratic jurymen will not respect
the law's view that their only province is to con-
sider the evidence apart from the weight of
punishment after conviction.
To imbue juries thoroughly with the full re-
sponsibility attendant on tiie oath, the State must
place them in a position where the life and liberty
of the accused is absolutely in their hands and not
in that of a paper automaton bound in leather.
The customs of ancient England have been
engrafted on Young Australia, Modern England,
where strong men now fight for the right of work-
ing at sixpence an hour, and where millions of
people are without votes, is more Democratic than
Australia., where every man has a vote (and some
have thirty.)
The appointment for life of Judges is a manifest
contravention of the principle of the direct exer-
cise of the people’s power, just as the appointment
for life of paid professional jurors would be.
The Statute Book is the real Bible of a nation.
If the Statute Book is brutal, then the people
must be brutal and in the hands of brutal rulers.
Why in Australia alone should every homicide
be stretched to fit the Procrustean bed of prison
quicklime ?
Varley and the Devil.
We do not love the leviathan of the turf of
evangelism. The roaring bully of Christianity
who goes about the world intimidating .people
with an assumption of unnatural probity and dis-
heartening mere beginners in sinlessness by a dis-
play of absolutely bomb-proof piety will, we
think, when the numbers are up, be found pro-
minent among the most influential section of the
damned. The star revivalist who loves to people
hell with span-long babes, and who tips emotional
old persons of both sexes into the lake that burneth
and the worm that never dieth, until the grateful
two-shilling piece is fumbled out of the black re-
ticule or the trousers-pocket, and passed along,
will surely die —“ had Satan never fallen, hell
had been made for him.” The fossicker in
the deserted diggings of superstition who
runs his show on the strength of a tailed
and phosphorescent personal devil, and the
humble picker-up of unconsidered spiritual trifles
who makes a house-to-house canvass on the otf-
chance of securing an occasional half-ripe soul
through working upon its hysterical side, will pro-
bably burn together through an incandescent
futurity of unending woe. Neither do we affect
passionately the smooth and fatted fraud who
complacently inveighs against abstractions to a
gorged and luxurious congregation which has
dropped into cushioned pews after a week of prac-
tical villainy and applied worldliness. The good-
Goo-good-Devilism of the fashionable cleric, the
hypocritical avoidance of offence to patrons by the
ordained and paid interpreter of Christ’s mes-
sages to men, is just one degree more repulsive to
contemplate than the loud quackery of the medi-
cine-Jacks of religion with side-trombones and
side-drums. We do not, therefore, adhere to and
follow with voice and heart the ministrations of
of the eminently respectable and inoffensive
doxologist who knows which side his bread is
buttered on, and walks circumspectly before the
pew-holders ; or the ricketty tiddy-follolish preach-
ment of the blatant juggler who dispenses salva-
tion to the sixpenny crowd. Neither he who wears
the finest quality of the Cloth, nor he who sports
the widest-patterned check, quite fetches us, so to
speak.
* *
Let it not be concluded on this account that we
are not religious in the true sense of the word —
quite otherwise. The Bulletin gives credit to
what is genuine and earnest in intention, and ap-
plauds most heartily any sincere effort directed
towards the well-being of mankind, here or here-
after. But the kinds of exploitation which we
have referred to —the hot and spurious spirituality-
hash spiced with cheap and vile essences —which
is dished Up for the poor, and the artificial and
enormously high-priced article sold to the rich —
show nothing of sudi effort. We have seen the
maniacal fever of a revival seize on people
and exalt them for a little while to a condition
of fuddled and aggressive Electness, during
which they have extended the right hand
of an impudent and Pharisaical toleration to their
unsaved betters, and then again lapse from a state
of grace with an almost audible souse. We have
seen the Snatched Brand posturing everywhere,
and, as a general thing, have recognised in him
about the meanest of the human species, hypno-
tised by a brazen fakir into the belief that he is
going to be an angel, and eternally listen to the
cries of personal acquaintances whose souls are
lost. We have seen the soft and subjugated
elderly female made miserable between fear of hell
and want of confidence in the comfort of heaven :
and we have been in the perfumed and upholstered
cathedral, where was nothing approaching the
spirit of the Nazarene —nothing at all but an
aesthetic mimicry of devotion, and certain shells
and husks of truth. That is why we do not cast
our threepences on the drum-head with a flourish,
or timidly insinuate them into the specially-made
collection-box. That is the reason, too, why, at
church congresses, shepherds ask what is becoming
of their flocks ? and their flocks return for answer
a distant “Baa!”
# # *
All this is merely intended to lead up to the
fact that it seems a pity to us that Henry Varley
can’t let bygones be bygones. What did he want
to resurrect the Devil for? We have had the
Marble Man and Woman thrust upon us, and
that should be enough without parading the sooty
figure of the poor old Father of Lies through a
young country. Yarley ought not to have done
it. He has no need to, for he is not of the class
of preachers of Christianity who could not get
along without the regulation “properties.” He
doesn’t depend on stage business and mystification
for his effects, but deals largely in actualities. He
picks out real existent abuses and holds them up
hy the ear wherever he can, quite irrespective of
who doesn’t like it. He does not carefully avoid
seeing the specific sin of the rich man right under his
nose while preaching down the distant transgressor
in the same spirit which impels the trembling
country editor to grovel before the big store-
keeper who bosses the town and oppresses
its mortgaged inhabitants, while ho denounces the
Czar's policy with respect to the electors of Bul-
garia. He goes for wealthy wickedness in a way
that the legally-qualified religious practitioner of
the society kind avoids doing. There is a Clon-
tarfy vigour and directness about his dealings
with this sort of thing which reminds us of our
own wild past. In Melbourne he made the pace
very lively for certain brothels which had b en
winked at in the interest of \ ested Interests, and
virtually forced the police to take action; and at
one of his opening meetings in Sydney he dwelt on
the hypocrisy and humbug of worshipping Goo in
churches built with the wages of shame and
disease and criminality. He said ; —■
The fact was a very awful one, and he feared that, to a
considerable extent, it was true in Sydney—that in Edin-
burgh the majority of the large distillers, the brandy and
whisky merchants, as well as the owners of the retail
houses, were elders and members of the great Presby-
terian Church ! They found faidt with him in Melbourne
because he said that so long as we had churches that were
part (Jon and part Devil, those churches must he weak.
He now said here, “ So long as you have men and women
making money out of this hateful curse, you may go to
church and how your heads at the name of Jkml's as much
as you like; you may go with your prayer-books and gilt-
clasped and gilt-edged Bibles and have all the genuflection
of a pious man or woman, but I believe that yon are an
abomination to God —a stench in God’s nostrils — for men
are being cursed and damned by this liquor traffic.”
# # *
Now that is straight talking, and is calculated
to do more good than any number of moral pic-
tures of an unworkable hell and an improbable
devil. There is no relying on superstitious fear or
the phrenetic exaltation of headstrong faith in
that. The person who has the floor believes that
certain trades thrive and prosper on the ruin and
degradation of men, and that those who follow
such trades are perfectly well aware of it, and
quite satisfied, and lie objects to seeing their
filthy thanks-offerings laid at the foot of God’s
altar. He denounces the stained window with the
bulbous and preposterous saint limned upon
it, which is the gift to Religion of the
man whose success has peopled gaols and
hospitals and workhouses, and he feels
an uncomfortable sense of danger under the
church spire which has been reared by contribu-
tions wrung from vice and misery. Jlist because
he says what he thinks uncompromisingly, not be-
cause we believe him to be right, we kick our heels
on the floor and cry, “ Bravo, Vak ley ! ” Here is
one who, holding fast to the rock of a personal
devil, with horns and a barbed tail, gives it an oc-
casional rest, and touches on subjects of human
interest, one who, like the misguided Stead,
is ready to impeach evil - doers by name
and take all consequences. It is refreshing
to meet red-hot genuineness of this kind
among professedly religious persons, but we
are afraid that very little good will come of
it. It is well to denounce the brazen impiety of
those who make the Deity a sleeping-partner in
the proceeds of the gin-palace and the bagnio; it
is good to make men ashamed of themselves occa-
sionally ; but under present conditions the gain
does not amount to much. In a world so consti-
tuted as this is at present, there is no alternative
between doing unsavoury tilings and perishing. It
is not necessary that a Devil should sit in his
central office and direct the progress of sin and
vice. The social conditions which have grown up
are such as would take all the work out of his
hands.
Mr. Varley is not wholly in the dark as to this,
either. Interviewed as to the cause of the Dock
labourers’ strike, he showed that he had seen a
section of the truth. He instanced the case of a
wealthy American who bought a considerable por-
tion of Scotland, and as the tenants’ leases fell in
refused to renew them on any terms, because he
wanted the land for deer. So the dispossessed
men and women, finding no place where they
could work to gain a livelihood, drifted away
hopelessly to swell the horrible ci'owds who
reek in the foetid slums of the cities and fight
for precedence at the Dock-gates. What open-
ing for a devil is there in a world where
the law gives to wealthy Americans the right to
do such things ? One man, having enough money
—that is the only condition requisite —can buy the
privilege of hunting men as well as deer, and
there is no vacancy in the world, that we can see,
for any other devil. He can so circumscribe and
limit the scope of his fellow-men, so hem them in
and force them to fight each other for crumbs and
fragments of subsistence, that there is no room
left in their natures for virtue or manliness. In
such a world what would it avail if perfect ab-
stinence from intoxicants began to-morrow ? Sup-
pose that not only the direct purveyors of
liquor, who appear to be the only parties blame-
able, according to Mr. Varley, but those who
co-operating with them in less obtrusive depart-
ments do not come under the ban suddenly
ceased working. Suppose that not only publicans,
brewers, and distillers found their occupation
gone, but hop-growers, vignerors, barley-growers,
coopers, coppersmiths, glass and bottle-makers,
and the thousand other trades and occupations
that are bound up with the drink-traffic, how
would it be? The competition in trades outside
these would be tremendously intensified, and the
fight for existence transferred into new channels,
that is all. If sobriety enabled the producers of
the world to secure a larger result than at present
for a time, the rent fund would soon get to know
of that result, and demand a share of it which
would leave the producers no better off than now.
* * *
Were the world made perfectly abstemious,
there would be deep misery and degradation,
and selling of souls and of bodies, if the forty-
devil power of land monopoly could bid human
beings turn back from the land on which
all, at least, could live to herd together in the
horrible half-death of the city kennels. We are
ready to give Mr. Varley credit for being in
earnest and desiring to do all the good he can. He
goes to work as if he meant it, and, with the soli-
tary mistake of introducing the Devil to an
advanced community like this, he does not use the
ordinary nets of the itinerant soul-snarer. More-
over, he does not give his whole attention to
the spiritual provision, but tries to better the
condition of those around him at present. But
he could do more useful work by attacking the
causes of evil than the effects. The brothel, the
grog-shop, the distillery, and brewery are results.
All trades that are unpleasant, all callings that
are injurious and vile, are not willingly pursued,
and something must drive men to them. That
something is the Devil of Necessity. No other
fiend is needed, and in the rich American Mr.
Varley drew a much closer portrait of him than
in the shelved bogey with the peaked beard and
cloven feet. It is a pity to see good muscle wasted
in trying to overthrow” the wrong devil.
It is said that the real history of Mount
Morgan, with a list of persons who have held
shares in it at different periods, will shortly be
published.
Coal v. Calamity.
It is said that the associated N.S.W. mastcr-
colliers intend to take concerted action for the
elimination of certain clauses from the new Coal
Mines Regulation Bill. This was to be expected.
Employers of mining labour are more inclined to
consider the closing of outlets of expense, than the
minimising of the risks that endanger the lives of
workmen. No one will, therefore, be surprised to
learn that a certain clause in the Bill for the
regulation of the width of bords and the thickness
of pillars is particularly objectionable, for it is
evident that the more coal left standing in any
one gallery in the form of pillars or side-walls,
the less will be raised to the surface, and, as a
consequence, the less money will find its way into
the pockets of the masters. The fact that less hew-
ing will be clone in any particular shaft or tunnel
will not affect to any great extent the wages of
the men, for coal to meet the demand must be
obtained and the narrowing of bords simply means
the sinking of more shafts and the driving of more
tunnels. This certainly is not a pleasant outlook
for the employer, who much begrudges the great
amount of unproductive work done before the
coal is reached, and regards every ounce of
igneous matter left behind as so much money lost.
Not only are these facts taken into consideration,
but the mine-monopolist also argues that if bords
are made narrower lie will be compelled to pay
more for hewing ; extra payment for narrow bords
being one of the miners’ rules, and thus the poor
employer will “ lose more coal than at present and
pay more for the quantity taken out.” This, in
view of the fact that the A. A. Co.’s last dividend
was only 25 per cent., is sad news for shareholders,
and is calculated to make even a miner’s widow
weep.
* # *
Another provision to which these coal kings
strongly object is the one declaring that every
shaft shall be available for the entrance or exit
of workers. This might, of course, interfere with
the hauling tip of coal, and that commodity must
not be interfered with. Men may be suffocated,
crushed to death, blown to pieces—what matters
it ? Men’s lives are, comparatively speaking,
valueless to their employers, workers being a drug
in the market, while coal is always marketable.
The Newcastle mining manager-proprietor then
coolly states that “accidents will happen in the
best regulated families.” That is true, but at the
same time the coal-pit or pits where accidents are
constantly occurring is certainly far from well-
regulated, and it is also evident that their owners
are not disposed to make the outlay necessary for
the best regulation. It is most unlikely that this
Bill, involving only the safety of human life, will
pass, even if it be not shelved during the sitting of
this House, for at present Capital is too well repre-
sented in the Legislative Assembly of New South
Wales. It contains too many rich and too many
excessively poor men for reforms of this capital-
bleeding character to be readily brought about.
The moment it is suggested in any community
that, in the interests of labour, some super-
vision should be exercised over the arrange-
ments in use for the safety of those following
dangerous occupations, there is a perfect outcry.
Capital threatens to withdraw to some country
where the claims .of property are ranked higher
than the lives of its “ignorant, brutal, drunken,
worthless tools,” and the whole army of idlers and
bourgeois swear that if this threat be carried out,
then the prosperity of the country is at stake.
* # •» *
Labour has long since revolted against the con-
ditions that once compelled the worker to stye
with the swine and give all his hours to toil that
others might fatten, but it has not yet managed
to drag from the maw of the capitalist a fair
share of the earnings created by its industry, nor
is it likely to penetrate the thick hide of the
monopolist with the slightest compunction for
the unnecessary danger to which the toiler is ex-
posed, while his monopoly of opportunity allows
him to take the lion’s share of the profits, although
wholly exempt from all the dangers incurred in
their realisation.
* * *
It is certain that there are numerous inven-
tions, which, not altogether obliterating accidents,
would most certainly prevent their being of such
frequent occurrence. It is well known that wide
bords, a sparsity of pillars, and their total removal
on the abandonment of a worked-out mine, are fer-
tile causes of these deplorably-frequent cavings-in ;
yet the manager-proprietors, fully aware of the
causes of such disasters as that at the Glebe, for
instance, utterly refuse to make any attempt to
conserve the lives of their employes. If
legislators do not insist that the mine-mono-
polists shall no longer fatten on gains wet
with the blood of the toiler, then the worker has
only one remedy, that is their deposition at the
ballot-box. If Government by representation has
any meaning, it is that the weak shall have its
protection against the encroachments of the strong
and unscrupulous, and when the true Democratic
principle is made harmonious in New South Wales
by the introduction of payment of members and
the “ one man, one vote ” principle, then Demo-
cracy will be master of the situation, and the key
of opportunity will, for the first time, be placed in
the strong hands of those who create all wealth
and at present receive an inequitable share of its
benefits.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Letting the Sawdust Out.
The tyrannical action of Judge Windeyer in
sentencing off-hand to twelve months’ imprisonment
two witnesses who came before him at Tam worth
(N.S.W.) Assizes in a state of intoxication has
received the enthusiastic approval of his “brother ’
Judge Barley and of that Conservative daily
press which has allowed so many iniquities to be
committed in New South Wales in ihe name of
Law and Justice—that Press which has calmly
and unprotestingly witnessed and endorsed, and
even applauded, so many judicial cruelties. The
political flies in and out of the New South Wales
Parliament, which grow fat on being allowed to
kiss the paw of constituted authority, have also
approved of the outrage on justice and democracy
involved in the sending to gaol without trial of the
two citizens whose case is now referred to. It has
been reserved for A. G. Taylor to effectually
dissect the fallacies put forward by Bench, Press,
Premier and Parliament in support of an act for
which no parallel can be found to-day in the law
records of any democratic country : —
The very pith of the injustice inflicted on these two ill-
fated witnesses appears to be overlooked, both by those
who impugn and those who uphold the action of the pre-
siding judge. The power which judges possess over con-
tempts of court is, legally and logically, limited to such
affronts of justice as present themselves in a palpable
form and visibly appeal to the personal senses of the pre-
sident of the Court. Hence a judge may very properly
punish an intoxicated witness for the drunkenness then and
there exhibited ; but, bv the self-same reasoning, he has
ao authority to superadd to that drunkenness in respect
of aggravating circumstances, the existence of which is
not visibly manifested before him.
In the case under review the witnesses were punished
by the judge for two distinct offcnees—first, for visible
drunkenness ; and secondly, for getting drunk with the
advisedly sinister intention of defeating the ends of
justice. ' The first offence was a matter for the instant in-
telligence of the court; but what apologist for judicial
arrogance will argue that the second was self-evident? On
the contrary, before it can pass from conjecture to con-
viction, it must he made the subject of evidence pro and
core, and the accused must have the undoubted “ Magna
Charta” right to demand that the testimony as reaching
beyond instant ocular demonstration he weighed by a
jury of their fellow-countrymen. A sentence based on
the visible offence is lawful and just, but one relying (as
in the present instance) only partly upon things seen and
largely upon things inferred is a discredit to the equitable
administration of our law's and beyond the power of any
judge, more mnt/u, to leg-ally inflict.
Had Judge Windbyer, when sentencing the drunken
witnesses, addressed them by the light of the conclusions
lie has since advanced, his remarks would be substantially
as follows;—“ Witness, you have committed a contempt
of Court by coming here drunk ; for this offence you
deserve a month’s imprisonment. Your drunkenness is
palpable and appeals to the Court’s senses of hearing,
sight and smell. In addition to this, I suspect (I cannot
absolutely know') that your intoxication is an intentional
incident in a conspiracy to procure the acquittal of per-
sons accused before ns of a serious crime. This last view
of the case does not appeal to my personal senses ; it is
only' inferred. Nevertheless, on this inference, I must
add another 11 months to your sentence, making it a year
in all.”
In other words, the offending witnesses have (as appears
from the explanation of the Chief Justice) received the
minor portion of their sentences for a visible affront to
justice, and the major portion for an inferred and super-
added crime not patent to the senses, and lawfully deter-
minable only (after evidence and argument) by a jury.
For a judge to profess ability not only to discern actual
drunkenness but to discriminate between accidental and
intentional intoxication, and to fathom (off-hand and at
sight) the motive underlying the recourse to intoxication,
is a stretch of despotic omniscience that belongs to an ago
when the playing of “fantastic tricks” by “brief
authority ” was as honoured in the observance as in the
breach. " If the motive incidental to drunkenness could
ever become a conspicuous corollary of drunkenness
itself, then the arguments of the Chief Justice and Judge
\V indbyer would carry weight. As it is, they pass beyond
the palpable and self-evident characteristics of the offence
at issue, which form the limitation of the judge’s power to
deal with a contempt committed in the court’s presence.
It follows from this that it should be the “delicious”
duty of the Government to maintain the authority of the
judge only in so far as he lias acted within the limits of
the law r , and to intervene where he has exceeded his juris-
diction. In this respect the case lies in a nutshell. Let
the Chief Justice and Judge Windeyer say what they hold
to be condign punishment for “drunkenness in the exe-
cution of a Crown witness’ duty,” irrespective of all infer-
ence as to ulterior motives ; and let this be the extent of
the witness’ imprisonment. If anything further is capable
of proof—such as conspiracy to defeat justice—by all
means let it be proved in the ordinary way before a jury,
when the imprisoned men w’ill he afforded the opportunity
(now illegally denied them) of proving that, although
guilty of drunkenness, they arrived at that condition
through adventitious and unfortunate circumstances.
This they may or may not be in a position to establish ;
hut the question in that aspect is clearly for the premedi-
tated judgment of a jury, not the hasty inference of a
judge. To detain the men in gaol for a whole year out of
deference to a judge’s miraculously intuitive inferences is
an un-British piece of political pusillanimity utterly un-
worthy of the freedom which is supposed to lie at the root
of the policy and pretensions of the party in power.
Where is the answer to this ? There is no answer.
There can be no effectual answer written outside of
Russia, or Turkey, or Dahomey. The men must
be released.
Lately said a Sydney daily paper in reporting an
execution :—
Retribution in his ease was very swift, as it was only on
June 3 that he committed the murder for which he has
now justly suffered.
Yes, execution was swift; whether he “ justly
suffered ” or not, is a different matter, for retribn.
tion was also swift in the case of the four Mount
Rennie boys, and it is now more than strongly
suspected that at least one of the executed had no
hand in the commission of the offence. Retribu-
tion wasalso very nearly too swift in the case of
Ernest Buttner, and there is little doubt that had
he —now a free man—been hanged, tiiis Sydney
paper and other hanging journals would have also
penned the “justly suffered” sentence, above
quoted, as his epitaph—the epitaph of a murdered
man. Without doubt the American system is best.
Keep your suspect in gaol while a reasonable
doubt exists as to his guilt. Keep him, if neces-
sary, two, five, nay, ten years, rather than
hang an innocent person. But, says the
advocate of capital punishment, suddenly and
strangely stirred by humanitarian impulses—“ look
at the cruel suspense of these long detentions.
Now, according to their own arguments, hanging
is a greater punishment than imprisonment, and,
therefore, there can be no cruelty in temporarily
substituting imprisonment for strangulation. More
than that, if capital punishment be a deterrent,
which The Bulletin denies, then the most pain-
ful part of it is the anticipation with which the
criminal looks forward to the consummation of
the sentence. Therefore, it is necessary, in the
interests ■ of law as of humanity, that a decent
interval —say of six months —should elapse between
the pronouncement of the sentence and its in-
fliction. No sentence is worth a rap which will
not stand the test of six months’ consideration.
The facts elicited and the allegations made during
the discussion as to the status in New South Wales
of foreign insurance societies trading in that
province, strongly emphasise the contrast
between State supervision over such mat-
ters in New York and Sydney respectively.
In America the Government literally holds the
insurance companies in the hollow of its hand.
In New South Wales the insurance companies, so
far as the Government is concerned, can do
just as they please with their trust-funds and
the valuation of their securities. No one can
reasonably doubt the bona tides of the three
big American offices now doing business in
Sydney, any more than the bona tides of the great
Australian offices can be doubted, and we presume
that the managers of the foreign offices are not
averse to the authorities placing them undei
such restrictions as will result in every reason-
able guarantee being given to their local
clients. But it is not alone the insurance
societies which should be looked after. There
is in New South Wales practically no super-
vision of financial corporations. Any uncer
tifieated insolvent or man just out of gaol can call
himself a “bank,” capital, two millions; head-
office, Lombard-street, London—and rake in the
public shekels by promising double current bank
rate of interest. Only the other day we were
informed thatawoman had entrusted fTOof her sav-
ings, for three years, at 12.1 per cent., to two shady
“financiers” who had started a “limited liability ’
bank. These people have no goods to be seized,
and by the time the old woman asks for her £70
the “ bank ” will probably have taken wings and
will be driving some girl in sealskins behind a fast
trotter in a New York park. Why any sane man
should take to burglary or book-making when such
superior facilities for robbing the public exist isau
inscrutable mystery


To the proprietors of The Bulletin, Sydney.—
Dear Sirs, -I am desired by the Committee to
thank you for your generous gift towards the
Relief Fund, and for your kindness in offering to
collect subscriptions on behalf of the Fund Com-
mittee, which offer is gratefully accepted.—I have
the honour to be, dear sirs, yours faithfully, A. T.
Edwards, sec. pro tem.
Sept. G, 1889.
[?]
846 Maoquane-street North, Sydney', Sept. 11, 1889.
My Dear Moorabisda, —
The latest newspaper controversy relates to that little
way we’ve got of cramming into full vehicles and “ jump-
ing” the resting-place of the tired male. The discussion
rises very' high and screechy, but perhaps a “ Non-
Sufferer” is most worth hearing. After some acidulated
periods announcing that men shouldn’t be subjected to
our “whims and outrages,” he concludes : —“My advice
is, instead of standing, to remain seated, thus showing our
fair companions that their power over the sterner sex is
not so-powerful as they imagine.” Feasible enough on
paper, but I have seen it working, and know that it means
bitterness of spirit to the man who sits in the shadow of
the perpendicular woman hanging on to the roof. This is
how it results. Scene Ist: Tram gives a lurch, so does
girl; man’s hat sent flying into next seat. Scene 2nd:
Tram stops. Girl backs to let someone out, tramples on
his feet, knocks his umbrella out of the door and fills his
mouth and eyes with tournure. Scene 3rd : Well, gener-
ally “back down” of the “sterner sex,” who arises and
politely offers his seat to girl. Curtain.
Quite a throng found its way into the breezy precincts
of Admiralty House, North Shore, on 3rd inst. to take
part in Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax’s farewell “ At Home.”
Mrs. Fairfax, supported ’n- the Admiral, one blaze of
auriferous buttons and things .n.t looking quite jolly at
the idea of tearing himself away—received her friends in
the drawing-room and wore a gown of loaf-brown poplin
with collar, cuffs, and skirt-panel of gold galon em-
broidered with electric blue beads —pale lemon-coloured
Suede gloves and bronze shoes. There were but two or
three dresses worth looking at twice. One was of grey
silk with plain front of ash-grey' velvet, vest of grey r velvet
and steel beads, bonnet en suite, with a cluster of black
roses, gloves marvellously en suite. Another, crimson
poplin en Directoire, revers and pockets of ruby velvet,
the jupe and vest of ruby moire, bonnet to correspond,
ornate with gold-spangled lace and cream aigrette; whilst
the third was a well-cut black cloth, a black picture hat
ornate with black feathers and a cluster of mignonette,
and throe or four souvenir roses in the corsage. Out of
place anywhere but on a “ yot ” or at a summer marine
resort, was a blue serge made with a brass-buttoned pilot
jacket, the skirt having a white serge panel designed in
gold braid ; while a lady' with a garden of blue cornflowers
in her “ shapo ” should have pinned her skirt up and
brushed her elf-locks before braving social criticism. Au
reste, brother Rupert came in a pot-hat and a silver-
headed cane—the air was darkened with naval persons
with ’em all on as usual—and a frozen band on the lawn
thumped sentimental melodies, mostly indicative of fare-
wells, in the teeth of a howling westerly.
A posse of society femininity gathered together, at
Sydney Town Hail, last week, to contribute towards a
farewell souvenir to Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax, and to decide
upon what form it should take—a set of silver toilet
etceteras being fixed upon after much diccussion. The
gift—on view last Saturday at a Sydney jeweller’s—was
really very nice—brushes, combs, shoe-horn, mirror, &c.,
being mounted in elegant silver work. The Admiral’s
only farewell gift from his Sydney friends was a bilious
attack thinly veiled in the guise of a bouquet, poor man !
He and Mrs. Fairfax intend joining the Orient at Mel-
bourne, and will have for fellow-passengers a couple of
“ real” imported “ Honorables” and—“ Cupid Smith.”
At Sydney Bicycle Club’s Sports, on 7th inst., a huge
and garish throng had possession of the g.s. As the
weather was perfection, nice gowns were at a discount,
and promenading on the lawn—to the strains of a rather
overpowering band—was much affected. There were
several harmonious gets-up and dozens of Spring hats - a
pretty top-knot being of black lace straw ornate with
black gauze and ribbons and long trails of hyacinths. I
liked a summer cloth gown in vieux-rose, the skirt bor-
dered with white bars (most of the robes are bordered
now), vest, cuffs, and collar of white bars, and vieux-rose
straw hat with white and vieux-rose ribbons, a trail of
white flowers and green leaves. Another “ bordered •
gown was in twine-brown with bordering of toned light-
fawn bars round the feet and draperies, the vest and small
epaulette-puffs of brown silk ; scoop hat of fawn felt with
ribbon and plumes, and lightened under the brim by a
dash of crimson. Still another—a very dainty tone of
lavender—had a border of pinkish bars edging the skirt
and draperies, which came from the right shoulder and
were caught with bows and ends of grey moire ribbon ; a
grey Picture hat with grey plumes setting off a very pretty
face underneath.
The Public Schools sports, held on Sydney Associa-
tion Ground on 6th inst., took place in the presence of a
huge throng, composed principally of children who ran
riot over the grand-stand and clung in a fringe around
the vice-regal box, endeavouring, it seemed, to stare
Governor Carington out of countenance. His Excellency
wore a tired expression and a black top-hat, and was
supported by a bevy of educational big-wigs also in
black top-hats. The children present were lively-
looking youngsters on the whole, but where was the
vitality of those hapless beings whom I judged by the
worn, strained, look and heart-breaking attire to he
teachers ? After the sports I visited a friend, and
as the rubicund housemaid answered the door, I couldn’t
help inwardly contrasting her red cheeks with the weary,
sallow faces I had left behind. What dire mental obliquity
it must be to make a healthy girl of the “working classes”
aspire to the starvation title of “ teacher ” ? Next to me
on the stand a woman said, “There’sme ’opeful daughter.
She’s passed her samination and is to be pupil-teacher
next.” Mutual rejoicings followed and I looked at the
proud mamma. She was attired in a red shawl—a burnt
straw hat and her hare hands shrieked for the lavatory.
But her daughter 'was to starve as a teacher though the
entire community died dreadful deaths through subsisting
entirely on tinned meats and ginger-beer.
Spring is here, and everything is joy except for the
youth who goeth picnicing with a girl in the new Spring
hat which mostly turns up at the back, but runs out half a
mile in front like a sugar-sc: op. It’s a design that puts a
stop to those contraband osculations so general at picnics !
for unless George contents himself with saluting the nape
of Clara’s neck, he will have to remove his hat before he
“snatches one.” The nice girl goeth a-picnicing in her
smallest pork-pie and a very big parasol.
Apropos of Spring fashions, the “Empire” or bag veil
will be much affected, as it is the only bagging suitable
for large hats. But “ Empire ” veils are impossible when
one wishes for one’s handkerchief—you understand ?—for
they- are drawn so tight wider the chin that they cannot
be raised without the whole head-dress being demoralised.
At the sports the other day I heard a girl enveloped in
one give such a dolefully hearty sniff that I knew the
drawback I had discovered was general.
Gov, Carington is what rude little boys call “nuts” on
the Scentennial Park, despite the odorous garbage-heaps
and the perambulators. On sth inst. he and his brother
walked from Government House round the park and back,
and, on leaving the sports on the 6th, he rode right round
it again. Nothing can now prevent it becoming the cor-
rect thing to “do ” the park—and—as I observed a pair of
discarded paper “masher” cuffs on the drive the other
morning, it is reasonable to suppose that Potts Point is
already ambling in the gubernatorial wake.
Sydney Bicycle Club held an “illuminated run” round
town on the evening of 3rd inst., which was quite a novelty
and calculated to make horses fractious. All the “ bikes ”
were adorned with lanterns, fairy lamps, and things, and
one ambitious wheelman had a seven-feet structure over
him covered with the largest and gaudiest lanterns pro-
curable ! I believe even the trams shied at him.
Madame Bentami is now in Melbourne. It’s a pity she
didn’t stay in Sydney—l think I could listen to her “ Pack
Clouds Away ” for a week. And, speaking of singers,
Santley is in for a serious time when he returns, because
in Brisbane he revelled in oratorio, whilst in Sydney he
generally twittered lovey-dovey ballads, and musically
never left his best girl, as it were. The dilletante fed
this, of course, and would like to retract some of those
Chowder Bay compliments by “ collect” wire.
The final Sydney Reunion took the welcome shape
of a ball at Need’s Rooms on 3rd inst. Fancy dress
predominated the most fetching feminine get-up
being a “ Captive” in white and red, with gyves on her
wrist and her back hair loose ; while a black velvet silver
embroidery and lace “ old court-dress” scored heaviest for
the other side. One young lady with sand-paper under-
standings wore her skirts above her knee and no stockings,
and was an object of veneration to the bald, and a King
Charles, in red velvet and black horse-hair wig, played it
very low down indeed on a defunct and headless monarch.
A certain firm of Australian florists have been accorded
vice-regal patronage ever since 1870. If it only liked to
tell all it knows of how many vice-regally-ordered bouquets
didn’t go Government House-wards, and how His Blank
would order camellias though Her Blank was known to
detest them, there might be some rather interesting
reading, don’t you think ? But tradespeople never tell
outside the Insolvency Court.
The third garrison dance of the Sydney season occurred
at West’s rooms on 4th inst., when the usual guests
attended with “plaited hair and spikenard.” The hand-
somest gown was of white armure Royale, the draperies
caught on the left side with great clusters of crimson
roses, similar clusters on the corsage, white gloves, and
paralysing diamonds. There was indeed a goodly show of
the jewels Marguerite came to grief over, and the presence
of the Governor, in dancing mood, lent additional joy
to the affair, which was not “kept up” very late.
Veiled sentiment from the. S. M. Herald
"ITTANTED, young Lady as Housekeeper, by gentle-
” man bachelor. Address partic. S.G., Herald.
“ Address partic.,” which will mainly relate to the circum-
ference of her waist, and whether or not her bang is of
pale gold.
I heard a story the other day anent the ambulance-girls
connected with the Hobart Y.W.C.A , which is r. ally too
good not to be true. It appears that an examine! :on took
place one afternoon lately in the local Town Ilab to prove
who had profited most by the instruction imparted up to
date. Lady Hamilton, who takes great intco-t in the
Society, was present, and as the proceedings k. -;ted until
towards dusk the hall-keeper thought it advisable to-give
them some light on the subject. He opened the door,
but beheld so many well-exposed limbs (not arms) in
various stages of bandaging that he quietly withdrew un-
observed without attempting to light the gas. Many of
these ladies would not enter a theatre, and the mere men-
tion of a ballet would give them a severe shook, so it is
very fortunate that they are not yet aware of what
occurred during that exam.
Sydney Lancers hold a ball at Leigh House on 19th
inst., and, as Governor Carington and suite and Major-
General Richardson and staff will be present, it should be
a chavoo of the razzle-dazzle order. “ I’ll be dar ef I
kin git.”
Apropos, fans are quite the feature of the dress-circles
now, and they come in all shapes and sizes. I rejoice to
see that the huge fire-screen arrangement has gone out —
a fan which vised to act in the circle much as the three-
storied hat carries on below. Spangled lace fans are much
affected, and palm-leaf fans with broad satin ribbons to
match the gown, threaded round the top, are sported by
people who could buy point-lace goods if they wanted to.
There are one or two nice people in Melbourne who
rather make fools of themselves over the poor player, and
one of them got a little lesson the other day. It was at a
matinee to which she went with a “star actress” in tow,
and a gentleman who eddied at the back of the d.c. was
beckoned by the lion to join the party. The trio got on
splendidly until the lady caught the stony glare of an
elderly friend, who beckoned her over and whispered,
“ Leave Miss Threestars at once. That man she has with
her is the actor who figured in the Blank divorce-case !”
The horrified lady at once left the theatre “with a head-
ache ” and has ever since been shy of popular idols.
In “ The Silver Shield,” an intensely human “society ’>
play produced for the first time at Sydney Criterion on
7th, Mrs. Brough wears three lovely gowns to which the
three handsome stage-“ interiors ” form a gorgeous back-
ground. Gown No. 1 is in nasturtium-green, with vest
and skirt-front of old lace fastened across on the skirt
with bow and ends of green satin-ribbon, the coat-bodice
having collars of green silk, floral bonnet in white and
green, with a cluster of primroses in the front and short
green strings ; Suede gloves (a marvellous fit) and diamond
bangles. Miss Gillmore in this act wears pale-pink with
a blouse bodice and vest of embroidery. In act 2 Mrs.
Brough (who takes the part of Alma Blake, an Aus-
tralian widow—-would that all our widows dressed so well!)
wears a dinner-gown of pale-blue satin demi-trained, the
skirt made in box-pleats with panels of crystal-beaded
lace—the bodice veiled in the lace—and elbow-sleeves of
crystal-beaded net ; across the front of the skirt, coming
from the bodice, a huge bow and ends of chrome-green
velvet faced with blue. A crimson plush-wrap, lined with
quilted satin, covered all this gorgeousness. Miss Gill-
more, as Lucy Preston, wears in this act white silk of an
artistic cut. In act 3 Mrs. Brough sports an art tea-
gown of the most adorable kind, the underskirt and
bodice of white silk, while the gown, sleeves and Roman
sash tied in the front are of coppery-yellow silk. And
though the lady was dressed so splendidly one forgot her
gowns in the excellence of her performance. In the d. 0.,
which was crammed, I noticed several nice gowns—per-
il a] is the handsomest being of white silk, the skirt draped
with heavy gold cord and tassels and pompons, bodice
edged with gold-spangled net and white plume fan ; but
there was too much red, and one girl in that sanguinary
hue waved a pink feather fan with distressing artistic
results.
A thronged d.o. viewed the second performance of
“Dorothy,” at Sydney Royal, and some of the people
seemed to have their own clothes on for a change. I liked
a white silk with low cut corsage—the corsage or absence
of it is about all you see of a theatre dress—with crystal
headings: and an art gown in terracotta silk was beauti-
fully draped. One pretty dolly-girl came in a pink frock
with windmill puffs round the arms, and the vest of the
gown cut in a sort of Early' English-cwm-straight-jaoket
style ; and another with a head of wig-like hair had little
spikes of “candy-tuft” stuck all over it like a target.
Nellie Stewart’s best frock occurs in Act 2, and is of prim-
rose brocade, the petticoat of cream-lace with y'ellow bows
and cream and white plumes, with plumes in the hair and
lots of diamonds ; and Fanny Liddiard looks pretty in
white satin and lace.
Yours iffoction.uely,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Dock Labourers' Strike Fund.
The main features of the present Australian thrt»b
of sympathy with the London Dock - Labourers
is its universality. All classes, all creeds, have
given, and liberally, and in the Sydney Domain
the other day 15,000 men, women and children,
Freetraders and Protectionists, Roman Catholics
and Protestants, stood for three hours indiscrimi-
nately applauding speakers of every nationality
and of every shade of political and religious
opinion. The trades-unions have voted away
for the cause funds which they themselves
might require any day, parsons and priests
have preached for it, atheistic, and _ other
lecturers have lectured for it, prize _ fighters
have bruised and been bruised for it, foot-
ballers have kicked and sweated for it, orators
have orated, ladies have canvassed and lectured
for it, horses are going to race for it, newsboys,
folks living from hand to mouth have subscribed
to it. Who shall say then that the world is not
becoming more human in the face of such facts. All
preceding big subscriptions have been intended to
relieve the distress caused by some mighty, perhaps
unavoidable, calamity. For instance the famine
in Lancashire caused by the American war, the
famines in Ireland caused by the failure _of the
potato crop, the famines in India by the failure of
the rice harvest, the disasters caused by floods and
shipwrecks, in coal-mines by the culpable neglig-
ence of mine owners ; but hero we have a struggle
between men who have limited opportunities of
labouring and prefer to have none, who prefer to
die by sudden, rather than lingering starvation.
The people of Australia recognise the justice of
their claims, the unjustice of their position.
Therefore they subscribe, not only from sym-
pathetic motives, but because these dock-labourers
are fighting for them, for Humanity and making
it evident that the claims of labour in future
must first be fully satisfied before there can be any
division of profits.
* * *
Thu fact that the rich Sydney Morning
Herald's contribution to the London Dock
Labourers’ Strike Fund was only 10 guineas has
caused considerable talk in Sydney. The Fair-
faxes are not mean people, they are kind to their
employees and friends, and they gave £lOOO to the
Soudan brigandage expedition. The smallness of
their subscription on the present occasion would
seem to indicate that, as everybody supposed, the
Herald’s, sympathies are not with the strike,
whatever it may think of the distress of the
strikers ; that, in fact, its owners possibly contri-
buted to avoid the unfavourable comments which
fheir “munificence” lias already provoked.
Like the Argus, the Herald at heart is of
opinion that the men must be made to fit the
docks and not the docks to fit the men.
The Age scored heavily over the Argus
by the vigorous and effectual style in which it has
on this occasion advocated the cause of labour; all
the Argus lias been able to do on the other side is
to suppress and deprecate and minimise the
agitation in its usual maladroit style. The trouble
into which Mr. Bruce Smith, the N.S.W. Minister
of Works, has got himself, by writing a letter to
the effect that, as he was not fully seized of the
facts, he couldn’t join in the movement, only shows
how dangerous it is to follow the Freetrade-cim-
Free Competition faith to its logical conclusion at
a critical moment. Political economy has no
heart; it reckons that the main object of life is
to get rich, and that men, women, and children
are only counters in the game. Not that
those who know Bruce Smith believe him
to be personally mean and heartless. But he
has in him a strong strain of obstinacy ; he pro-
bably saw that many were making political
capital out of the agitation, and he honestly,
straightforwardly abided by the principles set
down in his now historic book and declined to be
in the same boat with the expedientists who,
while worshipping at the shrine of Free Competi-
tion, were willing to gammon, for the sake of
votes, that they could sympathise with the work-
ing man. The Bulletin doesn’t admire Mr.
Bruce Smith’s attitude on the occasion, but it
likes it just as well as it likes the S.M.IP’s tem-
porising little tenner. Why, if we’d worked for
the Herald for a dozen years or so and then got
sick, and met “ Mister James ” in the street and
bailed him up and told him of our woes, he’d ask
us to call round at the office and bring a little bag
and take the first instalment of our little life-
pension. He’s done such things lots of times, but
on principle his office won’t take the heavy end of
the log in bolstering up a strike at either end of
the world.
Another Daring Burglary.
This morning at two o’clock Mr. Smith, of Lon-
don, who has lately taken a house at Edgecliffe
Road, Parramatta, was aroused by a noise in his
cellar, and on descending, armed with his revolver,
he found that the cellar had been broken into by a
party of three desperados, who were taken in
charge and charged with being charged with the
famous St. Louis Lager Beer, the property of the
owner.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Dorothy.”
Her Majesty’s “ Julius Caesar.”
Criterion “The Silver Shield.”
Gaiety “Fanchon.”
School of Arts. Mesmerist Kennedy.
Cycloram a “Battle of Gettysburg.”
Crystal Palace Skating Kink York-street.
Metropolitan Skating Kink Ultimo.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ Silver Fulls.”
Opera House “ Othello.”
Princess’ “A Foil's.House.”
Athbnjevm Hall Sr.azelF.
Alexandra “Rip Van Winkle.”.
St. George's Hall “ Jolly Nash Coy.”
“ God Save the Queen,” likewise “Rule
Britannia,” and “Bless the Prince of Wales,”
which burst of orthodox gush is fired out in re-
membrance of that astounding tableau which spas-
modic genius tacked on to the tail of the “Pirates of
Penzance,” at Sydney Royal. The Pirate King
waxing an alleged British ensign and singing
“Britons novel, never, never shall be slaves ” at
the precise moment when about a quarter of a
million British slaves were hanging over the edge
of anarchy and bloodshed in Britannia’s capital
city with a determination to he slaves no longer.
The tableau itself was almost too lovely for earth.
A beautiful young woman, in a sardine-tin vest,
perched on the fo’e’sle of a mud-barge, while two
others, in mosquito-net overalls, hung their
radiant heads over either bow in the attitude of
paying that tribute to the water-god which even
few Britons can resist. But the audience failed to
respond. Australia has of late had such a dosing
with these ancient and attenuated gags that even
conventional loyalty is on its last legs. The salva-
tion of Mrs. Great Britain and Ireland is a large
and one-sided contract, in which Australians have
but small interest. They offer no objections to it.
They never will: but they are becoming nauseated
with the constant reminders for its necessity. If,
however, Messieurs the toadies of Imperialism
will kindly continue rubbing it in at every avail-
able opportunity, the antidote for this social
scourge will presently loom above the horizon
with a larger outline than any of Barkes’ promises
to his constituents.
* * *
The most successful season of English opera
that Sydney has known for many years concludes
at the Opera House this Saturday evening. On
Monday last “The Beggar Student” made way for
“ Faust,” who was elbowed off by “ Maritana,”
who was displaced by “ Martha.” During the
season Lilian Tree has worked very hard. Her
acting has now a life and finish lacked at its
opening, and if her voice does not fail through
overwork in the vast Alexandra, she is bound to
make a Melbourne hit. In everything she under-
takes—natural, vivacious, and indefatigable-
no greater public favourite than “ little
Flora Graupner” treads the Australian stage.
The busy Bs Bracy and Buzzi, with
Knight Aston have also won public approval by
their very excellent vocalisation and manly,
spirited style of acting. Messrs. Stockwell and
G ilpin will yet achieve better things. Their voices
are of more than average quality and youth is on
their side. John Forde has not had much low
o jmedy opportunity. His Col. Ollendorff was a
clever performance. The Misses Clara Thompson
and Cissy Staunton are capable of higher class
work than they were afforded chances to under-
take. The four operas just named were the most
successful productions of the season, and with
Collier’s “Sultan of Mocha” in reserve, we may
predict a greater financial success at Melbourne
Alexandra for Mr. Solomon’s English Opera Com-
pany than house-room permitted at the tiny
Sydney Opera House.
>|?
At the Criterion “The Silver Shield,” a
remarkably fine comedy, is played with admirable
finish. Its dialogue is so brilliant, so pungently
cynical, that- at the conclusion of the first act some
apprehension was felt as to whether so high a pitch
of excellence could be sustained throughout. The
author is a master of stage-craft; the situations
throughout are so contrived that the curtain falls
on the most dramatic moment of each act, while
the highly original termination of the concluding
act redeems it from the insipidity that usually
accompanies the hackneyed kiss-and-be-friends-all-
round of stage life. In fact, so many good things
are said and done, that at least half of them must
escape notice on an initial visit. The acting of
Mrs. Brough as Kate Alma, the Australian widow
and successful actress, is the chief feature of the
show and an especially noteworthy performance.
She has done nothing better. Lilian Gillmore's
enactment of Lucy Preston, on the contrary,
quite eclipses all her previous efforts on these
boards. She betrayed an emotional power for
which the audience were scarcely prepared. As
Mrs. Dozey, Miss Bonier, to whom nothing comes
amiss, was admirably fitted. Every word was
accorded its true value, every point was neatly
scored. Though A. T. Hilton's Sir Humphrey
Chetwynd has a family resemblance to previous
efforts, it is in every respect a refined and highly-
finished piece of acting. As Tom Potter, Percy
Lyndal’s disguise was complete, and it may be
that his assumption of the sensitive, yet self-con-
trolled, artist is one of his best efforts. Dodson
Dick, “ a manager of the old school,” in the hands
of Robert Brough, is a rattling and breezy per-
formance. His offhand declaration that Nature
is only a beginner and that amateurs are only
bearable at matinees, gives a capital idea of the
man who looks at everything across the glare of
the footlights and through the window of the box-
office. Every part undertaken by.R. Inman is
carefully thought out, and as Ned he again gives
proof that he is steadily mounting upwards. The
Dr. Dozey of George Leopold affords him a better
opportunity than he has had for some time, and it
is made the most of. One strong point in tins
bright comedy is the absence of characters aimlessly
dragged in like so much stage furniture, and
having no part in the telling of the story. Mr.
Hpong’s three scenes are particularly good, and
the stage-fittings of undeniable excellence.
He- # it a
The funereal costume of the d.c. masher
presents a mournful contrast to the picturesque
what-you-may-call-’ems of a dead and buried past
as illustrated by Cellier’s “Dorothy,” at the
Royal. Undoubtedly our ancestors —if sucb they
really were—had an immense advantage over us in
the matter of costume, except when impromptu
thunderstorms darkened their summer sky. I* lo ,
women of those days, too, judged by sample,
looked pretty enough to eat, particularly IdiQ‘ lS
Tuppit in orange blossoms. “Queen of MV
Heart” was sung by Harry Sherwood (Imano)
with much success, in view of the fact that he
must perforce keep the loud pedal down or his love
would scarcely hear him through a stout oaken
door. But nothing short of a burglary wonlu


Ben Franklin Printing Office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. 3YI. MACLAHDY
Has just opened a splendid assortment of
Dance Programmes, Invitation Cards, &c., St c.,
SUITABLE FOR
Public & Private Balls, Evening Parties,
Sporting & Athletic Clubs,
Which he will print in any style required on the Shortest
Notice and at Moderate Rates. A Large Stock of
the best Stationery, including French Note Papers and
Envelopes just arrived. Samples on application.
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(NearWynyard Street).
Ilorsford's Acid Phosphate.
A HEALTHFUL TONIC.
Used in place of lemons or limejuice it will harmonize
with such stimulants as are necessary to take.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Peraell’s Snow white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
make the other people wake up, and when
they do come down to see what it is all
about, the necessities of comic opera compel
men and women alike to appear as though
they had gone to bed in their boots and all stand-
ing. Probably the most artistic incident in the
show is Lurcher’s descent of the staircase wrong
end first; it may be only a happy inspiration, but
it looks like the result of much deliberate prac-
tice, and the latter theory is supported by the self-
possession which marks his gentle dalliance with
Mrs. Privett, the fetching widow of four hus-
bands. Dorothy Bantam received a gigantic
floral harp from an admirer at the end of the
second act —a pretty conceit, meaning, perhaps,
that somebody was hard hit. A floral maul or
poleaxe would have been more suggestive, less
costly, and much easier for a lady to carry. Floral
harps are not so valuable as flat-irons, anyway.
*- * -#-
At the Gaiety the main features of Dickens’
“Old Curiosity Shop” are perhaps preserved as
closely as stage-representation will allow, but
could the departed author be made aware that the
curtain drops nightly on a song and dance, he
would gladly supply, free of cost, a more fitting
termination. The present finale has an incon-
gruous originality about it that America alone
could have perpetrated. Were Quilp’s last en-
trance delayed until the wedding festivities were
over, his discomfiture would furnish the traditional
conclusion—vice jugged, virtue jubilant—and folks
would go away perfectly happy. Miss Katie
Putnam has more talent and less assurance than
most of the soubrettes that have visited us from
Amurika. While on the stage she does not
occupy all the side-walk and half the roadway
but is content to dovetail her work in with that of
the other chrracters. Her Marchioness recom-
mends itself even more strongly to us than does
her Little Nell. The Quilp of A. R. Lawrence is
a highly creditable performance, and his make-up
fully equal to any exaggerated distortion that has
been seen at any time on the Sydney boards. H.
B. Emery’s Grandfather Trent might have stepped
out of Dickens’ pages, and while he was in evidence
the looker-on was much more highly impressed
with the idea that a work by Boz was being inter-
preted. Geo. 0. Boniface, a versatile young man,
is to be highly congratulated on his Dick Swivel-
ler; and the Sampson Brass of Mr. Nunn, and the
Mrs. Brass of Miss Sophie Harris, are creditably
sustained. The Kit Knubbles of Miss Nelly
Strickland, however, is, without doubt, one of the
most remarkable male impersonations by a woman
that we have ever witnessed. r l he voice, manly
stride and attitude are true to the life, and her
eyes only give the little lady away. The opening
scene between Swiveller and young Trent, which
has literally no connection with anything that
follows, might with advantage be omitted; and
with the alteration previously suggested, and the
elimination of the variety business, the perform-
ance of Miss Putnam’s company would occupy
that higher plane to which its ability entitles it,
¥& vfc
At Her Majesty’s “ Julius Caesar ” nightly
attracts large audiences, and thus, once more,
gives evidence that Shakespeare, creditably inter-
preted, does not spell ruin. The Marc Antony of
George Rignold can now be bracketed with his
Henry V., Ned Drayton, in “My Partnerand
Colonel Challice, in “ Alone.” The Brutus of J.
F. Cathcart is an undeniably fine performance,
and the Cassius of H. R. Jewett credits this young
actor with a previously unsuspected and labori-
ously-concealed ability. Charles Hall’s Caesar is a
picturesque and manly effort; Stirling Whyte’s
Casca is worthy of eulogy. What Miss Kate
Bishop has to do as Portia is so well done that it
is universally regretted that the divine William
did not afford her a more enlarged opportunity.
One marked feature of the performance is, as has
before been noted, the good acting of everyone
engaged, from star to super.
* * *
Mesmerist Kennedy gave an exhibition at
the School of Arts, the other day, to medicos and
pressmen. On that occasion Professor Anderson
Stuart stated : —“I believe it to be genuine, not
because I can explain it, for I cannot. Science
cannot yet explain it, but eventually will.” Ken-
nedy is in no hurry for the explanations of science,
he gathers a highly amused audience every even-
ing, and the less they understand it, the better
they like it.
*# * #
During the past week Miss Yon Finkel-
stein’s Sunday lecture at the Centenary Hall on
behalf of the Boys’ Club, was a great pecuniary
success. She has since exerted herself on “Life
In Jerusalem,” for the Dock Labourers’ Relief
Fund, followed by, on succeeding evenings,
“ Homes and Haunts,” “Cradle to Cross,” and
the “Life of Jacob.” Her subject this (Saturday)
evening is the “Bedouins of the Desert.” The
Fisk Jubilee Singers will occupy the hall on
Monday evening next.
* sif * *
Now that the hot weather and flies are
close at hand the rinking dervishes are more
assiduous than ever. In George-street you can
almost hear the “ birr ” of the whirling wheels at
the Crystal Palace, and at Ultimo the excessive
vibration proceeding from the Metropolitan has
charged the surrounding atmosphere with elec-
tricity.
* *
At Bondi Aquarium several highly-in-
teresting side shows are laid on, and the visitors
who seek new sensations dive through such a
dark tunnel on the Switchback railway that all
the girls scream and seek male protection. To
demonstrate the popularity of this institution we
need only mention that the Icthyophagus Club
dine there daily at 4 and 5 p.m.
The Silbon-Stirk’s departure from Adelaide
Royal closes that establishment for a week, during
which time, amongst other improvements to the
budding, the electric-light will be fixed. Jennie
Lee will be the next attraction. Tommy Hudson
is playing at Garner’s to satisfactory business.
** * *
Mr. Robert M‘Wade, the mysterious visi-
tant from America, was received in a friendly and
torgiving spirit at Melbourne Alexandria, when he
came forward in his own secular version of “Rip
yan Winkle.” To such as have not dozed with
delight at Jefferson’s wire drawn study of the tire-
some Dutchman, nor peacefully enjoyed the more
robust performance of J. C. Williamson—there
D a y seem to be no precise reasons for sniff-
} n g at an announcement of M‘Wade’s eminence
n f the land from whence he was let loose. The
visitor’s dramatisation of this old fable only differs
trom Boucicault’s in the matter of being not so
good, while his performance of Rip is distinctly
unpretentious. He might bo Hans the Boat-
ruan if he bought a big; dog, and after his long
slumber of 20 years he might just as well wake up
iu the form of Tony Faust, instead of as a weak
reminder of John Stofel. It is hard for a man to
avoid .resembling a few dozen other peopl e
when he takes up with Dutch-American drama-
Williamson, Jefferson and Emmet are themselves
alone, but those who follow after that illustrious
trinity have about the same amount of in-
dividuality as a grain of mustard seed, or a
bar of yellow soap. They all sing their pathetic
passages in one everlasting key, and have one
cheap method of talking backwards. They even
go so far as to be irritatingly alike about the face
and legs. The custom of singing sorrow and sen-
timent must be epidemic in the minor American
States, and not wholly confined to the broken-
English line of business, because the sad song of
Mr. M‘Wade might be mistaken for the steady
rise and fall of Miss Katie Putnam’s grief, if the
audience wasn’t looking hard at the object to make
sure. But, taking him as a fair sample of a bulk,
Mr. M‘Wade is an acceptable Rip Van Winkle,
and the Alexandra lads evidently warmed to him
on Saturday night. His leading lady is an intelli-
gent amateur in the art, with a weak voice and a
liberal allowance of American grace. The demons
of the Catskill Mountains play their dumb parts
in good ghastly style, and it is in their company
that Mr. M‘Wade shows most power, for, after
drinking the demon liquor, his agony of mind and
stomach seems to be a very genuine sensation.
The thumping of a drum to represent peals of
thunder is another striking effect which calls for
special notice.
*m * *
People are beginning to stay away from
the Royal in large numbers, either because the
management reproduces old plays or because the
members of the new company persistently repro-
duce themselves on each occasion. Anyway, the
gleam has gone out of “ Harbour Lights,” and
next Saturday (14th) they will stow away the
restless billows to make room for “ Silver Falls,”
a drama which is less nautical, but not so nice.
“ Jack-in-the-Box’’and Jennie Lee giveplace to
“ A Doll’s House ” on the same night. So entirely
experimental will be this production of Ibsen’s
play that the Triumvirate can’t sleep for wonder-
ing whether it is bound to run eight weeks or
ELEOTRIO PHOTO-ENG. CO., 8 BRIDCE-ST.
PHOTO. BY FALK.
MISS LILIAN GILLMORE.
certain to be irrevocably darned in half-an-hour.
To prevent a hasty and ill-considered panic they
are publishing facts about Henrik Ibsen, the
“ Doll’s House ” and their noble selves, so that
the public may know what they are giving ’em
when the fateful hour arrives. At least the show
starts with every possible chance of success, and
if _ Miss Janet Aohurch finds that her London
triumph is not repeated in Melbourne she must
put it down to the climate. Her personal beauty
is an enduring fact at all events.
*% * *
Clashing with these other interesting cir-
cumstances will be the re-appearance of Mr. G. C.
Miln at Melbourne Opera House, whence the
Widdy O’Brien and that delicious girl in trousers
depart forthwith. Mr. Miln has taken a lease of
the house, and comes back with a quantity of
blushing honours upon his brainy head to give
Immortal William the biggest doing he has yet
had in Australia. In this resolve Miln deserves
well of solid-minded playgoers, not to mention the
old Bard himself, who may be relied upon to see
things right through. The season opens with
“Othello,” a gentleman of colour who made him-
self a widower by means of the nuptial bolster.
Miss Louise Jordan will be boosted under the
bolster.
** * *
Business keeps up at the halls all this
time. Mr. Snazelle’s elegant entertainment fills
the Athenaeum better than it did during his first
week, when the city was slowly awakening to the
fact that Snazelle was there and trying to clutch
hold of his name. But now folks seem to under-
stand that he is a source of superior pleasure,
rhyming with jelly. Jolly Nash is also considered
to be good for the liver, and mainly on account of
his laughing songs. St. George’s Hall looks as
cheerful as himself. The Battle of Waterloo
flourishes, and a midget has been added to the
Royal Museum of enormities.
** * *
Plans for the new Bijou Theatre, Mel-
bourne, have at last been approved by the awful
Board of Health, and Wilson expects to be
christening the completed structure soon after
Christmas. Likely enough Brough and Bouoicault
will renew operations on their former pitch, in
preference to hiding their light under a bushel at
the dull and gloomsomeend of Collins-street. Late
experiences at the Hibernian Hall warned Messrs.
L. & B. that the public won’t wander out of their
way to see the best show on earth, so that haughty
feG disposed to enter into covenant with
Wilson once again. They couldn’t do better.
* * #
Correspondents have been discussing in
the S.M. Herald, during the week, the exciting
question, “Was Cmsar bald-headed?” The
easiest way to decide the matter would be to
ascertain what seat Caesar occupied at comic
opera. Perhaps some of the ballet who knew
Csesar personally might throw some light on the
subject.
vlf
George Fawcett Rowe is gone, the “George
Fawcett,” of old Melbourne. " When last we met
him ’twas in London, less than five years ago. He
then seemed altogether too tough to die, and,
while walking round Leadenhall Market to pick
out a plump partridge—that was all he had to do
—he talked to us about going to Australia. He
was preparing to go to Australia, but is summoned
to shift clouds along with his old friends, G. Y.
Brooke, Julia Matthews, Ellen Mortyn, and all
those._ Harry Edwards is coming back from
America. He was associated with Fawcett in
managing the Melbourne Theatre Royal for G. V.
Brooke. Poor Brooke said they made a mess
of it, and ruined him. George and G. V.
must settle accounts between now and the end
of eternity. Fawcett emanated from Sandhurst,
and his brothers, Tom and Saville, were also con-
cerned with Melbourne theatricals. George
begun with the Gougenheims at the Princess’,
the company including H. N. Warner, Rogers,
Milne, and Johnny Hydes. Very success-
ful were such burlesques as the “ Invisible
Prince” and “ Ganem.” Fawcett carried on
the same line with Julia Mathews in “Aladdin,”
“ Pluto and Proserpine,” “Endymion,” and many
more. Fawcett’s stage imitations of Dr. Hunter,
Dr. Macadam, and others Were astounding. Julia
Mathews ! what a memory ! Her Aladdin rises to
mind, with “Sweet Spirit Hear My Prayer,” from
“ Lurline.” Fawcett first introduced Wheatloigh
and “The Colleen Bawn,” the cast including
G. and T. Fawcett, Stewart, Milne, Dunn, Rosa
Dunn, and Julia Mathews. In America and
England Fawcett Rowe afterwards did more than
fairly. His plays of the “Geneva Cross” and
“ Brass ” took Avell, also his adaptation of “ David
Copperfield.” He acted Mieawber first in Mel-
bourne, and polished it up at the Olympic, London,
where, we believe, Dickens saw him. His “ Miss
Miggs,” in his own adaptation of “Barnaby
Rudge,” was a clever thing. Altogether, Rowe
had talent in many ways. One night his presence
of mind probably saved the ramshackle Melbourne
Princess’ when the stage caught fire. He re-
minded one of Sothern, mixed with Jefferson.
At Poverty Point.
George Fawcett Rowe, who died the other day, had a
finger in the manufacture of “ Fun on the Bristol.”
Luscombe Searelle owns, is lessee of, or controls, seven
theatres in South Africa.
Barnum and Bailey’s circus and menagerie, which
leaves America for England shortly, has sent'AO advance-
agents on ahead.
Advertising space in the reading columns of the S.M,
Herald is supposed to be worth a sovereign an inch, but
George Rignold gets in his two-feet columnar-poster (in
the shape of a letter to the editor about “ Julius Csesar”)
for nothing.
Ftrirolough, the tragedian, is still in Auckland, and “the
boys ” are to give him an amateur ben.
From London Hawk : —“ Some few years ago, Mr. G.
W. Anson, on the first night of ‘ Rank and Riches’ at
the Adolphi, came on in front of the curtain and ques-
tioned the judgment of the audience as to the merits of
the piece. From that date his unpopularity became so
strong that he had to leave this country for Australia.”
A member of Parliament calls Dampier’s theatre the
Halexander ; his wife (the member’s, not Dampier’s) calls
it the Alexandria. And we were going to add that they
get there just the same, but that would sound too like
an ad
“ Johnny ” Solomon was lately transacting business with
an Italian musician whose terms he thought rather high.
“ Look ’ere, Sigg-nor,” said Johnny, “ you ain’t a blessed
Qaribaldeyc.”
The Borani Bros, left for England last Saturday. They
refused three offers—among them one from the theatrical
trinity being desirous of getting back to the city of
smoke and fog.
The Majeronis will shortly leave Melbourne for South
Africa, whither Australian “pros.” are now going in
shoals.
Arthur Garner, of W., G., and M., has a passion for
writing to the newspapers in sentences that pull as long
as a concertina. He married a literary lady, clever as she
is pretty, but she hasn’t improved his “copy.”
They are going to build a new theatre in Christchurch
(N.Z.)
Phil Beck will shortly be seen again in his own sphere.
Verdi’s latest and much glorified opera, “ Otello,” is
not regarded as a masterpiece by the London critics.
Geo. R. Sims earns (or gets, at any rate), from £4OO to
£5OO a week by the royalties on his gore and thunder
dramas. He pays income-tax on £20,000 per annum.
“D’Orsay” Ogden and wife are in Dunedin (N.Z.)
Bland Holt, with his dramatic Co., and the Hugo show
are doing well in Maoriland.
Preacher-actor Miln has been holding-forth on “Church
and Stage,” in Tasmania.
Manager Solomon, speaking of the derelict Italian
Opera Co., remarked that Australia had proved a splendid
country for them as in their own “ Medina” some of them
hadn’t been able to earn soup. “ But,” continued he
“ they put on so much side that it’s a wonder a (blank)
cyclone don’t come and sweep ’em away.”
Story by “Lai.” Brough, the comedian;—“ Sothern
once asked a number of friends, including myself, to
dinner. One of the guests was very late, and as he rang
at the front door, Sothern said, ‘ Now we’ll have some fun.
All of you get under the table.’ We did, and in came our
supposed victim. 1 Oh,’ he said, ‘ I’m glad to see I’m the
first. I feared I was late.’ ‘ Well, as a matter of fact,
you’re the last,’said Sothern; “they’re all here, but for
some extraordinary reason the moment you rang they all
got under the table ! ’ As you may imagine, we crawled
out in a very limp fashion, and it was a long time before
some of us forgave our host.”
Searelle has been producing “Bobadil” at Johannesberg.
The local paper asks him—When shall we have a purely
South African opera? South African opera in South
African costume would “ take well and give pleasure to
all.”
Simonsen’s Opera Company concluded a successful tour
week’s season at Auckland (N.Z.) on 31 of August.
We learn from Mr. Hassan, of Melbourne, that he
designed the emblems, wreaths and armour used in the
production of “ Julius Caesar.”
_ It is rumoured that someone is about to follow Miss
1 on Finkelstein round with a big magic lantern, a lecture
and a series of Holy Land views culled from Mark Twain’s
“Innocents Abroad.”
There are more Santleys than the celebrated baritone in
Australasia, if Charley Hugo is to be believed. The gav
and festive burnt-cork manipulator is gladdening the
hearts of all in Wellington, N.Z., and wishing to engage
the services of a variety artist “on the other side,” who
wallowed in the name of Santley, sent him the following
cable: “ Opening for self, two song-and-dance-men, and
ventriloquist.” The eminent baritone received the cable
by mistake, and he wants Hugo decapitated.
Some Sydney folks are wrangling in the papers as to
whether Julius Caesar was a bald-headed man. One writer
says he was, another say he wasn’t, a third says it doesn’t
matter anyhow. We feel that way ourselves.
A Melbourne critic says Jenny Lee “ is like a little ball
of quicksilver. She effervesces through every scene.”
Effervescent quicksilver is good.
Eight thousand pounds is offered by W., G., and M. to
Mrs. Langtry for a three months’ engagement in Aus-
tralia. The Lily will come when her nose gets better—or
worse—p’raps.
The latest craze in New York society is the amateur
circus. The important post of clown is eagerly coveted by
hosts of lank dudes, who haven’t enough loose humour
about them to start a comic paper in London with.
The Tasmanian Nightingale, Miss Amy Sherwin, is en-
tertaining the Singapore public.
Miss Florence St. John has sworn that the wearing of
diamond rings at London Gaiety shall be confined to lead-
ing ladies. Whereupon a member of the chorus re-
marked: “ How about wedding-rings ? As she can wear
one on every finger I suppose she will not object to my
wearing the one lam entitled to?” Which sparkling
retort procured for her a fortnight’s salary in lieu of
notice.
Thus the Hawk : —“ Austin Brereton is now attached to
the Sydney Morning Herald as dramatic critic. The
Herald is the most influential journal in the N.S.W.
capital, likewise the most pious, and is edited by a parson,
One of the first shows Brereton ‘ did ’ for his new em-
ployers was ‘ Mamma,’ which he virtuously condemned as
a most objectionable play with l an ending as flat as stale
champagne and as dirty as ditch-water! ’ And yet Aus-
tralia is always talking about advancing.”
There are enough pros. “ out of collar ” in Melbourne
to form two or three good companies.
We haven’t yet seen this in the “ In Memoriam ” column
of the E. News, but we are daily expecting it: —
CASSAR.—In loving memory of my dear friend, J. Osar.
Inserted by his friend, G. Rignold.
A genuine Chinese Comedy Company, the Swingtien
Lo Royal Dramatic Co., is playing in New York. A girl
was heard to remark after the play that, upon the whole,
she “ would rather visit a boiler-factory.”
Bobby (in the stalls), seeing a decollete lady in a box
being handed a Neapolitan ice by the waiter: “ Ma, I say,
ma, look at that pretty lady taking her bath and the rude
man giving her the soap on a tray.”
Zola’s “ Nana” was founded upon the fast and miserable
death, by smallpox, of the celebrated opera-bouffe-singer
and actress, Blanch d’Antigny, whose acting in Paris and
London some 10 or 12 years ago set both those cities
talking of her as though she were a queen.
Walter P. Hall, husband of Miss Carrie Wallace, well
known in the theatrical world, died at East Melbourne on
29th ult.
Jefferson’s Reminiscences are appearing in a New York
monthly. As Asa Trenohard, in “ Our American Cousin,”
he was supported, in Sydney, by that wonderfully versatile
Rogers, as Lord Dundreary, in which Dick Stewart shortly
afterwards astounded Melbourne, at the Princess’s, follow-
ing it with such an entire contrast as his Uncle Pete, in
the “Octoroon.” Jefferson opened in Melbourne 26 years
ago as Rip Van Winkle. Then came his Asa Trenohard.
“ The Octoroon ” was the strongest oast plav ever seen in
Australia, with Jefferson, Stewart, Lambert, Clarence
Holt, Fitzgerald, Heir, Dunn, Milne, Ireland, Mrs. Heir,
Rosa Dunn, and Mrs. Phillips. Jefferson’s Caleb Plummer,
in “ The Cricket on the Hearth,” was a great treat. Then
Barry Sullivan appeared with him in “The School for
Scandal,” “Much Ado About Nothing,” and “Money.”
Jefferson was specially good in “The Poor Gentleman,”
“Old Heads and Young Hearts,” “The Spitfire,” and
“ London Assurance.”


WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS,
—A— .
GREAT RELIEF IN RHEUMATISM.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest pes • • - 0 f the
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest sue
ag Land at Perth, W.A., the best ißvestmeJ;
Plans from Intercolonial Investment ■>
% Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
The Race Across the Flat.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This is not a sporting story; on the contrary, it
is just a faithful description of people, manners,
and customs, with a hint at the morality of almost
every river-town of Australia. .They are nearlj
all the same and of the same origin apparently.
A little reasoning will show how two distinct and
still connected tribes have come to form a mixed
community which is the world of most of its in-
habitants.
When our forefathers explored our great water-
courses, now and then a straggler would drop
off at a likely place for settlement. Thisem-
bryotio town was first on the bank of the rivet,,
and here commenced the Race on the Flat, rsow,
a sandhill invariably follows the winding o.
the river. By-and-by some more provident
settlers would spy out the safety of the hill and
remove his wigwam thereto, and others claiming
respectability would join him, forming an aristo-
cracy (God save the mark !) which literally and
figuratively look down on their lowly neighbours.
The breed is the same, but the arrogance of the
Hill men takes the rough off until one has deal-
ings with them, and, then, like poor old Peter ot
old, “ their speech bewrayeth them.”
At present we give the Riparian settlement the
priority of description as its genesis and [place aux
dames) numerous females deserve.
The People.
Protozoa have no distinction of sex and they
still increase ; but homo is not of that set. How
then is it that the fully-developed denizens of the
flat are all female ? I mean the portion visible by
day. The fact is that those who have husbands
have them not, and those who have not old
men ” are just as well off. The men are always
away, working or travelling, or perhaps on another
Hat or hill. Children there are by scores and
(thanks to truant laws) they are always clean in
the morning, unless engaged in what is by far the
most important industry of the Flat —running the
mail. The ladies are young (those who have hus-
bands) and old (those whose husbands have wives
elsewhere). Divorce is cheap. It is confirmed by
the act of taking Sherry, not the drink of Anda-
lusia, for on the Flat that would be called Sherry
Wined. Sherry means your hook, exit, absence,
absquatulence.
Their Industries.
Washing and running the mail are the real
business of the Flat. Washing is sempiternal
when the old man and the boys have one shirt
each and have to lie in bed or go bathing while it
dries, and when my lady has but one skirt, a
neighbour gives shelter during the i-inse, here
pronounced “wranch.”
Running the mail is the outcome of the hot,
hard work of washing. It is the slang for sending
for beer. You can’t expect a woman to rub and
rub and rub at moleskins on a substratum of
water. No, let the poor slave have beer. She
wants no clothes for self and children —later on
you shall see how the clothing i s managed. In the
meantime, let the money go in beer.
If one of the ladies has to run the mail, you can
spot her a mile off. She puts on a cloak and
bonnet and carries a parcel to look respectable;
but if she has to go up town on business she wants
no such useless impedimenta. liven the men put
the billy in a bag or the bottle in their bosom.
Once in three months the police stop the Sunday’s
beer; then there is woo for the pub. across the
river, maybe two miles off.
By the way, part of the system of washing is,
that a tub with a bag under it can be seen at any
time crossing from one dwelling to another. One
tub to six or seven shanties is enough.
The only other industries are fishing and being
po’ blaokfellows, which occupations are similar
here to any other part of the globe.
The Law.
There are two laws : the law of the land and
military law. The laws of the country are kept
framed on the Hill, but are looked on with con-
tempt by the Flatites. Now and then an official
will come down with a summons or subpoena, but
Only at the instance of the all-powerful Hillites.
“Murder!” is cried, and may be committed
rightly; vagrancy holds its own and robbery is
rife, but the cry takes all its time in endeavouring
to reach the heavens and kindly avoids disturbing
magistracy, civil service, and Respectability (hem!)
on the Hill.
The military law is amazonian, and reigns
supreme; latterly it has been of a feeble, wordy
sort, copying, no doubt, the gas and bluster of
other countries. After a good deal of washing
and mail-running there is now and then a stand-
up fight for a flat-iron or tub. Diplomacy, how-
ever, soon settles ownership, for the boys and girls
are taught to annex whatever is badly wanted.
Clothing.
The clothing is better than a London beggar's,
but more varied; silks, satins, and velvets abound,
generally spotted and torn, but then they were
once so good that their history preserves them. A
day’s washing on the Hill is often paid for by a
bundle of old clothes and boots. If done at a
public-house the pay is generally settled in beer.
The men (whom one hardly ever sees) bring home
new moleskin trousers, shirts, and boots —and de-
part when it is time to get more. The single
young women are generally well dressed. They
do not eat at all, they live on beer. Strange
young men call upon them and bring them money
and wine. Now and then a metropolitan belle
arrives, and after a “ roaring tear ” for a day or
two leaves her wardrobe in payment of shelter—
you cannot say board. Let this record be pre-
served in Parkes’ dead-house until the N.S.W.
postage-stamps have “Two Hundred Years” for
their legend. Perhaps there will then be an altera-
tion.
The Connecting Link.
Who is this that cometh from the River, whose
garments smell of the oil of Macassar? His
clothes are as clean as his face; his boots are
polished; so are his manners. You cannot say ? I
can ! This is the chief bond between the Flat and
the Hill. If you enter the town (Hill) by the
main road the Link is there to meet you. He is a
squatter, a contractor, a commercial traveller, a
sporting man, brother of one of the ladies _of the
Flat, and he will drink with you; all of which is a
lie, excepting the last two statements. He lives
on the loaf (not bread), the whisper, the swindle,
the game, all of whicli mean that he is a town
loafer. He avoids the Vagrant Act by driving a
horse or cleaning a buggy now and then for some-
where near; and ho gets his lodgings for the recol-
lections of his services—-to use his own expression--
he “makes” his money out of the stranger and
the pilgrim. He visits his relatives at night, and
takes the more sober of his victims with him.
This blot is the scourge of every town in the
colonies ; but I blame him not. What can you say
of the publican who knows his status ? You can
sa y—Whacks! What of the protectors of the
wayfarer ? Where are they ? Answer—Grog, ho !
Where is the law ? If that is what you want, Beer
means Revenue, and the State must be carried out.
You would not have a man to quarrel with his
bread and beer, principally the beer.
Thus I leave the Flat and its Race; many a
camp I have had there, and
“ Far hae I ridden and
Muckle hae I seen ;
But a pleeeeman on the Flat
Saw I never nane.” 1
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Forgiveness is almost indifference; who
really loves does not forgive.
Friendship based solely upon gratitude is
like a photograph : in time it fades.
A Melbourne bookseller advertises for sale
a clergyman’s library—“ Two thousand volumes of
theological works.” We know that library, we’ve
met it in the “ thre’p’ny” box at the door every
day for the last ten years.
They are rapidly constructing the brick
railway viaduct to connect Spencer-street station
with Flinders-street station in Melbourne. This
is a virtual acknowledgment of the failures of the
big schemes for a central Melbourne railway
station, and is about the best work Speight lias
accomplished. At present the goods-trains crawl
through the thick traffic at the wharves.
From a Junee paper ;—“ A blackfellow
went up to Lord Carington at Cootamundra and
said; “Good day, boss. Why you send such
black sugar? More picaninny eats it the blacker
he gets. Me hear you very good man, Mr.
A POST-OFFICE ITEM.
MR. SYDNEY AUSTRALIA GILHOOLEY: “GOT YOUR LETTERS, MICK?”
MR. MICHAEL SURREY H. BRANNIGAN (eyeing contemptuously the tightly-buttoned-up
new-chums thronging the “A to L ” apertures): “THE DIVIL A WAN. THE
SHMELL AV LIME JOOCE IS TOO THICK.”
Governor.” “ Well,” said his Excellency, “here's
half-a-sovereign for you. You go and get some
white sugar and make him white again. VJuite
right, Baron. “ Sugar” will whiten the blackest
sheep.
The Salvation Army, which, by the way,
owns £lOO,OOO of real estate in Australia, has just
obtained a foothold amongst the Maoris of the
Wanganui district, N.Z. The officers report
says Saved 15 Maoris, collected £3 155., and
have spent it on a second-hand drum and an E-tlat
cornet.”
It is proposed to grant a pension to the
aged father of the explorer Wills. The old man
savs he’d prefer a lump sum of £ooo. Either he is
dying and knows it, or his present action evinces
utter foolishness. Buy an annuity for a con-
sumptive and you grant him a fresh lease of life.
A man died lately who sat in the old India House
with Charles Lamb and John Stuart Mill. In
1835 his health completely broke down, and John
Company kindly gave him a pension of £4OO a-year,
in order that his few remaining days might be
surrounded by comfort. He drew his pension for
fifty-four years.
What a splendid show of bleeding the tax-
payers “ Her Gracious ” is losing in not getting
married again ! If she doesn’t beware she 11 put it
off too long. The fuss they make in Hmgerland
over Royal marriages instigates us to song
We should not care if bloated Fife
Had taken Vic. herself to wife;
In fact we care not who is wed.
Betrothed, divorced, or brought to bed.
Vll princes, dukes. Anglais, Scotch, German,
We would exterminate like vermin,
\nd feel assured their multiplying
Is swiftest pathway to their dying.
The Mythical Sundowner.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In 1887 a paper on the “ Australian Swag-
man ” appeared in an English magazine, wherein
the writer pointed out, among other things, that
at certain periods of the year as many as 300
travellers—or “sundowners,” as he chose to call
them—received free rations every evening at Sir
Samuel Wilson’s Riverina station. This state-
ment, though literally true, is sure to have been
wrongly interpreted by people unacquainted with
the conditions of Australian bush life. No doubt
Englishmen, reading the paper in question, enter-
tained a feeling of contempt for the 300 recipients
of Sir Samuel’s flour and mutton, though perhaps
a cynical reader might have observed that the
great man’s kindness was more gratefully received
than is the hospitality extended by the Australian
muttonocracy of London to an “old nobility”
which, while condescending to dine with the self-
made kings of Jumbuckdom, covertly sneer at the
style in which the hosts handle knives and forks.
Then there is the difference of expense. It re-
quires a good many pannikins of flour and pieces
of mutton to make up for the cost of entertaining
a royal sybarite or renting a deceased Earl’s
dwelling for even a limited period.
* * *
Those acquainted with the conditions of
Australian life will, however, look on the matter
in a different light. There is no doubt that Sir
Samuel Wilson is one of the most liberal squatters
in Australia, but his liberality is purely of a
negative kind. His conduct may appear generous
in°comparison with that of other sheep-owners,
but for all that it proves remunerative. In fact,
the hospitable donor figuratively throws a sprat to
catch a mackerel. Those acquainted with Riverma
will know that only at one period of the year can
many men be found on one station. We admit that
just before shearing-time large numbers of men
are fed on some of the stations; but does this
result in loss to the squatter ? Certainly not. On
Sir Samuel Wilson’s station 300 men or more are
employed during shearing, and he would be indeed
foolish were he to make no arrangements before-
hand for procuring them. If the shearers and
rouseabouts do not come to the squatter he must
go out and search for them, and it is needless to
point out which is his more economical course.
The conveyance of 200 men from Sydney or Mel-
bourne to a back-block station would cost a large
sum, and the chances are that on arrival a large
proportion would be found incompetent. There-
fore it is advantageous to the squatter to encourage
the travelling of “ hands ” from station to station
in search of work. Let him abolish free rations to
travellers, and his procuring of labour will be at-
tended by the disadvantages already noted. This,
like every other concession from capital to labour,
is only imaginary. Thoroughly sifting the matter
we discover that it is the employer who really
benefits by the process.
# * *
Then, again, the present system provides
the squatter with a weapon for enforcing discip-
line, or, in other words, cowing employes. The
station-hands would possibly be too independent
were it difficult to replace them; now they are easily
replaced, and are, as a rule, well-behaved. To
contrast the loafing of the “ sundowner” with the
liberality of the squatter is thus mere moonshine.
We need only remember that the Murrumbidgee
squatters have on several occasions considered the
expediency of abolishing the system of giving
rations to travellers, and have invariably decided
to make it as economical as possible, but not to
discontinue it. It pays the squatter to have a
labour supply continually at his do ir, and he will
take good care not to pay too dearly for the
advantage.
* * #
The fact is that the “ sundowner ” is, and
always has been, a myth. The genuine loafer is
not the stamp of man to carry his swag from
station to station, travelling a score miles under a
broiling sun when water is often unobtainable.
The ordinary swagman prefers working to travel-
ling, especially since, in the latter case, he receives
no rewards for his exertions beyond a pannikin of
flour which he must bake himself after the sun has
gone down. It pays a genuine loafer better to
hang around the big cities, and that few bush men
flock in from the country to join the ranks of the
“ unemployed ” proves the force of this contention.
* * *
Of late years the amount of employment
on stations has decreased. The squatters’ runs
have been fenced in ; labour, therefore, is now not
so much required. To-day, almost every station
is worked by a few boundary riders. The
squatter being thus less anxious about the supply
has reduced the scale of rations to a minimum.
The “ sundowner,” “ Murrumbidgee whaler,” has
no existence and never had. Every bushman is
only too glad to be afforded an opportunity for
honest labour. Meantime, as the country becomes
more settled the race of swagsmen is dying out,
and ere long one of Australia’s most picturesque
figures will exist only as a tradition, and will be
accounted as great a curiosity as the mythical
bunyip.
The Australee Man at Honolulu.
Dear Bulletin, —The ordinary domestic Aus-
tralian tourist is well-known in Honolulu, a wan-
dering, sight-seeing, harmless creature who buys
cheaj) curios, begs permission to take a few
flowers, and hangs over a garden-wall by the hour
gazing at the clusters of ripe mangoes or taking
notes about the size of coooanut-trees. There’s no
harm in him—he is loved by the shopkeepers and
adored of the hack-drivers ; shoals of him amuse
the children, and the maidens gaze as at a passing
wonder from the great outside world.
It is of the individual, insinuating, agree,able
Australian I would write, one who leaving Ids
country for his country’s good, finds the bright
little island of Oahu lie so conveniently in his
way. It is so friendly, and —happy combination—
so rich with its sugar-plantations and rice paddies;
its shores are free from the ocean cable, whose long-
reaching arms have an uncomfortable way of
tripping a man up when he least expects it, and,
best of all, or worse, but that depends upon the
point of view, there is no extradition treaty.
There is something in the climate of Honolulu
that is death to letters of credit, and money-orders
seem to lose their vitality in that scent-laden air.
It is strange how many agreeable Australians have
been helped on their way by credulous Hawahans,
and, alas ! it is not at all strange that nothing is
ever more heard of them.
There was one—and how we lionised him ! He
was tall and passably good-looking ; his dress was
a picturesque mixture ,of gentleman and cow-boy ;
and he cultivated a younger-son-of-a-good-family
swagger. He stopped over at Honolulu on his
way home, and was well received by the hospitable
people of that flourishing little kingdom.
Stretched at full length on a long chair in a
shady corner of the verandah he told us thrilling
stories of Australia, of hunting and gold-digging,
sheep-farming, and wild life in the bush. Some of
ns vaguely wondered what kind of a bush, but
forebore to question the brilliant stranger. He
could throw the boomerang, he said; it was the
every-day amusement of Australian gentlemen.
From the way he described it we thought it must
be something like croquet. -
He amused the young ladies with innocent
tricks at cards or sleight of hand, tying up their
rings in a silk handkerchief, when whif! presto!
the golden circlet would be found in the tea-tray.
Their brothers never wearied of his kangaroo
stories, and he reached the height of popularity
when he descended to the lawn and taught them
the art of cracking a whip, which he did witli a
series of loud reports that startled the neighbour-
hood and raised him to a hero in the estimation of
all the small boys for miles around.
Occasionally, in quite an off-hand way, he spoke
of his money difficulties, something had gone
wrong with his letter of credit —he seemed amused
at the idea of being detained for a trifling hundred
or so. ' ..
When he left Honolulu on one of the big
through steamers, half the town was there to see
him off, and according to the pretty Hawaiian
custom, wreaths of roses were thrown about bis
neck, and even his hat and arms were garlanded.
Handkerchiefs waved and cordial good-byes were
exchanged. Our hero stood upon the upper deck
covered with garlands and wreathed in smiles ; as
the ship moved off he waved his hat and seemed
in excellent spirits. , ,
And well he might! The families he visited
not only gave him letters of introduction to friends
“at home,” but their sons and brothers had
advanced him considerable sums of money. Of
course when he reached ’Frisco he could cable
home for supplies and settle matters all right, and
they would be sure to hear from him by the next
steamer.
Not by that steamer, or the next, nor ever any
more ! It was more than six months before the
truth came home to us, and then it was too late
to stop him. . , ,
But there are still a few young men in Honolulu
who are experts in the art of cracking a whip, and
they sincerely hope to meet again the fascinating
Australian.
BELLEO.
The Irish delegate, Dillon, suggests that
weekly subscription should be guaranteed to ie
London strikers while the strike lasts. I HE 15 ,'
letin will gladly receive and acknowledge s'
scriptions, small and large, for this humane p
pose. ,
A Melbourne policeman told the Cour
that a female vagrant whom he had arrested ,
been walking up and down the street for tne *
five years with a bottle of beer under ter■ ( ■
What a sticker that officer must have been to ‘ j
for ” that bottle for all those years !
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —Are you aware,
now that so much is being said about Chinese
lepers, that there is in a Far North Queen
town an ex-publican, who, with his wife ‘
family, are badly afflicted with leprosy • " ’
Wm. Cokmack. Thursday Island, August
1889. . „ I]v
The French journalistic duel is g| in . er^ on .
more innocuous than is self-shaving. Iu “ 18
nection an English paper : —■
A little time ago, M called upon MdnW. wa9
according to promise, to inform her that her nu» . t vvit h
probably"at that very hour engaged in mortal co 1
a brother of the pen. He found her already m » ite
tress of mind, due, however, to apprehension tence
another sort. The husband had made the usua f j u9 t
of a visit to the country on business, and new w pj C h
come to hand of a serious accident to the inn , ; on the
he ought to have returned. After some nes e ca se.
visitor managed to blurt out the real facts, tears--
His announcement was received with a , rs n * duel! ’
not of sorrow, but of joy and gratitude. for
cried Mdme. , clasping her hands ; Die
this news 1 Thank God 1 lie is saje ! _


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
John M‘Ewan & Co.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Xs-A-IKTIO -A.GS-lESIKrT'JS,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
71 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
50-page Last Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &e., &o.
45-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties,
Villas, Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed List Businesses Tor Sale issued Daily-
All Lists posted Fkek on application.
POLITICAL POINTS
A stereotyped heading—Mr. B. R. Wise
explains.
The Maori population of N.Z. numbers
about 42,000.
Henry George says he is prepared to leave
for Sydney in February,
“ Three cheers for the Queen ” at th 3 big
Sydney strike demonstration on Saturday only
provoked hisses.
Bruce Smith says that all the members of
the present N.S.W. Government are independent
of office save one. Which is that one ?
Knutsford has denied that ho ever in-
tended depriving colonial of their
titles. Thanks ! we’d like to have the name, at
least.
When Parnell visited Edinburgh to receive
the freedom of the city, he addressed 15,000 work-
men on the Calton Hill and was received with the
greatest enthusiasm.
At the Dock Labourers’ Fund meeting in
Melbourne somebody contrived to squeeze in the
name of the Queen. Good Gracious Majesty !
How they did hiss to be sure !
Just 27 years ago a payment of members’
bill was thrown out of the New' South Wales
Assembly, and just 24 years ago Parkes’ protection
to native industry motion was also thrown out.
Gladstone says that “Royalty is tied down
to the performance of public duties, while the
wealthy are bound only by their consciences.”
Royalty is tied down because it has no conscience ?
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph sup-
presses the name of Agnostic Symes (one of the
speakers) in its report of the dock-labourers’
sympathy meeting. This is characteristic of the
clergy
In Truth, Labouchere cynically suggests
that the Shall should be taken to Ireland and
shown an Irish eviction, in order that he may
thoroughly understand the workings of the British
Constitution.
What is of infinitely greater importance
than the assertions of Habigle about the Education
Act, is the fact that the average Public schoolboy
or girl of tender years invariably says:—“l seen
’im,” and “ I ain’t a-goin.”
B. R. Wise “explains” that by “the Irish
vote” he merely means “the vote of the less
educated portion of the Irish Catholic community ’
—as if the etfe t of a vote could be altered by the
mental training of the voter !
B. R. Wise’s Centennial M agazin e article
ou “ Plain Speaking” contains two lines of Greek,
But he must have forgotten his Latin, judging by
the shocking manner in whMi lie misconstrued a
passage in the book lent, him by his friend
Tarleton.
The treatment meted out by the Sydney
Foreign-trade Press to Mr. Traill’s address on
“Bogus Liberali m” is only another proof, if
proof were needed, of the necessity of establishing
a Radical morning paper in Sydney. Four out of
the five Sydney daily papers are attached to the
Foreign-trade interest.
At a meeting to declare sympathy with the
dock-labourers in Melbourne, says the Age—
The Rev. Dr. Bevan came forward and was greeted with
cheering. Broom, the unemployed agitator, who had
been making himself prominent during the evening, was
then heard to exclaim, “ £4O a week !” He was promptly
seized, and, after a brief resistance, was swept out.
The Calico Conference’s threat to send a
Foreign-trader to contest every Protection seat in
N.S.W. does not make the Protectionists wilt
one solitary wilt. On the contrary, they yearn
that two Foreign-traders may contest every one of
their seats, even as two Protectionists contested
each of many Foreign-trade seats at last “general.”
Says Rev. Dr. Bevan :
“ While I can sing as loyally as anyone, 1 God Save the
Queen ’—(hisses)—l can sing with ten times as much heart
and voice God Save the People.” (Cheers.)
The man whose democratic sympathies are ten
times stronger than his royal ones must know that
the official safety of the Queen is inimical to that
of the people.
Deakin has been dropping on certain
returning officers for making extravagant charges
on account of the last Victorian elections. An
upright and economical Government jibbed against
allowing charwomen’s fees of two guineas for
swabbing out a small polling booth, and Gillies,
in particular, objected to one district dissipating
four shillingsworth of sealing-wax.
Says Town Clerk (Melb.) Fitzgibbou :
“ With regard to the dock strike, I am glad that the up-
heaval has taken place, because it is, in my opinion, one
of the grandest steps taken towards federation.” (Cries
of “No.”)
Fitzgibbon is right. It will do much for Federa-
tion. Not his miserable, parochial, Imperial
brand of the article, but a larger, wider Federation
—-that of Mankind.
Dr. W. Maloney, M.P., said at a Mel-
bourne meeting the other night that his ex-
periences in London a year or two ago had made
him a confirmed Democrat. In the course of his
duties in the West ( not the East) End “ he had
to deliver a woman in a room 10ft. x lift. This
room held 12 people, who lived and slept in it.
(Shame.) Eight of them had to go out into the
rain and sleet to give him room.”
Alleged “ humorists ” of the Victorian
Parliament had a. painfully funny sitting on eggs
last week, when the proposal to inflict a protective
duty of 2d. a dozen was ultimately carried amidst
a storm of duckings and cock-crows. The hero of
the debate was a rollicking genius who said that
bookmakers laid all the year round. This enor-
mous witticism snatched the cake from another
man who regarded the duly as eggsasperating.
Fivepence an hour for hard hustling in the
London Docks, and Ten (hdnens a day for a few
hours in an easy chair listening to the iniquities of
the N.S.W. Casual Labour Board ! Here are the
official figures Mr. A. Franklin, 44 sittings, at
£lO 10s. per sitting, £462 ; Mr. T. F. Waller, 47
sittings, at £lO 10s., £493 10s.; Mr. A. J. Cape, 117
days, at £lO 10s., £1228 10s. And all the time
pious men lift their eyes to Heaven and profess to
wonder at the existence of the thing they call
“ Socialism.”
John MJKenzie, who died at Ballarat the
other day, was a mining mate of Duncan Gillies
away back in the fifties. MTvenzie did not rise
to a higher post than that of night-watchman to a
foundry. Gillies will die Premier of Victoria—
that is, if he hurries up and dies soon.
A Customs official once complained to old
Jack Robertson that he had been 28 years in the
public service, and, although he had 14 children,
his salary had not increased a penny. “ You say
you’ve been 28 years in the public service,” said
AN ABUSE —AND ITS REMEDY.
Long Lash and Short Handle v. Short Lash and Long Handle.
j
«09iiW&- jj
~lhc3* cK
' G\y'Z'i
Asm /
I Should
tL *(
<l^
old Jack. “ Yes,” replied the aggrieved parent.
“Well, then,” remarked Jack, “By—
— —, the public service has
suffered a good deal !” It is Parkes who
relates this anecdote. We’ll remember it when
next he tells us that he Has been over 50 years in
“ public life.”
Victorian official despatches are now
written with the Caligraph.
Scene : The gaming-table at Monte Carlo.
Young English lady with her little sister and a
gentleman, whose acquaintance they have lately
made while travelling. Young Lady : “Now, 1
shall just try one five-franc piece on the number of
my age,” putting on number 18. Number 27
wins. Little Sister: “ Oh, Maud, what fun !
Now, if you had put it on your rio/it age you
would have won, wouldn't you ?”
The London Times, once known as The
Times, in announcing the fact that H.M.S. Dart
was overdue on her passage from Auckland to
Sydney, gets the following wheeze of imbecility :
But if the Dart left Auckland for Sydney direct without
intending to call at any other port en route, it is con-
sidered certain she is lost, as the distance is.only 500 miles
and the mail-boats cover it in 48 hours, and the Dart left
Auckland on the sth instant
Good old Times.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—l notice in your
issue of Aug. 24 some verses entitled “ Ode to
the Yarra,” with my name and address-attached,
I must beg to entirely disclaim their authorship.
The explanation seems to be that, having seen
them in the Launceston Colonist, I copied and
sent them to a friend in Melbourne, who jumped
to the conclusion that I was the author, and for-
warded them to you for publication, entirely
without my authority. Yours, Thos. K. Pitt.
Buckland, Tas,, 30th Aug.
XERXES OF THE WIG.
Young Xerxes Wise with ink and prate against
the Greeks has gene ;
Let him who riles that angry race beware a
Marathon,
Who stirs the “demon of the pit,’’theDemocratic
throng,
Beware lest at the ballot-box he find them all too
strong.
Who fans sectarian embers up beneath the fiscal
pot,
Beware lest when lie handles them he find them
much too hot.
That mighty one Achilles found life ebb out through
his heel;
The ship that steers o’er sunken rocks may find
them—in her keel—
Can puny hands deal mighty blows, can Bottom's
donkey wield
The thunderbolts of Jupiter or pierce a fourfold
shield ?
Personal Items.
Mrs. Langtry’s ailment is nasal polypus.
Macmillion’s Magazine. —The Sydney
Daily Telegraph.
Bob Lowe (Lord Sherbrooke) is now said
to be worth £2,000,000.
Lord Fife’s giddy sisters are generally
known as the “ blue belles ” of Scotland.
It is gossiped in the London clubs that
Tummy recently won £ll,OOO from Lord Lurgan
at baccarat.
A Melbourne paper calls story-telling
W. H. Sutter “a sort of unimaginative Rolf
Boldrewoocl.”
There are 318 parsons named Smith in
England. This in spite of the fact that so many
have run away with other men’s wives.
Lord Dunlo will not be of age till Decem-
ber. Nevertheless, unless he moves personally in
the matter his marriage will hold good.
The true inwardness of Hopetoun’s Vic-
torian Governorship is that the earl is weak, and
Australian air is recommended by the doctors.
Rev. David Bruce, well-known in N.Z.
journalistic circles, has left the land of depopula-
tion and dried shark for sunny New South Wales.
The Prince of Wales is making constant
endeavours to “nobble” Parnell with cordial
hand - shakings and other simple monarchial
devices.
Mr. and Mrs. Bonanza Mackay know how
to be happy though married. He lives in Cali-
fornia and adds to his pile, while she resides in
Paris and spends it.
The Emperor of Germany keeps no chap-
lain on board his yacht; but every Sunday at sea
the Emperor reads the service and afterwards
preaches a short sermon.
One bond of sympathy between the Prince
of Wales and his new son-in-law is that they both
eschew champagne and drink claret. But Fife
detests cards and horses.
Cardinal Manning is one of the most
abstemious of men. He went through a recent
banquet of the Royal Academy with a glass of
water and a crust of bread.
Lady Hopetoun, the new Governoress of
Victoria, has 18 brothers and sisters living.
A lot of her time is occupied in wishing the family
many happy returns of the day.
Sir Frederick Clarence Dean Paul, Bart.,
has been sentenced to four years’ imprisonment in
N.Z. for forgery. He is the son and heir of Sir
John Dean Paul, the bank swindler.
J. R. Findlay, one of the proprietors of the
Scotsman, has given £50,000 for the establishment
of a Scottish National Portrait Gallery and to
housing the treasures of the Antiquarian Society.
The Orangemen expelled Mayor Harris,
of Sydney, from their order, because he,, in his
civic capacity, attended a certain charity ball —in
aid of the funds of St. Vincent’s Hospital where
the nurses are Sisters of Mercy.
Sir E. A. Dashwood, Bart., who has been
eking out a subsistence in N.Z. as a gum-digger
for some years past, was recently bequeathed
estates in England worth £15,000 a-year, and goes
“ Home.” He was the best boxer on the Wairoa
River and an all-round good man.
N.S.W. Supremo Court amfenities. Salo-
mons, Q. 0., sweetly, in response to an interruption
from Windeyer, J. : “ May I be permitted to say
that your honor ought to know, and their honors
who are sitting with your honor do know, that the
law is quite otherwise.” Et cetera, &o.
Rev. Gilbert Parker (the Horatio got lost)
has been to see the Barron Falls (N. Q.),a series of
cascades made famous by Archibald Meston.
Gilbert is disappointed, and declares that “ it is as
immoral to write a fancy description- of. a place as
to exhibit a painted Ayrshire as a sacred bull.”
Weaver, found guilty of murder and sen-
tenced to death by the South Sea High Com-
missioner’s Court, declares his innocence and
claims his right as a British citizen to be tried by
a jury. Weaver is a hopeless crank and has been
one to the present writer’s personal knowledge
these 13 years.
Dr. James Lever, of Hobart (T.), a nephew
of Charles Lever, the novelist, died suddenly the
other day. Feeling cold he had retired to rest,
keeping on his trousers and shirt. Next morning
he was found dead with his arms folded across his
chest. Strangely enough, his distinguished uncle
died under precisely similar circumstances.
The cableman says it is stated in England
that John James Pearce, plasterer, a native of
Brixham, Devonshire (present address is unknown),
is entitled to a sum of £1,400,000 by the death of a
clergyman in Sydney. We knew that clergyman.
He was the fellow who warned us against the
wrath to come and told us not to lay up treasures
on earth.
Francis Adams has negotiations bn foot for
an English edition of the “Songs of the Army of
the Night,” but the wily British publisher de-
mands suppressions and emulsions of the text,
having an apprehensive eye on Millbank prison.
Nor can his alarms be allayed by the ingenuous
author’s declaration that he is coming to England
presently, and will be quite ready to undertake
the oakum business himself.
Says Moore, of the (London) Hawk :
1 recently received a letter from the proprietor of
certain Sydney, N. S. W., journals pointing out the
advantage of exchanging the Hawk for those papers.
So far the advantage has been all on the Australian side.
as in the last number of the to hand, 1 find
a four-column story entitled “ Blackmail,” appropriated,
without acknowledgment, from the Hawk. I have seen
nothing in the Sydney exchanges worth quoting.
“ You see that man ? ” saida well known
Sydney resident, the other day, indicating a
gentleman across George-street. “Well, he is ray
eldest brother. There are, or rather were, within
the last five years, eleven of us, all over 32 yea's
of age, and not one of ns has a child although all
have been married for years. My father was the
oidy one of seven brothers who had a family, it
is not necessary to state that this family circle is
decidedly well-to-do.
A gentleman of the Bohemian “ cult" once
edited the Rockhampton Bulletin. The Grecian
rhapsodiser used to get “squiffy,” and one even-
ing wrote a leader in that condition which panned
out first-rate. “ Why,” stuttered Proprietor
Buzacott, as he saw the article in proof, “ you
appear to write better drunk than sober !” “Yes,
you old blank,” replied the gifted one, “lean
write better drunksh than you can dronksh,
sobersh, or anyhowsh !” Tableau !
“When the Shah was at Constantinople,
on his way to England, among the gifts laid at li s
feet was a Circassian girl of sixteen summers, who
at once succeeded in ‘mashing ’ her august Master
in a most unmistakeable manner. So fond did the
Asylum become of this latest acquisition that ho
refused to allow the girl to be sent to Teheran,
insisting on retaining her in his suite. And so
there she is now in London. The peculiar notions
of Europeans on the subject of very young ladies
travelling under the protection of middle-aged
gentlemen were got over by causing the fair Cir-
cassian to don male attire, in which she looks, if
possible, more charming than in the voluminous
drapings of the native costume of her sex.”
Meissonier, the great French artist,
though 74 years of age, has just got married again.
The Shah thought the Scotch women the
most beautiful he had seen.
Some folks will swallow shandy-gaff,
While others take benzine,
The beverage of the wise, you know, is
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
In olden times to tell a man to go to
Botany Bay was to offer him an insult. Now the
term is a simple piece of advice, involving the
consultation of Thk Bulletin’s “ History of
Botany Bay,” price Is. Profusely illustrated by
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
If you would captivate the sex,
Be’t maiden, wife, or widdy,
The most infallible receipt’s
To buy a hat from Priddy.
Here is the short and simple history of a
shearer’s £7O cheque, “netted” in the N.S.W.
back-blocks. He spreed for two days and was run
in, fined £1 and had £6O on him. He was released,
run in next day, fined £3, and had £4O to pay it
with. A few more days of- glory and a fine—this
time £s—and the cheque had dwindled down to
£3O. A final orgy of three days ensued when the
helpless shearer was fined £lO, and the cheque
completely evaporated. The statement of his
affairs read At start, £7O. At finish—fine and
costs, £2O ; week’s drunk, £5O ; balance, nil. He
is now building up another cheque.
We have just seen a most artistic photo-
graph of the N.S.W. Ministry, by Mr. J. H.
Newman, of Oxford-street, Sydney. They are a
rather good-looking lot, but why, oh why, does
not Premier Parkes either wear breast-pads or get
anew tailor? His mantle sits wrinkly on his
manly chest ; and, moreover (which isn’t the
tailor’s fault) he hasn’t, according to his—and Mr.
Gladstone’s—usual custom, stowed away his hand
in his bosom to fill the voids. We notice, how-
ever, that the other greybeard, Mr. Dan. O’Con-
nor, in the picture assumes the “noble Roman’s”
attitude of the great statesman. Mr. Bruce
Smith’s nice boots are a credit to (our adver-
tising terms on application).


J. BULL MASTER OF THE SEAS, ONLY LOOKS ON AT THE ROW-BOATS.
'W'Q 7? 4
<aT i Is j T Jc
/A \jyjU" _
——"=F7?T “
FIN ITH


A MIXTURE.
If
V'W, x'i
#>(/,/ S
r o\y y
fATf
ci^
tims\
j
//fS/Olf - / ook 'ere
XtsBSS, ( \)oa're
ashcitjco ofy our
CLft
3)ms -"Jv* {
tyres tiff*
oc fynlSelterff
//AB/fl* 'S'X-t*'
fee/ally dyc{
Jtr/ZM ( AfN£~j/
Cal/co <T/WWV - Look fjpre. a ,
LdUco -L. t rc , oo
Senclnjt orje of our
rjeco rhr Of
room vu'ti-j ft rf e ,
mill jeerf<*.t
6 7 e 7 r* 9 ed. % f>
fiafi fits.
. jdzoL /rcduj Sue
\ iyjerpecUy Sp'ckv
\ s/ujf ] und f e
Loofj*~ oj if /$ ,
SPftrjS ia*st/c\
7o 'rip u)i-o y
njay /
DIE Ifl/ACHT An
"‘“A
N-S-V/ /ICXomI
Mfl ~f Itf
O
r />x 1 / fa//cc/&#4 &rzn?/£?i rf>s fyvr**J /Y*£
jf / e f t s# ttAfog Zfe /V&V ,
Tv? /fy?/ /■£ A af&rS'/ApJSV'


“ HOG’S HEAD” BRAND
PRIME PORK SKINS.
Weight and Quality Guaranteed,
ls\ B WHEELEII & CO.,
205 Clarence Street,
S Y ID JSf e IT.
SKOOL OV SHORTHAND
and Typewriting Bureau,
151 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
F. W. JO VSO\, I*l Ini an'B Certificated Teacher.
Shorthand taught in 26 Half-hour Private Lessons—Pee,
425. Reporting Style or Finishing Lessons successfully
given by post-Course of 13 lessons, 215., or 2s. per lesson.
Pees in Advance.
li
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
AVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of UXTew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinwav, Erard, Uebel, Fenrich, List) Roniseh Ebi+Wv j ..
Also of the wonderful Victor IPl«,ixo S £45 and Batey No such virXor ° th9r
Society
There is still a lurking hope in the Mel-
bourne hupper suckles that the Prince of Wales is
coming to Australia. Wales can now be trusted
■out of England, because his son is of age. When
Albert victor returns from India, next year,
Wales’ Australian trip will be on the cards. He
is only nervous about the reception. The wink
was given that he would come in Mayor Cain’s
year. Therefore, indeed, Cain got the Mayoralty,
and poor little Benjamin was refused, because of
his being a Jew. The new portico of the Mel-
bourne Town Hall was put up because they
expected the Prince of Wales. Cain was to be
knighted and so on—perhaps also Eitzgibbon.
Everyone knows that the Corporation went on its
knees to Benjamin, and persuaded him to overlook
the insult.
* * #
Dear young friends, never marry Royal
Princesses ! Nigh twenty years of misery has
Lome undergone. Because, as a little boy, in
tuckers, frills and knickerbockers, he played with
Louise on the palace lawn, therefore he must needs
marry and become an appanage, Mr. Princess
Louise, snubbed by snobs. Poor Mr. Beatrice
is ( wasting away, too, under mother-in-law.
“Schnaubes!” is becoming his comprehensive label
for the English Court. Look at Lome’s photo.
What a washed-out visage ! Mournful as if he
lived in Siberia. Lome would have liked to go to
Melbourne without his regalia. But regalia event
to mother. Ivy bosh ! Lome has had to employ
himself with translating the Psalms into poetry,
for which inquire of Mudie, Mullen, George
Robertson or Turner and Henderson. He had a
notion that Canada would be followed by India,
but they keep him at home, sucking toast-water
through a straw. Moral: Blue blood won’t mix
with common red.
* * *
In the Mount Morgan case, at Brisbane,
last week, victory was awarded to the big bat-
talions. The millionaire defendants, “Billy”
Pattison and the Halls, had retained all the
leviathans of the Queensland Bar at the following
figures Griffith, with brief marked 800 guineas ;
Virgil Power, 500 guineas; “Pat” Real, 500
guineas; E. M. Lilley, son of the C. J., at £350.
Plaintiff Meyenberg had only H. E. King and
“Tommy” Byrnes (the coming man at the
Northern Bar), with briefs marked 20 guineas, and
£lO daily refreshers.
* * #
Here is how Sir Benjamin Benjamin,
Mayor of Melbourne, got the'handle to his name.
He was thrust aside in favour of Contractor Cain
the year before. There were several reasons—lst.
Because Benjamin was a Jew, and the aldermanio
caste has not yet got over its vulgar prejudices.
2. Because Councillor Contractor Cain had a prior
claim to the knighthood, which would be given in
consequence of the expected visit of the Prince of
Wales. 3. Because Councillor Contractor Cain,
as a practical man, could give better attention as
Mayor to the needed alterations at the Town Hall.
But the Prince didn’t come and Cain wasn’t able
to get knighted. However, there was a great fuss
made over Benjamin’s snub. He has influential
friends in London. A private despatch from
Gov. Loch explained matters. The English Court
has had reasons of late for conciliating the Jews.
It was determined that little Benjamin should
have his knighthood, just to show Queen Victoria’s
sense of the way in which he had been treated.
But for the foolish snub of Eitzgibbon and Co.
Benjy would probably never have got his knobby
handle.
* * *
In the case concerning the will of John
Swift, tried in N.S.W. Supreme Court last week,
it was deposed by a constable that Swift “drank
fearfully,” “was never perfectly sober during the
three months preceding his death,” “ drank a
bottle of brandy daily,” &e. An Inspector of
Customs stated that Swift, “ either from drink or
disease, was nearly as possible imbecile.” The
local manager of the Bank of N.S.W. deposed
that Swift ‘ ‘ was drunk almost every day during
the four months prior to his death.” The clerk in
the employ of Willis, who drew up the will, swore
that Swift “ did not seem to understand it even
after it had been read to him. ” The mother of
deceased felt confident that for “many month
prior to death he was unfit to make a will,”
and also that “ he was very drunk on the day he
signed the mortgage.” A medical man who twice
examined the deceased on behalf of the National
Mutual Insurance Coy., then stated that he
“found him in good health mentally and bodily”
when he “did not show any signs of drink, and
was accepted as a first-class life. ” The case was
privately settled, but what deductions are to be
drawn from such conflicting evidence !
* # *
An angry landlord the other day put the
bailiff into the office of a well-known member of
Parliament. The disgusted holder of the writ
of execution only found the fragments of a file
of the Government Gazette, a dust-laden
pack of constituents’ grievances, and a bundle of
parliamentary notepaper and envelopes. There
were also a worn-out blotting-pad, a broken-down
chair, and an ancient table, but these items were
borrowed. The office-boy wired the calamity to
the M.P., who was in the country at the time,
asking what was to be done with the bailiff. He
received the laconic reply : “ Chuck him out!”
* * *
Says an “Indignant Mother,” in a New-
castle (N.S.W.) paper
“I send my children to the public school to be taught a
good, sound English education, and, to my horror and
disgust, they are getting proficient in a smack of the
brogue.”
The survival of the fittest! English, with a
smack of the brogue and a strong suspicion of the
Aberdeen lingo, is the Australian tongue of the
future.
* * «•
Affixed to the wall in the coroner’s office,
Sydney, is a placard forbidding officers to enter
the presence of that dignitary with their hands in
their pockets. Why not sew their pockets up ?
The N.S.W. Post-office authorities sewed up the
postmen’s pockets not so very long ago.
* * *
In a late law-action arising out of the
affairs of poor, dear old Sydney p unch —the
paper which used to give us what t u present
A SAVOURY ALTERNATIVE.
Scene, Country Public-house.
Mr. Abrahams (the “drummer” with the diamond rings) wishes to get away early in the
morning and asks Bridget to have some breakfast ready for him at once.
BRIDGET: “ALL RIGHT, I’LL GET YOU SOME BACON AND EGGS IN A
MINUTE.”
MR. ABRAHAMS: “MY GIRL, I DO NOT EAT SCHWEIN.”
BRIDGET: “WELL, THEN, YOU MUST WAIT TEN MINUTES AND THEN
THE PORK SAUSAGES WILL BE READY.”
N.S.W. Chief Justice calls “wholesome fun” —
defendant swore that the failure of Punch was
largely due to the fact that the cartoon had been
discontinued. It was always our belief that the
paper was better without the cartoon, and also
that the cartoon was better without the paper.
* * *
Someone writes to Sydney Echo from
Randwick complaining of bad smells. The efflu-
via arising from a 20 years’ collocation of “ stiff
uns,” we presume. Bookmaking and undertaking
are only branches of the same business.
* * #
An old lady in Melbourne gives a guinea a
day to the dock labourers’ fund while the strike
lasts. There are old women and old women. Some
sturdy Australian has reason to be proud of his
mother.
* * *
A horny-handed son of toil who lived in
a N.S.W. bush town attempted matrimony the
Other day. The parson came along from the next
township, and a big supper was cooked. The
ceremony came, to a sudden end, however, for it
was discovered that certain necessary legal for-
malities had been neglected. The marriage was
therefore unavoidably postponed, but the loving
couple, determined not to disappoint their friends,
decided to proceed with all the festivities, leaving
the ceremony to make things good at a more con-
venient season.
* * *
If men are punished in the next world
according to the mischief they have wrought in
this, the Rev. Kinsman, of Eitzroy (Vic.) will
occupy a pretty hot stove. He acknowledged in
court the other day that he averaged a thousand
marriages a year for over six years. Already his
iniquities are coming hack at him, and his hair
begins to run thin, and his adipose tissue to pay
l nit ! because .of the worry he suffers in being-
hauled off every day or so, when in the middle of
auctioneering a mangle or cementing a connubial
ocntract, to bear witness in court that he well and
truly married some male or female who lias been
and gone and bigamously married again n opposi-
tion to law and order. Most of the Rev. Kins-
man’s clients appear to marry over again at an
early date ; it seems as if the simplicity of his
style and the machine-like precision and rapidity
with which he puts ’em through, do not carry
satisfaction or a sense of solidarity to the two souls
with but a single thought, and they try another
artist —and another mate—-at an early date. If
things continue at their present rate, the auction-
eering parson will spend an unhonoured old
age as a hoary fixture at the local court, swearing
in a hopeless, heartbroken tone from morn till
even.
* * #
It is believed that in five years Mel-
bourne’s population will exceed half-a-million.
* # *
Tu deciding to prevent the establishment
in Melbourne of a paper to create a journalistic
oasis in that city’s Saharan Sunday, Chief Secre-
tary Deakin is not running altogether on the
“ Holy Sabbath ” ticket. He is merely helping
the Kurrk to cover religious bigotry with a social
cloak.
* * *
From the E. News (Sydney):—
W IbL any Gentleman, of independent means, oblige
’ ’ a lady with £lO ? Mary, G.P.O.
* * #
Extract from a letter read in evidence in a
recent N.S.W. law-case:—
V I am looking around for a billet, and, indeed, I am
quite anxious to quit my rural retreat and once more
enjoy a marine residence, but not at the lachrymal and
plebeian, boosey, boorish boniface’s; I don’t ‘ aprecate’
the uncrowned king.” In the postscript he added, “I
have been a total abstainer for a considerable—quite a
geological period.”
* * #
A Melbourne constable has committed a
gross act of sacrilege. He discovered two Chinese
reposing calmly in each other’s arms in the sacred
precincts of a Little Bourke-street joss-house, and
he invaded the sanctuary, and ran the pagans in
on a charge of vagrancy. When the trial came on
the heathens were dismissed, the Bench recognising
that to impose a penalty in such a case would
bo to undermine the sacred right of the citizen to
sleep in church. Both of the wall-eyed devotees
pleaded that they were there to worship—which
assertion should be of deep interest to theologians
as illustrating the absence of material disparity
between the forms of worship indulged in by the
Confucian and the conventional Christian. Both
seem to have merely a “ nodding ” acquaintance
with their gods.
On arrival of trains at Granville, neat
Sydney, where the Liverpool line branches off,
passengers are astounded by some guards and
porters calling out, “Change here for the Poor
house !” The Benevolent Asylum is at Liverpool,
•» * ■*
From Sydney evening paper :
A sirous of meeting- accomplished lady, views im-
mediate marriage. Enclose photo to Sincerity, E.
News.
“No family here ” ! Oh !
# * *
A man died in a Sandhurst (Vic.) church
during the progress of the sermon on the Sunday
before last. Some men will go to any extremes
to avoid the collection.
* * #
The British aristocracy grow more freakish
every day. A shabbily-dressed party of musicians
have appeared in the streets of Belgravia, singing
negro ditties and music-hall songs to the accom-
paniment of banjoes—all for the sake of charity.
This party was composed exclusively of men and
women from among those who are accustomed to
have themselves described as the “Upper Classes.”
One of the negro melodists was the Marchioness
of Bristol, and others were the Ladies Hervey.
* * *
The Rev. Hutson, a Wesleyan clergyman
of Auckland (N.Z.), has just thrown up his place,
because he > can no longer bet on Hades. He is
now of opinion that sin carries its own punishment
in the world we live in. Three cheers and a tiger
for the Rev. Hutson—he’s not the parson to give
men matrimony in this world and Sheol in the
next.
* * *
“ Temperance Requisites ” are advertised
for sale in one of the papers. The police are
hereby warned that the advertiser has no license.
#
The nurses at the Melbourne hospital
struck work last week, and two days later the
patients told a local reporter that they were
pleased with the increase of the brandy-allowance.
This par. has no especial significance.
* * *
“ Is the Devil Married ? ” was the interest-
ing subject of discussion at a recent meeting of a
wicked, Melbourne suburban debating club. It
was decided by vote that he wasn’t:—
“You can tell pretty well how a girl feels
towards you, by the way she takes your arm,”
says a Yankee writer. “If she dosn’t care a cent,
you know it by the indifference of her muscles.
If she has a great confidence in you the pressure
tells it, and friendship is as distinct from love in
that mode of expression as in words or looks. A
woman can take the arm of a fellow she likes verv
much with perfect comfort, even if she is six feet
high and he is four. But even if the two are just
matched she can make him feel disdain, contempt,
discomfort, dislike, anything she likes, by the way
she does not hold on to him. lam told there is a
great deal of difference, too, between the way a
girl fits her waist to one man’s arm as compared
with another, but I hardly believe it.”
#
A letter recently received by one ot the
Rothschilds :
Respected Sir, Vour well-known and exemplary
generosity has led me to hope that you will magnani-
mously take pity on the situation of an unfortunate
widower, who has been cruelly deprived of his means of
subsistence by the death of his wife.—l am, Sir yours in
distress." “A. Lbary,”
There are 21,473 houses in the city of
Sydney and 100,830 in the suburbs. To each is
laid on gas (sewer). Each rejoices in a four-or-
more-foot back-yard, where fowls roost on the
antlers of patriarchal goats, and moody, hollow-
voiced dogs are trodden under foot by legions of
damp-footed and vociferous ducks. Every house
lias either a piano, or a cornet and flute, and some,
in addition, have midnight concertinas with trim-
mings of step-dancing, and door-step coolers. All
have time-payment Singers, and some have bath-
tubs, but only one family in every square mile
hasn’t got a beer-scented “billy,” and the occu-
pants of that house proudly wet their beaks in a
stone jug.
* * *
A paper read before the Insurance Insti-
tute of Victoria shows that 72 percent, of typhoid
patients were non-smokers. What percentage of
that percentage were females, it doesn’t state, but
as folks must die, and as the bulk of smokers
probably die of nicotine and rum, the whole thing
doesn’t amount to much.
* * *
In Memoriam advfc. from a Newcastle
(N.S.W.) paper :
JOHNSON.—Martha Mary, wife of John Johnson, died at
Three centenarian vagrants have appeared
before the Melbourne City Bench in one week.
People seem to get worse as they get older iii
Victoria.
* # *
An ex-policeman of Collingwood (Vic.) is
bringing out a book of verse. His stanzas will
contain a superabundance of feet.
We here must take exception to
This ruling, and end future strife,
Tor if the devil have his due
He certainly has got a wife.
Now, dear husband, I am gone,
Just mind how you behave ;
And remember that your poor wife
Is lying in her grave.
My life you knew,
My grave you see,
Therefore prepare to follow me.
Inserted by her husband, John Johnson.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT & DISCOUNT BANK,
90 KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months ...
5 per cent, allowed on daily
... per cent.
... 8i per cent.
... 7i per cent.
5| per cent,
balance of current account.
For the past Three Years a Bonus of One per
Cent has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
ALMOSTAS PALATABLE
as milk;
So disguised that the most
delicate stomach can take it.
Re snarls able as a
FLESH PRODUCER.
Persons gain rapidly
wliilo talcing 14.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
CONSUMPTION, SCROFULA,
DEBILITY. WASTING DISEASES OF
CHILDREN, and CHRONIC COUGHS,
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
S=
ROBERTSON’S W IIISK V.
£2OO
3PRIZBS.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
10 of £5 each, 35 £3, ami 70 £l,
Pamphlets from the Agents, ALXjT &
00.,
Limited,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
Melbourne magistrates gave a woman three
months for going to sleep in St. Francis’ Church,
the other day. The constable deposed that prisoner
had on board as much beer as she could carry.
“ Com > unto me all ye who are heavy laden is
not* / nodern church doctrine.
’Tis true that girls are strangers and
sojourners below, and countless snares and dangers
surround the path they go. Arsenic in Indian
muslins is the latest peril discovered by the
doctors, who have already found out contagion in
kisses, consumption in corsets, and fevers in false
hair. At this rate, if a tight-laced girl goes to a
ball in bangs and Indian muslin, the unhappy
virgin is pretty sure to die before morning, home
men will bo treating their wives to Indian muslin
a * *
Letty Lind’s historical “'Silver King” is
still in Sydney, where he has remained all the
time, it seems, looking forward to the day when the
Gaiety engagement of that bounding gazelle will
runout. Then the king purposes (D.V.) setting
sail for London, with a view to claiming Letty as
his very own. He has already collected some
£BOOO worth of diamonds for placing on the shrine
of beauty, and it strikes us that Letty wouldn't
come off better, in the way of glitter, if she hitched
herself to the Shah. Moreover, the king is alleged
to be a nice young man, as such things go.
* * *
At a high-toned hall, given recently in
Sydney, a prominent society lady was conspicuous
by her absence, and quite an amount of sympathy
was expressed for her when the hostess explained
to the guests that her non-appearance was due to
“indisposition.”- A few days after the cause of
her “indisposition” leaked out (in the news-
papers, too !) —a burglar had stolen her false teeth .
# * *
“What is John’s surname, Etta?” asked
Miss Frizzleton’s little sister the other morning at
THE D-LON WHEELS.
Mr. Varley complains that the Devil is in the habit of frequenting the skating rinks.
There being no ice in Sheol, we ask where else is his Satanic Majesty to go?
the breakfast-table. “ I erguson, dear, said Etta,
with a becoming blush ; “what makes yon ask '
“Oh nothing,” said the little sister, carelessly ;
“only I was listening outside the parlour-door
when he was here last night, and I thought, from
what I heard you say to him all the time, that it
might be Doant.” —Ex.
* * *
Idols for the Heathen in Africa are made
in Birmingham, to be sent out, along with rum
and brandy, in the same ships which convey Bibles
to them. „
* * #
Spring, gentle Spring, is at hand in Syd-
ney. The skating-rinks begin to burn, and the
calf-and-breast-bone brigade are feeling round
their boot-trunks in the garret of the grim hash-
house for the ragged guernseys wherein last year
they sailed o’ Sundays in their hired boats to
Manly, or swept the marge of Farm Cove, where
the little milliners most do congregate. Already
do we see them on Saturday m their 14-toot
“yachts”—2sowners in every yacht—and all hang-
ing out over the gunwale. Yes, Spring is at hand,
and the gentle vagrant, fat and short-haired, is
is now “bangeing” on the park-grass. _ He has
successfully wintered in Darlmghurst 1 nson, and
has emerged on the first fine day. Vagrancy is a
science under a Foreign-trade tariti.
* * *
Speight the masher again ! Scarce is the
ink dry on the lines we wrote, pointing out that
the inordinate profits of the Melbourne Tramway
Company are due to the terror of travellers on the
railways when the news comes of another bad
smash in Gippsland at Droum. Cheap men is the
explanation !—the cutting down of wages as near
as possible to the London Dock ideal—hvepence
an hour ! The object is the glory of Speight and
the rise from £3OOO to £.5000. But he will never
see it. His head keeps on growing through his
hair in despair.
* * *
The mining township of Miami, N.S.W.,
is convulsed by an elopement-boom. Five have
taken place in a week or two. A one-eyed, second-
hand woman feloniously abstracted a good-looking,
bran-new young fellow from his mother s lap.
Another lady with an abbreviated nose and a
corrugated epidermis skipped with an alleged man,
and a giddy spark of only twenty-two blushing
summers was run away with by the mother ot ten
children who left them behind in charge of a
husband who now mourns_ her loss and that ot
much wearing apparel. This is anew feature in
the spring fashions. Old women want young
husbands to harmonise with their new bonnets.
That’s all.
# * *
Ad. from E. News, Sydney
WT ANTED to adopt baby girl, £SO pre. Apply by
VV letter, 0.J.J., AO., Auburn. Open one week.
“C.J.J.” must evidently bo labouring under the
impression that there has been a boom nt tie
“adoption” business. Why, there are kind
persons ”in Sydney who would be a mother to
a whole creche for a fiver.
# # *
As the details of Mrs. Maybrick’s trial
come to hand it becomes perfectly clear that the
charming little woman was reprieved on account
of her respectable relatives and friends. As we
have remarked, the doctors discovered traces of
arsenic all over the place. It was in Maybnck s
arrowroot, beef-tea, physic and stimulants. It
even popped up in the pocket of his loving wile s
dressing-gown, and might have been found m her
“improver,” no doubt, if they had subjectedthat
mysterious bird-cage to chenroal analysis. How-
ever, as a grand principle was upheld by the chok-
ing of Louisa Collins, there is no danger to
Christianity in the fact that Mrs. Maybnck is
mercifully permitted to exist. The Law and
Constitution seem to be going on all right. Ihe
Sydney Morning Herald need not weep at the
thought that “no woman can be hanged in time
to come.” Rich women may sneak out of the
noose, but the lower-class females will swing as
merrily as ever. Hallelujah !
* * *
The London correspondent of the Argus
cables that a tourist has been murdered, in the
Isle of Arran, by a man named Laurie. The name
of the tourist, being a matter of no gallows interest,
was not mentioned.
* * *
A recent traveller in N.Z. attended a ball
given in the billiard-room of an hotel in the Hot
Lakes district. He recounts his experiences : -
Dancing commenced about nine o’clock. I believe the
only restrictions placed on the Maori ladies were that they
should be sober and wear a dress, They did wear dresses j
some of them would surprise Mrs. Langtry. One girl
wore a red-and-white checked skirt, a blue bodice, and
innumerable flowers. She was chaperoned by her mother,
who had a baby slung to her shoulders with a blue shawl.
Flowers, handkerchiefs, and small, red striped towels were
fashionable as head-dresses. Yellows, greens, reds, and
blues seemed to be the favourite colours, and the shapes
of the dresses were “ easy,” that is, they fitted where they
touched, and were tied on with tape. The Maori ladies
seemed to prefer pakehas as partners, though, I believe,
their own men danced better. I had the pleasure of
dancing a polka with the Maori belle, Miss Apeta, a tall girl
radiant in pink. She danced at the rate of 20 miles an hour,
and seemed to enjoy it; only stopping once to mop her face
with a scented pocket-handkerchief. The room was hot,
but I was in good training, and went through that polka
to the bitter end; then I sat down as an observer. The
Maoris dance with delightful abandon, and perspire fieel\.
The walls of the room were ornamented with chaperones,
who wore tattoo-marks for ornaments, and for occupation
nursed babies. The windows were covered outside with
disappointed youths and maidens, who audibly criticised
the dancers. Around the door were many who sought
vainly for admittance. One young lady m a black skirt, a
green shawl, and a bath towel, slipped between the door-
keeper’s legs, whilst an old lady in a blanket was olamoui-
ing for admittance or beer. The ball was exceedingly
free-and-easy, though carried on with great propriety ; the
dancing ended about midnight, but the noise was kept up
until morning. It was the Maori girls and their partners
discussing experiences and beer.
* * *
Avery large deputation of 11 clergymen
and city men ” —men about town, we presume
are to wait on Premier Parkes this Thursday
morning to ask him to put down licentiousness
with a strong hand. This, The Bulletin pre-
sumes, is a practical joke —one which should result
in the newly-wedded Henry blushing much and
otherwise appearing very uncomfortable. Hun-
dreds of men,” we are told, “have then
intention of accompanying the deputation. We
shall be much surprised if the names of a stilt
percentage of the saints who thus advertise their
virtue do not appear in the police-court reports of
the evening papers during the next year or t v
Spagnoletti writes from Melbourne I
met to-day an extraordinary man who put- me m
mi id of an extraordinary history. 1 he man, now
venerable, was a respectable Jewish dealer in
discarded garments named -. He was mixed up,
not discreditably to himself, in the famous Nuna-
wading Messiah case of 18 years ago. 1 isher, the
Nunawading Messiah, still lives at the same place,
eight miles from Melbourne. He has a number of
followers who still believe his divine claims, it is
21 years since he started in business as Prophet.
He was then a charcoal-burner, often seen driving
his dray and two horses into Melbourne along the
road through Boroondara, Hawthorn, and Bich-
mond. The two horses were even known—as two-
penny and Old Tom. Fisher dreamt one night he
saw the Spirit descending from heaven on his cab-
bages. He ate a cabbage and received the Spirit.
This is sober fact, asdetailed by Fisher to his Church
of the First Born. He soon got 120 followers,
men and women. His idea was an amalgamation
of Christianity, Wroeism, Mormomsm, Spiritual-
ism, and Freemasonry —rather a large order. A
Melbourne newspaper, the Age, sent a reporter to
investigate. He scarified Fisher hip and thigh.
Fisher told the Church never to < mind, because
that reporter would become his right-hand man
like St. Paul. Next to Fisher the chief man in
the Church was John James Rainbow Bignell,
who lias abandoned the line altogether, and settled
into a coal-prospector. Fisher and Bignell quar-
relled because Bignell got a vision to the effect
that he saw the Church members grubbing stumps,
and they found a lot of gold under a stump marked
Bignell. This indicated that he was to be chief
apostle. Fisher said : “No, you’re quite wrong.
Tt means you are to be seduced by gold. ihis
silly stuff is all absolute fact. Bignell formed
a rival cause, his chief supporters being
a Mr. and Mrs. Henderson. Fisher replaced
Bignell with one Andrew Wilson, who was styled
Simon Peter. With him Fisher quarrelled because
he Fisher, received a revelation that he must have
Wilson’s wife. Wilson gave Fisher £10 to bring
to life again one of his children that died. Ut
course Fisher failed, but would not give up the
£10, because, he said, the hitch was through Wil-
son’s lack of faith. Wilson sued h isher for the
£10 in the Oakleigh police-court, near Melbourne,
but failed to get a verdict. Now about -• He
and Fisher were married to two sisters, i isne>r,
who was said to go in heavy for the Joe bunth
business, got a revelation that he must ha\ e
>s wife, and two more of the sisters.
iibbed. Fisher, thereafter, styled him Ihe
Dragon and Satan. He said — was the Devil,
sent to plague him. One Levine got £30 from
Fisher by representing that he had been sent out
from the Grand Lodge of Freemasons m Denmark
to make Fisher Lord High Freemason of all the
world. He took Fisher to a house m Melbourne,
and showed him a woman with a box of treasure,
all of whieh he was to have. This woman was the
wife of the chief of the Freemasons Grand Lodge,
Denmark. At a house in Prahran the ceremonial
took place of installing Fisher Lord High free-
mason. All this was published in the Age at the
time, with a series of articles, which made a
tremendous sensation. Fisher afterwards had e
cheek to lecture, on a Sunday night, at the May-
market Theatre, Melbourne.
MRS. GRUNDY GOES INTO THE
QUESTION.
I haven't any patience with the labourers on
The are just'the kind of creatures that I always
1 waflyingtomy Clara, when we took our glass
That I really think the Government should call the
soldiers out.
I look upon these strikes, my dear, as insults to
way to stop them is to shoot the
To they’re slowly starving is ridiculous, I
Or S'tty are, of course it’s only owing to the
drink.
But I cannot understand how they ever could want
At eighteenpence a pound the London steak is very
Then egg's are ten a shilling, and the butter isn t
Oh ; f they’d get along quite nicely if they didn’t
swim in beer.
Yes, fivepence every hour were the wages, as you
Well, that’s you see, ten shillings if they work all
night and day; . , ,
Bor if they really wanted wives and children to
be fed ,, ; ,
It isn’t very likely they would waste an hour in
bed.
Oh ! perfect stuff and nonsense sending money
Home, indeed! , . . ,. ,
A woman came here talking about help in time of
But Ttold her that I thought it was a scandal and
To encourage such rebellions, and my Clara said
the same.
Not a shilling, not a sixpence, dear, do I intend to
? Tis the owticvs of the docks who have to struggle
now to live ; .
Just imagine widow ladies earning only one per
AnJ C landlords, too, complaining of these creatures
with their rent !
This talk of working classes, and the trials they
endure, , . , ,
Is a lot of silly claptrap, and so vulgar, to be sure;
Mu sympathy’s with Capital, as Clara said to me,
If'we didn’t find the money, where would the
workers be ?
And when they strike for more than their em-
ployers care to pay ,. , r
They ought to be arrested, every one of them, 1
I'd- otherwise we’ll have them getting bolder year
And, as^£ said before, 1 think it's owing to-the leer.
BY A CONVERT.
T once was as bad as a fellow could be
And revelled in sin with a devilish glee,
But now from all bondage Satanic 1 in free,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer I rise in the morning and swear,
And with hideous blasphemy tincture the air
On finding no buttons to shirts I would wear,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer the best of my mornings are spent
Indulging in whisky to any extent
With flossy-haired Hebes bedabbled in scent,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer at billiards I handle a cue,
And sit up all night at unlimited 100,
y ov which petty Cush 55 h&d to suffer & tew^
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer at Rand wick the odds do I lay,
Extravagant odds which I know I can’t pay,
And have to discreetly clear out of the way,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer the play-house my pleasure excites
I pity the weak-minded masher who writes
Those little pink billets to ladies in tights,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer the haunts of the vicious I seek,
Or to “Tottie ” or “Lottie ” unblushmgly speak ;
I’m going to be married on Saturday week,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
No longer my lodgings I seek about four
And fumble till five for the key of the door
And wake up to find that I’ve slept on the floor,
And it’s all of it owing to Yarley.
Oh, come to the penitent-form and don’t wait;
Reflect on the sinner’s implacable fate—
And now, if you please, we will pass round the
plate
For the coin that is owing to V arley.


Amusements.
THEATRE.
L. Foley Lessee.
Manager for Miss Putnam .... Matt. L. Berry.
Business Manager H. Lestox.
An Established and Positive Success!
Of the charming Comedienne,
Miss Katie JPu.tn.am,
GEORGE C. BONIFACE, Jr.,
And Miss Putnam's excellent Comedy Company.
SATURDAY, September 14
MONDAY, „ 16
TUESDAY, „ 17
| George Sands’ Beautiful
Comedy,
1“ FANCHON.”
WEDNESDAY, Sept. IS
THURSDAY, „ 19
FRIDAY, 20
( An Entirely New Comedy,
J \ entitled
' “ L E N A.”
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
H ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7; commencing 7.45. Carriages at 10,45.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
SHAKESPEARE’S GREAT TRAGEDY,
JULIUS C JE S .A. J=t!
RIGNOLD as “ MARC ANTONY.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5, Prices as usual,
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
MEW OPERA HOUSE.
King and York Streets.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. John Solomon.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
OF
MR. JOHN SOLOMON’S ENGLISH AND COMIC
OPERA COMPANY.
To-Night, Thursday, Complimentary Benefit to
MISS LILIAN TREE,
Maritana. Maritana,
Friday and Saturday, September 13 and 14,
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON,
MARTHA. MARTHA.
POPULAR 0 PRICES :
Dress C role, 3s. ; Orchestra Stalls, 3s. ; Stalls
2s. ; Pit, Is,
Plan of Reserved Seats at Nicholson’s,
JOE DAVIS Business Manager,
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
—THE SYDNEY LAUGHING SEASON—
Now at its full height.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT O'CLOCK
The Greatest Living Mesmerist,
Mr. T. A. KENNEDY,
appears in his
Mystifying and Marvellous Entertainment
Approaching the Borderland of the Supernatural
and providing, in addition,
NO END OF LAUGHTER!
Popular Prices. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trams to Gate-Fare, 4d,
JjJ LITE SKATING RINK,
The Manager is pleased to announce to his many Patrons
and the Sydney Public that he has RESUMED BUSINESS
at the CRYSTAL PALACE SKATING ACAD EMI York-
street, during the Repairing of his ELITE RINK.
SESSIONS :—
Morning Session Ladies and Children, Admission Free 1
Skate Checks, (id.
Afternoon : Ladies and Children, Admission fid; Skates
Free. Gentlemen, Admission 6d ; Skates, fid.
EveningAdmission, Skaters, la.; Skates, Free, Spec-
tators, Gd. ‘
Monday and Thursday Evenings: -Admission, Ladies, Is. •
Skates, Free. Gentlemen, 2s. ; Skates, Free. Spec-
tators, 1 s.
Saturday Afternoon :—Prices as usual.
The Rink will he OPEN for Special Afternoon Session
from 1 (ill 2 p.m. Admission Gd.; Skates, Free.
The NA\ AT, ARTILLERY BAND in attendance every
Evening and Saturday Afternoon.
Objectionable persons will not he admitted.
K. A. SKINNER, Proprietor and Manager.
vpHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the Management of Messrs. Williamson
Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Mr. Geo. L. Goodman
Stage Manager, Mr. John Wallace.
Tiir Famous
Every
Evening
ROYAL COMIC QPERA
IX
DOROTHY
COMPANY
Every
Evening
Admission 5s., 3s., Is. Tickets at Mackay’j Hotel.
Amusements.
C c Y y C°L l o o ß b A a M m A a
HAVE YOU SEEN IT?
The Herald says:—“ In no other illusion has ever been
attained such intense realism. The semblance to Nature
is perfect.”
The Bulletin says:—“ The very air is in and about it.
Ihe blue hills, the wooded ridges, the peaceful valleys and
fields of golden grain, afford all the pleasure of natural
objects,”
All who have seen it say—“Marvellous beyond belief.”
We say—“ The Greatest Shoxv on Earth /”
Opposite the Railway Station.
Admission, 25.; Children, Is. Open from 10 to 10 daily.
Special.— Sunday Night, 3 to 10 p.m.; Half-price,
frequent Explanatory Lectures. (Lectures at 12 noon on
■Saturdays, specially adapted for children.) Band every
day and evening.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor .... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . ~ Mr. Mai ne.
Overture 8. Curtain 8.5. Carriages 10.20.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
or
THIS SILVEE SEEIEIA3D,
BY
SYDNEY GRUNDY, Esq. in Three Acts.
The play produced under the parsonal super-
vision of Mr. Robert Brough.
Admission ... £2 2s. to Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.20 p.m.
JOE Davis, Business Manager.
JYJETROPOLITAN SKATING RINK
Harris Street, Ultimo.
Nearest Rink to Rcdfern Railway Station.
Finest Skating Surface in the Colony. “e*
GRAND OPEN-AIR PROMENADE 1
10 to 12 a.m. - Ladies and Children only: Admis-
sion FREE; Skates, Gd.
2.30 to 5 p.m.—Admission : Ladies, Gd., Skates,
Gd.; Gentlemen, Is., Skates, Gd.
7.30 to 10 p.m.—Admission to all, Is. ; Skates, Gd.
LO O K OU T
FOR
Future Novelties.
FLOORAGE FREE.
Pvrmoxt and Balmain ’Busses pass the door
every few minutes.
Lessee and Manager ... JOHN R. GEE.
Business Announcements.
KTEW BR^.XCR!
—NOW OPEN AT—
-14- KING STREET, SYDNEY-141
Tea, Sugar, Coffee, Cocoa, &c.
REFRESHMENTS.
The remainder of the building (now occupied
by the Daily Telegraph) will, without delay,
be, proceeded with, and, on completion, will be
Opened as a Refreshment Room,
with every modern convenience to meet present
requirements, special attention being given to
comfort of Ladies.
QDONG TART & 00-
CHUBB & PRAEGER, Photographers,
(Late of Regent Street, London,)
“ Empire Galleries,” 482 A 484 George Street,
(over Beale's), SYDNEY.
'
\\ r '■ have much pleasure in making reference to the
* ’ favorable notice of Tiif, Bulletin, Ist June, and
Daily Telegraph, Ist June, and at the same time in
thanking the public for the large amount of patronage
bestowed on us within so short a time. We are pleased to
say we are now overtaking the excess of work iu all
departments, and trust to merit a continuance of the same
good opinions and favours.
X
Note our Moderate Prices;
Cabinets, 155.; Cartes-de-Visite, Bs. 6d. per Loz. |
Portraits at Home, Groups, Parties, Houses, &c., a
Speciality. Photographed at Short Notice and at equally
Moderate Charges.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE,
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
Calling at
AUCK LAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn,
Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New i
South Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line 1
are appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
and San Francisco every four weeks, sailing as under:-
u. umy 'jn.umm Mlirffeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a.
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a,
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard.
Ijiiman, VV hite Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San I- rancisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu’de hooks, showing all
U Ucation n,V POmt ln the Un ’ tPd Btate9 ’ Inay be oil
For rates of passage and freight, and all other informa-
tion apply a( the ( ompany’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street
E. P. HOUGHTON, Acting Manager,
Miscellaneous.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
BATHO’S BAKING POWDERS,
Orient Square Slue,
Extract of Soap,
Sinegar, Slacking,
&c., &c., &o.
Steam Works and Brewery :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY,
(Opposite Goldsbrough’s Wool Stores).
Shipping.
JQIRECT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
PENINSULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
Ihe Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under
contract with the Imperial, New South Wales,
Victorian, and South Australian Governments)
will be dispatched from their Wharf, Circular
Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brin-
disi, Malta, Gibraltar, and Plymouth.
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE
TERMS.
SALOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK
THEIR JOURNEY.
The arrangements for SECOND SALOON
PASSENGERS having been thoroughly re-
organised, the accommodation now offered is un-
surpassed.
Passage-money can be paid here for passages
from England. Liberal concessions made to
families.
Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked through
to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
will not be received after 3 p.m. on the day pre-
vious to sailing.
Eor all information apply at the Company’s
Offices, 247 George-street.
A, MACLEAN, Acting Agent.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government ot
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’luggage conveyed free of cost from
Marseilles to London.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at
the Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
IT. DE POSSEL,
Acting Principal Agent.
|JORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will he despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New 7 York,
via Southampton.
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
ami friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to
FREDK. BETZ & CO., Agents,
5 O’Connell-street.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE. A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer Bulletin Office
N
Furniture, &c.
E W T O N AND
L A M B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
„ . WAREHOUSEMEN,
C A BINETMAK ERS, I UPHOLSTERERS
AND
bedding manufacturers.
OTvn-r S? 0W ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room-stde-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRs!
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK ~ C H Allp
Patented.
■A
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s.; without Stand, 25s.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. fid. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
D
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
j
w
ALNTJT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes. Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious,and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
j
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & La hr.
PIANOFORTES by R. LI PR and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
j
Austrian bent-
wood
F U RNtTUR E.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMP.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton « Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
j
B EDSTEADS, all sizes
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great Variety.
Bedding . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lam n.
j
cfp r’in g ma t-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), beat make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
HEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
13. Gd. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27s. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. Gd.;
Chests of Drawers, from 40s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from
10s. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
E W T O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPI IOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MAN I IF ACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
A police-inspector has just been committed
for trial in N.Z. for house-breaking.
Victorian hens are to be protected by a
duty of twopence per dozen on imported eggs.
Speerin versus Speerin was a divox-ce-suit
heard in the Melbourne Court last week. The
lady thanked no one for Speerin.
Of Fitzgerald’s post-mortem attack on Mrs.
Browning, and Browning’s rejoinder, an English
paper writes :—•
“ Fitzgerald falsely says that she who wrote
Aurora Leigh was for a kitchen fit,
Browning’s just anger strikes a truer note,
This critic was unworthy of a spit!”
Australian military officers ought on no
account to miss reading an article by Professor
Morris, in the English Historical Review, just
to hand, on “The Franco-German War, 1870-71.”
He shows that the German official account is not
trustworthy for the events after Sedan. Moltke
never anticipated Gambetta’s success in raising
levies. The consequence is that the Siege of Paris
was near being abandoned at one point. Morris
says Chanzy was the finest general produced by
the war. He does full justice to Faidherbe and
Aurelle de Paladines. If Metz had held out a
month longer, which it ought to have done, the
Germans would probably have had to haul off
Paris, and would never have been able to complete
their investing lines again. The fall of Metz
enabled the Red Prince, Frederick Charles, to
come up to the rescue of the Germans before Paris.


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 06 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
East London and dock labourers
RELIEF FUND COMMITTEE.
OFFICE: EQUITABLE CHAMBERS,
Pitt and Park Streets, Sydney.
Amounts Already received. List No. 1:
j
£ s, d.
Stephen, Jaques,
and Stephen .. 5 a 0
Dalgety and Co. 2 2 0
“D.T.” .. .. 25 0 0
J. Rodd and Co.
Collected in their
ARCHIBALD FORSYTH, 1
JOHN BROOMFIELD, J
Joint
Hon. Secs.
September, 9, 1889.
PROTESTANT HALL
DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY
will deliver
HIS FIRST LECTURE in SYDNEY,
On SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 14.
Subject: “MAKING A NOVELIST.”
The Box Plan for Reserved Seats will be opened
at Paling’s, on Wednesday morning, at 11 o’clock.
JAS. M‘MAHON, Manager.
Government Advertisements.
T
Department of Public Works, Sydney,
September 10, 1889.
ENDERS EOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions see Government Gazette.
Nature of Works and Supplies.
Dates to which
Tenders
can be received
at this office.
Bridge over Monk’s Creek, Road
Grafton and Copmanhurst to
Apple Tree Elat
Bridge, Deep Creek, Road Casino
to Sandy Creek
Tar Paving, &c., Courthouse, Dar-
linghurst
Bridge over Yarranan Creek, road
Coonabarabran to Wergedeu
Bridge over Deep Gully, road
Grafton to Cross Roads, towards
Casino
Bridge, in approach toTulladunna
Bridge, near Wee Waa
Repairs, &c., N.S.S. Vernon (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Court House, Single-
ton
Additions, &c.,Postand Telegraph
Office, Casino (time extended.)
Bridge Brown’s Creek, Road Tino
nee to Port Macquarie
Bridge Broughton Creek, north ol
Broughton Village, Main South
Coast Road
Construction of Hand Punt foi
Unaira Ferry, Murrumbidgtc
River
Bridge, Doctor's Gully, at Merriwa
Additions, Wollongong Gaol (fresh
tenders)
Concrete Lining Stone Pitching o;
Potts Hill Reservoir
Hains Bridge, road Morpeth tt
Largo
Alterations, &c., Bridge, Cook’s
River, on Punchbowel-road
Re-decking Richmond Bridge
(ironwork)
Re-decking Richmond Bridge
(timber)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Liverpool
Foundations, New Central Police
Office
Repairs, &c., Court House, Quean
beyan
Supply of Gas, &o., Public Build-
ing, Bathurst
Additions Police Officers’ Quarters,
Goulburn
Repairs, &c., Courthouse and
Lockup, Nimitybelle
Drainage, &c., Technological Mu
seum
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Tam
worth
Bridge Cox’s Creek, road Cool ah
to Mulally
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Bingera
Bridge, Camden Haven, road Port
Macquarie to Tinonee
Bridge, Cooper’s Creek, road Bex-
hill to Numulgi
Bridge, Bombala River at Bibben
luke
Station Buildings, St. Leonai’ds
Stoneware Pipe Sewers, Wool-
lahra, Waverley, and Randwick,
cont. No. 53, Sydney sewerage
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office,
Corowa
Wednesday,
September 25,
at 11 o'clock.
W ednesday,
October 9,
at 11 o'clock.
Bridge, Rainville Creek, road,
Sidmouth Valley to Tarana
Do. Wallamundra Creek Road,
Condobolin to Wagga Wagga
Approaches, Bridge, Murray River
at Mulwala
Bridge, Yango Creek, road Wol-
lombi to Yango
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Booligal
Supply and Erection of Pumping
Engines, North Shore (contract
No. 56)
Additions, &o,, Australian Mu-
seum.
Wednesday,
October 23,
at 11 o’clock,
Wednesday,
Nov. 6,
at 11 o’clock.
BRUCE SMITH.
Department of Lands!,
Sydney, 27th August, 1889.
NOTICE.-INJURIES TO FENCES.
IT is hereby notified, for public information,
that whosoever maliciously cuts, breaks,
throws down, or in anywise destroys any Rabbit-
proof Fence or Gate is liable to a penalty not
exceeding five pounds (and costs), in addition tc
the value of property destroyed, and for any
subsequent offence a sum not exceeding twenty
pounds above such value or amount of damage
done ; and it is further notified that a reward Of
Ten Founds will be paid for such information as
will lead to the conviction of any person or persons
guilty of any of the acts mentioned in regard to
rabbit-proof fencing or gates erected by the
Government of this Colony.
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th August, 1889.
REWARD FOR EXTERMINATION OF
RABBITS.
WITH reference to the notice issued by the
Department of Mines, dated 31st August,
1887, to the effect that the Government of New
South Wales will pay the sum of £25,000 to
any person or persons who will make known or
demonstrate any method or process, not previously
known in the Colony;, for the effectual extermina-
tion of rabbits. It is hereby notified, for general
information, that no scheme for the destruction of
rabbits submitted after the 30th September, 1889,
will be considered in connection therewith.
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
MR. S. F. COHEN is in no way connected
with the Sydney Bulletin Newspaper
Company, Limited.
Town Houses with Country
Advantages.
Oue country towns contain many fairly well-to-do
residents—the fathers of large families-who are
strongly impressed with the idea that it would
benefit them to acquire a place of residence in the
neighbourhood of oue of our large cities. They
imagine, and rightly so, that thus situated their
children would have opportunities of social inter-
course and refined education. These theories are
not often carried into execution. Parents are de-
terred by the expense of town rentals, while the
change from the pure air and wide spaces of the
rural districts to the dust-laden, ill-ventilated
tenements of a city they think might prove pre-
judicial to the health of country-reared children.
There is much truth in these objections. Our
Sydney streets are narrow, our houses have been
constructed more with a view to the obtaining of
heavy returns than to the health and comfort of
the occupants, while the price of suburban alk t-
inents on which a house may be erected according
to plan is so heavy as to be almost prohibitive.
Thus the schemes of parents for the social advance-
ment of their young arc very apt to fall fruitlessly
to the ground.
Self-preservation, the instinct that prompts us
to defend our lives, and all that is necessary, or
appears to be necessary, to their well-being, from
encroachment by others, is firmly implanted in the
human breast. It is this almost involuntary hang-
ing on to life that leads mankind, collectively, to
search for the causes of disease, to abjure that
which merely gives momentary pleasure, to eat and
drink sparingly, in order that lifemay be prolongec J
and so the aged, those whose lives have least to
offer, whose remaining years must in the ordinary
course of events be short, are usually those who
avoid most vigorously all that is at all likely to
interfere in any way with health. It is well
known to every student of the conditions that
conduce to the
PRESERVATION OF HUMAN LIFE,
that pure air and freedom from worry are among
its great necessities. Yet we find men of business,
whose days are spent in an apparently endless
struggle with all the worry and endless com-
plications of mercantile existence, deliberately
shortening their valuable lives, committing deli-
berate suicide by spending their whole time in
crowded cities, surrounded by ceaseless noise, en
vironed by dusty, germ-laden air. It must be
confessed that instinct is sadly at fault here. Com-
pelled to breathe bad air, to have their nerves
shattered, the delicate brain-cells injured by the
constant vibration, common-sense, paternal affec-
tion, should dictate the forsaking of the city after
the day is over, to find in some quiet retreat
PURE AIR, CHANGE OF SCENE,
absolutely necessary for the recuperation of the
body and brain, and repair of the injuries inflicted
by over-work and worry. Many otherwise acute
business men fail to see the force of thus divorcing
themselves from business resorts after business
is over. It was the custom of their fore
fathers to live near or over the shop, warehouse, or
office, and so they continue to heap up money by
day, while actually engaged in
DIGGING THEIR OWN GRAVES
at night in place of stepping out of the rut
worn by their busy feet. Such conduct is unfair
to themselves and their wives and families, not
only from the risk run by the bread-winner, but
from the additional dangers to which they also
are thus needlessly exposed. It is monstrous that
any family should be compelled to dwell in an un-
healthy, over-crowded city. In the interest of the
house-mother and her little ones some steps should
be immediately taken to escape from such dangers.
A door of escape exists through the. purchase of
land by means of deferred payments at Harcourt
seven miles from Sydney and two from Burwood
and right on the looplino about to be constructed
to Liverpool.
HARCOURT, THE MODEL SUBURB,
is healthily situated, well drained naturally and
artificially, and, unlike most new suburbs, has had
its roads formed ere settlement. They are from
one chain to one chain and a-half in width, have
been already metalled, kerbed, and guttered, and
are aligned by footpaths smooth and carefully
formed. It is intended to light the streets with
electricity, and gas and water will be carefully
laid on all over the estate. In order to en-
courage settlement, the vendors have decided to
distribute
TEN THOUSAND POUNDS
among the early settler's on the Estate during
the first five years : while Three Thousand
Founds will be apportioned among those whose
payments are made punctually during the first
three and a half years. Interest will not be charged
on balance due, and through .allowance of Three
Months’ Grace to those incapacitated from mak -
ing the payments regularly by ill-health or lack
of employment, there will be little risk of for *
feiture. In the limited space at our disposal it is
impossible to give all the necessary information
That can only be obtained at the offices, where
FREE RAILWAY PASSES
taking the visitor right on to the ground and
back to town, free of cost, can be had, with
explanatory pamphlets, maps, and plans.
Apply to Messrs. PHILLIPS and CO., The
Austral Banking and Land Proprietary Company,
Carrington-chambers, No. 6, Castlereagh-streeb.
The Referee.
After the manner of Haitian, Searle
settled his man in the first mile or so. They say
the Yankees had £50,000 on O’Connor ; this is
probably all moonshine. For pounds read dollars.
We know now the value of Australian as com-
pared with American form. Even should Bubear
beat Matterson, Britain won’t count. You
can’t breed muscle on fivepence an hour in a slum.
Meantime, Searle’s whilom opponent, the sturdy
young Stansbury, is delving deeply into the pel-
lucid stomach of Parramatta’s jelly-fish, and
Messrs. Kemp, Deeble, Lees and Co, reckon
they’ve got a rod in pickle against Ernest Henry’s
return.
* * *
Thus the sporting tipster for a Sydney
“sporting” rag jubilated over his prophecy for
the Caulfield G.N. Steeplechase : “ Chose Eagle (?)
Native, and Sir Joshua for the Steeple. Eaglet
and Native fell when full of running, and Sir
Joshua finished where ‘ Sentinel ’ placed him.
What’s the matter with that sort of tipping?”
What’s the matter with it ? Well, in the first
place, anyone would have lost by backing each of
the three selected horses, if the first choice, Eaglet,
had won instead of losing. In the next place, it
is evident that if Eaglet and Native had stood up
they must have finished “nowhere,” or else poor
Sir Joshua could not have fulfilled the scribe’s
prediction, inasmuch as there were two other inter-
loping ’osses good enough to beat Josh, anyway.
Taking all these circumstances into consideration,
we regard it as a blessing that readers of that
paper are mostly stone-broke already and cannot
be further incited to ruin and despair.
* # *
The agent of a Show-Show has been
taking them down at the cunning little game of
pyramids, in Sydney, lately. No flies—£l2o a
game and money up every time.
# * *
The Transvaal papers say that Bendoff
was beaten by Oouper chiefly through the bunging
up of his eyes.
# # #
Larry Foley says that Slavin hasn’t got
heart enough to stand up successfully before Black
Jackson. He says that the pair had a row
behind his bar, which resulted in two or three
rounds and the cowing of Slavin by “ the nigger.”
In Foley’s opinion, the pair will never meet—if
Slavin can help it. Foley considers that Slavin is
a good boxer who will win many victories —but
is a better boxer than fighter. Of the two (Slavin
and Burke) Slavin was far the better—he could
kill Burke in fact, but he was not so finished a
boxer. Larry adds that, in proper training, he
still considers himself the daddy of the lot. “Pi’o-
per training,” we may add, Foley’s “bingie”
effectually precludes nowadays.
* # *
Some “ feelers” for the Canfield Cup will
be thrown out at the Y.A.T.O. meeting on Satur-
day next (14th.)
* * *
No one believed the canard that Searle
had an abscess of the jaw. The fact that his
principal backers were dentists clothed it with
suspicion from the first.
* * #
A Gippsland (Vic.) paper announces in a
late issue, in concomitant paragraphs, that a foot-
ball club has been started and an undertaking
business established in the township. Supply
treads on the heels of demand.
# * #
The father of the Harrow “ captain ” gave
his son £5 for every wicket he bowled and a guinea
for every run he made in the Harrow v. Eton
cricket match. We wonder how much the good
gentleman has given to the dock-labourers, whose
average earnings are stated to be Bs. Id. per week.
* * *
A Bookmakers’ Union is being started in
Melbourne.
# * *
Tranter, “one of the finest horses that
ever looked through a bridle ” (and remarkably
like his half-brother, Trenton, about the headpiece)
has been purchased by Mr. W. R. Yirgoe for
breeding purposes—price 370 guineas. If they
could have brought this noble cripple to the post
for the Caulfield Cup, in racing condition, he
would have carried his 7st. 121bs home twenty
yards in front of everything.
# * #
When Kilrain was defeated his supporters
stated that he was not in good condition. When
Tom Sayers went down before “ ould ” Nat Lang-
ham, the same excuse was offered. “You was fit
and he was a trifle too big,” was the comforting
assurance of a sporting publican. “ Pendragon,”
whose description of the battered Sayers is the
finest thing in his book, “ Modern Boxing,” says
he never knew a defeated pugilist who was fit.
THE COLOUR LINE.
Our sporting folk with tongue and pen
Throw satire superfine
On all those Yankee fighting men
Who “ draw the colour line.”
They say Australians take no heed
And make no reservation—
They bar no colour, size or creed,
Exclude no generation.
But would one decent man of all
Australia’s sporting clan
Come forward in a public hall
To fight a Chinaman ?
They’d sooner fight a pig or cow,
And at the self-same figure
At which we estimate “ the Chow ”
The Yankees rank “the nigger.”
Answers to Correspondents.
“ H. Cass ” : When the magistrate said that the
dog “was entitled to his first bite” he meant that a dog
could not be legally regarded as dangerous until it was
known for a fact that he had bitten somebody
“T.N.E.”: (1.) Howe is senior member. (2.) Other man
shifty “A. E. Crease ” : The docks which “ don’tpay ’
should be closed. At present it is the aim of their
managers to build up dividends on the attenuated frames
of the workers. There is only one swift solution of the
difficulty—Socialism, which would involve the resumption
Government of all these undertakings whose vastness
makes them monopolies. Railways and tramways, docks,
lighting, banking, water-supplying companies should be,
in every case, run by Governments or Municipalities...
“Death”: Cremated “ Sarcophagus ” : Thanks
“Joseph P.” (Ravenswood): Too mediaeval....“ R.S.”
Not suitable. Try something short. .. “ D.R.W.” (Mary-
borough): Universal Review posted to your address
“James A.S.” (Symbower, Vic.): Man}' thanks.... “0. B
Westmacott ” : Certainly “J. R. Chaitland” : Will
consider. .. “T. N ”: Julius C. was staged at the
Sydney Roy al by' Creswick in 79 “ Adam P ” : Yes.
Bear, Park-street, Sydney. Is. 3d “Harrie”: Very
nice, but too flowery' “ N.S.W.” : There is much truth
in what you say.... “ Reader ” : Yes. Should like to see
the Otaou Workman—a brightly-Radical publication—
occasionally' “William F.” (Bourke) : Next week....
“ Warren Redpath ”: Crude here and there, and deficient
in interest. Generally not quite up to standard. Try
again—a short narrative of a simple incident. Everyone
has a story to tell “ Bill Sikes ” : Thanks. On reading
last issue of The Bulletin you will notice that we have
anticipated you in dealing with the momentous subject on
which you write “A.W.”: The bill-head of your firm
is really a work of art. But it is labour wasted—no
matter how nice you make a bill nobody ever admires it.
[Many letters held over.]
The Bulletin has received the following
subscriptions to the Bock Labourers’ Relief
Fund ; — Bulletin Proprietary, £20; S. L. Moffett,
£5 ; L. Hopkins, £1 ; lesser amounts, £4.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—On Sunday afternoon, 8th Sept.,
the Socialist party held a meeting- at the Queen’s Wharf,
in aid of the London dock-labourers’ strike. Subscriptions
amounting to £7 12s. 7d. were quickly raised, making the
total from this and the previous meeting £10 4s. 8Jd. The
speakers urged the matter eloquently, aided by a horrible
picture posted up behind them and passed round among
the crowd: A gaunt man, entering at the door of a hovel,
where a starved-looking little girl meets him, his sad face
indicating that his search for work has been fruitless.
Within, the wasted corpse of a woman, a young
girl bitterly weeping, and a baby creeping over
with its little hands fondling the dead body—this
is the “Secret of England’s Greatness.” What alone is
the remedy ? The social Revolution ! Any means are
justifiable. The strike is but a symptom of the great
labour revolt that is preparing all over the world. The
day may be nearer at hand than men imagine, but it can-
not be nearer than all should hope. The monopolists are
always ready to appeal for force to back up their side.
They will never give up their possession of our rights
without force. Let all be ready for the day in
which Labour will receive the call to arms! Three
cheers for Burns ! They are heartily responded to.
But first there was a vote of thanks to the dock labourers
for their determined action in seeking to raise the posi-
tion of labour. And before that, another vote of thanks,
and that unanimous and most heartily given, for The
Bulletin for that picture and its leading article dealing
with the subject. I have accordingly to convey that vote
of thanks to The Bulletin in consequence of the desire of
the meeting, and to express their hope that it may always
champion the cause of the oppressed as earnestly and
effectively as on this occasion.—For the meeting, J. A.
Andrews, correspondent.


Tobacco, etc.
AGENTS EOR
ANTIQUE OIL,
The Most Useful for Making
liime Juice and Glycerins
Hairdressing
Chairs.
j
Saloon
Furniture
G- 3z
FOR —
TOBACCONISTS’ GOODS & HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUISITES.
They understand their business and know the requirements of the Trade. Give them a 'Brial.
i. ■; iioir;..
CRAIG and AITKEN,
NEW —SOUTH —-WALES —BARBEES’ —SUPPLY —HOUSE,
680 & 682 a-ZEOZRO-IE STEEET,
Briclsflelci lOC ill, Sydney, £3. W.
Razors
AND
Scissors
It
Ground
AND
Set-
WHOLESALE J^GKEIsTTS
—FOR—
THE CELEBRATED
: l
■ 1C
I I'i
Razors & Scissors.
irsagggl
.
“ Tom Smith, have you seen my sou to-day ?”
“No, mum, not since I left him at the school door this morning.” .
(But what if that dog should, happen to hark?)
!•■=.! I
■—Life.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W.A. Plans,
Intercolonial Investment Co., Limited, 96 Bathurst
street, Sydney.
When next you bake try Pcmell’s Sxow-wmm Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Nota Eene ! In addition to their High Class old
Wines, Messrs. Hookings & Co., of 410 George-street, have
accepted the agency of the Australian Wine Company,
Limited, for their superior cheap wines.
Special Advertisements.
JOHN BRIDGE & 00.,
V CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WOOL. BROKERS,
Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Aw.
ATJCTIO.TJEERS.
Gh'RA.TJDBr S.A.IL.IESIDUEIESIINr.
DR. SFSSm’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
-3L2 Margaret Street;
Between George and York Streets). P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the-leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
,£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is not
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
10 a.m. to 12 a.m. ;2to 4 and 7to 8 pan. Sundays from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
mm
m
m. s r-
, <p‘ • J '
V ' «f.;//A
-
to youwcs- i^Esnxr.
DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
rUHE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer ; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, No Medicine* 'trill be required, as, by
observing - the directions given, the patient can Cure, Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz. Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Rack, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statement* by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR. H. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
il
r r' f
oX
s.JL
I *
• vf.I'* 1 '*
-Jri
IgMegggiggr"
ELECTRIC PHOTOENC. CO . 8 BRIDGES! , SYDNEY-
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... Pi'oi'RiETou.
JONES’ SEWING IKE AOHINE S
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence,
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just laitdotg.
Farleigli, Wettlieim, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x YORK x STREET, x SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( x )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, includine MACHINERY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, Sic.; and of the following Spkcial Links; l‘««rlcss .tloss, Sadii INtlisli, Viii im
Blacking. ‘ Tanners’" Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms,
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS.
mm
nooW £
L TB
CONS
\\\mi
Vjlf;.
« RICHARDS -
mim
Ml
111
r
w'Arri3R!f
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-estab ished and favourably-
known Dispensary that now hea's his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He lias devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi)
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowel?, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dream?,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hack'ng
cough, uho cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the priva'c or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnece;sary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
l hough you be perfectly w r elt its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a lettc", write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a i ; st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest rt me dies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per
used and answered they are destroyed by tire,
and patients may rest assured that their eases
will remain a secret between tin doctor and
t hemselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his succes’. All
communications should bo addresso I
Dr. RICHARDS,
*7 Spring Street;
(Off Pitt Street North)
1 SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper wli'ii writing!
CONSULTATION FREE.


Beale & Co.’s New Warehouse.
■ ■■ s
m i
OUR NEW SnOW-ROOMS AND WAREHOUSES:
482 & 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Something New in Sewing Machines !
THE BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
What is there Special about it?
The restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of im-
mense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Uur call-
ing is to relieve the home-mother of all that may
weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout a pleasure. That we have during the
last ten years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
and for the truth of which assertions, as of the
following, we humbly request that your own eyes
m * HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be i
sewn to pass freely underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well-known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion. ™. 1
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANGES is
provided than with any other machine. .Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruction
Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
In our climate the i
exposed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones, heightening the appearance. These
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken the
place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance of
former years. When closed it securely fastens the
cover, and is provided with a look and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees; thus when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
01 A a SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple. . , . .
THE BOP IN WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the real whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobm is full.
The baby’s tiny clothing, upon which mothers love to
display their choicest handiwork; the boy’s tweed suit,
the drawing-room carpet, may all be stitched by the won-
derful BEALE Machine. Examples of all kinds of sewing
required in dresses, millinery, underclothing, tailoring and
upholstery will be shown and explained at our offices free
° f With the wonderful BEALE Machine,- whether for hand
or foot use, you can hem any width, make double seams
or fells braid, stitch with chenille, Berlin wool or gold
cord, and such like for fancy work; you may make a
pretty lace stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats,
or carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or niching ; quilt, weave your own braid
with any combination of colours, and stitch it on at Lie
same time; make thick woollen door mats, embroidered
antimacassars, window curtains, and so forth; you can
easily and rapidly perform the fashionable shirring or
fathering so popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis; lay the small cords in
hoods and stays; do large cording; gather with or without
a band and generally do all kinds of straight sewing upon
any material whatever. You can darn upon any woven
goods, and do crewel work. You may make button and
eyelet holes, do overcasting, make herring-bone stitch
upon any materials. This work is absolutely unique, and
can only be accomplished upon the BEALE Patent
Machine,
•* Any of these performances will be shown at our shops
at any time. The BEALE Patent makes a lock-stitch
which cannot ravel, yet by a momentary alteration the
sewing’ can be done so as to rip from end if desired.
This peculiarity is sometimes useful when children’s clothes
are intended to be altered. ,
We have a special word for husbands: When the day s
business is over, and the evening meal is finished, the
wife—and perhaps the sister or daughter—sits down to her
sewing With her hands alone she cannot, as aforesaid,
do anything like the whole of the work required. In a
corner of the room is perhaps an old-fashioned machine,
with which she may, by hard driving, occasionally stitch,
with a noise like a sausage-machine, a simple straight
seam ; but that is no great help. She ought to be able to
do ALL the work with it, short of stitching on buttons,
which is a trifle. And we have known some instances
where the lady of the house is anxious to obtain a first-
class machine, that which will be the greatest of all helps
to her, but the husband demurs on the score of expense.
Why it is the only article of the household furnishing
which will ever return you any part of the cost! If the
lady will use it, it MUST earn far more than the half-a-
crown a week necessary to purchase it. On one little
garment she will save that sum, so that in addition to in-
creased comfort your household expenses will not be en-
larged but ought to be diminished, by the possession of a
BEALE PATENT MACHINE. How often do we waste
money upon really useless knick-knacks, or upon need-
lessly expensive articles and indulgences ! The Machine
she aid far more than pay for itself during the time you
are clearing it off, and it will then become your own, earn-
ing or saving money as before. Is it not fairly to be
called a PROFITABLE INVESTMENT?
Cash or Easy Terms. Price Lists and. Samples
Free by Post.
Beale & Company,
482 4 484 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Or from our Branches and Travellers everywhere.
Business Announcements. -
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET, S'X'XJUNTE'Sr.
First Award:
MELBOURNE CENTENNIAL EXHIBITION.
bwbs, phots,
TONY CARTS, &c., &c.
Express k Lumber Waggons*
Harness for Buggies and Waggons.
Saw Mills. Flour Mills.
% —
Agricultural Machinery.
■
■
M‘Nah’s Galley Brand Whisky.
Awarded Gold Medal for Excellence at
BRAND
GALLEY
FINE 018 M ' C *y "
WH • *!
U AB
a«£5S
lEi t >;
i
t
liwi
r
V >
Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, 1889.
“SWEET SPIRIT, HEAR MY PRAYER”
<*>'**■ 0 NL y
o
*
c
/f
4C ON
MURDER!
By the introduction of this Brand
of Block Tobacco, manufactured
from the finest selected Virginia
cn ps by P. W. Saywell, of 0
Park-street, it will
ARREST
the sale of all the inferior, worth-
less and impure brands now on
the n arket. Buy a block, smoke
it, and you will avoid the numer-
ous poisons
IMPRISONED
in some of the (so-called) Tobaccos
now sold. Can be boughi every-
where. Ask your Tobacconist for
it. If he does not keep it seek
one who does, ant obtain the best
article now before the public.
Wholesale and Retad from
W + Saywell k Co M
6 Park Street,
S "ST HD UsT IE IT.
LICHTNER & CO.
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET.
BRISBANE;
9 ELIZABETH STREET.
hf
t
A
PHOTOGRAPHIC
—STOCK—
IMPORTERS.
tr SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF —
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS,
And all Articles app itv'" v; PHOTOGRAPHY.
CHEAP* .A MATEUR OUTFITS.
Drapery.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
207 Pitt Street.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial €o., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1871
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
"DILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
JJ Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Kates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months .... .... 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
P. B. HARRIS, Manager.
The Compagnoni Catering Co.
GUNSLBR’S CAPE
xeo, 162, 164; 3F*itt Street,
SYDNEY.
JF. GUNSLER desires to intimate that in
• consequence of the unathorised use of his
name elsewhere, it is necessary that all orders for
Gunsler’s Cafe, or Compagnoni Catering Co., be
addressed, J. E. Gunsler, ICO, 162, and 164 Pitt-
street.
J. F. Gunsler .. General Manager.
—THE—
SYDNEY SOAP & CANDLE CO.,
Limited,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Stearine and Paraffin Candles,
HOT & COLD WATER SOAP
Of every Description
Glycerine, Lubricating, Machine, Cloth and
Neatsfoot Oils.
The only Genuine and Original
Magic Cleanser Cold Water Soap.
To be had at all Grocers and Storekeepers,
CUT THIS OUT.
STATISTICS show that during the last few
io years Western Australia has made very
great progress, and, now that the success and per-
manency of the various Coal, Gold and Tin Mines
is assured, the future progress of Western Austra-
lia will be VERY RAPID.
Those looking out for a sound and remunerative
investment cannot do better than purchase land at
PERTH,
the Capital City of the Coming Colony, whilst
it is Cheap.
£lO BUILDING SITES! £l.O
Ten Pounds. Ten Pounds.
Large Allotments. Good Freehold Building
Land. Splendid Position. Torrens’ Title.
City Allotments fr ™ £33 each
Title guaranteed to be absolutely indisputable.
Only £1 Deposit, Balance on Easy Terms. Dis-
count for Cash. Buyers of Five Lots receive a
Title FREE OF CHARGE.
INQUIRY COSTS NOTHING.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets posted to any ad-
dress on application by
The Intercolonial Investment Co„ Limited,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
The bank of new Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. CIBLIN, Manager.


A YOUNG LADY, tall and fair, good looking,
is desirous of corresponding with tall
gentleman in good position. Photos exchanged.
“ Genuine,” Bulletin office.
JJEEN'S PATENT UNBREAKABLE SADDLE
Company, Limited.
Factory akd Office: 227 Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
(Late 245.)
NEW STYLE OF TREE.
83?” The Company is now prepared to manufacture all
kinds of Saddles. Any infringement of the patent will be
prosecuted. No Saddle genuine without our Trade Mark
ALFRED H. OENTIL, Secretary.
PAPER-HANGINGS.
oils,C6lours & Paints.
wall papers from a -rou
PA I
529 GEORGES 1 .,. BathurstSt.
—— Brickfield Hill .
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOII SALE. —A Quantity of Second-hand
NEWSPAPER TYPE (Minion) in case
and bulk. For full particulars apply to the
Printer, Bulletin Office.
—THE —-
Wolseley Sheep -Shearing 1 Machine.
PASTORAL! STS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents: J. H. GEBBES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT
Manufacturers and Importers of Superi
TO ALT USERS OE MACHINERY,
j. C. LUDOWICI £ SON,
, r Oak Tanned Leather Belting, and every description ot Leather Goods used for Machine and Engine™"..
Purposes.
„ ; m * ' g '
- V "■ -
----- * •*-- ''** -^^5
I *
/: ‘ ■■ V : v’- ' 'h****MhW@%
■-•—? 1 "
:
wi
;
mmm- mmm
— >
w&m*
i
-
i/i
I msmii.
mm
jm
m r i
,1'^:
i
am
£
Si
'
a
Full Stocks of
Oak-Tanned Leather Belting,
RAW HIDE BELTING,
COTTON BELTING,
Raw Hide Laces, Lace Hides,
TANGYE PUMP LEATHERS,
HYDRAULIC LEATHERS.
All Goods bearing the above
Trade Mark are warranted to
give entire satisfaction, or may be
returned at the Maker's expense.
Highest Awards
-—AT —
ADELAIDE JUBILEE
Exhibition, 1887-B.
Melbourne International
Exhibition, 1888-9.
INDIAN & COLONIAL
Exhibition, London, 1888,
Sydney,
1869, 1870, 1872, 1877, 1878,
1879, 1884, 1885.
■
li
t >n
|!|
111
s:- ■
Pi
rjm
I
ft Hr
iliuSuilliiuUiiUliiiuii
Office and
Factory: 162 Clarence Street, between King and Market Streets, Sydney.
Contractor* to the New South Wales Government. Prices and Catalogues posted Free on Application. No Agents.
Ebenezer Twine.
A youth of marked ability was Ebenezer Twine,
The son of humble parents in the paper-collar line ;
Linguistic knowledge such as his was scarcely ever
known,
He knew all t agues, alive or dead—except, per-
haps, his own.
In Latin, for example, ho was singularly pat,
With Tonpora rnutnntur and Bis dat quid to dot;
(Mi bono? Ex cathedra and expressions such as
these
Our Ebenezer handled with the most consummate
ease.
His knowledge of the Gallic tongue was quite
beyond compare;
He’d often ask, Que diablc dllment’-ils dans ccttc
galere? ■ *
Re venous it nos moutons , too, he used with great
eclat,
And frequently remarked, nous avons change tout
cela.
Again, in German he could most particularly shine
With Wunderlich ! Ja wohl! Wie gehtts'/ and
Gott in Himrnel! Hein!
Kcnnst du das land ? a question was he always had
on hand,
And Wacht am Rhein he loved to hear on any
German band.
Of Italian he a quantity had always in reserve,
And dolcefar niente would sententiously observe ;
Si non c vero hen trovato —this he knew by In an,
And at his crisp Evviva ! Neapolitans would start.
In Spanish he might be described a veritable Don,
And lo bueno es siempre bueno often dwelt upon ;
In buena nochc! Como no! and Quiensahe '! —well,
No Castiii n hidalgo Ebenezer could excel.
Twould take too long to speak about all languages
that he
Was perfect in, from Arabic to early Cherokee ;
’Twould be a weary task to cite examples just to
show .
His acquaintance with the language of the festive
Esquimaux.
With such a fund of learning it was evident that
Twine
Should not devote his talents to the paper-collar
line;
And so he found a fitting sphere—with bated
breath we speak—
He writes “ Our London Letter''' for the Herald
cv't/j week.
Sydney 5th Sept., 1889.
MONKBARNS.
Dear Bulletin,— At D Station, on
80th August, there died, under somewhat peculiar
circumstances, Thomas Norwood, station cook.
(The police are now inquiring into the cause of
his decease.) The same afternoon the corpse was
brought in a dray to the river-bank for interment,
but considerable delay took place in the burial,
because the coffin (on which sat, by the way, the
driver of the dray) arrived on the spot before the
grave was dug. Meanwhile, however, a number
of men engaged in connection with the shearing
amused themselves within fifty yards of the corpse
at a gambling game known as “ headin’ ’em ” or
“ two up,” and not very far off a number of men
of higher social degree passed away time by
swallowing whisky. The coffin was bundled into
the grave like that of a blackfellow. No one said
a prayer or a word of any sort over the man’s
remains, although forty men stood around the
grave while the clay was thrown upon the corpse.
The scene was a most inhuman one.; — Truth.
[Surely our correspondent has overdrawn the
facts.—Eu. B.]
Tamatea, a Maori residing at Wanganui,
N.Z., has sampled all the religions that have come
in his way in his journey through life with a self-
abnegation that bespeaks the true savant. He has
sung the weird waiatas, and performed the grim
incantations incidental to the Pai Mariri and
Te Whiti superstitions ; he has been a Wesleyan,
an Episcopalian, a Roman Catholic, and at present
his future hope is based on the teachings of the
Salvation Army. Tamatea tells a strange story of
his conversion from Episcopalianism to Roman
Catholicism. A priest came to his pah and
declared that the teaching of the Anglican
Church was heresy, and the only true church was
the Church of Rome. The Episcopalian mission-
ary, of course, protested the contrary, and Tamatea
and his Maoris (for he is a chief) were undecided
which karakia, or religion, to embrace. Then
the priest said: “Let us make a heap of wood,
one and a-half chains long, and half a chain wide,
and, setting it on fire, the English minister and I
will walk through the flames. He who comes out un-
harmed, his is the true religion.” To this proposal
the English minister declined to assent; and on
his refusal, the Maoris declared that the Catholic
priest was right, and nearly all allied themselves
to the Catholic faith, Tamatea and his people
among the number.
Apropos of the medical expert humbug,
who has lately been very much in evidence, a good
story is told of an old-time N.S.W. infanticide
trial at Darlinghurst. There had been a clan feud
in a N.S.W. southern district, and a young woman
of one clan was arrested on a charge of child-
murder, which (so said her accusers of the other
clan) had been committed some years before.
Butler and Halley were retained fdr the defence,
but the evidence given for the prosecution at the
inquest (held in the country) was so positive that
things looked very black for the accused. There
was a mighty pyramid of circumstantial and other
evidence, and the apex of it was a collection of bones
supposed to be all that remained of the corpus
delicti. The police were sure that the bones were
human, and two of the doctors subpoenaed by the
Crown were also tolerably certain on the point
though they naively admitted that they would
have been more positive still had the skull been
produced. However, the evidence as_ it stood
looked quite strong enough for a conviction. But
when the Crown, to clinch the case, called poor
old Gerard Krefft, the German naturalist, affairs
took quite another shape. Krefft examined the
bones for a few moments, and then, drawing his
elbows to his arm-pits, proceeded to make a series
of queer little jumps of a decidedly marsupial
character. He was sternly reprimanded for this ap-
parent levity, when he blurted out in broken
English, “Kangaroo ! young kangaroo ! Gif me
string.” Some string was produced, and there
before court, doctors, and all, Krefft deftly “set
up ” a considerable portion of the headless skeleton
of a small kangaroo. The jury at once said “ not
guilty.”
Mr. B. R. Wise’s latest magazine article
contained two big allegations. (1.) That Cardinal
Moran and Co. had instructed their clergy to
specially recommend certain insurance-companies
(controlled by R.C. Irishmen) to their flocks. (2.)
That the R.C. hierarchy had ordered the denial of
burial-rites to members of friendly societies other
than the R.C. Guilds, &c. The first allegation
appears to be unfounded, inasmuch as the recom-
mendation or order as to insurance merely applied
to church property. J ust as the Scotch squatters
keep their accounts at the banks presided over by
the Sandies and Donalds of their Kirk, so do
the Irish, and Germans, and other nationalities,
stick together in business as in religion. Kiss-
ing by religious favour is not a system known
only among the natives of Tipperary. Thousands
of men join churches and attend regularly because
of the temporal advantage attached to the pro-
ceeding. For instance, if you belong to a big
newspaper, and its fat proprietor happens to be a
devotee of Dr. Jefferis or Cardinal Moran, it will
do you no harm if you let the bloated capitalist,
your employer, fall over your kneeling form as on
Sunday he descends the aisle of Pitt-street chapel
or of St. Mary’s Cathedral, as the case may be.
The man who belongs to no church, to no club,
and to no friendly society tights a lone hand. The
Christian charity of the world is not for him, and
if it should happen that he not only is attached to
no religious club (for that is how churches are re-
garded) but openly professes some heterodoxy re-
pugnant to the great bulk of those by whom he is
surrounded, then is he indeed in sorry social plight.
The Cardinal’s fulmination against friendly
societies is, in The Bulletin’s opinion,
wholly indefensible, unless the argument be ad-
mitted that all secret societies are dangerous to the
general welfare. There is nothing illiberal or sec-
tarian about the Oddfellows, Foresters, Druids,
&c. The ordinary society man is an amiable
and gregarious idiot, who delights to walk
abroad arrayed in a gorgeous horse-collar
and a hideous rosette on one day in the year,
atoning for this sin by the persistence with which
he rolls up on “lodge” nights to vote money for
the distressed, widowed, and orphaned. Viewed
at its worst, a friendly society is, like a church,
the means by; which a shrewd business-man in-
creases the circle of his customers. Now let us
initiate Mr. Wise into a secret. A certain Sydney
insurance society makes church-membership and
attendance a sine qua non with its city canvassers.
In this connection the Kyardinal’s official puff of
a certain insurance company is hailed by the cynic
as prima facie proof that he or “ Mother Church ”
is a large shareholder.


Public Companies.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
Loan & Guarantee Company,
(Limited).
Incorporated Under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL - - - . £500,000.
Sydney Branch :
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS, Sydney.
Melbourne Branch ;
283 COLLINS STREET, EAST 283
Brisbane Branch ;
CORNER EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
Newcastle Branch: 3*7 Hunter Street.
Money Lent upon Mortgage from £5O upwards to
any amount, repayable by instalments extending
trom I to 7 years, at current rates of interest.
The Company also grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, and all classes of
Mercantile or Other approved securities, for fixed
terms, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
1 Three Months ... 6 per cent.
Slx „ ... 7
Twelve „ ... 8 ”
And a Bonus declared to deposits of 12 months
renewal, 2 per cent. 6 months, per cent.
Arrangements can bo made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD OP DIRECTORS.
KUSSELL MARSHALL Manager.
- 0f 10 p l r cent -per annum declared for the
last half-year w new due, and payable to shareholders at
the Company s Head Offices or Branches.
Applications for Shares.—Forms of Application for the
Company s new issue of 20,000 Shares at par, authorised by
the last general meeting- of shareholders, can be obtained
upon application to any of the Branches as above.
<£>he (Anglo-(Australian investment,
finance & (Band Company, (Btd.
Capital Paid-up
Capital Subscribed (Uncalled) Z
Reserve Fund ..
£lOO,OO
250,000
60,000
CAPITAL
£200,000.
Sydney Office: .... 301 PITT STREET
A GENCIES in London and throughout Australia.
Immediate advances granted. Bills discounted dailv.
Commumcatmns from the country promptly attended to.
The following are the rates of interest allowed on Fixed
Deposits:—3 years, 10 per cent. ;12 months, 9 per cent. •
8 per cent. ; 3 months, 7 per cent. By order
of the Board of Directors.
A. W. Miller, Manager
—THE—
CLYDE ORE-CRUSHING, AMALGAMATIN'
and
CHLORINATION COMPANY OP SYDNEY.
Works: CLYDE, N.S.W.
Office: 48 OASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Head Office; - 24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Chairman: HENRY GORMAN, Esq. JP
Vice-Chairman; F. A. WRIGHT, Esq., M.P.
liondon Office .. ..31 lombard Street, E.C.
Chairman: Sir ROPER LETHBRIDGE, M.P.
THIS Company was Established in 1881, and, as the
result of wise and enterprising management, has won
ts way to the front rank amongst Investment Companies.
The Amplest Security is offered to Depositors, inas-
much as the Company has large and Valuable city rent-
producing properties, besides its well-known Suburban
Estates, which are mostly within a very short distance of
important railway stations.
received in Large or Small amounts
either at call or for fixed periods, bearing the current
rates of interest.
BENJAMIN JAMES ... Manager
—THE—
FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INVESTMENT
AND
FINANCIAL COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated Under Companies’ Aet, 187 U.)
Directors:
Jambs Fletcher, M.P, Sydney ; Jambs A. Brown, Neutral
Bay; Henry Hudson (Messrs. Hudson Brothers), Sydney;
T. D. Merton, Cunningar Works, Harden; Charles
Hardy, Wagga; P. Hann, Wagga.
THESE WORKS have been erected at large
. cos t for the purpose of treating auriferous-
bearing stone of every description.
The application of chlorine gas for the saving of
gold hitherto known to exist in refractory ores
(but unworkable and unpayable by the old proceas
of treatment) opens up a new field to gold-mining,
and is calculated to give fresh impetus to the
development of the auriferous industries of the
colonies.
These Works will supply a long-felt want, and
the directors feel assured that their efforts to pro-
vide the means of testing ores will be generally
appreciated.
Ores in quantities not less than one ton will
treated by the latest known scientific methods,
and a full report and assay given by competent
experts on each parcel.
The Works (which comprise the most modem
gold saving appliances for amalgamating and
cqionnation, together with a complete assay and
analytical labatory) will be under the immediate
direction of Mr. T. D. Merton, who has succesa-
. V worked and developed an extensive and
similar establishment at Cunningar, near Harden.
For further Information, apply—
. w. B. FLETCHER.
fPPS’S
GRATEFUL— OOMFOEHNO
COCOA.
Business Announc aments.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established
... 1872.
Bonuses
OP
20 per cent. Paid Annually
I
Head Office
—THE—
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.A.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt & King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager.
THE AUSTRAL BANKING AND LAND PROPRIETARY
(PHILLIPS & CO).
Reserve Capital Account ....
Reserve Fund ....
Total Assets over Liabilities
£250,000
61,431 10 10
311,431 10 10
Head Office
Melbourne Office
London Office ....
Sydney, N.S.W.
464 Collins Street.
1 Queen Victoria Street, E.C.
Branch Offices
HST.S.W.: Liverpool, Penrith, and Burwood,
[Victoria: Lara.
Rates for Fixed Deposits over £30
per cent, for 3 Years
7 „ 12 Months
6 per cent, for 6 Months.
Balance Sheets and further information may be obtained on application to
6 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. J ‘ S ' ° owaU '
RUBBER COATS, WADING PANTS,
Waterproof Sheeting, &c., Tennis Shoes and Balls.
Australian Hutober Works
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Hjf BoURKE S T
Melbourne
TRAM’S
EYEfr&fEW
PASS
MINUTES
~k •
L
PALACE MOTET
J.A.WILSOA
rilfMTM'
CWCLARE
The PALACE HOTEL, BOUEKE STREET EAST, MELBOURNE
—is—
T HIS *?fL^ el, - W ¥^ 1 h ? 8 j £ st en fini^ ed ’ “ ® ituate in the heart of the city, in close proximity
to the principal Banks, Exchanges, Places of Amusement and Churches. It contains 7
Three
FIXED
Hundred Magnificent Bedrooms,
Which are Lofty and Well-Yentilated, each fitted with
LAVATORY BASIN, HOT & COLD WATER. AND SHAMPOO SPRAY.
Each Floor has a Range of Lavatories and Bathrooms, and every Room is Lighted by the
Electric Light and fitted with Electric Bells. These Bedrooms are fitted up in the most Luxurious
Modem Style, and not to be equalled in any hotel in the Colonies.
TWO OTIS LIFTS
)_(
Ladies’ Boudoir, Drawing, Smoking, and Reading Rooms.
)_(
MEALS can be had at pleasure, either in LARGE DINING-HALL, GRILL-ROOM or
GRAND SALOON, from Is. up to 3s.
A Branch Office of Thos. Cook & Son, Tourist and General Passenger Agents, in the Hotel.
Terms: Single Bedroom, 2s. 6cL. per KrigHt.
(Entitling the Occupier to the privilege of using the Public Rooms of the Hotel.)
.... ——l,, ,y <■
FuD particulars as to the Tariff, &c., may be obtained on application to the
MANAGER, Palace Hotel, Melbourne.
Medical.
TIR. SMITH, TJ.S.A.
MEDICAL EXPERT
In PRIVATE COMPLAINTS of BOTH SEXES.
A Prompt and Safe Cure Guaranteed.
CONSULTING ROOMS:
Nos. 7 & 8 First Floor, 482 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Hours : ... From 11 a.m. till 4 p.m.
pULVEEMACEEE’S WORLD-
* FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOB THE CUKE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica.
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Heading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
or full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet _ “Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Feee.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST «5c SHIPHAU
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-strket West, Melbourne.
Hfree Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,”
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent c r chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERRE,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu.
Agent In Sydney:
E. DOUBLET, 165 CLARENCE STREET.
WHY NOT CONSULT
Dr. DE SPENCER,
SPECIALIST A, ACCOUCHEUR.
Cases of a Private and Confidential Nature in both Sexes
effectually cured.
Hours of Consultation ;
9to 11 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7 till 9 p.m.
64 Victoria Park Terrace, Newtown Road
(opposite University),
S YD NE Y.
Business Announcements.
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allknds of Tinsfor Confectioners,
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery,
-A. Trial Solicited.
F. C. NICHOLES & Co.,
•WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks*
City Buildings:
736 George Street, 738
HA YMAEKET.
Steam Works s
617, 619, 621, 639, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, See., Made to Order.
-AUSTRALIAN-
goIIer ||lour and grain gtoreA,
GRANVILLE, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: . 173 CLARENCE STREET
(near King Street).
Brunton’s Patent Roller Flour
—AWARDED—
The Highest Order of Merit at every Competition,
AND
“Special Recommendation” of the Juron of the
Melbourne International Centennial Exhibition.
1888-89.
UMBRILLAS
RE-COVE RE tf.
(STUDY ECONOMY
° and
Have your Umbrella Frames
Re-Covered, and your
Parasols Re-Lined and mad*
Equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydkbt,
between
Liverpool & Bathurst Sts.,
Parasols made to match Cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly dons.


Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simp’e remedy, by which
a complete cure of deafness and noises in the head
of FORTY years’ STANDING has just been effected,
will be sent FREE to anyone who applies to
JT. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
“The leading Packet Tea in New South Wales
is the Famous Billy Tea. Its consumption is
at least double that of any other brand in the
market. ”
PACKED ONLY BY
James lixglls & Go.,
4 & 6 Dean’s Plage, SYDNEY.
Peter Brady’s Mishap.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A few years ago there lived within five
miles of Gordons, in the “ illigant, imerald
shire of Bungaree (Vic.), a struggling agricul-
turalist of poor but honest parents and the
Milesian nationality—which was epidemic in the
district. His name was Peter Brady; he stood
four-feet eight in his socks, when he wore any,
which only happened on Sundays and at funerals ;
was nearly as tall across, and had a thirst for
whisky, and cubic capacity for its reception far
beyond his height and financial status. Peter was
encumbered by an obese spouse and * careful y-
hoarded accumulation of children and hardly-
incurred debts ; also a mortgage, and one ot the
parents previously mentioned. As a general
thing he maintained a cheery demeanour, and sup-
ported his family in a perfunctory sort of way by
the purchase of domestic utensils, distilled liquor,
and provender, all on credit, with great goo
humour, but he occasionally regarded the aged
parent who remained on his hands* with a
iaundiced eye. He occasionally held forth to 1
venerable sire in an aggravated strain on the
viciousness of his longevity, pointing out in pass-
ing, that in living on at his present violent
rate he was running contrary to bonpture,
alienating the respect of his neighbours,
and forfeiting his right to be regarded as a parent
of discrimination and fine feeling, ihe old man
bore these opprobrious disquisitions with cheertul
resignation, partly because he was as deaf as an
ovster, and partly because his intellect was so
badly impaired by the wear and tear of a long life,
THE STORY OF JOEY.
1.-"Ooray! two birds with one ston!" 2.-The little Joey bear they wanted to take homw alive. 3.-Not feeling quite at home on the ground, Joey walked up the gum-
tree. 4.-"Jolly hard work, this skinning. Better let's ave a nip. Where's the whisky?" 5.-"Oh, there! I'll fetch 'im down! Where's the cartridges?" But they were
up the tree. 6.-So they returned home, using powerful adjectives all the way.
that he had an idea they referred to the treatment
of afflicted pigs, and so he continued to move and
have his being with great pertinacity. However,
death foreclosed on Brady, senior, at last; he was
cut off abruptly; he passed away at dinner—a hot
potato took him by surprise, and he departed tms
life before he could recover his presence of mind
and dislodge the tuber. There was no wild, irra-
tional sorrow in the house of Brady when these
facts became evident. Mrs. B. went into a mild
sort of a fit of no especial significance, the children
snivelled feebly, and Peter, with great effort, put
on a look of pained solemnity.
* * *
When the Government of the country,
through the medium of a coroner and several other
corpse-experts, had ascertained that the late Brady
was well and truly deceased and had succumbed
to a potato without malice aforethought or other
violent measures contrary to law and order, ar-
rangements for the interment were immediately
instituted, and plans and specifications for a wake
on an extraordinary scale of magnificence were
drawn up and attested. On the morning prior to
the evening fixed for the post-mortem carouse,
Peter had arranged to proceed to Gordons
to receive delivery of the “plain piner” from
the hands of the contractor, and to fortify
himself for this trying ordeal he consumed
about half-a-pint of whisky. When he reached
the township he gave way to a variety of liquors,
including beer and rum ; so it fell out thatwhen
he started on the home journey with the coffin on
his shoulder and half-a-bottle of corn-solvent in his
pocket, he was fortified beyond his capacity, and
possessed only the vaguest ideas as to his purpose
in life and the point of the compass towards which
he was expected to steer his barque. Accord-
ingly he wandered up and down and round about
the face of the Shire of Bungaree, County Grant,
in a desultory, somnambulistic manner for some
time before he was overcome by the pressure of
circumstances, and decided upon stranding him-
self in the shade of a tree, to take bearings and
give the surrounding complications the judicial
deliberation they demanded. To fortify ms
faculties against the strain of these momentous
calculations, he took an earnest but dispassionate
dose of the whisky, then removed the cofhn-lict
crawled into the casket that was destined tor the
remains of his lamented sire, and presently a
tremulous snore vibrated through the leafy s^ x '
tudes, and the weird wilderness- re-echoed the
clarion that rose shrilly above the hum of insects
and the cawing of distant crows.
* * *
All unconscious of such minor matters as
wakes and coffins, Peter had lain in the plain piner
about half-an-hour when three native youths, of
bucolic breeding, with veneration small, and
cussedness largely developed, passing in a dray,
were attracted by his quaint melody, and, pausing
to investigate, discovered the abbreviated orphan
placidly slumbering in his gruesome crib. At first
they were awestricken by the stillness of the forest
and the solemnity of their surroundings, but that
very proper feeling soon gave way to ill-timed
levity, and a spirit of mischief actuated them to
avail themselves of Peter’s condition and play a
base, practical joke on a comatose husband and
father. The young men knew Mr. Brady by sight
and reputation, but the knowledge of las recent
bereavement did not turn them from then fell
purpose. They gouged a number of holes in the
foot and sides of the pmer, screwed the lid down
lightly, hoisted the coffin into the dray, and con-
tinued their journey towards Wallace, a township
a few miles further down the line.
# * *
For some time the ignoble youths debated
the advisableness of floating Peter down the creek
to be discovered at Milbrook, then they thought
of leaving him at the railway-station addressed to
Ballarat good-sheds “till called for,” and then of
°*iving him over to Constable Bakin to be im-
pounded as a stray corpse, or sending him by
parcel-post to the publican, or abandoning him in
the township; but these suggestions were all
passed over in favour of a scheme for handing him
over to the care of Father Ryan, to be stored in
state in the church, and subjected to masses and
other sacred ceremonies peculiar to the faith. 1 he
irreverent youths lived some distance beyond
Wallace, feared no local temporal power, and, being
dissenters by birth, and, moreover, wanting in re-
ligious convictions of every description, did not
hesitate to carry their unholy escapade within the
sacred precints of Mother Church. Timing their
march, they reached Father Ryan s secluded
presbytery in the dusk of the evening, and told the
rev. gentleman a story_ of sorrow and affliction.
The plain piner, they said, contained the remnants
of their sire, Peter Brady, who had departed this
life in too prompt a manner to permit of his re-
ceiving the comforts of religion whilst yet in the
flesh, and they besought his reverence to lay him
out in the blessed sanctuary, and spare no expense
in the matter of candles and holy water. I he
priest was sorely puzzled to find a precedent for
these summary proceedings, but consented at
length, and, after the coffin had been carried into
the church and placed in a conspicuous position,
the sacrilegious young men gave a large order in
the matter of ordinances calculated to improve the
prospects of the departed, all of which were to be
charged in the bill, promising to come along with
the rest of the funeral on the following afternoon.
Late that night, before retiring to his virtuous
couch, good Father Ryan sought the sanctuary,
to renew the candles, and, perchance, put in a
word or two for the soul of Peter Brady, ihe
interior of the church had a sepulchral appearance
at the hour of midnight, illuminated only by
the dim religious light of the tapers which burnt
yellow about the grim, unvarnished shell contain-
ing the alcoholised kernel, whose melodious snore
had subsided in transit and who was as quiescent
as became his position. Probably it was nothing
more than sacred emotion that imparted the
tremor to his reverence’s knees and the pallor to
his countenance as he walked up the sounding
aisles, but, when kneeling devoutly at the altar,
he felt a cold, clammy hand touch his cheek, and
started to discover that the corpse was sitting up
in his coffin and glaring at him, his attitude was
certainly more expressive of blue funk.
“For th' love av th’ Lord !” muttered the corpse,
“ have yez a dthrop av whisky ?”
Father Ryan quaked visibly, and the line of hair
that graced the margin of his occiput bristled like
the back fur of an aggravated cat; but, feeling
that his profession demanded coolness and tact
from him on such an occasion, he ceased backing,
and summoned up sufficient energy to observe in
deep organ tones ; “Pater Brady, ye’re dead .
“ Dead, am I ?” answered Peter, “ Then be all
th’ saints I wish I was damped, savin’ yer pre-
sence.” _ :
The orphan was only now beginning to realise his
situation, and he gazed about in awful consterna-
tion. “ Hovvly Moses!” he gasped, “ Oi was after
thinkin’ it was th’ owld man, an’ it’s meself. Whin
was it Oi wint off ? What did Oi die av V Ho
stared vaguely about the church ; the personifica-
tion of amazement, marked the coffin, the candles,
and all the paraphernalia of death ; then, utter-
ing a blood-curling yell, bounded for the door,
and the next second was careering across country
towards his cabin home as if pursued by a thousand
fiends, leaving Father Ryan with an empty
coffin and much candle-grease on his hands.
On the following evening, when Mr. Brady,
sober and contrite, called to claim his parent s
last garment and to solicit the official presence of
his reverence at the interment of the late-lamented
Brady, explanations were forthcoming from both
sides, and a satisfactory conclusion arrived at.
The practical joke was not without its good effect,
inasmuch as it was the means of inducing brady
to take the pledge that very night, but, as he was
hilariously drunk the day after the funeral, per-
haps the end was not worthy of the means after all.
Hioh Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting, combining softnessi with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CH ARLEMON i
and CO., Royal Arcade, Sydney, stand pre-
eminently high, photographers to his Excellency
Lord Oarington “By Appointment.”
In a recent number of The Bulletin
appeared some comments upon the case of Cas-
tellano v. The Grosvenor Hotel Cos., Sydney, a
case which resulted in heavy damages against the
unfortunate pub. Signor Castellano, it may be
remembered, was the victim of a disputed bill to
the extent of being momentarily arrested on a
writ of capias, and the Grosvenor Hotel Cos. were
victims of the Signor’s legal indignation to the ex-
tent of £IOOO. The wherefore of that large and
expensive verdict in favour of the aggrieved scion
of an ancient race may, however, be traced to the
fact that he had left a quantity of valuable luggage
at the Hotel, and the management—even allowing
that their misgivings about the Signor were justi-
fied by irresponsible rumours —might have seized
the personal effects in preference to the owner.
The Bulletin stated briefly that the Signor de-
parted from the Grosvenor Hotel in that state of
excitement peculiar to the Italian character, but
we should have further mentioned that he left a
ton of trunks behind him. In order that our exist-
ing relations with Italy may remain undisturbed,
we herewith mention the ton of trunks with much
pleasure.
One of the old original members of the
Arrnytage clan came back to Victoria the other
day, after an absence of thirty years, and was
banqueted at Geelong. Fortune has been 'icry
kind to the Armytages. The first of the clan came
out—as he freely admitted in his hour of prosperity
through lifting a hive of bees. It was a tradi-
tion in his native village that anyone purloining a
hive of bees was bound to die rich, so the boy, aged
sixteen, went for one at the first opportunity,
and got caught in the act. The result was that he
crossed the deep blue sea in a vessel chartered by
British landlordism, and expiated his trumpery
offence by becoming a pillar of the Victorian
squattocracy. He died rich, very rich, and
also very much respected. Long before that trie
pioneer Armytage had persuaded some brothers
and nephews to come right along, without worry-
ing about the bees. They came, and annexed
earth on easy terms, like their adventurous
relative. One of them was the Armytage in
whose honour the fatted calf was slain down at
Geelong lately. Another of them was the
founder of the rabbit-pest. He imported a lively
young buck with a harem of persevering doe rab-
bits, and now Australia is fixing up a thousand
miles of wire fencing to his pious memory. His
excellent widow supports the Austin Horne for
Incurables and other worthy works of charity.
The rabbits are insupportable, however. I heir
home is all over the place. A young and sprightly
Armytage found his way into the Assembly after
last election, and already begins to make a pretty
neat speech. A lot more of them are prospering
around, with nothing against their characters save
the ownership of too much earth and too many
sheep. They are quite a hive of bees, making an
enormous lot of honey.


We have received a copy of the Journal
of the Bankers’ Institute oe Australia. > It
contains articles on banking, reports of meetings,
list of new members, and —ye gods !— We
Had thought there was no poetry in banking
at least until after you had been safe in ’Frisco for
five days with the boodle.
PARIS EXHIBITION, 1889.
GOLD MEDAL SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Lever Brothers are now in a position to execute orders
for the above, and regret the inconvenience to clients
owing to having been oversold. A continuous and regular
supply may now be depended upon.
PRIZE COMPETITIONS.
Competitors having stated their inability to obtain the
soap wrappers, Lever Brothers will extend the time up to
which lists may he sent in to September 21st.
The following prizes will he given to the successful
competitor who complies the most English words from
the name Australasia: —First £5 ; second, £2 ; third, si.
Also, 11 prizes for children under 14 years from the name
“Sunlight Soap,” viz. : One, 40s ; two 20s ; four 10s.; four
5s each. With each list a Sunlight Soap wrapper must be
attached, and sent to Lever Brothers, Sydney.
I
JKL
fii
o
T
U
T
y\cENTS ,
DELISSA* PHILLIPS
3».5 Baw,ck Street.
Medical.
\\
~X\
s
Js
V
r
cd
>W
\
>
A
er
C
«a/
A Skin Without Blemish
Everywhere a network of sudorific ducts, veins,
and pores, the skin constantly renews itself, and
not only with its ceaseless desquamation, but with
its natural functional action, eliminates all waste,
accumulation and disease. Hence, a skin without
blemish means more than beauty; it means health.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura
Soap, an exquiste skin beautifier, prepared from
it, externally, and Cuticura Resolvent, the new |
blood purifier, internally, cure every species of tor- i
taring, disfiguring, itching, scaly and pimply
diseases of the skin, scalp and blood, with loss
of hair, from pimples to scrofula.
JI haye been afflicted for a great many years with
bad blood, which has caused me to have sores on
my body. My hands were in a solid sore for over
a year. I had tried almost everything I could hear
of, but had given up all hopes of ever being cured,
when I saw the advertisement of the Cuticura
Remedies. I used one box of Cuticura, one
bottle of Resolvent, and one cake of Soap, and
am now able to do all my own work.
MBS. FANNIE STEWART, Staunton, Ind.
x Sold everywhere. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
JB6g*Send for “ How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
BABY’S
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticura Soap.
I have suffered all my life with skin diseases of
different kinds, and have never found permanent
relief, until, by the advice of a lady friend, I used
your valuable Cuticura Remedies. I gave them
a thorough trial, using six bottles of the CUTICURA
Resolvent, two boxes of Cuticura, and seven
cakes of Cuticura Soap, and the result was just
what I had been told it would be —a complete cure.
BELLE WADE, Richmond, Va.
Reference, G.W. Latimer, Druggist, Richmond,Va.
Have just used your Cuticura Remedies on
one of my girls, and found it to be just what it is
recommended to be. My daughter was all broken
out on her head and body, and the hair commenced
to come out. Now she is as smooth as ever she
was, and she has only used one box of Cuticura,
one cake of Cuticura Soap, and one bottle of
Cuticura Resolvent. I doctored with quite a
number of doctors, but to no avail. lam willing
to make affidavit to the truth of the statement.
GEORGE EAST, Macon, Mich.
For the last year I have had a species of itching,
scaly and pimply humors on my face to which 1
have applied a great many methods of treatment
without success, and which was speedily and en-
tirely cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
Mrs. ISAAC PHELPS, Ravenna, O.
PINT
IPLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
I oily skin prevented by Cuticuka Soap.
Address: B. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business Announcements.
j
Acknowledged
The Best
Cleaver’s
Transparent
Soap
Best* Cheapest
Bar None!!
Federated. Squatters
.-AND—
Farmers* Co-Operative Association of Australas
iia. Limited,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOOE and STATION AGENTS.
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
“His Wife and Kids.”
(A BULLETIN SPORTING BALLAD.)
The true story of Kilrain’s “wonderful game-
ness,” has come to hand. In the words of an
alleged sporting paper
it Kiirain’s seconds buoyed him up throughout the light
nicturing to him the effects of defeat upon his wife and
wMren It was not deemed strange then that when
wi rain was seated in his car on the homeward journey,
onre and bleeding, the big tears rolled down his cheeks
and melted the hearts even of the rough men who accom-
panied him.”
THE BRUISER'S BLOW.
Of Jake Kilrain I am going to sing,
A scrapper of whom you’ve heard ; _
Be went to fight in a square-shaped “ring
(To call it a ring’s absurd) —
Be went to tackle the Boston Pet,
Which Sullivan is his name,
In a square-shaped “ ring ” (as you won’t forget—
Though it’s square-shaped all the same).
Good Jake stood up to the burly brute,
Who certainly gave him “ beans ”
(I always select the words that suit
In dealing with sporting scenes) ;
Good Jake lost ground at every round.
Bis face was a-streaming blood,
And he fell with that journalistic sound
Described as a “sickening thud,”
Be kept on falling, did Jake Kilrain,
From Sullivan’s lightning blows ;
As soon as he got on his legs again
Be dropped on his broken nose;
And the crowd exclaimed, “ A splendid fight.
A beautiful bout- hooray !”
(Whether the crowd’s remarks were right
I leave it for you to say.)
The rounds went on with the same result,
The Slogger knocked bits off Jake—
Bike missiles discharged from a catapult
Came those knuckles, and no mistake.
But the seconds who nursed the beaten pug
Kept bringing him back to life
By slyly suggesting, “ One more slug
For the sake of your kids and wife.
Bis lips were bulged to an awful size,
His mouth frothed blood-stained foam,
But he wiped the tears from his bunged-up eyes
As he thought of the kids at home;
For love of his missis did he remain
To be battered about, the dolt!
(Now, if ever I stood where stood Kilrain,
I’d think of my wife —and bolt).
The crowd laughed loud at Jakey’s phiz,
He was getting his “gruel,” they said
(I, too, take gruel, but not like his,
As I lie in my cosy bed)—
Each one of his features had gone awry
(You can fancy the public’s glee)— _
He wouldn’t give in, he would rather die
For the sake of his familee.
Whenever they thought the end was near
His seconds gave Jake a shove,
And shouted again in his bleeding ear —
“Just think of the ones you love !”
When they’d thrown the sponge, as he silent lay,
To their horror did J ake revive—
Complaining, “O! what will the children say
When I’m carried back home alive ?”
This is the ballad of Jake Kilrain
(The rhythm’s not quite my best),
If he happens to meet J.L. again
In a square-shaped ring out West,
He’ll fight, I trust, till his dead eyes close,
And nickels press down the lids,
And his limbs are stretched in a last repose—
For the sake of his wife and kids.
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER.
The Song of the Waste-Paper Basket.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Oh, bard of fortune, you deem me nought
But a mark for your careless scorn.
For I am the echo-less grave of thought
That is strangled before it’s born.
You think perchance that I am a doom
Which only a dunce should dread —
Nor dream I’ve been the dishonour’d tomb
Of the noblest and brightest dead.
The brightest fancies that e'er can fly
From the labouring minds of men,
Are often written in lines awry,
And marred by a blund’ring pen;
And thus it comes that I gain a part
Of what to the world is loss —
Of genius lost for the want of art,
Of pearls that are set in dross.
And tho’ I am of a lowly birth
My fame has been cheaply bought,
A power am I, for I rob the earth
Of the brightest gems of thought;
The Press gains much of my lawful share,
I am wronged without redress—
But I have revenge, for I think it fair
That I should plunder the Press.
You’d pause in wonder to read behind
The lines of some songs I see ; ,
The soul of the singer I often find
In songs that are thrown to me.
But the song of the singer I bury deep
With the scrawl of the dunce and clown,
And both from the eyes of the world I keep,
And the hopes of both I drown.
HENRY LAWSON.
When the Times is Hard.
It’s a dead, tough berth, and the world goes wrong,
When you can’t get work and there ain’t much
cash,
An’ you loaf round the corners the whole day
long,
And have to rustle for room and hash ;
Yer clothes Wear out, an’ I tell you, pard,
It’s pretty rough—an’ the times is hard.
You meet your friends an’ they somehow turn
Their heads, and gaze at the signs up high
On the big brick blocks, with a unconcern,
When they see you coinin’ and pass you by.
It means, you’re a little shabby, pard,
An’ they half suspect ’at the times is hard !
But you don’t give up, and you don’t give down,
And your upper lip, keep her tight, by Joe.
You’ll see ’em all when the tide comes roun’ —
When they bow and smile and love you so !
Look ’em square in the face and ask ’em, pard,
If they recollect when the times wus hard.
AMERICAN.
A stone pulpit has lately been presented
to a Sydney church. It will be preached from by
a petrified parson.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Silver Mine
(N.S.W.) the week before last treated 3051 tons of
ore, which yielded 131,595oz. of silver, being the
highest local return on record.
A London parson has been begging for
foreign missions with a big diamond ring on his
finger, wholly oblivious of the wants of the starving
millions that surround him.
A speculator, once the habitual wearer of
an enormous solitaire shirt-stud, lately appeared
on ’Change without it, and much speculation was
the result. Somebody finally approached him and
asked if he had been robbed. “No,” the financier
replied—“ A shentleman toldt me dot nobody but
gam piers und fasht vimmin vears sdOnes of dot
size, so I gif dot stud to my sister.”
Touching that digging-up of a dead China-
man at Adelong (N.S.W.), the Melbourne Herald
states that somebody “carried the body away,
presumably for theft.” A most absurd and un-
charitable supposition. It is much more likely
that a friend of the defunct Chow took him for a
trip up-country, or insisted upon the corpse coming
home with him for a month. Newspapers dis-
cover base motives for the simplest acts.
Rothschild has been advocating the cause
of the Persian Jews before the Shah. Replied
that mighty potentate
I have heard that you brothers possess a thousand
crores of money, I consider the best thing to do would
be that you should pay some 50 crores to some large or
small State, and buy a territory in which you could col-
lect all the Jews of the whole world, you becoming their
chiefs, and leading them on their way in peace, so that
you should no longer be thus scattered and dispersed.
Until very recently there lived as an
inmate of the asylum at Liverpool, N.S.W,, a
very old man, who used to relate how, one fine
morning, maddened by hunger, he and eleven
other prisoners of the Crown broke into the com-
missariat stores at Liverpool and stole a small
quantity of oatmeal. They were all tried by court-
martial and he alone of the dozen escaped convic-
tion. The other eleven were hanged one morning
on the green in front of Brewer’s Hotel-
Says a correspondent : —Demosthenes was
wont to orate on the sea-shore, but a certain Aus-
tralian silver-tongued orator practised some thirty
years ago on the footpath outside the old Market
(Sydney) when it was a row of butchers’ stalls.
“ Baife, muttin, vale, hor poarke, neow buyers,
what’ll you buy ? What’ll you buy ?” was his melo-
dious cry. One man held forth at each of about a
dozen stalls, but only one of them blossomed into
prominence. The most noted of the butchers was
poor Pat Mullally, who worked hard, made much
money, and lent or drank every shilling of it.
Once a week, at least, he would clear the whole
market with a cleaver. Pleaven rist his sowl!
While a “no confidence” motion was
being moved in the Victorian Assembly a ’Eralu
interviewer sent for Jack Gardiner, the Whip, to
come outside and give his opinion on the past, pre-
sent, and future of football. The member for the
Carlton barrackers went “ like a bloomin’ bird,”
leaving the fate of the blessed nation to hang in
the balance best way it could.—
A crisis had struck the Assembly,
Men hadn’t the strength to “hear, hear!”
Old Gillies was pallid and trembly,
While Deakin turned yellow with fear:
The Government’s life was imperilled—
But what did that matter at all,
When a chap had come down from the ’Eeald
On the national biz. of football ?
“Our Jack,” almost dazed by the motion.
Was wondering how they would vote—
Then he suddenly gasped with emotion
On reading the ’Erald man’s note;
The screw of the Whip was in danger,
And the Government placed in a fix,
But he hurried to talk with that stranger
On the national topic of kicks.
His heart was as light as a feather,
His eyeballs with frenzy aflame,
As he twaddled of “ placing the leather ”
And playing the National Game;
For the Whip (a six-hundred-a-year’er)
Has got enough gumption and nous
To hole football than politics dearer
Since he kicked himself into the House.


Tobacconists.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WOULD.
Wholes am Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & GO.,
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES.
MELACHRINO'i
MELAOHRINO
MELACHRINO I
MELAOHRINO f
MELACHRINO
MELACHRINO J
M. Melachrino & Co., Cairo,
SUPPLY
All the Courts and Embassies of Europe;
ALL THE
Leading British and ! Continental Clubs
and Regimental Messes.
—Have the Largest Sale in the World!—
Universally Acknowledged to be the Best.
Sole Agents:
& ROWN.
14 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Public supplied Direct in quantities of 100 and upwards.
Price No. 5 Cigarette ... 85/- per 1000 ; 9/- per 100.
.. No. 8 66/- „ 7/- ..
Orders from any part of the town or country, if accom-
panied by Cheque or P. 0.0., inclusive of cost of carriage,
will receive prompt attention.
Miscellaneous.
BURGLARY.
The British Australian and New Zealand
Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance Co..
Limited,
85 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
ISSUES POLICIES indemnifying' Householders
against loss by BURGLARY.
Rates Low. Settlement Prompt.
For conditions and particulars,
W. ,T. SMITH,
Secretary.
AGENTS and CANVASSERS Wanted.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligh Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THOMAS M'CREERY;
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
WALTER HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET. SYDNEY,
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest Wholesale
Prices
Speciality.— Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. All communi-
cations referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.W,
FREE BY POST for six PENNY Stamps, a
Medical Treatise by that eminent French
Hospital Physician and Parisian Specialist, Dr.
RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may
cure themselves of Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
&c., &e., without consulting a medical man
Address: “Parisian,” P.O. Box 766, Sydney.
MUSICAL,
PATENT SCALE INDICATOR for Pupils Learning the
x Piano. Price, 3s. 6d. And IMPROVED VAMPING
SYSTEM, without a knowledge of Music, 5s. 6d., posted
to the country from Ingham’s, Sydney Arcade.
Country Agents wanted—Stationers;
ows
>-EMBFM) CATION
f
t u
f XxSOLO
'.^EVERYWHERE'
j
H. HILDER,
BOOT — UPPER — MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OF
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «®c..
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant,
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FISH ! FISH I PISH!
Colonial Ice Company, Ltd.
To Fish Consumers in Town & Country.
WE ABE PREPARED TO SUPPLY
Pish Frozen in Solid Blocks of Ice,
the blocks containing- 801b., 151b., and 101b. assorted fish.
Price, 3d., 4d., and 5d. per lb., according to the kinds of
fish desired.
ICE GRATIS! ICE GRATIS!
Blocks delivered free at Railway Station, packed so as to
carry to any part of the colony, for 2s. 6d. per block extra.
Instructions sent with each package how to treat the
fish so that they will keep for several days. The fish are
obtained direct from the fishing ground, and guaranteed
perfectly fresh and sweet.
Sample Blocks will be Forwarded on receipt
of Post-office Ordor for the Amount.
|3P” All orders to be sent to the Works—
Ken.ain.gton. St., Sydney,
T. D. KYLE °TT Manager.
THOMAS ROSS,
TOBACCO A CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A large stock of Genuine llavannali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor dc Bonito ”
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.'*
Business Announcements.
, CLARK &
WOOL & PRODUCE BROKERS,
oo
STOCK: & STATION AGEITTS,
HAYDs G unrivalled facilities for the Storage and Display of Wool, either in Bulk or Sample
and having largely enjoyed the support of Wool-growers for so many years, appeal with evei4
confidence for a continuance of their clients’ favours. The season bids fair to be exceptionally goo/
and prices realised will doubtless prove highly satisfactory to growers. ’
The SYDNEY WOOL MARKET
is each year proving increasingly attractive to English, Continental and American Manu-
facturers, who prefer making their purchases here at first hand. Should owners, however, desire it,
we are prepared to
SHEIK TJTsTIDjEK LIBERAL CASH AHVAHGE
to our Agents. For all wools offered but not sold merely a nominal charge is made.
Regular Sales held of Wool, Sheepskins, Marsupial Skins, Hides, Tallow, Leather, Grain,
and aU Station Produce. Bi-weekly Sales of Stock at Hometoush and Corporation Yards.
Large and Extensive Paddock Accommodation at Homebush, Blacktowx, and
Dubbo for both Sheep and Cattle.
All Consignments receive prompt and personal attention upon arrival. Way-Bills and all furthe r
information on application.
Wool Warehouses - CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Head Office, 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Branch Office at DUBBO
See Signature in
Blue Ink across
the Label thus: —
j
XJSE
liebig COMPANY’S
EXTRACT OF MEAT
Beef Tea, Soups and Entrees
Taylorßro 8
HIGHLY NUTRITJVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINEDIN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
[)Av»so«i/j
DAWSON’S
Sole Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, ROGERS & 00.,
(Opposite Q.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
j
WHISKY
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
i
FARMER’S EXCHANGE, ALBERT.
PA. BUCKHORN & CO., Produce Mkb-
• CHANTS, have always on hand large
supplies of Oats, Chaff, Potatoes, Onions, Butter,
Cheese, and Eggs.
Chaff in any quantity sold in trucks at Albury
Station according to sample.
Orders Promptly Attended to.
"What is Home without a Picture ?’
Xj. BEEUASCOITI,
(Late R. Smith)
Elite Carver, Gilder, and Picture Frame Maker,
159 Clarence Street Only, SYDNEY
(near Central Coffee Palace).
Plush Work a Speciality. Mounts Cut to any Design.
A Dog’s Dream.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bed Indians say that if you wear round
your neck a wampum belt that has been cast over
a dreaming dog, the same visions will come to you
m your next sleep.
In Ladalah and Leh, however, you must fall
asleep with a silk ’kerchief over your face, the
same having been lately removed from covering
the head of the dreaming dog. Many secrets have
been found out in this manner ; at least so it has
been told to me on the banks of the Chatahoochee
and in the hills near Hawlee and Lake Pangong.
I shall now tell you how we, Mary Murphy and
I, tried the experiment.
I was horse-breaker for Scrammy Jim M‘Loose,
and Mary was laundress. On Sunday she used
to come and talk to me at the door oi the chaff -
house where I slept and which I kept clean and
comfortable. Why she came I did not know, but
I thought she was a bit gone on me as I was on.
her. At any rate she brought me eggs and cakes,
for I was “ tuckering ” in the hut.
One afternoon my dog Busby was jerking
his near hind-leg and yelping in his sleep as dogs
do when troubled with dreams (some people say
“ fleas.”)
I had bought two silk handkerchiefs from
Mother Gibbons, the hawker, and given one to
Mary. I thought I’d try the dream-trick and placed
my handkerchief on Busby’s head. Just then
Mary came in, and I explained the matter to her.
So Mary put her rag over his head, too, and we
went our ways, she to her room and I to the hay-
loft, where I slept and dreamt a dream under the
silk.
The substance of it was that Mary was stand-
ing dressed in white in front of a parson and
■omeone in black near her and Busby between
what evidently constituted a bridal pair. Just as
the gospel-miller said, “With this ring I thee
wed, ” Busby, the dog, snapped the ring, and I
awoke, and behold it was a dream.
What Mary dreamt she refused to tell.
The Fact.
Our dream —for that Molly had seen some sort of
a vision I was sure—our dream brought about an
engagement; none of your off-and-on affairs, but
walk-on-Sunday, mug-on-the-wood-heap, conversa-
tion-lolly, downright earnest marriage intent.
And I bought me a ring and a keeper; price,
from Mother Gibbons, as usual, thirty-five shil-
lings. Mary kept them, and things went well
enough till I took the boss’s horses to the Cocket-
gedong races.
In the meantime, I forgot to tell you, Busby and
I had invented a game, which consisted in letting
Mary hide one of the rings and then the dog would
find it. At odd hours the little poodle would jump
up at me and deposit the ring in my hand ; on one
occasion he had taken it from the servants’ bed-
room.
On my way back from the races I had to pass
through Urana. I noticed that the public and
publicans were shy of me and kept shouting with-
out telling me any news. At any rate, I started
off home with too much liquor aboard, and got
blocked just opposite the church. There was quite
a crowd of horsemen in the road and they looked
queer to me and at me.
I got down to pick out a stone from my nag’s
foot when up rushed Busby and delivered me mt
ring.
I knew Mary must be in the affair, so I let the
pincher I had with me hold the horses, and I
entered the church just in time to see the end of
my dream of love—a dog’s dream. Mary had
just become Mrs. Malone or Maloney or Hooligan
—I don’t care what.
I hope she’s happy. I am. As I remarked
before, I awoke and behold it was a dream, I
thank thee, John Bunyan, for these words.
HIRAM ABIFF.
Anything that Dingman’s Electric Soap
fails to purify has not yet been discovered. It is
the one peculiar combination which performs its
mission in the extinction of dirt, grease, paint and
stains from any kind of clothing, and upsets the
old-time theory about washing-day miseries. It
is no longer necessary to boil garments to pulp or
rub them to rags to get the dirt out. Dingman’s
Electric Soap prolongs their usefulness, increases
their beauty, and materially assists the user in
attaining the length of days attributed to
patriarchs.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Ered. Wilo
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN,
//
i;
3?
EUREKA
MS
ELECTRIC
BELTV
■ v-
a
i\«
\h0
■O'
'7
A NEVES FAILING- CURE EOS ALL.
diseases OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1. 0. 0 and
ucwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
/fiBVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mM, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
Jt is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
Address";— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. O., Sydney.
Dr. James D. Llewellyn,
L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., LOND.,
Registered by the Medical Boards of Victoria, New South
Wales and England,
SPECIALIST
—IN—
Chronic, Nervous and Benito-Urinary Diseases,
may be consulted daily at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET—
<between Swanston & Elizabeth Sts.J,
3viEr.B0cjR.1srE:.
Confidence Absolute. Curable Cases Guaranteed.
All Personal Consultations are free ; but by
Letter, a Fee of £1 is charged, which is inclusive
of medicines. Patients living at a distance and
unable to attend personally can be treated by post,
and have their remedies forwarded per mail or
express to any part of Australia, carefully packed
and concealed from observation.
A Practical Manual on Special Diseases,
expressly written for the guidance of sufferers from
“Nervous Debility” and Private Diseases —price,
3s, fid. (post paid.) Copies may be obtained from
the Publishers, “ The Otto Publishing Co.,” No. 4
A’Beckett-street, Melbourne, and all Booksellers.
A Wonderful Discovery.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists,
ft - ,, 1: _ „ f The Public are requested to notice the
wauLLOIl ! words, f#” Roses Celebrated Eye
Lotion, with the Trade Mark (a Rose) on Dark Blue
Ground, is on the label affixed to each box containing the
Lotion, without which it is a forgery.
ASK FOR
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
Not for ROSE EYE LOTION,
as you will get a Lotion composed of Rose Water palmed
off on you for the genuine article, thus misleading the
purchaser for the sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
? , Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
WEEVOUS DEBILITY.
Consult FREE, PERSONALLY, Or BY POST HERR RASS-
MUSSEN, the celebrated DANISH HERBALIST and
EXPERT SPECIALIST. A medical hook sent free on
receipt of a 4d., stamped self-addressed envelope, contain
ing valuable hints. Try Herr Rass-Mussen’s Pills, which
are a guaranteed cure. Price, £1 2s. 6d. per course. Sent
unobserved. Address—
Herr Rass-Mussen, “Roselund Villa,”
Opposite Rifle Butts,
MOORE PARK ROAD, SYDNEY.
MAGIC MEAL
FOR FATTENING ALL KINDS OF
STOCK andJPOULTRY.
Extracts from Testimonials:
Report by Charles Watt, Esq., Late Government
Analyst :—
“ I have tested a sample of the ‘ Magic _ Meal ’ for
poisonous metals such as Antimony and Aasenic and have
to report, afte.i a most careful examination, that I have
been unable to detect a trace of anything that would be
injurious to stock of any kind. It is my opinion’ that tnis
article should fulfil all the conditions specified in the
handbills enclosed in each bag.
Mr. H. Ludwig, Registered Dairyman, Croydon:—“I
find it greatly increases the flow of milk from my cows, at
the same time keeping them in good condition.
Sold in bags—71b. 3s. ; 141b. 5s. fid. ; 561b., 18s.
fid. ; and sent on receipt of stamps or P.0.0.
Parcels of 561b., Freight Paid, to any Railway
Station or Port within the Colony.
A. H. PHILLIPS,
81 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, an c f
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doseswill
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these ' ills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech am s Couen
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. and 2s. 9d. each. Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
OOlemanessons
Eucalypte Oil
1
- >
irroRY Ointment
THE TREE OF LIFE .
The only pure Eucalypte In the World.
AWARDED Gold Medal Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition. First Prize Great Centennial
Exhibition, Sydney. The only known CURE for
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption, Pleurisy,
Colds Coughs, and all affections of the C liest and
Lungs • also, for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
etc Our VICTORY OINTMENT stands with-
out a rival for Bad Legs, Bad Breasts, Cancers,
Tumours, and skin diseases of all kinds. Also,
manufacturers of the Eucalypte Pills, Eucalypte
Hair Restorer, Eucalypte Soap, and our world-
famed Eucalypte Honey is the best preparation
before the public for young Children and aged
people. Also, makers of the Eucalypte Lozenges
for the Voice. Manufactory— Cootamundra.
Sydney Wholesale Depot-227 Elizabeth Street
Posted to any part of the Colonies. Sold Every-
where. Beware op Imitations.
Prof. R. T. SELBY
Is considered, to be the most Successful 1 racti-
tioner in the Australian colonies. All sufferers
should read the Doctor’s most unique work on
Nervous, Private and other Diseases. The
Advice on Marriage is worth its weight in gold.
Send your full address, and we will send (post
free) Chip Copy. Write to Prof. R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hill, SYDNEY,
M CONSULT IT
core & Hogg
THE EMINENT A
a I ■ 'IJcLJU JfcJuJLW
I SPECIALISTS,
On all Diseases Of the Genlto-Urinary Organs
Nervous Diseases, and Private Complaints,
1 CORBETT’S BUILDINGS , corner of George
’ and Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
OOI.8ULTATION8 FREE, PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER.
II Box88G.P.O.) Book sent on receipt of 3d. g tamp
5b
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition — Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from th-
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements.
£2O BUCKBOAED BUGGIES
£2O
BEST liV THE WORLD
lor 1630.
j
Tlie Largest foacli-
Works lu Australia-
No. 45— Turnout Seat— £3s.
COPE <sc NEWMAN
BOGGO ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE. .
Read ! Read. ! Read !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One ShillinS
Per post, Is. sd. (except Queensland).
Sole Agents :
Victoria: A. Benjamin, 321 Little Collins-st., Melbourne
Brisbane: J. H. Thompson, Bookseller, George-street.
Tasmanian: Fitzgerald Bros., George-street, Launceston.
“ For Framing a Picture Seat and Well.”
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-Ft., Sydney (Opposite
Royal Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c,, carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges,
special attention paid School Drawings Plush
■work a speciality. Inspection invited.
j
£
MAMUfIUTU«£«9A
& IMPORTERS OF
t,
HATS CAPS At
( =*T *
438 CEORCE ST
3VDNEY %
fppostCt LaasrtCens
Pi
\ss>
Branch :
678 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
(Next to Craig and Aitken.)
MANUFACTURING HATTER
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AIL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
cr>
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
(
i.
■g
W/,
m
&UCH
INC
PO
gjp|j **rZ~**'*,
CNANNOb cftarioirrSt
ffaSaULtn* aXt SaqcjaA < >gSI
Business Announcements.
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’ Pale Ale,
FIRST QUALITY.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
Colonial and Indian Exhibition, London.
By Special Appointment.
Wholesale Agents :
BALCHIN JOHNSTON & CO.,
SYDNEY.
M. B. Foster and Sons,
LONDON,
“BUGLE ” BRAND ALE & STOUT.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
It having come to our knowledge that ALE and
STOUT of very inferior quality, in bottles with
skillfully forged labels have lately been palmed off
on the public :
We desire to warn our friends of the fact, and
to state that all corks as well as capsules of the
bottles shipped by Messrs. M. B. FOSTER and
SONS to this colony bear their name and
address.
Any information respecting Bottled Beer pur
porting to be “Foster’s Bugle Brand” offered
tor sale without these corks and capsules will be
esteemed by the undersigned, who have instruc-
tions to bring to justice the perpetrators of the
frauds.
A Liberal Reward will be given for information
leading to conviction of the offenders.
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY,
Agents for Messrs. M. B. Foster and Sons.
Ask for kupper’s elberfeld
LAGER BEER (specially brewed for Australia).
Absolutely Free from Sediment.
G. STEPHENSON
Has on Sale —
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
Rum, Sherry, and Whisky Puncheons,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.. Sea
Cooperage i
387 KENT STREET & 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market-st., Sydney.
Hotels.
VfJLt;
WBbowden s Haim
1
I3OWDE3V’S HOTEL,
Elizabeth Street (Near Hunter St.), Sydney.
JOHN C BOWDEN .. Proprietor.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
near OperaHousb, Bourke-st.,East, Melbourne.
This well-known Sporting House is conducted
in First-class Style. Every convenience. Centrally
Situated.
WESTEKKT HOTEL,
Warmanibool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. MT Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Twq Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
livery and letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co.’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE
Proprietor.


A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON WADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Arc Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersalls.
x
Porpoise Hide wears twice as long' as
any other leather, la
y~ X
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage
MASON BROTHERS,
j
LIMITED.
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
.Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade arid Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, Chinn and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS vfc SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
JR. X*. XjuAJEUESLIZyr,
IMPORTER OF
WIUES, x SPIRITS, x ZB IE IE ZR, S 7 x ETC.,
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, Ddnville’s Roe’s and Wise’s (old Cork) Whiskies.
Hbnnbssy’s, Martbll’s and Sazbrac’S Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest SCOTCH WHISKIES (in wood). Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All Brands of Colonial Wines. The leading brands
of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
WfinlesalE anil jingle Settle l)epai]tments, anii €[Eciige-st. s sysney.
— — — SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES’ REFRESHMENT ROOM & LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (Opposite A. Hordern & Sons.)
—)x(
Produce Stores, Gipps St., and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OPFICE: GIPPS STREET (Next Prince of Wales Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
iKTES'W
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
BROTHERS.
;«•: \
« US"
?X*D<ESV
C ’ r IILDBEN;
Rs
TRUNK i Sl 8lC *^
i\ miHwSiww* ar <
( tf£7?mwrvjC
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDEEN’S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 j Frankfort, 1881
Baris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
Phila.,
Berlin,
Paris,
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking ean be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing. . -Vw
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
To Country Newspaper Proprietors.
FOR SALE.—A Quantity of Second-hand
Newspaper Type in Case and Bulk. For.
particulars apply to the Printer, Bulletin office.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes © grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxford-st., London. JgiP Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. _ _ VwJSH
ENIJINE SWEDISH MADE
Are superior to all others and lower in price. Samples to
be had at any leading Ironmongers, or from
C. .A.. FAL8TEDT,
146 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted. , .
B. F. B??.rtWNr Sr. fin
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
CROWN BRAND
HORSESHOE NAILS
SOLE AGENT FOE AUSTRALIA,
tr
I
CLARENDON HOTEL,' MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on tile Shortest in the-Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechcrchi
JJmner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of -the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Pishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hote at One o’clock daily and Sundays. No- expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkk to make her
visitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
3MCz*s. Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
IMPERIAL -HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs, Eirst-class Accommodation.
Private Suites. First Class Sample Kooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG- - * Late of New Zealand.
Imperial Hotel,
TOWNSVILLE.
1 H: y
THOMAS WALLACE,
Proprietor.
©
I
OVf
OR
AIR
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL.
Used for 100 years. Prevents and Arrests Baldness,
strengthens the Hair and produces a luxuriant and glossy
growth ; also prepared in a Golden Colour. |
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO.
A PURE, NON-GRITTY Tooth PoWbER. It whitens the
Teeth, prevents decay, gives fragrance to the breath.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR.
A harmless emollient milk for beautifying the com-
plexion. Removes Freckles, Tan, Sunburn, Roughness
and Redness, and produces soft, fair and delicate skm.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
Grey Hair a permanent Brown or Black. Ask Chemists and Perfumers for ROWLANDS*
Articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, England, and avoid imitations.
TiLINTGrYES, LIIVII TED,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 h.p.
BOILERS,,
1 to 36 H.P.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
CENML PUMPS,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PDMPS.
Saw Benches.
liathes.
BElll® MACHINES.
&a, &o.
Si
Hay St., Haymarket, Sydney,
winding ENGINES.
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
FLOUR-MILL ENGINES.
ENGINES
FOR
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Muliiluklar Boilers.
CORNISXI BOUEBg,
&0., &c.
We invite all those requiring Machinery of _any kind for any purpose, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock we are generally able to mve
Visitors, whether buyers or not, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, “ er^'
120, 131, 133 & 13S JSCJSk.'ST STREET, EC A. YM ARKBT,
SYDNEY.
