

AITKEN’S ALE.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE SEST IN THE MARKET.
“DICKENS”’ WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
Son & Attwood, 251 George-at, Sydney. Sole ikgeixts
for 3XTe-w South Wales.
sadfsf
lv£a,r!ret Street, S'2'lDiTE'Sr.
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
s
“ lE3-o.ll± Pass,” “ Loolv-Otit.”
DISTANCE FROM SYDNEY, 42 MILES.
WE BICKSON
“ Wishing Well.”
HORSES AND VEHICLES ON HIRE.
“ IjiodLciozi Waterfalls.”
EVERY ACCOMMODATION.
Proprietor.
BALDWIN DRY AIR
S3.£^.£3»£asa»
REFRIGERATOR.
Beware of the many so-called Dry Air Refrigerators advertised by unscrupulous Manufacturers and Dealers, intending
to deceive the public and trade upon our reputation. This is the original and celebrated Dry Air Refrigerator, made
famous by its successful competition at the leading Exhibitions in the United States for the past Six Years, known as
the Baldwin Dry Air Refrigerator.
WHITE MOUNTAIN FREEZERS, ICE MILK CANS, MIXERS,
X.£MO]Nr SQUEEZERS, &c, &o.
IMlcLean IBros. <£z Ltd..,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J.
Howard’s Colonist 2-Furrow Digging
Plough.—(B.Z.O.l)
Howard's Single-Furrow Digging
Plow gli(O.L.)
Tlie Plough oT tlie * Times!
PLOUGHING AND HARROWING IN ONE ACT.
Share Points only cost 6d., and are Reversible.
Chaff-Cutters, Horse Gears and every kind of Agricultural Implements
insr stock:.
Enquirers please quote this paper.
280 i PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Corner op Pitt and Bathuust Streets).
m:
(A
*
-S3
V.
(7i
. /
/ K
—THE-
LONDON * SYDNEY
TEA
COMPANY.
409— KENT STREET—4O9
(Two doors from Market Street),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—IMPORT—
HIC3- H--C LASS I ZsT ZD I .A. ZST & CHIITA
TEAS
Packed in 201 b. and 401 b. Packages, and delivered at Is. 6 C1., Is. 9d. and 2s. per lb.
(Carriage Free) to any Railway Station or Port in Now South Wales.
A Single Package at Wholesale Price. Correspondence invited, and promptly attended to.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 534.]
[Saturday, May 10, 1890.


II
Ml
aaaMiwi
i LI -.,i.
ISIIII
iilisciMfllyi |i Jiff!
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Bixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592ib?.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
HIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
asdf
■SvyC
\Potfy
asdf
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Hits an enormous sale in England
ami is now being introduced into tlie
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply
as every AVise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
3 Sa
4*2 f
ca,'*
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila.,
Berlin,
Paris,
1870 Melbourne, 1880
1877 1 Frankfort, 1881
1878 ' Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-35, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers, iso polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
THE BALLAEAT COFFEE PALACE,
Lydiard Street, Ballarat.
VISITORS to the Golden City will find every
convenience at the above Establishment.
The Only Coffee Palace in Ballarat.
MODERATE CHARGES.
REID & SONS Proprietors.
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EATJ DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strcngih and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
A.Ticidsrsoisr’s
FLORIDA WATER,
I An exceptionally fine Perfumo for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealert and of the Manufacturer)—
I J. & E. ATKINSON,
; 24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
v. Trade Mark—“"'hite Rose” on “Golden j
SS. Lyre," with Address in full.
T. LAWLESS, Junr.,
37 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY,
Fruit M erchant.
PRINCE OF WALES’ HOTEL,
St;. Klilda, Victoria.
Within Five Minutes from STATION, and One Minute from ESPLANADE and BATHS.
MRS. KONG MENG ... ...' ... Proprietress.
W ILLXA JVE S '
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
Bread, Tea Canes, Pastry, &c. 9
ARE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Teast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The Brighton of New South Wales.
AT CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the Shortest Notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechcrcM
Dinner you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country;
here also you can have good company, gopd wines— m fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and licmc 1 arties provided, lable
de H6tc at One o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
\isitors comfortable and her Hotel the best in the colony.
U&dtrs. lE£:XXj.IVEXjNTSI"3S33F2., Clarendon XSotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
JgDWIN G GOEETZ
Stock and Share Broker,
-a-G-ie istt,
BRISBANE.
Member of the Brisbane Stock Exchange.
68 Hunter Street, and 8 Bligli Street,
SYDNEY.
IF 1 . SHEOEDEB
LIVERY, BAIT, LET-OUT AND COMMIS-
SION STABLES.
Horses and Vehicles of every description for
Sale or Hire; also, good reliable Ladies or Gentle-
men’s Hacks.
THE
Wolseley Sheep-Shearing 1 Machine.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in Booking Orders for next Season.
Agents : J. H. G-EDDES & C 0.,
19 PHILLIP STBEET, SYDNEY.
asdf
asdf
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
hears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ BlacJcugtt, London, f;c., sc.
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the If or Id,
Everyone should Read
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s” well-known Artists, L. Hopkins and Plul May.
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is- 3d
May be had from Agents, or direct from “ The Bulletin ” Office.
a ~F X, X , Victorian :A. Beniamin, 321 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne ; Tasmanian : Fitzgerald Brothers, George Street,
■ nuoandanrl • J H Thom + Hinommn.
Price
rt n n noo


Business Announcements.
BEAX.E & COMP AMY’S
3?Q"®-w 'W*Ei/x > o]a.O"UL»®.
A
OUR NEW SHOWROOMS AND HEAD OFFICES,
482 and 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A RAttICAI. REFORM.
“Oh, I feel so Mondayish !” exclaims the housemother
at her breakfast table on the Monday morning. Although
the above absurd adjective is not to be found in the dic-
tionary, yet every woman well knows its meaning when
she looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling, toil-
ing, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The house is
thrown out of joint, other weekly duties are, as far as
possible, set aside, the children kept out of the way, a cold
dinner for the family, and a warm reception for anyone
who intrudes to waste time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing day” is a
thing of the past. Every busy, hard-pressed mother
knows the wretchedness and gloom which the present
washing day brings down upon the household. In the
early morning all is prepared for the all important washer-
woman, timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then
to attack the week or fortnight’s batch of soiled linen.
The good-natured husband readily excuses a hastily-pre-
pared breakfast, for he hopes it may betoken the speedy
ending of the dreadful day. The children are packed off
to school, and then begins in earnest the strife between
the housewife, anxious to get everything finished in good
time, and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the greatest
impartiality the laundress divides her attention between
the discussion of light refreshments and the very latest
gossip, the intervals of time being filled up with a gentle
application to her special functions
Very many of our valued customers to whom we have
supplied labor-saving appliances in the past, do their own
washing. In every family, in our climate, frequent
changes of underclothing are necessary. Then there are
the house linen, the cotton dresses, white coats, and
outer garments; and all this is heaped up for the poor
house-mother to cleanse, perhaps with the assistance of a
daughter, if there is one old enough. It is not that the
husband, who also works hard, is unkind. Expenses are
many, economy is imperative, days of depression and of
trouble must be provided against. So the washing is to
be done, and the wife must do it; and after the imperfect
rest of a sultry night, as she gets ready the breakfast upon
a hot Monday morning, she feels for a while that her lot
is cheerless, "that the apportionment of toil is beyond her
share and beyond her strength; that somehow a change
should be made. No wonder that fair young girls, after a
few years of married life, become worn-looking, and that
they age faster than they ought. The husband is willing
enough to cherish the good wife’s comeliness, and to make
her lot easy, but how 7 ? She does not complain, only says
she feels always “ tired ”
Now 7 , as purveyors of household implements, w 7 e have
long seen our opportunity to enlarge our business by
introducing a thoroughly efficient Washing and Mangling
Machine. Both these services must be combined in the
one article. This we have most perfectly and assuredly
accomplished. The demon of the washing day is not
scotched but killed
We resolved to introduce nothing until absolutely certain
by observation, experiment, and test, that the implement
would be a success. There are hosts of Washing Machines.
The vast majority are childish fads, are injurious, or are
useless. We say and we prove that the Beale l'atent
Washer will save in labour of washing in proportion as our
Sewing Machines do in sewing. And in a higher degree,
for the washing by hands is so much the more laborious.
The Beale Patent Washer may be described as follows :
The vertical tub is very carefully made, with fluted sides.
It is stationary, only the water and the clothes being
agitated by an accurately shaped “ dolly,” which is w 7 orked
by a fly-wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no
arrangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength suffices
to lash the water into a mass of foaming suds. In the
process the clothes are floated to and fro, up and down ;
currents and cross-currents of w 7 ater are formed, which
meet, and are forced through and through the fabric,
carrying aw 7 ay every particle of dirt and stain. The linen,
being merely suspended in the w 7 ater, is not rubbed and
scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process, which insensibly
rips, tears, and wears the clothes. Thus the most delicate
fabrics cannot be torn by our system of washing. Every-
one has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the fierce
rubbing they get upon washing boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this friction is
done away with. Therefore, the clothes will last far longer
than by hand-washing, how 7 ever careful. When the wash-
ing is done, the. tub should be wiped out, so that it be
always sw 7 eet and clean. There is no false bottom, arid
nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
When you buy a Machine of any kind,
have a good one.
Beale & Company
482 & 484 George Street,
SYDNEY.
We have erected new Show-rooms, Offices, and
Warehouses, at No. 482 and 484, George-street,
Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to
the Royal Arcade. These are the loftiest com-
mercial buildings in the city, and can be seen from
all parts of the city and adjacent suburbs. The
Showrooms are the largest and finest in the
southern Hemisphere, for the due display of the
splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs, and
■ ea |® Sewing Machines.
-Ml goods may bo had upon easy time-payment,
° r p? r oas k ess th ree shillings in the pound.
Photographs, price-lists, and samples free by
post.
No matter where you live, we will supply you
withalW, Organ, Harmonium, Sewing Machine
or Washing Machine, upon easy time-payment.
banelips and Travellers throughout New South
'Vales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
WILLIAM FLEMING
MERCHANT and IMPORTER,
22 & 24 Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret St.),
SYDNEY.
2, St. James’ Buildings
(WILLIAM STREET),
MELBOURNE.
Fleming”'
RELIABLE
S’o.g'gri^sL-,
mitsmi
High-Class Buggies, Phaetons,
Waggons and Harness.
asdf
Farm Waggons,
Express Waggons.
CARTS
Tor One and Two Passengers.
4
SN
r
'V
saiililßlffl
ullllilllßi
3 <
c
—r-
V
Hi
>
jmiiiiii®
•*IUIII|||
3IIIIIIIMI.
70
£
rv
&
£
min
THE
asdf
68
CLARENCE SX
•V •*-.**-
SYDNEY.
AGENTS -
in New South Wales.
asdf
asdf
FROM
Neuralgia,
Nervousness,
Headaches,
Biliousness,
Wasting Disease, Debility, &c., &c.,
When yon cam he Cured
LAI
CELEBRATED
Price, 2s. 6d and 55.; Post, Is
Eyt.rfl.
CAINS and Co., Chemists,
78 KING ST., SYDNEY.
M. W. & Co.
For Sale It? all Chemists.
HUNGARIAN
NATURAL APERIENT WATE&
For Constipation, Indigeattoi
Stomach <$ Liver Complaints
asdf
Ot ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA
The Natural Mineral Waters of
(STATE
asdf
SPRINGS.)
GRANDE-GRILLE. —For Affections of tha
Liver, Biliary Organs, &c.
CELESTINS.—For the Kidneys, Gravel, Goat
Rheumatism, Diabetes, &a.
HOPITAL.— For Stomach Complaints.
HAUTERIYE. —An excellent Table Watml
OF ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALASIA.
Business Announcements.
MASON BROTHERS,
sadf
LIMITED*
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the
Trade and Wholesale Buyers Only,
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
(ilium, Cliina iiml
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER AND SONS
Old Highland Whisky.
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SON S’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
HEM-RY HH3XTG-,
SCENIC AND PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHER,
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Catalogue of the most Complete Series of Views to
he obtained in Australia.
Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Blue Mountains, Harbour and Coast Views.
Victorian and New Zealand Views.
Groups of Australian Aboriginals and South Sea
Island Natives, &c., v &c.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY
31 Y ork Street.
P.O. Box 920.
Dr. Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted II
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
Speer, M D., 31 York-street, Sydney. Post Office Box]
No. 920. Office hours, 10 a.m. 012 a.m. 2to 4 and 7
to 8 p.m. Sundays from 10 to 11 a.m. only.
©
O, CTu
TO YOU3XTG MEN.
m „ DR. FLETCHER’S
TREATISE ON NERVOUS DISEASES, THEIR CAUSE,
SYMPTOMS, TREATMENT, AND CURE.
T'HE directions contained in this little treatise will be
found of immense benefit to the sufferer; and if these
directions are observed during the early stages of Nervous
or Sexual Debility, Vo Medicines will be required, as, by
observing the directions given, the patient can Cure Him-
self.
This admirable little treatise is specially written to
show a method of counteracting the evil effects of indis-
cretions in early life—overwork, irregularity in eating or
drinking, &c. It is the result of much study and long
and successful experience in the treatment of diseases,
and contains a fund of useful information to every suf-
ferer from the following complaints, viz.:—Nervous
Debility, Dizziness, Specks before the Eyes, Pains in the
Back, Defective Memory, Loss of Will Power, Loss of
Energy, Spermatorrhoea, Bashfulness, Discontentedness,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Derangements, Atrophy,
Impotence, Impure Blood, Foul Taste in Mouth, Palpita-
tion of Heart, Wakefulness, Despondency, Excessive Ner-
vousness, Inability to Marry, Premature Decay, and other
symptoms experienced by nervous sufferers.
All Should Send for this Little Treatise.
If the complaint is of long standing and requires
medicine, Dr. Fletcher will GUARANTEE TO CURE
ANY CASE OF NERVOUS or SEXUAL DEBILITY
with ONE COURSE OF MEDICINES LASTING FIVE
WEEKS, and will send with medicines A WRITTEN
GUARANTEE to cure same or return the monies paid.
Dr. Fletcher’s treatment is both simple and effective,
and within the reach of the poorest. It is unlike any
other, and with it he has cured over 25,000 patients, and
invites patients to investigate his statements by verifying
the testimonials published in his treatise. The treatise
will be forwarded on receipt of two stamps to cover
postage.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, FREE.
Address in first instance—
DR, h. EWART FLETCHER,
Box 1417, G.P.O.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Private address—Clonmel House, Waverley, Sydney.
Remember, all cases undertaken, guaranteed, and a
signed agreement given, which provides that NO COST
be incurred by the patient if a cure is not effected.
VARICOCELE RADICALLY CURED WITHOUT
OPERATION.
Mention this Paper.
i*'" IN THE PRESS,
O-OIiJDIEIISr SHAUTY,
Bv “BULLETIN" WRITERS.
77


TT7~I
—iSOBbJ ffiesepssa /*>
■hbuobesJ Kasss? ncsan «a&ra wsffie* bessm
A pleasantly-situated Property, thoroughly cleared, close to Liverpool Station. Torrens’ Title. £1 deposit; 10s. per month.
-A- W_ STEPHEN, 28 CASTLEEEAGH STREET,
u
A Golden. Shanty.” kt a Selection from the brightest of the original literary matter which has made The Bulletin world-famous. Price, Is. : posted, 3d. extra.
Public Companies.
The Australian Mercantile Loan and
Guarantee Co. (Limited).
Head Office :
Corner of Market anil York Streets, SYDNEY;
Melbourne—2B3 Collins-street East.
Brisbane—Corner Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
Newcastle—27 Hunter-street.
Directorate :
FRANK J. SMITH, Esq., M.L.A., Managing'Director.
J. P. HOWE, Esq., M.L.A. G. J. FINLAYSON, Esq.
E. H. BUCHANAN, Esq. JAMES MILLER, Esq.
The Company grant immediate advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage, and Bond Certificates, and all classes’of
mercantile and other approved securities, for fixed
terms or repayable by instalments.
Interest Allowed on Deposits:
3 months ... 6 per cent.
A. MILLER ... General Manager.
the
Australian Banking Company ,
LIMITED.
PITT and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY,
Incorporated under the Companies Act, IS7U.
Authorised Capital, £500,000, in 100,000 Shares' of £5 each.
Subscribed Capital, £75,000. ’
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, M.L.A.,
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
A Branch of the Bank has been opened at Goulburn
under the management of C. H. Atkinson, Esq. (lately
Branch Manager of the Bank of New South Wales) for the
transaction of General Banking Business.
The Bank has paid its Shareholders a dividend of 10 per
cent, every half-year since its formation.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular.
Special advantages granted to Commercial Clients.
Overdrafts granted against deposit of Deeds.
THE HIGHEST RATES OF INTEREST GIVEN FOR
FIXED DEPOSITS.
The Share Register is now open for the allotment of
Shares—New Issue.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, Manager.
Forms of application for Shares may be obtained at the
Bank.
CITY MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
COMPANY, Limited.
Established 1877.
Capital ... ... *500,000.
Head Office:
25 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A Cash Bonus of 10 per cent, is paid to Policyholders
on renewals every year. Insurances covering Loss by Fire,
Lightning or Gas Explosion at Lowest Rates.
The DIVIDEND of 8 PER CENT, to 31st December,
1889, is now being paid, and the BONUS ot 10 PER
CENT, to Policyholders will, as usual, be paid on re-
newal of the'r policies.
Mosey to Lesd on Approved Security.
N.B. —The Bonus paid is equal to that paid by any
Fire Company in Sydney.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Medical,
Eucalvptl Oil®.
I Tv
THE TREE OF Li
rtWy
ro
Duncan Ross,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS’
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
don’t be
Jf you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Cole mane & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract —there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all.kinds, Coughs,’ Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Singers
and public speakers will find C. and Sons’ Eucalypti-:
Honey a wonder Be sure and get Colkmane and
Sons.
Business Announcements.
PttIDDY & CO.,
Hats made to Order-
MANUFACTURE
I- OF HATS
—iiii : Jjii
Morley's Hosiery.
438 George Street, Sydney.
Branch—67B George Street, Brickfield Hill.
(x. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OP
fw 7*nd c^pg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street.
•«
. i
mk
mM
A Large Assort
snent of English and
French Goods, from
the best Alakcrs to
choose from.
Every description
of lIATS and OAFS
made to Order.
H
ISTORY OF BOTANY
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
BAY
Business Announcements.
NO
You Will most certainly save Money,
Time, and Anxiety by placing all your
Write
to
DON’T
Advertising in our
hands.
F. T. WIMBLE & CO.,
Advertising Experts,
WASTE
369 to 373 George St.,Syd. Send for Pamphlet
“ How to advertise and why P ” lltli Edition,
I “g™
n a
Th. 9 most Delicious Sauce in the World.
am
Jig
t£
H
6 S 000„Q0Q Bottles
'sold annually.
Enriches Hot
Joints, Stows,
&c.
Delicious to Chops,
Steaks,Fish,&c.
With soup it is
charming 1 .
Agrees with the
most delicate
person.
Hakes cold meat
a luxury.
Makes the plain*
est viands pal*
stable.
She daintiest
dishes more
delicious.
A great addition
to Cheese.
Epicures pro-
nounce it the
host Sauce.
Fears no com-
petition. A mar-
vel of cheapness
and enterprise.
Suitable to the
invalid’s cup of
Broth.
Beware of colour-
ablo imitations.
H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales has recently ex-
pressed himself as highly
pleased 'with it.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale Agents — TILLOCK & Co., Kent
and Liverpool Streets, Sydney, N.S.W,
it
METROPOLE
HOTEL
Bent, Fliillip & Young Streets, Sydney
-THE-
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
FIRE
Insurance Society.
Established ... ... 1872.
Bonuses
OK
20 per cent. Paid Annually
since 1873.
. .O
.
Head Office
-THE
Oldest Mutual Fire Office
in Australia.
Claims promptly and liberally
settled. Fifteen days’ grace
allowed for Renewal of Policies.
Lowest Current Rates charged.
Hon. George Thornton, M.L.C.,
Chairman.
Head Office:
Corner Pitt King Streets,
SYDNEY.
Walter Church ... Manager*
Business Announcements.
. *.
■o 3
BAVTE
t:u
Mm*
AUCTIONEERS & ESTATE AGENTS
v<m
'i
PllSltsiti
V^v-sa v&'jS*
BAILEE is CO.,
General Auctioneers and Estate Agents,
325 Collins Street, Melbourne, and it Chape]
Street, Sonth Y'arra.
mm£
UMBRELLAS
§tE*£oV£R£o.
t T U D V ECONOMY
ai d
Have your Umbrella Frames
HcGovered, and your
Parasols lie Lined and made
Equal to New, at
<5 . fd II LIjiVA N ’ 8.
541 George Street,
BniCKFIKLD II ILL, SYDNKT,
I et / eva
Liverpool <£• I'.alhnrst Sts ,
Parasols made to match Cos
tumes. Ilcp-airs neatly done.
S’ V-V
>A PER-HANGINGS
liis,Colours 4 p A | NT s.
WallpapersmM^otL
pAI
29 George Si/BathurstS:
PULVERMACHER’S WORLB-
FAMED GALVANIC BEETS
FOR the CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c.,
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism: Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W,
Ir-FtOST <3c SS2I3PEIA3VS
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria:
ALLISON BROS., 477 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
OYAL STANDARD HOTEL)
CASTLEREAGII and BATHURST STREETS.
Thoroughly renovated throughout.
First-cla's accommodation for Country Visitors.
G. BOYNE
Proprietor.
THOMAS M'CREERY:
MEDICAL HERBALIST,
83 Oxford Street, i doors above Riley Street.
Private Diseases of Both Sexes a Speciality.
Consultations Gratis. Charges very Moderate.
A Trial Solicited.
A SPEEDY CURE GUARANTEED.
dsf
Investment, Jj.an.dL n/jtxci. IB x*. ± 1 c3L ±m. fs;
Company, XjjitKtxi-fceca..
Authorised Capital, £lOO,OOO ... Reserves and Uncalled Capital, £37,000.
Rates for Deposits : 12 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, CJ per cent.; at call, 5 per cent.
Bonus to 12 months’ Depositors.
Directors: J. Garrard, M.P., Hon. J. 11. You.no, M.P., J. P. Walker, J.P., John C. Hamilton.
J. D. Ward, Manager, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ƒg
327 PITT STEEET, SYIDILTIEY.


The Bulletin
Vol 11-No. 534.
SATURDAY, MAY 10, 1890.
Price, 61.
A CHANGE FOR THE BETTER.- A Sequel to the Egeria “Muting.”
EX-MABINER OF HENGLAND (“doing” five years for “not bing good”); “MY FRIENDS, DON'T WORRY ABOUT ME: AFTER ALL THIS BRANCH OF HER
MAJESTY'S SERVICE IS PREFERABLE TO THAT OVER THERE AND THE UNIFORM, AS THE NAVAL SERVICE GOES
NOWADAYS, MUCH MORE HONOURABLE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.'*
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ®
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor ivill carefully read and acknowledge in the
IS Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ive are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ivhom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
SATURDAY. MAY 10, 1890.
“The ‘Higher’ Education of Women.”
The sum of £'4ooo is wanted from the public
for the incorporation and affiliation in Sydney
University of a Woman’s College. V daily
paper recently made a pathetic appeal on
behalf of this unborn institution, and ad-
jured the philanthropists of New South Wales
to rally to its aid. A brief statement of the
condition of affairs in relation to the Women’s
College is simply as follows : —ln 1881 women
were admitted for the first time to Sydney
University ; and since that year the number
of those who have taken advantage of the
opportunities offered has shown a steady
increase. Encouraged, apparently, by the
feminine interest taken in what is described
by admirers as “ the higher education,” the
New South Wiles Government granted
£5OOO towards the building fund of an affi-
liated and incorporated Women’s College,
conditionally that £5OOO should also be
raised by public subscription. The Govern-
ment further granted £5OO per annum
as salary to the principal when the
condition should be fulfilled. Already
has the public subscribed over £lOOO, a
theatrical matinee realising about £2OO ; but
£4OOO more is needed before the promoters
of the college can claim the State grant ;
and, naturally, they are very energetic in
their efforts to stimulate public interest to
the extent of £4OOO. They complain, more-
over, that the question has not been properly
put before the people ; the article alluded to
is evidently the result of their agitation.
“Do the public,” asks the paper just men-
tioned, “ want a Woman’s College ?” In the
name of that public so earnestly importuned
for a reply, The Bulletin thinks it can
safely answer “No !”
* * #
What right has any Government whatso-
ever to endow any institution for the advan-
tage of any special caste or section of the
community? The Premier occasionally informs
deputations of the unemployed that it isno part
of a country’s duty to find work or bread for
its starving children. “ This,” says Premier
Pahkes, “is a governmental function which
1 refuse to recognise.” Yet in the face of
this dictum concerning the right and proper
functions of a Government, the sons of the
wealthy are assisted by the State to obtain
an education which will enable them to levy
a professional guild-tax upon the public for
the rest of their lives. Now, it is proposed
to assist also the daughters of the wealthy in
(heir efforts to attain a “ higher education ”
for the present we waive all question as to
the real value of this education ; let us look
at it as a matter affecting the proper func-
tions of a government. What an outcry
there would be to-morrow if Parliament
voted a sum of £S(KX) to teach the wives of
the working-men how to make bread, how
to cook, or how to wash clothes.
“This,” it would be indignantly re-
marked by the S. M. Herald and Daily
Telegraph, “this is no part of the functions
of a Government. Next the State will pro-
pose apprenticing the children of the poor
to trades at the cose of the tax-payer.”
Notwithstanding, the functions of Govern-
ment are so elastic that they can be stretched
to cover the whole question of State aid to
the “ higher education” of those who, if
they want it, should be made to pay for it,
or to go without. Indeed, that magic phrase
“ higher education” carries with it a sort of
aristocratic meaning which completely dazzles
us. “Higher education” must of necessity
be the education of the fashionably-connected
and well-provided for; the education which
is good enough for the workman is, of course,
the lower education, and a thing to be
patronised and smiled down upon. While
there are snobs in the world, the State-aided
“ higher education” of the salt of society will
not want for partisans.
* * *
In regard to the value of modern academi-
cal education in general, it is sufficient that it
is on every hand condemned~rnot, of course,
by those who look upon it as the imprimatur
attesting to the educated person’s status in
“ society,” but by all the leading Scientific
and philosophical minds of the age. Herbert
Spencer, contrasting the ghastly memorising
of ai'bitrarily-tabulated dogmatism which
passes for modern “ higher” education with
the genuine article, says that education is
a means by which men learn what they re-
quire for the proper conduct of their lives
and how to obtain it : education is to
teach men to order their lives in
accordance with the leading activities
which constitute human life, which
are : —First, the activities that minister to
self-preservation ; secondly, the activities
which, by securing the necessities of . life,
minister to self-preservation ; thirdly, the
rearing and disciplining of offspring ;
fourthly, the maintenance of proper social
and physical relations ; and, fifthly, all
those miscellaneous activities which go to
make up the leisure part of life. This is a
scientific definition of what education should
be. In most modern “higher” education
only the fifth section of the above definition
is taken into account. If the “ higher ”
education is anything more than a plaything
to those who are wealthy enough to turn
life into one long play-hour, it becomes
simply a machine to enable the ruling
classes to continue as ruling classes. It
gives a man a lot of useless “ culture,”
which, when he leaves the University, he
leaves behind him ; but the useless “ cul-
ture ” —which takes also long years to
gather, and therefore cannot be gathered by a
poor man who has no leisure—is usually
made the key by which the door leading to the
“ learned” professions is unlocked. Lawyers,
doctors, clergymen, have to study a great
deal they are only too glad to forget, yet
only a man whose parents are comfortably
off can afford to give the time to the accumu-
lation of this useless burden of knowledge.
The Government which, “on principle,”
cannot afford to relieve its unemployed
citizens, can, however, afford to endow
universities for the inculcation of fruitless
and valueless knowledge to men and women
who are quite able to pay for such luxuries,
and who if they want them should be com-
pelled to pay. By the leading minds of Europe
modern university or “ higher ” education is
regarded as a monstrous farce. In an ad-
dress on mental discipline delivered before
the Liverpool Institute some years ago,
Professor Huxley said that if he had the
power he would 4 4 make a clean sweep
of everything, and start afresh.” In-
deed, the money now spent by the various
Governments, in endowing schools of the
alleged “higher” grades, and universities,
in order to flood the country with doctors
and lawyers and clergymen, would be
much better spent in the sanitation of
our cities ; in the abrogation of those of. our
laws which have grown useless, and the
simplification of those which are vague and
obscure ; and in the providing with work
those citizens who lack the means of subsist-
ence—a fruitful source of moral and physical
transgression. But no, Governments, like
everything human, and therefore fallible,
begin to reform always at the wrong end.
They attempt to make divorce easy while
marriage remains as difficult as ever. People
are tempted to slip through the bonds of the
conjugal relation while an embargo is put
upon those who take them up. So with
this question of education. Instead of
making the “necessity” of a learned and
privileged caste, which lives by its learning
and its privileges, less of a necessity, the
Government generously saddles the country
with the cost of educating lady doctors, lady
lawyers ; mayhap, lady clergymen.
# # #
As the mother of the race, woman has un-
doubtedly a right to get as good an education
as she is capable of receiving ; just as man
has a similar right. But let it be “educa-
tion ;” and, moreover, if State-aided, let it be
an education which all may partake of—-if they
wish ; in the third place, let it be an education
calculated to benefit not only the individual
who receives it, as an individual, but the
community of which the individual is but an
atom. If we, the people, are to bestow the
advantages of a “higher” education upon
those who desire such a luxury, we have a
right, first to bestow the education we shall
consider worthy to be ranked as “higher;”
in the next place, we have a right to prevent
the monopoly of this luxury by the leisured
wealthy. As we are the providers, we
demur at the fixing of a curricu-
lum by a caste senate elected by privi-
leged voters from among the privileged
classes—the governing, the official classes.
As this is Australia, and not England; as we
are a democracy, and not the pawns of an
oligarchy, it will be our own fault if we do
not compel our governments to give us a
voice in the disposal of our own money—for
educational or any other purposes. The
truth is, however, the educational craze is
running over its proper bounds. It is ceasing
to be even a harmless craze ; it is assuming
the proportions of an avalanche. There is a
perfect fury of agitation in official quarters
about “higher” education at present.
Scholarships, fellowships, what not, are
talked about with an almost amusing glib-
ness. The madness becomes rampant! ‘‘The
women must be educated !” Indeed, and so
they must! but how ? Invoke not the god
of paradigms and tabulated antiquities ; pre-
pare not your Procrustean bed for the arbi-
trary stretching or shortening of all intellects
until they fit the mould ordained by the
examiners. These mental tortures are not
for men even. The Lord forbid that women,
upon whom the coming generation depends
for its sap and its vigour, should be sub-
jected to them.
■fc * *
Woman cannot be too learned, provided
the learning she has helps her to fulfil her
varied functions of mother, nurse, educator
and trainer of her children. For this sort of
education she has a right to clamour until the
doors of the Legislative Chambers are bat-
tered off their hinges. Woman, as woman,
cannot be too much or too well educated ;
but her education must have the future well
in view. On her the nation’s future depends.
Any education which unfits her for the fulfil-
ment of her maternal responsibilities is nob
only useless—it is most emphatically a curse.
Woman, however, will go to the University to
be educated just as man directs. Of course
she will ! She has no judgment, only imita-
tive faculty, and the demand for “higher”
education on the part of woman is merely
the outcome of jealousy of her brother. Just
as women adopt as much as they can of their
clothing to masculine pattern, just as they
affect slang and stable-talk, just as they
go out shooting and practice on a target
with a revolver, so now they want to wear
academical gowns and trencher-hats, the
more especially as the “higher” education
of women is beginning to be spoken of as a
desirable thing in fashionable circles. Women
are always ready to run phrenetically in the
wake of man. - All the masculine fads and
fancies find apt imitators in those women
who want to be considered as emancipated
without having brains to emancipate them-
selves. Then they take their follies so
earnestly that serious harm is done to the
race. A man who has received the alleged
advantages of a “ higher ” education,
generally knows how to put his learning, or
whatever he calls it, on the shelf with his
books. Woman clings to it with a pitiful
constancy. She makes it the business of her
life. It becomes absorbing. A girl who has
received a “higher” education is generally
a prig, or a poser. She cannot help it. It
is a characteristic of her sex. It has been
said, for instance, that marriage is every-
thing to a woman, that love is her all ; that
man on the contrary, takes up love as a
pastime, it supplies the need only of one of
his moods ; with woman it tills her win le
life. This is true not only of love, of
marriage ; it is true of everything that she
regards as a pursuit for the time being. Her
brain is so constituted that it can contemplate
only one object at a time. Music, marriage,
love, croquet, dress, party-giving, dancing,
poonah-painting or “higher” education —it
matters little ; a great deal of futile earnest-
ness spread over a very small area is a
feminine characteristic.
# * *
Perhaps it may be good for the race, if the
“ higher ” professions swallow all the girls
unfit to become mothers ; it may operate in
driving out of these professions all those
able-bodied young men who are now wasting
energy, which might be of infinite value to
humanity, in the perusal of indecent mytho-
logic episodes and the accumulation of
paradigmatic information, the only value of
which was the work it afforded to the printers
and compositors who put it into book-
form. All this wasted masculine effort
might be then released and directed into
other and nobler channels. And yet it is
sad to see enthusiastic young women rush-
ing hot-headedly into a course which can only
result in augmenting the artificialism of our
effete modern life ; when both men and
women would be better employed in work-
ing together for the good of the whole race
than in assisting to support the absurd
existing conventionalism by the creation and
perpetuation of caste occupations which are
growing up and spreading abroad in every
direction in such luxuriant profusion. Of
course, we have no word to say against
those women who are above fashion’s dic-
tates, and who carve for themselves a place
beside man. We have no judgment to pass,
no sarcasm to level against such women as
Elizabeth Browning, George Eliot,
George Sand, Mary Somerville, Lady
Duff - Gordon, Harriet Martineav,
Madame De Stael, Caroline Schlegel, Mrs.
Ashton Dilke, Mabel F. Robinson,
Olive Schreiner, Mona Cairo,
Francis Power Oobbe, Mary Wolsten-
craft, the Brontes, Margaret Fuller,
Helen Taylor, Madame Roland. These
women had gifts that pointed to an intollec-
tual activity which would not be denied.
They simply followed their vocation. Very
different, indeed, is the present fashionable
craze for a “ higher,” in contradistinction to
a lower, education on the part of young
women who think that there is something
magical in the inculcation of a course of
arbitrarily chosen subjects by a professor in
trenclier-cap, variegated gown, and other
mementoes of a faded past.
# # *
We must perforce say it : woman seems
unable to be natural. Herein lies her differ-
ence from man. She is always hysterical in
whatever she undertakes. If she is a doll,
she is a rapturous, gushing doll. If she
is a drudge, she exaggerates her patience,
her pious resignation, and her humiliation
becomes an unmitigated horror. If she is a
scold, she borders on lunacy in her scolding.
If she makes a maniacal effort to enfranchise
herself, she makes her preliminary prepara-
tions by disfranchising her intellect. If she
demands and obtains a “ higher ” education,
as an educational prig of the first water her
name is'Eclipse. The ideal woman belongs
to the golden age of the poets, far back
in the mythical, distant past: or, may-
hap, she' belongs to the equally mythi-
cal and distant future —a sort of re-
mote grand-daugliter of our very remote
posterity. Be this as it may, she is not here.
What is here is a strong young person, or a
weak young person, a blunt ora lackadaisical
young person ; fashionable or slipshod,
aesthetic or gushy, as the case may be : she
has, however, one trait that never leaves her
—she wants to have everything, whether
she really needs it or not ; to enjoy every
privilege, even those she cannot comprehend
the meaning of. Let her ! We do not ob-
ject. Let her parents pay for her amuse-
ment, though, when she demands so costly a
toy as “higher” education for women, and
expects to receive it as an alms from the
State.
Deity and Dynamite.
Prior to passing a sentence of 10 years' penal set 1
vitude on the prisoner Cosgrove, Sir Frederick
D ARLEr, Chief Justice of. New South Wales, made)
from his place on the Bench, some observations
which call for and will repay consideration. Cos-
grove, it will be remembered, was found guilty of
having attempted to injure or destroy the pre-
mises of a neighbour by means of dynamite.
There was no doubt that, but for certain circum-
stances —among them the prisoner’s ignorance of
the proper method of applying the explosive so as
to give its destructiveness full play—the result
would have been disastrous to both property and
life. It was when the Chief Justice dwelt upon
the destruction which might have resulted from
the crime, that he observed, withobvious sincerity i
—“ He almost shuddered when he thought what
would have been the consequences had not the
Almighty interposed and prevented it.” From
the position and character of Sir F. Dar-
ley it iB small wonder that his words should
have Weight, especially when delivered from the
highest judgment-seat in the land; There cah be
no doubt that when lie spoke ill the foregoing
manner just before sentencing Cosgrove, he
honestly believed that the Creator of the Uni-
verse, looking out from His throne in the Heavens,
had discovered the wicked resolves ih ThomAS
Cosgrove’s heart and determined to defeat them.
True, He might have changed the bad thoughts in
His creature’s erring brain into good ones, for He
is omnipotent. But His ways are not our ways,
consequently He preferred to let Cosgrove so
bungle the matter as to render the explosion
harmless to everybody but himself. These ideas
regarding Providential interposition—ideas once so
wide-spread but now deemed so droll —are so op-
posed, not alone to what is rather vaguely called the
“spirit of the age,” but to the universal experience
of mankind, as to demand examination.
# # #
Suppose, for instance, that CoSGRoVE had beteh
an expert in the use of explosives, and that his
experiment in Castlereagh-street not only levelled
the objectionable premises but squelched a
passing tram as well, as suggested by
the Chief Justice. In the tram, say, were
some half-dozen usurers on their way to
turn a few helpless families into the streets.. It is
clear that the blast which lifted them, let us hope,
into happiness into the next world might at the
same tiu.e have released their victims from misery
in this. The poor debtor who thus got a respite
would be ungrateful if he did not discern the
finger of Providence n the catastrophe. Besides,
if Providence put it in Cosgrove’s head to make
too large a hole in his neighbour’s wall, thus
rendering the explosion harmless, it certainly
might have interposed to prevent the going down
of the Quetta, or of the London. By one timely
turn of the rudder the former vessel would have
been saved and scores of innocent lives with it i by
the hilling away of tile wind on that fatal day itt
the Bay of Biscay, hundreds of men, women and
cli ldren would have been preserved. These are
but two instances out of thousands that might be
cited where, just when the interposition of Provi-
was in tearful and prayerful demand, things were
suffered to take their course with the result that
the cruel waves soon remorselessly rolled over
saint and sinner alike. The real difficulty is
why a supernatural exception should be made in
favour of Castlereagh-street, Sydney. It may be,
of course, that the people who reside in or frequent
this fortunate thoroughfare are better than the
general run of mankind. But those who profess to
know the street best—who travel it oftenest by day
and night —do not hesitate to say that any real
superiority in either manners or morals of the
residents or pedestrians escapes the closest obser-
vation.
* * #
What we contend for is this : If it can be snown
that at any period in the world’s authentic annals
any physical event was the unmistakeable result of
Providential interference, the particular instance
should be given by those who still believe in such
interference, if only to see whether some natural
reason cannot be produced to account for the oc-
currence. If no such event can be brought for-
ward—if the records of thousands of years can be
searched in vain for an objective phenomenon ad-
mitting of a hyperphysioal cause alone —it is
surely time for persons in high places to take care
how they stand on the shore of this great ocean of
human experience and defy the advancing tide.
It is nothing to the purpose for them to say
that, as the Deity is omnipotent and all-
merciful, there is every reason to sup-


pose that, out of His goodness, He sometimes
interposes to right a wrong or prevent a
calamity. Unhappily, the whole history of
the world we live in is but a record of the triumph
of wrong—a sad diary of successful violence and
fraud. In every-day language, any Power,
whether Divine or human, that accepted the con-
tract for righting evil, would never be in want of
employment. It may be that in a future life the
drawbacks of this will be remedied. Indeed, it is
to the hope that such will be the case that much
of the abject submissiveness of the bulk of man-
kind to the oppression of a few may be attributed.
But that hope is far less robust than it was, and
is growing jveaker as the world grows older. 1 n
these our days, men look about them and recog-
nise that from the very beginning life has been a
pitiless struggle in which the weaker and more
scrupulous went inexorably to the jvall. They
see, too, that, even if Providential interposition
could be proved to have taken place frequently in
the ivorld’s history, it has left no lasting benefits
behind it —in a word, that whatever has been done
for man’s liberty or w r ell-being has been accom-
plished by man himself.
# # *
Let us concede for a moment the truth of the
Chief Justice’s remarks-let us admit that, in
order to save the lives of persons in Castlereagh and
Elizabeth streets, Sydney, Jehovah prompted Cos-
grove to remove some extra bricks from the wall,
thus rendering the crime abortive owing to the
large size of the hole. The question that at once
suggests itself is, jvhy Omnipotence should have
taken such steps to prevent the consummation of
a comparatively insignificant outrage while offences
of much greater magnitude were suffered, not
only to be committed, but to go unpunished 01-
even to be rewarded. The authors of most of the
greatest massacres —of cold, calculating butcheries
that long have shocked the moral sense of
humanity—were suffered to die peacefully in then-
beds, with a fair prospect of enjoying eternal hap-
piness on leaving the earth they had tilled with
slaughter and tears. The bastard William, in
order to conciliate his neu r British subjects,
burnt and destroyed everything Saxon, in-
habitants included, in the broad region between
the Humber and the Tyne. Did an English
churl venture to kill a hart or a boar
his eyes were at once put out for, according to the
Saxon Chronicle, “ William loved the high
game as if he had been their father.” Yet this
brigand lived over 20 years after the Conquest,
and died comfortably after having received com-
plete absolution for the towns he had burnt and
the Women his obedient cut-throats had murdered
or ravished. Owing to him and his successors it
took England just 000 years to double its popula-
tion. Yet, with the exception of those who were
murdered, most of these brawlers were allowed
ample time to make their peace with God and cbe
in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
# * *
Look abroad the wide world over, with the pos-
sible exception of Australia, and the same ghastly
story of successful crime comes . to us in every
language. To leave out the ancient civilisations,
where government was commonly tempered jvith
massacre, and not to go too far back in the
modern, it is enough to glance at a fejv atroci-
ties whose promoters, so far from being pre-
vented by FroVidence from compassing their
ends, succeeded completely, and in many eases
lived long to enjoy their success. The Albigenses,
for instance, a thriving people of south-western
France, whose industry turned the land into a
garden, had the bad taste to differ from the Ropes
m some things which the latter, being infallible,
knew to be essential. As argument tailed to turn
these stubborn people by the Garonne from their
errors, there jvas nothing for it but force. Ic is
but just to the Curia and to the Catholics generally
who joined in the crusade, to say that, after a air
trial of the new method, the Albigenses were all
converted. It is almost supererogatory to add
that they were dead as well. The barons of the
twelfth century and their henchmen seldom
bungled a job of this kind—rarely left such a
comract unfinished, particularly when the Pontiff
was behind to grant unconditional pardon for any
little excesses indulged in while pushing the work
through. It is a tact, as singular as significant,
that the Providence which rendered Cosgrove’s
explosion innocuous held out 110 helping hand
to the uiTortunates who were unlucky enough to
disagree with Pope Innocent regarding some
points of doctrine. And, lest it be said that they
were justly punished for denying their faith, it
might be as well to point out that, hundreds of
years afterwards, Cromwell’s soldiers spitted
Irish infants on their pikes to prevent them fiom
growing up into Papists. Yet, the Protector died
comfortably jvith his boots off, while the descen-
dants of his followers are to this day in possession
of the choicest uplands and meadows between the
Giants’ Causeway and Cork.
# # *
Look again at St. Bartholomew’s Day and the
revocation of the Edict of Nantes in France; the
Inquisition in Spain, Italy, and the Netherlands ;
the thirty years of religious warfare that threw
Germany back a century ; the merciless treatment
of the Peruvians and Mexicans; the short, sharp
Marian persecution that caused the triumph
of Protestantism in England ; and the long
pressure of the Penal Laws that left Ire-
land as Catholic as they found it. Who jvill be
bold enough to say that the instigators of these
enormities that brought misery to millions and
left indelible stains on humanity itself, did noteat
and drink, marry and give in marriage with light
hearts and easy consciences? Or, take the wars
which had a purely political origin, the conquests
which had 110 connection with religion, and the
same unwillingness of Providence to interfere is
apparent in all. “ Heaven fights on our side,’ is
the expression which the song puts in the mouth
of Nelson. But it is doubtful whether it would
have taken the part of the British if Villenkuvk s
strips had been more numerous or his crews better
trained. Fanatic as Cromwell was, he still was
sufficiently sceptical of supernatural aid to avoid
battle when his powder was wet. The cause of
the Poles was just, but that did not prevent dis-
memberment. At the present moment cultivated
lidies are suffering nameless tortures and in-
dignities in Russian prisons. Still, Providence
looks on and gives no sign. In fact, the more the
subject is examined the more extraordinary does it
appear that Heaven, which apparently approves
of the bayoneting of brave men and the beating to
death of brave women in Siberia, should interfere
—we E Harley’s word for it—in the
affair Cosgrove. This should be a warning to
persons disposed to reach their ends by dynamite.
The least they could do before starting on their
career of crime is to learn how to properly apply
this powerful destructive agent.
# # *
The same proof of Providential non-interference
in mundane matters is supplied by physical pheno-
mena such as earthquakes, cyclones, tidal waves,
thunderbolts, water-spouts, floods, droughts and
volcanic eruptions. Their ravages, like the rain,
fall alike on the just and the unjust. If it be said
that Pompeii and Herculaneum deserved to be
smothered for their crimes like the Cities of the
Plain, the question naturally arises—“ What of
Rome, the common sewer of the nations, the sink
whose satyrlike abominations might be expected
to draw fire from Heaven ?” No satisfactory answer
is possible. Should it be advanced that there was
no Vesuvius at hand to belch lava and ashes over
the Tiber, the obvious answer is that Providence
could have erected one or have adopted, some
other method of destruction. Once more, it can-
not be seriously asserted that Lisbon was half
ruined by an earthquake which missed London
and Paris, because the small town was more
wicked than the large ones. So with the tidal
waves that periodically sweep the low-lying coasts
of South America, and the cyclones. that pass in
destructive fury over the North. We confidently
challenge anyone to name a single ease where, in
order to explain such events, it is necessary to
fall back on the supernatural. Now that the
vulgar views, which represented the Great
Architect of the Universe as a clumsy mechanic
constantly mending the world He made, have
given place to worthier and nobler ones, it is high
time for even such a conservative institution as
the Bench to pause before connecting the Primal
Cause with the failure of a felon to destroy a brick
wall by dynamite.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Good Stuff Wasted.
The story of the Egeria mutiny has been pretty
fully brought out in the court-martial proceedings
at Sydney, despite the peculiarly suppressive
character of the procedure of that ponderous and
wonderfully-constituted tribunal. The crew had
been worried and harassed by some of their officers.
The customary amusements and indulgences en-
joyed on board a man-of-war, either in relaxation
of the strict letter of ordinances, or in the way of
a non-insistanee upon extremity of discipline, were
withheld from this particular crew. They were
exasperated by a continued course of unnecessary
trespass upon their time for enjoyment, and made
to feel sharply the real enslavement of the service.
Contrasting their condition and treatment with
that of many crews differently officered, on this
station, they perceived that the petty persecu-
tions they ivere subjected to jvere exceptional and
not warranted by the usual plea—the good of the
service. Discontent fermented. At last one piece
of small minded invasion of their unwritten privi-
leges drove them past patience altogether. They
simply acted in the spirit of the age. They struck
work. But a sailor on board a man-of-war is
still in the position that an artizan occupied till
about 1850. To strike, under whatever circum-
stances, is still in his case a criminal offence. The
arm of authority crushed their strike on the instant
of its inception. When the crew refused to obey
the call to quarters, the petty-offieers, who were
abetting them and in sympathy with them,
jvere required to muster. The very l’anlc of
these made them marked men. There jvere,
of course —there always are in such cases —
some lickspittles who jvere bound to set an
example of craven compliance. Each man
feared to be the exception, if he stood out.
With hesitation or shuffling, the petty-offieers fell
in. The last comers were noted for vengeance.
Now, these last comers were, as_ certainly as
possible, the primest men in the ship, the truest,
the firmest, the boldest, the most magnanimous.
Resistance to authority was dangerous. They
stood up against the danger the longest. For this
they retire into gaol for terms of five years and
thereabouts. This is a mighty poor fashion of
dealing with men who are kept for fighting pur-
poses. Practised on any considerable scale, it
would soon fill our gaols with sturdy, manful,
doivnright fellows, and leave the British squadron
manned by a residuum of timid and hesi-
tating crawlers, who would exhibit to a
foreign enemy the same facility for surren-
dering to superior force, as they had dis-
played in a struggle for fair play with the
superior force represented by their commissioned
officers who had all the might of Great Britain at
their backs. If the men sent to our gaols from
the Egeria be not soured by their sentences and
corrupted by the associations of a gaol, they
should make on their release, if not forced back to
their naval servitude, excellent colonists. Indeed,
it is a sad waste of capital material to send them
to gaol at all. We are confident that if tte popu-
lation of Australia ivere polled to-morrow they
would accept as fellow colonists as many jolly tars
with the spirit evinced by these men picked for
punishment as Her Majesty the Queen, or hex-
naval officers, chose to expel from her service.
The Transportation of Australian
Husbands.
Here is another aspect of the British-Austra-
lian naval court-martial question. It is a phase
of the matter to which The Bulletin has
previously alluded, but special reference to it is
again demanded at the present time. When a
seaman bolts from one of the British war-ships
because he has been tyrannously used, or because,
finding himself for the first time in his life in a
free country where labour is decently rewarded,
lie succumbs to bis natural desire to be a
colonist thereof, there is a standing reward for
his arrest. When captured he is “ tried ” by
court-martial and ordered to be imprisoned for
several years. It does not matter to the British
naval authorities that years may have elapsed
since the act of desertion. It does not matter to
them that he may have married an Australian
jvoman and had a family of Australian children
born to him —he is ruthlessly torn from his little
home and his wife and family and dragged across
the seas to a British naval prison—to be again
shipped if the British Admiralty so will
it on the expiration of a savage sentence.
This thing has happened scores*of times —is,
indeed, about to happen to-morrow, as the unfor-
tunate occupant of a cell on board the Orlando
can testify. And Australian gold will subsidise
this ingenious method of punishment, of which
the Devil and My Lords of the British Admiralty
are joint patentees. What is the honesty of our
yelling at the Czar when we are sharers in the
blessed ownership of a Mutiny Act and a Naval
Discipline Act and a code of Queen’s Regulations?
Here is New South Wales, scarcely freed from
Botany Bay fetters, before she lias another set
almost as galling clinked on to her limbs by the
agency of Premier Parkes, who had to do some-
thing for his G.C.M.G.-ship. We are to be
accessories—we Australians who boast of our free-
dom and our superiority to old-world ideas of
caste and serfdom —to a system which, consider-
ing the national antecedents, is as barbarous
than the Tartar scheme of administrative exile.
At least, we will be if that Naval Tribute agree-
ment fails to undergo revision. Possibly that
contract is susceptible of an alteration by jvhieh
Australia shall have a voice in the discipline of a
licet she has to maintain. And if not, it is the
plain duty of every Legislature which was trapped
into a partnership with Lords of the Admiralty
just to make the impossible possible. Australian
gold is spent to pay for Opal courts-
martial, and Australians don’t pay taxes in
order that their fellow-men may be_ denied
the right of free speech and of fair trial.
And, as for the further dragging away to England
of British deserters who have married and settled
dojvn in our country—all The Bulletin can say
at present is that any Australian Government
which calmly allows an Australian woman to be
deprived of a husband whom she has married
bona-fide, and whose only crime consists in having
abandoned the life of a serf for that of a free
citizen —any Australian Government jvhieh con-
sents to women and children being deprived Jof
their breadivinners, on the ground that the latter
have on hand an unexpired and discarded contract
binding them to fight for Queen Victoria for so
many years at so many pence a day, is not the
sort of government to suit a people. jvhose goal is
the Republic. When the next British naval
deserter is being torn from his hearth and home
so that he may be transported from our country
to Newgate, we must pass round the word and
have a big roll-up.
—-—-o *
British versus Australian.
We have just as much appreciation of Britons, as
Britons, as is compatible with our nationalistic
impulse to be Australian first of all; but we
resent —and we do not scruple to avow our resent-
ment —the ingrained habit so frequently exhibited
by avowed Australians of placing things British
before things Australian. Is there an exalted sen-
timent that does honour to the human heart—it is
called “ British.” Is there an ideal to be held up to
the people as a type commendable for imitation—it
is falsely christened “British.” Is there anything
worthy of sober glorification the adjective
“British” usurps it. Thus we hear of “ British
fair-play,” “British love of justice” &0., &e. An
old copy-book proverb tells us that “ self-praise is
no recommendation,” and it is notorious that
“British fair-play,” “British justice,” &c., &c.,
are glorious “ British ” inventions that have no
place in the creeds of other peoples. France, for
instance, knows “perfidious Albion;” Germany
suspects British designs; Russia has a constant pro-
verb about English duplicity; Portugal talks about
the treacherous Briton ; Spain calls England a
hypocritical ally ; Turkey meekly groans beneath,
while it secretly swears at British professions of
friendship ; America avows that England only
acts “ straight ” when she has a big foe to deal
with ; India is coerced by British gold and strate-
gic manipulation of opposing sentiments ; Ireland
delineates the Saxon as “ base, brutal, and
bloody ;” we colonists only, tolerate English arro-
gance so long as we are allowed to have pretty
jvell our own jvay ; and so it is all round the com-
pass of nations. It is only the Briton himself
who utters the humbug about “ British fair-play,”
“ British justice,” “ British generosity,” &e.,
virtues of which he has by no means a monopoly.
Why do we not, when seeking to incite emula-
tion in generous and noble deeds, speak some-
times of “Australian fair-play,” “Australian
codes of honour,” “Australian noble examples,”
&c? Have we too little faith in ourselves or are
w r e too modest ? This parrot-like repetition
of the British fraud was the only smirch
that disfigured the generous deed of Nellie
Stewart, the Australian actress, and her com-
pany in Melbourne on Saturday last, ivhen they
gave a matinee as a benefit to the Bourke- Flood
Funds. A verse was added to the popular song,
“ Two Mariners Bold,” the said verse alluding to
the Bourke disaster. It elicited cheers upon
cheers. Yet even that verse must needs call upon
people to aid distress “ as all true 1 ritohs should.”
It is not likely that the local versifier—whoever he
was—intended to insult or ignore Australian
generosity by thus ignoring it in favour of
British generosity; he simply wrote from his
groove of British-baked cant. What’s the matter
with Australians, that people can’t be asked to
help Bourke sufferers ‘ ‘ as true Australians should ?”
John Sits Up.
The sacred cause of brotherhood and the holy
sentiments of Liberty, respecting which the
Foreign-trade orators of New South Wales are so
fond of blathering, have found an unexpected, but
apparently earnest proselyte in the Chinese. The
latest by cable is that the statesmen of that
Empire, stung by the mosquito-bites inflicted upon
their nationality by the handful of British depen-
dents sprinkled over the Australian continent,
have suddenly sat up in a particularly nasty
humour. They object to the decidedly insulting
and injurious legislation which the Australian
Governments have lately indulged in, jvith
respect to excluding the subjects of the Flowery
Empire from these regions. They insist that
their people shall no longer be treated as the
world’s pariahs. This is an exceedingly awkward
affair, and is of a nature to knock the Brother-
hood argument into a cocked hat—especially an
Admiral’s cocked hat. It is not easy to see how
the Government of Great Britain can extricate
itself from the dilemma thus presented to it. If
they should ref use to concede the certainly not un-
reasonable demand of China that in the British
dominions Chinese immigrants should be received
on the same footing with immigrants from any
other country, a complication of troubles must
ensue. Should England assent she- will lose
Australia, whatever else happens. There are two
ways in which this loss may occur. In the first
place, the colonists may refuse to recognise any
such surrender by the Imperial authorities, in-
volving, as it would, an over-riding of their own
legislation, and a destruction of the system of
National Protection under which alone they can
hope to flourish and hold the territory. In the
second place, the colonists may be compelled or
persuaded to submit. In that ease it is almost
inevitable that Chinese immigration will speedily
assume such proportions that the European set-
tlers in Australia will be subjected to the same
fate as apparently menaces the Boers in the Trans-
vaal at the hands of the English. That is to say,
they will be outnumbered in their own settle
merits. Their political and social systems will
be swamped and sunk by the weight of a
predominant Chinese public opinion. The ultimate
results may be somewhat varied or postponed by a
policy of delay and shuffle. But the conclusions
are unavoidable. If, again, the Britisli Govern-
ment should stoutly refuse to yield to the demands
of the Chinese diplomatists, results quite as
awkward, and more imminent may ensue. At
the present moment China is snarling at Russia,
who presses too closely on her Western frontier.
England fosters this alienation. But rvere China
to show her teeth definitely to Great Britain,
assuredly Russia, which never misses a chance of
embarrassing England, would accommodate her
differences with the Mongolian Emperor, and
furnish him with officers and material of
war. The position of the British in Bunnah
is still too insecure to make the possibilities
of a native patriotic insurrection, prompted
by China, and supported as it easily might be by
munitions, supplies, and even by an army from
China, at all a comfortable thing to contemplate.
Again, there is the great trade with China. If Great
Britain refused to continue trade with China on the
footing of “ the most favored nation” in respect
of her emigrating subjects of the latter, the
Chinese would doubtless retaliate in like manner
arid exclude the British people from any but a
surreptitious participation in hertrade. Altogether,
it is a mighty pretty quarrel as it stands, and is
not unlikely to give a significance to the contem-
plated Federation movement not at all in
accordance with Sir Slippery Parkes’ courtly
“ under the Crown ” sentiments.
The 2Jew South Wales Hepresenlatives
to the Convention.
The personal prejudices and selfish egotism of
Premier Parkes which are the main elements in
his pro-Eederation enthusiasm, have been again
manifested in his nomination of the delegates to
the Federal Convention to be held next year. An
opportunity was offered by the necessity of
making a selection of delegates to insult the leader
of the N.S. Wales Opposition, Mr. G. R.
Dibbs, and Sir Henry, who has never in his
whole public career had such a temptation
presented to him without succumbing to it,
of course took advantage of the chance. Ho
left Dibbs’s name out of the list, and put «T.
P. Abbott’s in. The omission would have been
insulting enough ; the insertion of the patronymic
of the Other King cf Brentford intensifies the
offence. And yet, this man Parkes by word
and deed challenges posterity to place him
on a plane parallel to Washington and
Jefferson and Madison ! Like them, he
aspires to mould a homogeneous nation from dis-
located and dissentient States, and he begins his
task by pandering to the spite and malice which
form the most prominent traits in his petty
nature ! If Parkes’ name ever survives in his-
tory it will be from his connection with this latest
flash in the Federation pan, and yet so short-
sighted is he and so contemptibly weak that
rather than do a gracious, not to say a just thing,
he acts so that the historian of the future will bo
driven to stamp him as deficient in the first essen-
tial of greatness —magnanimity to an adversary.
Whether the House corrects Parkes’ malicious
blunder or not, does not matter. The Premier
stands convicted of having insulted Dibbs —and
the party of which Dibbs is nominally leader—
and, further, of having outraged those very prin-
ciples of Constitutional Government of which
he hypocritically professes himself the upholder.
“Her Majesty’s Opposition” has a distinct func-
tion in our parliamentary system, and no one has
more persistently asserted this than Parkes —
when in Opposition. Parliamentary precedent,
moreover, recognises the leader of the Opposition
as having a representative office, and Parkes
himself has demanded assent to the claim
when raised by himself. Mr. Dibbs is the
elected leader of the recognised New South
Wales Opposition, and no one has a better
right—not even Sir Henry himself—to form one
of the delegation to the Convention. Sir Henry’s
explanation that he gives Dibbs the go-by because
the Opposition leader is antagonistic to Federa-
tion has no foundation in fact, but even if it were
true, it is not to the point. Had the Premier
studied the records of the period in America’s
history immediately antecedent to the assembling
of the Convention of 1787, he would have learnt that
nearly 50 per cent, of the provincial delegations
were opposed to Federation as outlined by the
conveners of the gathering. But reason and
history have to go to the wall when Parkes seeks
food for his vindictiveness. The insult recoils on
himself, and he alone is injured by it—unless,
indeed, we are to regard Messrs. Abbott and
Garvan as accessories to the indignity which he
has visited upon their nominal leader. In that
case, they share the obloquy. Party loyalty is an
indispensable factor in party government, and
when Messrs. Abbott and Garvan were invited
by the Premier to give their consent to be
placed in nomination, their first duty was to
their party and their party’s leader. They were
selected as prominent Oppositionists, and in
order to voice the Opposition sentiment on
Federation, and they ought to have known
that they have not been authorised to act
by Opposition opinion. If they did not choose to
refer the point to a caucus, their plain course was
to consult their leader. Their acceptance of Sir
Henry Parkes’ invitation amounted to a virtual
deposition of their leader.
Says a London stenographer :
I have no objection to women-reporters as women, but
directly they were admitted into the gallery they would
begin to undersell us. That is what happens with every
trade that women touch. They sponge on their fathers
and brothers, and then feel proud of themselves because
they can afford to work cheaper than men can.
This is brutally put, but it is pretty true. Pending
the universal organisation of Labour, the single
woman who works is the foe of every working-man
who is married or who looks forward to marriage.
And one of the most awkward aspects of inter-
sexual competition in Australia is that, so far, the
men are averse to admitting women to the Union
ranks on the basis of equal pay for work done, and
so force them to a “cutting” opposition. For
example, Miss Hill, an intelligent compositress,
the other day wished to join the N.S. Wales
Typographical Union, and undertook to comply
with its rules in every way. The members, all
males, would not allow her admission, so she is
now forced to work for half wages at a “rat”
office in direct competition with men.
John Burns, in a letter to one of the Melbourne
papers, says : --
“ 1 gather from its leader that the Argus has been mis-
representing the strike and the strike leaders. This does
not surprise me. We suspected the Argus man shortly
after the strike broke out. lie it was who wrote one of
the blackguardly paragraphs in the St. .Tajiks’ Gazette,
from which he innocently quotes in his cablegrams to
Melbourne.”
There you have the milk out of the coeoanut in
one act. You live in London, say, as the agent of
a 'Tory paper printed somewhere in Australia and
you want to damage John Burns, or Parnell, or
the Brazilian Republic, or some other struggling
democratic institution. You accordingly write
something nasty and have it inserted in St.
James’ Gazette, a little rag with a circu-
lation of a few dozen nightly which is read
by nobody except a few of the sleepy gluttons
whose bald-heads you see as you pass by the club-
windows in Piccadilly. When the Gazette comes
out, you clip what you have written and telegraph
to Australia: “St. .Tajiks’ Gazette condemns
Parnell as an unscrupulous traitor,” or, “ St.
James’Gazette shows that out of the £OO,OOO
collected £20,000 was spent by John Burns in
riotous living”—or any little thing like that.
That is how English “ public opinion” is manu-
factured. Just think of this, dear friends, when
rext you see St. .Tajiks’ Gazette quoted by the
ca' slciiian.


[?]
SIC Maeqtiarie-street North, Sydney, May 7,1890.
, My Dear Moorabinda,—
Viewing La Potter Tosca in a calm, dispassionate way
recently, I have concluded that the success of her gown-
ing is due to her always wearing shoes to accord with
; some portion of her toilette. With the green and cream
costume the shoes are cream-coloured; with the black-
and-gold garment they are gold—glistening gold, not an
- aggravated tan-ness; with the faded lilac-grey gown,
they, too, are faded lilac. The effect is gorgeous, giving
that subtle harmony without which no woman can ever
hope to be “ dressed.” But this idyllic froeking makes
the denizens of the circle look like hogs in armour or
M.sL.A. in full dress, anti one invariably sums up “no
rags ” when guying a Potter house. Vet the other night
a woman in black velvet with a dove-front of quilted white
satin looked quite handsomi—anda w oman must be
: handsome if 1 think so—when ion get the Tosca out of
your eye; and a garment composed of green iridescent
heads was really breathless. On the other side of the
hedge, however, a girl in black and yellow locks had built
her coiffure over a pair of grey gloves which were not half
> covered with hair and gave rise to many a wide male
smile—a man always sniggers at a pad, except when get-
ting measured at his tailor’s, by the way. But why this
‘ girl didn’t heat her brain with a pair of old-gold hose or
yellow gloves is a dark and fearsome mystery, since it's
wise to have even yorir stuffing en suite.
In a recent English journal it was wanniy suggested
that “ the use of Miss ’’ should he dispensed with in all
cases where a lady attains full age— i.e,, twenty-one. She
. should thenceforward be. styled .“ Mrs.”—the distinc-
tion between single and married women being kept
dear by styling the former Mrs. (say) Sarah Smith, and
Ihe latter Mrs. (say) John Smith. I think this an excel-
lent. idea. A single woman who has to face the world on
her own account, especially in any of the profes-
.sions—who has cut her eye-teeth and knows that
two and three are five ; and who lias to dis-
play her knowledge of such social arithmetic at
odd times—ought not to be styled “Miss”-a term
which absolutely reeks of boarding-schools and bread
and jam. “ Mrs." is an emancipated-sounding label
which would really make life easier for a woman on ri c
warpath, since men would never he sure whether she was
married or not, and that gush of giddy compliment which
most men think all unmarried angels are equal to, would
. give way to placid sensibilities (I speak generally, of
course—for there are exceptions which they drop into so
• naturally when a woman is a wife.) Directly a business man
reads “ Miss ” on a visiting-card he setties his necktie and
smoothes his moustache and gets generally ready for great
slaughter, and if that woman is young and attractive slit-
dare not he otherwise than mournfully businesslike or
else that, man will edge in a honeyed compliment here
and there until she feels that she requires four dragons
and a Martini - Henri to protect her. The title of
“Mrs.” would give a single woman weight and import-
ance, not to mention other conveniences too numerous to
mention, besides surrounding her social status in deep,
dark gloom. Not even a latter-day Jeremiah could tell if
the seraph, whose pasteboard ran “Mrs. Blank,” had a
. husband waiting below and 17 children round the corner*
Which reminds me that few married theatrical stars
hill as “Miss” nowadays—they prefer to flaunt their
matrimony, as it were. Some of them even take the old
man along wherever they go, and part his hair in the
middle and set him to sell tickets at the door, or come on
gracefully with a banner towards midnight, but somehow
they never, or hardly ever, hill him as juvenile lead.
And when “Mr.” is the star and stages his wife, it is a
cold day when she plays Juliet to his Romeo. No—she is
hilled as “ Lady Capulet,” while hubby and the undulat-
ing ingenue languish in several fond clingings to string-
music and turned-down gas. And, speaking of the poor
player, a debonnair damsel, recently imported, who
wears her hair dtsgag6 surmounted by a felt hat, has been
successfully nick-named “Texas Jack.”
I wonder when the day of the big hat-pin will be over?
For years and years, ever since we gave up those meek
little loops of elastic which adults wore under their bumps
of philo-progenitiveness and children under their chins,
the dangerous fourteen-inch skewer lias remained on top,
growing larger and larger every year. But the length
-they are worn now is a positive menace to human life.
Oft have I seen a woman whisk into a conveyance with a
spike protruding from her head which skimmed half-an-
inch from the eyeball of a man next to her, and I
am personally acquainted with a youth who got
severely pinked with a ho met -pin which held his Pul-
cinea’s hat on as they journeyed in a hansom. Of course,
he was closer to the danger than is generally the case.
But the latest and worst phase of the bonnet-pin is that
the hats of quite young children are fastened oil with
them, and if some pretty scratching* and gougings aren’t,
the happy result lam not your devoted Sappho. It would
almost he safer to nail the youngsters’ hats on with small
tin-taeks.
The simple naivete of maidenhood is a sweet, strange
mood not to he understood all at once. At “ Now-a-
days,” the other evening, a blushing girl and a long,
cream-coloured dudelet. were viewing with breathless
attention the realistic canoodlings of Kitty and Bob, and
when the latter put the chair flat so that lie could sit on
the back and Kitty on the legs and rungs, the dudelet
turned to the maiden and whispered enthusiastically,
“ That’s good enough to remember!” And the maiden
turned two dewy orbs on the dudelet and whispered bash:
fully, “ Ye-e-e-s, but wouldn't it be better if he sat on the
riiair?” Gussie saw it at once.
Regarded in a society light, Saturday, 3rd inst., was the
preiniiSre of the “ Beggar Student,” revived on 30th ult.,
at Sydney Criterion. For the house was V.R., and each
woman had on hev very best dress and her very best
blush, and her latest-bought tress. But on this subject-
hush ! Lady Carington, who seemed aotually to radiate
amiability (it’s all along o’ the approaching reprieve) wore
a white satin gown with floral design in white over a front
of gauze and net and white ribbon ; the bodice in a wide
square in front and high at the back with semi-Medici
collar ; sleeves to the elbow in lace and net, head-dress of
blush-pink buds and leaves with a knot of blush-pink
flowers at the corsage, flesh-colour gloves, diamond and
pearl ornaments and a cream-lace fan ; the other lady
occupant of the vice-regal box sporting a magpie blend in
black with grey stripes and a white silk front, to-lie-con-
tinned train—white gloves, and a white feather fan com-
pleting a black and white etehy sort of get-up that some-
how missed its mark. There were several very nice
gowns in the circle, and the general absence of rabid
decolette was pleasing to remark. Only in one instance
did your Sappho shut her eyes and look through her
fingers—at a well-known butterfly who wore ivory brocade
and combined a reprehensible frontal Y-ness with a
Madonna-like arrangement of her forward hair. The
mingling of saint and seemore was screamingly funny.
Referring to hair the “ frizette,” which is only our old
friend the “ false front ” with a garden-implement label,
is being very generally worn just now, partly through the
local example of a distinguished lady who, it has just been
discovered, always mounts one to save wear and tear of
her hyacinthiue looks, and partly because they’re
genuinely useful. In price they run from fifteen and six
to four guineas, and the low-priced article doesn’t look at
all cheap, really. They supply a “long-felt want ” with
girls whose bangs come out on the slightest suspicion of
heat or damp, and as they do away with the dreadful
singeing and burning and twisting of the curling process,
in the front at least, they should be included in every
well-regulated trousseau. Edwin soon gets accustomed
to hooking Angelina’s “ fringe ” off the gas-jet.
Apropos of theatre-goers:—
I am a peaceable kind of she,
Nothing very much matters to me.
I yawn politely, or smile with mirth
At most of the bores who infest our earth,
Save one. And for her I would build a fire,
And pour kerosene on her funeral pyre ;
And she is the girl (whom everyone knows)
Who brings a big fan to the various shows,
And sits content in the front-est row,
Then opes her fan, with a gesture slow,
And elevates it—a great, blank screen,
Hiding the stage from who comes between,
Holding it so till the show is done.
For the girl of this kind Sappho carries her gun.
Local hair-dressers, wig-makers, and all those who
retail the crown of glory at so much per plait are now
mapping out future European tours, for the revival of
false tresses is shadowed forth in the present fashionable
style of dressing the hair. The simple style of drawing it
up over a pad has gone out, and now rolls and plaits
down the back of the head—an utterly impossible style
for a woman with thin hair unless she spends her life in
frizzing-pins—have come in. I cannot say I like them.
At the theatre the other evening a woman had her bait-
done in four large puffs down the back. The effect was
fearfully top-heavy: the face seemed insignificant, and
the head inches too large for the shoulders. The only
possible places to arrange hair are on top or low on the
neck—nobody is improved by skull-gear that makes their
topping resemble a head viewed in a tea-spoon. I hope it
hasn’t a long run. •
I sat in a train at midnight
While the guard went on his raid,
And I heard six tings of his tell-tale hell
When twelve passengers ought to have paid.
At the opening of N.S.W. Parliament—well, every offi-
cial function now-a-days means a howling mob of expen-
sively-dressed women holding civil war over the seating
accommodation, doesn’t it? When people were not only
crowded but actually over-lapped each other, and with
men standing up obstructing the view and impeding the
efforts of the searcher after pretty frocks, it required
strategy to see even the most adjacent dress, and 1 felt
like a victorious general when I got a glimpse of Lady
Carington, who wore that dodgy gown of slate-blue silk
designed in a small floral pattern in bronze, the bodice
almost wholly composed of pale-blue chiffon with Direc-
toire frills - bonnet in gold open work, with slate-hhic;
silk, white lace, tiny blue flowers, and short blue strings,
cream silk and lace parasol and light gloves. The
Mayoress (Mrs. Burdekin) wore fawn, designed florally in
a darker shade mingled with brown velvet and fawn and
brown lace ; pancake bonnet en suite with pointy wings.
Mrs. Dan. O’Connor appeared to be in pinkish grey
with greenish relievements, bonnet to match ; Mrs.
Vanderveer-Green was in sepia hues and looked im-
pressive ; a theatrical-looking get-up was in white
serge and silk with a white felt hat trimmed with
white feathers ; while a damsel in dark-blue with her hair
coming down and an ill-fitting pilot-jacket on was very
scarecrowish. The official proceedings were as super-
fluous as usual—for instance, Lord Carington commended
our legislators to “ the Divine care ” with that devotional
bend of the head for which the Prince of Wales’ chum is
so justly renowned.
Which induces me to mention that Lady Carington will
be “ At Home ” on the Bth and 22nd instants ; that a
banquet to show the national affection for Sculler lveinp
is to eventuate at Peate’s Ferry on 20th inst., and, as
several members of Parliament and lots of ladies have
already subscribed for tickets, the affair ought to be suc-
cessful ; that Sydney ’Varsity Musical Society breaks out
into Cowen’s “Rose Maiden” on 13th inst., Mrs.
M‘Donald prima donna ; and that the fashionable School
of Industry ball will be held in the Exhibition Building
on 17th prox. under the immediate of Lord and Lady
Carington.
Women who are the unhappy possessoresses of round-
shaped boas in expensive furs will turn pale when they
hear that the “ modern boa is flat and is often made with
a stand-up collar and a deep cape or fichu points.” But
whether caped or not matters little, only they mustn’t be
round—if the enterprising furriers know it. Yet, people
who own good furs and ply a handy needle needn’t fling
their worm-shaped boas into the wardrobe for fishmotli to
feed on yet awhile, for here is a strictly original wrinkle
for flattening the roundest boa Split it right up from
end to end on the one side; tack the wadding firmly on
the inside and line with any colored silk (to match the fur
looks best, and if you want to he extra smart you may
quilt it before putting it on) slipstitched on botli sides,
and there you are ! The result is as flat a boa as any that
you see in the most fashionable shop-windows, and the
satisfaction to be derived from the feeling that you have
cheated a tradesman for once makes life a very complete
thing every time you’ve got it on Of course, the silk for
the lining should be as stiff and strong as possible.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
A new departure in the way of church
seats has been brought about by the generosity of
Mr. John Woods, of Eairlight. The new Presby-
terian Church at Manly Beach, instead of having
the orthodox knife-board pew, is luxuriously fitted
up with large cane armchairs and sofas. The
liberal donor, on further consideration, will no
doubt add pipes and whusky.
Editors versus Directors.
Who is to Rule the Press ? Must a Journalist
Pocket His Principles and be Content to
Act Merely as a Hired Advocate?
On Saturday last, at Chowder Bay, a picnic was
given to Mr. F. W. Ward, late editor of Sydney
Daily Telegraph, of which, strangely enough, no
notice whatever was taken by the Sydney press.
One would not complain of this omission if the
picnic were one of the ordinary kind whereat a
number of windy nobodie3 attach themselves to a
more pronounced and central nobody and charter
a steamer to take themselves and him and enough
bottled ale to .stimulate oratory and allay thirst,
around the harbour. But it was not. It was in
reality one of the most important and significant
gatherings of the kind that has ever taken place
in Australia. For years past Mr. Ward has
occupied the editorial chair of the Daily
Telegraph with honour to himself and with
advantage to the proprietary—so far at least as
the paper is concerned. The Bulletin has at
times called attention to certain uncertainties of
policy on the part of that journal; certain waver-
ings of opinion and guarded hesitancies of utter-
ance, but we have always felt that in the main
Mr. Ward was doing his level best in the general
interest. Certainly under his control the Tele-
graph grew to be a powerful paper, and the news
that lie had suddenly sundered his connection
with it, and that Mr. Gullett, his able and
enthusiastic comrade on the editorial staff, medi-
tated taking the same course, came as a profound
surprise to many.
# # #
It is an open secret that for some time past there
has not been complete harmony between the
directors and the literary management of the
Telegraph. The trouble has been, apparently,
that the former gentlemen have insisted upon
stiieir right to dictate what shall be the views ex-
pressed by the paper on subjects of public import-
ance, while the editors have equally insisted upon
writing according to their own feelings and un-
trammelled by formal directions. The matter
over which the present serious rupture has taken
place is said to be the question of the sale or
otherwise of the Government trams. It is known
that some of the most influential of the share-
holders of the Telegraph have a distinct hanker-
ing—quite a patriotic penchant, no doubt —
to get possession of the Sydney trams, and
run them in an improved fashion for the
benefit of all parties concerned —are, in fact, con-
nected with a syndicate which represents millions
of money and lives with no other thought
than to do this. Mr. Ward, on the other
hand, sternly set his face against the whole
thing, and declared in vigorous leading articles
that the handing over of the control of the tram
system into private hands would be a public
wrong of the greatest magnitude. He was re-
monstrated with by the directorate, or leading
members thereof, but remained inexorable. He
declined to modify his views in any degree or to
take a fi w months’ holiday to think over the mat-
ter : ho simply handed in his resignation and
shook the dust of the D.T. office from his feet. Mr.
Gullett (who edited the Australasian for 20 years),
and who as stated has for some time been Mr.
Ward’s editorial colleague, only remains connected
with the Telegraph pending "the appointment of
a successor, arid at present the brows of the direc-
torate are sicklier! o’er with the pale east of
thought. It: cannot be denied that the loss of
Messrs. Ward and Gullett will prove a heavy blow
—it may even be an irreparable loss—to the King-
street daily, while the circumstances attending
their withdrawal evoke for them, and alienate
from the directorate, a large amount of public
sympathy. The position is a peculiar one. The
directors of a newspaper have an undoubted legal
right to determine what shall be the policy of their
paper, and if they hold that public, or even private,
advantage would result from the sale or lease
of the trams, their right to insist upon
the advocacy of this course is absolute. But when
honourable journalists refuse —even at the risk of
loss of position, and chaving, after years of
work, to face the world anew and go on the
wallaby with but little rolled up in their
blanket? —to look at things in what they
regard as a false and artificial light, the
public will be pretty sure to judge between
employer and employee, and determine which of
the two is most interested in conserving the
general good. The row in the Telegraph office
will liave the effect of focussing public attention
on the tram question, which is well worth watching
closely. In the meantime, public sentiment in
Sydney is strongly with Mr. Ward and his col
leagues.
Tottie, a well-known Queenstown (Ireland)
barmaid, has just married Mr. Dupont, the Mary-
and millionaiie.
Theo. A. Havcmeyer recently paid to the
Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York a
single premium of over half a million of dollars
578,3 U>dol. in exact figures. The amount of insur-
ance for which this is only the premium must be
an enormous sum.
The Northen Press boils over at the
insolent attitude assumed in suspect to juries by
Mr. Justice Mein. All over Australia juries are
revolting against the typical coercive judge, in
whose deposition The Bulletin is proud of
having taken a leading hand.
The Evening News now discovers that
Gustav Sten, the Swede detained on suspicion for
the Sydney Domain murder, “bears the conven-
tional look of foreign doggedness.” The man may
be a murderer, but till now there is no evidence
against him worth talking about. He is a harm-
less-looking Swede, who would look just as well
as any of the Evening News proprietary if he
were equally well-dressed and shave 1. John Sten
is apparently not going to get a fair trial if some
of the Sydney papers can help it.
One of the newspapers suggests that the
N.S.W. Government should not allow the British
naval authorities to lodge any prisoners sentenced
by the bogus trial of a court-martial in any
N.S.W. prison. The court-inartiailed men have
had an infinitely fairer trial than had the Mount
Rennie prisoners, the manner of whose condemna-
tion crie- for vengeance at the hands of justice.
“ In looking for a parallel to that trial,” said
Dadey, “ you search in vain the records of any
civilised modern state. Its only parallel can be
found in the darkest and most savage days of
Irish history.’,’ Dibbs and Co. will be cackling in
Parliament over this naval court-mai tial matter,
but let them, ere they do so, first wash the dis-
grace of that unholy slaughter from the records of
this blood-stained land. The facts set forth by
The Bulletin, the never-answered letter written
by barrister O’Mara to that miserable caricature
of a king. Gov. Carington, constitute an un-
answerable accusation against the authorities of
having aided and abetted in a rape upon the person
of the Goddess of Justice.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Tiibatrk Royal... “Lady of Lyons” and
“ David Garrick.”
Her Majesty's “ Now-a-Days.”
Criterion. “ Fun on the Bristol.
School of Arts Maooabe.
Gaiety Theatre “ Mamma.”
Y.M.C.A. Halt,.. .. MissMenk-Meyer.
Darltnghdrst Shat.no Rink.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “After Dark.’
Princess’s L. Toole.
Oi’Kita House 4 Jones.
Alexandra “ Marvellous Melbourne.'
Nkw Bijou “ Caste.
St George's Hal Cogills & Harry Rickards.
Cyclorama “ Battle of Waterloo.
The matinee benefit to the Bourke Belief
Fund at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Tuesday last,
has resulted so far in a return of £384, but it is
believed that there are amounts yet to come in
which will slightly swell this overflowing result of
an appeal to the charitable public. Of course, as
Mr. George Rignold publicly stated, the pro-
gramme was good enough to draw the magnifi-
cent house that assembled even without
the eleemosynary pretext. In addition to
the patronage of (government House, the
Town Hall and the Ministry—through the kind-
ness of Williamson and Gamer, Henry Braey
and Frank Thornton, the members of tlieir com-
panies performed acts of “La Tosca,” “Neme-
sis,” “Mamina,” and “A Midsummer Nights
Dream” in a manner that was highly appre-
ciated by the vast audience. Recitations
were also delivered by William Rignold, J. H.
Clyndes, Harry Leston, Will Stevens, the
irrepressible, and Henry Hoyte. The or-
chestra and all the other theatre hands gave their
services free of charge; the programmes were
gratuitously supplied by W. M. Maclardy, and
the printing on similar terms by Marcus and
Andrew. The acting stage-managers were L. W.
Koyce and J. W. Hazlitt; the honorary acting-
managers, G. L. Goodman, L. J. Lohr, IT. J.
Magee, Joe Davis, and Jas. E. Kitts. Mr. Geo.
Rignold is to be thanked for his forethought in
originating the “ben ,” and his manager, «f. I.
MacDonald, for the manner in which it was
worked up.
& * &- *
At Sydney Royal Mrs. Potter has gradually
gained favour in the eyes of the public, and it is
probable that had she not been “ starred so
tremendously before and since arrival she would
now be held in much higher estimation. The
little lady has one very good point—she rarely
rants, although afforded many opportunities.
Edward Sass seems to liave very much improved
the business following his entrance after being
tortured. A London critic calling attention to
the word “late” prefixed in the columns of a
contemporary to the name of Gerald Moore, who
plays the cicisbeo of the Attavanti household so
realistically in “La Tosca, points out that the
master masher-impersonator of the stage is not
dead but in Australia.” To give the Sydney
public a taste of Mrs. B.P.'s quality and that of
Kyrle Bellow in other pieces, “Camille” was
staged on Wednesday night (7th), the “Lady of
Lyons” will follow on Saturday, and from Wednes-
day next “ David Garrick ” will play out the time
until the arrival of “ Johnny ” Toole.
*# * *
“ Sweet Lavender ” is exceedingly well
played at Sydney Gaiety. As Dick Phenyl,
Frank Thornton seems to have got inside the part
just as he did that of the Private Secretary.
Frank Cates, as Horace P. Bream, gives us the
best stage sample of the modern American, not
only in accent, but in manner, that has come this
wav lately. George P. Carey, who has not yet
got over his lameness, makes the most of Wedder-
burn, and Messrs. Brown, Corlesse, and MTntyre
are there or thereabouts, while Eille Norwood
(he simulates force by boisterousness) is at times
animated. Emma Bronton’s Ruth is an agreeable
surprise after her last performance, and Brenda
Gibson has vastly improved since her appearance
in “Friends.” It need scarcely be said that the
reputation of the Gilfillian family is safe in the
hands of Annie Taylor and Ada Lee. ‘ ‘ Mamma ”
will be staged on Saturday evening.
** * *
The “ Beggar Student” of Millocker,
better staged in every way than heretofore, has
caught on at Sydney Criterion. Gov. Carington's
party graced the circle on Saturday night—the
first time for some months—and the remarks of
Gaoler Schnapps that “the Governor never comes
near the place” had on that account additional
point, especially as they were delivered with in-
creased emphasis. Lillian Tree simply revels in
the music allotted to her ; Flora Graupner and
Clara Thompson (the latter not sufficiently
dignified) make the most of their musical
chances ; Henry Braey and Knight Aston are
encored for their duet nightly. Colonel Ollen-
dorf is John Forde’s best performance up to date
with this company, and, barring a slight tendency
to burlesque, especially in the minuet—the com-
position. by the way, of Michael Watson it is
good enough for Berlin. We are inclined to think
that “ Bill ” Stevens, “ plain comedian of London,”
was built specially to play Onuphrie, for we don’t
doat on him when otherwise placed. He, too,
clowns occasionally, and his kangaroo exit after
being kicked is neither graceful nor mirth-com-
pelling. The company skip to Brisbane on Satur-
day, and “Fun on tiie Bristol,” with the only
Widow O’Brien on board, fills the vacancy.
* * #
At Bondi Aquarium the U.S. Minstrel
company have been amusing large
Alf. Wyburd is now selling “Luminous Paint,”
a patented composition for illuminating the pro-
bosci of belated pedestrians, and thus averting
nocturnal collisions in the badly-lit streets of
Sydney. We doubt if it will ever supersede the
old system of outward illumination by internal
application, even though the latter process be the
more tedious.
*# * #
At Darlinghurst Skating Rink, Manager
Davis has just received a large shipment of ini-
proved skates. The hall is crowded nightly, and
the whirr of the rollers can be heard from p obts
Point even unto Kogarah.
* #
J. F. Sheridan, the original and only
Widow O’Brien, supported by a combination of
“The Cornstalk.” —The new penny illustrated
Sunday paper. Sporting, dramatic, and general
news. Startling serial story. Publishing offices,
527 Kent-street, Sydney. Agents wanted in the
suburbs and throughout, the colonies. All literary
contributions paid for. Amongst, the contributors
are “Boxer Major,” “Dainty Ariel, “Tackle-
low,” “Timi Piripi,” “The Colonel, and
“ Homeopathist.”


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
true reflection of the original For high-art photos, go to the
London l’alaco of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
to complet ion executed at lowest, prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
talent entitled the English Musical Comedy Com-
pany, opens at Sydney Criterion on Saturday next.
The blushingwidow will be managed by the Messrs.
MacMahon and her melodious voice will be
tootled to by a full opera orchestra and chorus,
and backed up by new scenery. Stage-lighting
by electricity will be a feature of the performance,
and the Brothers predict a breaking of the Mel-
bourne boom-record.
* * 41 4E
“La Grippe ” has assumed the stage-
management at Sydney Her Majesty’s. During
the compulsory re irement of Madge Seymour her
part has been capably filled by Bessie Colville,
and the absence of Messrs. Harcourt and Rigby
has afforded some hidden talent an opportunity
for throwing aside the proverbial bushel.
4E 41 41
Maocabe has been drawing such good
houses at Sydney School of Arts that the old bill
holds the fort until Saturday, when the “ Van-
quished Villain ” and a few trifles of that character
will face the footlights.
** * *
“Caste” has laid a strong, firm hold on
Melbourne’s good opinion, and the Bijou is full as
theatres love to be which love their managers.
Characters, somewhat thin in themselves, have
been so neatly padded and rounded off by the per-
formers —notably in the cases of. Eccles and Sara
Gerridge—-that the comedy appeal’s to contain
more “fat” than the talented author provided
for it, and the general completeness of the original
London rendering is very nearly attained. Nothing
but a live baby is left to be desired; but as a
maternal government prohibits the introduction of
a real, toothless household treasure into an other-
wise human show, Mrs. George D’Alroy has to
throw away her sweet solicitude upon four pounds
of sawdust tied up in baby-linen, while her hus-
band and Polly pretend to dandle this cruel
mockery as though they expected it to squeal. It
is indeed sad that a comedy replete with touches
of nature should be hampered at its most difficult
moments by an artificial infant which hasn’t got
so much as a sham mouth to recommend it.
Messrs. B. and B. are earnestly recommended to
hire General Mite, wrap him in swaddling-clothes,
and let him take visible pulls at a feeding-bottle
full of milk mingled with rum.
** # *
“ The Noble Vagabond,” at the Royal,
has done even worse business than was antici-
pated. so “ After Dark ” (with its gambling-hell
and tender reminiscence of a good old music-hall,
where one may, and generally does,
get drunk on the premises) is to
be resurrected on Saturday. Heavy
drama, unfortunately, has to take
a back seat in Melbourne just now,
and the name of Charles Warner
doesn’t draw much better than a
cab-horse. It’s about time that the
perfervid actor in question caught
the influenza and gave the city a
rest.
4S * 41 41
At the Alexandra, where
moving incidents are supplied at
much cheaper rates, the Dam fliers
have less cause for complaint. Their
long innings is nearlyover now.
Papa Alfred is preparing to pack
up his shekels and leave Thornton
and Harwood to camp upon the
spot where the Lily now bloometh
heijfarewell blossom. The last t hree
weeks of the season will be kept
warm by revivals of former howling
triumphs. “ Shamus O’Brien ’’ was
to start whooping Erin-go-bragh on
Monday, and on Saturday the local
feelings will be shaken up anew by
“Marvellous Melbourne,” a drama
which positively smells of Little
Bourke-street and the pellucid
Yarra.
Su 'M
“Paul Pry,” viewed as a play
rather than as J. L. Toole, is not
improving with age. A cloud of
amiable melancholy frequently
hung like a pall over Melbourne
Princess’ during the first portion
of Saturday night’s entertainment,
and the curtain had a way of roll
ing downwards amidst a silence
that could almost be felt. The “star,” apparently,
has lost some of his old life in the character, but
his satellites are mainly responsible for the present
emaciated appearance of the story. None of them
have the right hang of their parts, and they are
so modern, or so wooden, that the grotesque name
character seems to be dropping in by mistake
among people with whom he is quite out of artistic
touch. The afterpiece, once again, is a strong
redeeming circumstance. In “Off the Line,” a
pretty little farce, anyway Toole is at his
very best. His suggestions of partial intoxica-
tion are as delicate and truthful as the pathos
which peeps from out the rich humour of his
domestic trouble. Low comedy is incapable of
taking a finer polish than Toole puts upon this
subtle piece of work. “ Off the Line ” also offers
a good opportunity for Miss Eliza Johnstone to
make a real success, the merit of her share in the
business being slightly discounted by a promis-
cuous laugh which occasionally gets loose at an
unsuitable moment. In “ Paul Pry " this same
laugh is especially trying, and Miss Johnstone,
like Billington and about two others of the com-
pany, seem to “ come off ” only once in a way.
Several of the rest ought to come off, in another
sense, and stay there for good. Next Saturday
they will produce “Uncle Dick’s Darling,” with
a screaming farce to follow, by way of atonement.
# * 4* 4*
And still “Paul Jones" pegs away to a
crowded Opera House. A certain success from
the first, the opera has now been worked up to a
pitch of something as near perfection as earthly
things can be boosted. The success of “Paul
>Jones” is, in a measure, a feather in the cap of
lovely woman in the lump. Nellie Stewart is the
first manageress to surround herself with first-
class artistes, each fitted with a part as good, or
better, than her own. A girl who can draw the
public usually rejects assistance in knocking ’em
after they arrive.
* -;k-
-“ In consequence of the enormous success
of ‘ The Don ’ ” a matinee performance of that in-
comprehensible joke is to take place at the
Princess’ on Saturday. There is something
rather bluff and hearty, especially bluff, about the
managerial manner of making this announcement.
** * *
Harry Rickards has deserted the new
Gaiety, where cockchafers are alleged to roam in
joyous wantonness, and thrown in his lot (13 souls
in all) with the Cogill Bros.’ Minstrels, at St.
George’s Hall. This powerful combination in
black and white can hardly fail to hum, as they
must do to show a profit on such an expensive
arrangement. Harmston’s Circus is tearing
around on the barebacked steed of prosperity, the
Mites will stay on for another week yet at the
Waxworks, while the Cyclorama and other
matters remain under consideration as usual.
4f * 4c- 4.-
Young Judge Molesworth evidently thought
he said a smart thing in Melbourne Insolvent
Court last week, in re George Tragedian Miln.
Chanter, Miln’s manager, said Miln was, in the
ordinary course of things, entitled to about £5O a
week as a star actor. Young Moley hero got in
his joke: “Better than the Law.” Now, as a
matter of fact, taking one thing with another, it
is not, but suppose it were? Low many young
Molesworths can be produced for one Henry
Irving, Edwin Booth, Johnny Toole, or even one
G. C. Miln? The time has gone by for these
gibes. Tiie profession of an actor is at least as
honourable as that of the Law, and we will not
say how much more so we think it.
4f 4:- 5K- *
“ Master and Man,” at the Adelaide
Royal, by the Bland Holt combination has ful-
filled even the most sanguine expectations of the
management, for it has been running to two
weeks’ excellent business. Arthur Lawrence, as
the crooked-back foreman at the ironworks, has
gained warm eulogies on all hands. Bland Holt,
Albert Norman, Gus Glover, Mrs. Holt and
Maggie Knight have all contributed in a less
degree. That triumph of years gone by, “ New
Babylon,” will be revived, and it is possible it
will go. The Cogill Brothers Company are still at
Garner’s Theatre, and llarrv Cogill is seen in
public again after a short rest.
At Poverty Point.
The Californian papers say that Adelina Patti has been
“ had ” by the Edison Phonograph Co., who planted six
instruments in the Grand Opera House and “ bottled
up ” the precious notes of the prim a donna.
Dion Boucicault has, Tun Bi i.lktix notices, written a
story called “Two Men’s Bride.” We now want to see
the nice old gentleman writeayarn Grout “Two Women’s
Husband.”
An American paper alludes to Florence St. John, the
English singer, as the “ dough-faced lady with the shoe-
button eyes.”
Judas Iscariot has erysipelas. At least, that’s what’s
the matter with the man who played Judas in the last
“ Passion ” play.
Dean Brand and Kate Chard are now on the London
music-hall stage.
There would be more sympathy for the parents of
Violet Ashton, otherwise Baby Nicliolls, in Melbourne, if
AN AUSTRALIAN BUSH NEWS-AGENCY.
they had not put that talented child to such nonsense as
singing Killaloe, dressed up as a policeman and flourish-
ing a beer-bottle.
The principal attraction at Melbourne Princess’ the
other night was not Toole, hut a thin-haired dude who
sat in the dress-circle, silent and impressive as a statue of
Idiotcy. He never turned a hair, except when the Pall
Mall mannerisms of the imported sticks broke out into
“down theyare,” or “Leister Squay-a-a.h.” Then he
smiled as if he recognised an old friend, and relapsed into
imbecility until the next lordly mummer gave the pro-
nunciation to which the dude's exiled soul cottoned.
Mrs. Kendal, aided by a magic healing-oil of her own
compounding and two hours’ rubbing every day for a
fortnight, has succeeded in curing Mrs. Blaine, an
American ex-actress, of a swo leu knee-joint. Of course
the Mrs. Blaine who has received the tender ministra-
tions of the amiable Madge was a swell in addition to
being swollen.
V hastily-dismissed theatrical manager is about to take
action, failing compromise, against his employers. He
promises spicy revelations.
Edward Lloyd, the famous tenor, mistakenly reported
as dead by some of the Sydney cahle-elahorators, sailed
from England for America in March on a three-months’
tour. He is 45 years of age.
Henry Irving, so far a failure in romantic pai ls, is about
to play Edgar Ravenswood in Herman Merivale’s stage-
version of the " Bride of Lainmernioor.” Feohter, prob-
ably our best latter-day romantic-actor, made a big hit at
the Lyceum, in ’65, in the name-part of the “ Master of
Ravenswood,” an adaptation through the French by
Palgrave Simpson, of Scott's novel.
Herman Vezin, perhaps the greatest living Macbeth and
Othello, was horn at Philadelphia in 1829. Managerial
jealousy, that is actor-manager, keeps him out of engage-
ment. He has never visited Australia.
San (ley returns today (Thursday) to Melbourne, his
N.Z. and Tasmanian tour, under the management of 1!. S.
Smythe and Son, of four months, having been highly suc-
cessful. Santley was received everywhere with enthusiasm,
and tenor Stockwell, likewise.
Sylvo and Canaris, equilibrists and illusionists, have
organised a “ Surprise ” company comprising Corinna, the
lady slack-wire walker, Mile. Tlieo, Dexter with Ada
Froburgh, as pianiste and soprano for a lour of the world.
“ Carados” says that the youngest actor of his age on
the stage is the “ young-man ” actor, Henry Neville. lie
opens in New York in August,
Annis Montague (Mrs. Charles Turner) arrived in the
Alameda. She will he affectionately received by the
public.
Another orchestral season in Sydney is proposed. The
underground engineers are at work trying to manoeuvre
the man out of it who has hitherto borne the brunt of
management without remuneration, in order to make
room for one of the clique.
The Launceston Muffs, a theatrical club whose motto is
“ We strive to aid,” and who are coached by Oscar Haifa
(son of John Donnellan Balfe), a journalist, formerly play-
ing juvenile lead with the Taylor-Carrington dramatic
company, recently raised by a performance £4O for the
benefit of Frank Hussey’s widow. It was always the
office of the “ muff” to shield a woman from the storm.
President Carnot has interdicted Sara Bernhardt’s
“ Passion Play.”
Actor John Maclean has died from paralysis. Ilia first
London hit was as Mr. Gibson in the “ Tioket-of-Loave
Man.” His Sir Peter Teazle is said to have been the best
since Phelps’.
“ Carados ” wants to assert that a knock-kneed actress
should be the most desirable of acquaintances, because a,
friend in-kneed is a friend indeed.
Mrs. Kendal is the only actress who has ever been
received in the “best” New York society. Its exclusion
of Mary Anderson is said to have materially assisted to
cause her break-down.
The Melbourne production of “Caste” revives the
memory of Fred. Younge. Fred, returned to England
from Australia somewhat despondent, hut his equally im-
pecunious friend, Robertson, had made the great hit of
“Society,” followed by “Caste,” in which he provided
Fred, with D’Alroy.
J. H. Clyndes sails for England in the Orient.
Kyrle Bellew, alluding to drinking and smoking, says
that he Gias no small vices. Susceptible only to grand
passions. The wicked world understands.
Some Melbourne entrepreneurs have been fined for em-
ploying children on flic stage. In some respects we’re
sorry, but on the whole we’re not. Your wonderful child-
performer—the precocious, bladder-headed baby whom
the world calls a genius—is a fearful nuisance and rarely
of any use in maturer years, though there are a few
notable instances to the contrary. Little Flora Graupnei,
for instance, though she is not much more than a child
yet.
Amongst Australian Hamlets should he mentioned that
of the " Australian Roscius,” Master “Ted” Pole, who
appeared in Melbourne some 30 years ago. He was the
son of a tailor, apprenticed to his father, and a Hebrew.
As an actor lie was a frost. His old father used to boast
that his son “ improved ” Shakespeare w hen he transposed
the well-known line in “ Othello ” to “gums, medicinal.”
He played a “ round ” including Hamlet, Othello, and
Claude Melnotte.
When Sydney Grundy told a first-night audience, who
called for the author, that “ A Pair of Spectacles ” was by
M. Labichc and Delacour (he* petit* vine:tux), the gallery
shouted “Then bravo for the adaptor.” Virtue was its.
own reward.
An American paper says that, independent of Florence
St. John's denunciation of America, her interviews, with
their spicy references to “Johnnies” and back-door
intrigues generally, “are damaging to professional people
and disgusting to decent-minded readers.”
If an actor take a critic
Out to have a drink.
If the manager should meet them,
Need an actor wink ?
Dion Boucicault says that healthy children can learn
more good than harm on the stage.
The director of a Paris theatre recently received the
MS. of a play named “Jonah ” for approval. At the top
of the first page appeared this line :—“ Act 1. Scene 1—
The stage represents the stomach of a whale.”
Edmund Yates writes that Dion Boucicault, in America,
is at a low ebb, in mind, body, and estate,
t on Finkelstein’s Mountford is postmaster at Delhi. Ho
is a Eurasian: i.e., a mixed breed of the same sort as the
half-nigger compositors imported by Parkes years ago to
knock the stuffing out of the nasty white man.
Henry Hallam (Hattie Shepparde’s husband), well known
in Australia, was lately playing Fritz in New York Casino
to Lillian Russel’s “ Grand Duchess.” His singing is
commended, his acting' is characterised as tame.
Charrington’s Melbourne lecture on Ibsen was a fizzle,
as everybody foretold, with ss. and 3s. prices, which
Irving and Ellen Terry would not have the cheek to ex-
ceed in the Athenaeum if they gave their Macbeth lecture.
Vet Charrington, with Achuroh’s assistance we suppose,
announces his resolve to give Australia a bigger dose of
Ibsen on the stage.
Two Collins-street photographers have enjoyed the
honour of sittings from Johnny Toole, and the results are-
very serious-looking gentlemen, with.an appearance as if
they were addressing you from a pulpit. Johnny feds
somehow that everything is behind him, he lias reaped alt
the laurels, and what to him is the applause of Melbourne,
somewhat discriminating, after the idolatry of London,
Edinburgh, Dublin, Oxford, and the myriad of towns that
bailed tlie Toole four (sheet) poster with a screech ? The
orange is sucked, spite of the Yorick Club and all the
fulsome flatterers of the Queen of the South. Johnny-
acts somewhat on the principle of the cabhorse who was
never taken out of the shafts.
Tenor Gayarre died worth 800,000 dollars. His larynx
was sent to his friends. It was larger than is usual and
the vocal cords were unequally developed, the loft being,
convex instead of concave.
Skirt dancing is nothing if not elevating.
A Paris music-hall manager thus heads his programme.:
“ Ladies or genth —"n in the audience whose laughter is
not easily prove’, d -ill please allow themselves to lie
tickled by their i.i igid.ours.”
Another beautiful New York Society-actress is an-
nounced.
Louise Beaudet, Bandmaun’s leading lady in Australia*'
has made a New York hit as Pitti-Sing.
The Charters Towers Republican Associa-
tion, which now numbers 400 members, has a
real live Anglican Canon to enthusiastically urge
them on to Australian Independence. All good
things come from the sturdy North.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ •!. A.E." (Junee) : A man doesn't legally,save,
himself by saying or printing the words “is r ported to
have said ” so and so. The use of the phrase quoted in/
generally due to the fact that the speaker or vritef.
founds his remark on a newspaper report.J.J.C.”
(D.) : Glad to hear from you at any time ...
“ 11.C.T.” (R'hanipton): Vule last issue of BfUiKTix
“•Banker” (60 \V. 8. London): It only amuses us to see
the clergy light. ..“Opera Tom”: Not useable in their
present shape .. “C.F.J.” (II.H.): You ought to blush.
... ■ “ -''it. Hartley” : Will have wood tested. Let us know
how long it has been cut.... “ D.M.8.” (N.Z.): Very
likely indeed it i 5.... “A. A. Sombrey ” : The Church of
Home curses cremation and denies ecclesiastical burial to,
those who would practise it.. . “ Opal ” : (1) Noble opal is
found in the west of Queensland, on the head waters of
Cooper’s Creek and the Diamantina. ('2) No mines, it
would appear, are being worked now, though opal
is much sought after. One mine, 800 miles west of Bins-'
bane, has been abandoned. (3) Opal is found by itself
0n1y.... “Tippoo Tib ” : Metre very rocky; most of thy
rhymes used merely because they 'rhyme, not because'.
they are necessary to sense “ Jimmie Pannikin.” : May
has not given up black and white work. Poetry, as a pro-'
i'esslon, is .slightly laborious. We pay for everything that
is good enough to use and remit by P.O. order....
“ J.G.” (Bourko-street): Very true. Many thanks. ..
“ J.A..J.” (Hunterville): Dummyism is not so. common-
now ; it is still had enough, however. The bribery of.
land-officials is common, hut seldom detected. The exact
sum of the municipal fraud is probably not accurately
known even to those in the swim....“ J.H.C.”: The Jus-
tice who gets drunk in company with a civil-servant is.
hound to fine for intemperance the sober man who resents
his drunken impertinence. Weekly servants do not re-
quire to• give notice.... J. Walker”' How can Brad-
laugh represent trades-unionism when he opposes it?.
When we said “ Nottingham,” we blundered egrdgiously—
and obviously....“ O. A. Iv.” : Done to death.... “ A.M.”
(Albury): Second batch of rhymes to hand. Following the
influenza this blow will probably be a knock-out
“T.M.”: Too long. Write a piece of music, call it the
Carington Yawn and dedicate it to him.... “D. Temple”:
Too long' and too personal ; and, as it is chiefly reprint,
not suited to our columns “Andy”: Such appeals to
the plutocrat are useless. More pointed arguments are
necessary.. .T.T.”: The Anarchists are individualists,
opposed to the collective effort that is governed by rules,
and communistic ideas of property. There are many
noble and talented men among them, but many are mere
cranks whose ideas are vague and so formless, that their
opinions change with every breath of hostile argument....
“ A IV.D.”: Ask David Blair. He knows more about
God, man, and the devil, particularly the first and last,
than any other Australian pressman....“ Munyan " :
Your rhyme is not good enough by a great deal. How-
ever, you have a turn for verse and should not lie dis-
couraged by the result of a first attempt. A parody.
“ answer,” or imitation is, for obvious reasons, always
under a handicap “Gaelic”: Thanks.)Mrs.'
Brown-Potter’s Girl-champion ” : We have handed your
polite letter to the remorseless Sappho Smith...,
“A.A.H”: Will look into soon “Jim Smith” (B.
Terrace) :_What is it —wit, cheek, ignorance or idiocy ?’
Or is it a mixture? “ E.M.A.” : Gladstone’s expression
of surprise that Australia should want to exclude China-
men only shows how utterly unfit even the most gifted
Englishmen are to mix themselves up in Australian
affairs. Argue out for yourself from this how the poor
helpless, jumped-on niggers of India must lie
governed? “ Amicus ” (V.) : Jack Want’s column-long
letter about the iniquity of Dilke in rubbing it into
Parkes only serves to remind us that Jack held a leading
oi'ief against Parkes in the Webb case—and rubbed if
into Parkes with a vengeance. We don’t live by
“the indiscriminate advocacy of right and wrong.”....
“ If ever a judge has the front to direct a jury
of which you are a member to return a verdict of guilty,
in a criminal case just you stand up and tell him to mind
his own business then and there. He may lose his temper
and put you into gaol for a few hours, but lie soon will find
it again and let you out.. “Octo ” : The Victorian orciiest ra
is a failure simply because they haven’t got a Cowen to
conduct it.... “E. Mostyn ”: There is something', wrong
about halving the number of divorces to get the number
divorced. You must go into the matter more freely....
“ Veritas ”: Thanks.
Some time ago, it is stated, the Melbourne
Gas Co. could have been bought out for a million.’
Now they want three millions at the lowest, and
yet electric-light is coming and is bound ultimately
to oust gas.
The genial George Thornton died from
heart-disease on Saturday last at his father’s re-
sidence, Stanmore, aged 48 years, but the up'
parent suddenness of his demise did not come as
a surprise to his many intimates- he often told
the writer that he might be carried off at any
moment. Mr. Thornton, who was unmarried,
was one of the most popular and inoffensive men
that Australia has produced and a great lover of
his native country. He was a Free trade enthu-
siast and a well-known figure at Sydney elections
for many a year. He had taken passage for Europe
in the R.M.S. Victoria, and was to have been
accompanied by his venerable mother.
Mr. W. G. Spence, of the Amalgamated
Shearers’Union, says that it is now time to reduce
the hours of labour from eight to six. Not so fast,
Mr. Spence. The Australian trades-unionists have
obtained a reduction of the hours of labour for.
themselves, let them now do something for those
whose hours are still unnaturally long. Consider
the ease of the non-union classes—-the hotel-
servants, the barmaids, waiters and waitresses,
the barbers, the chemists’ assistants, whose day’s
toil in most cases is spread out over sixteen weary
hours, and who, in many instances, only get a
“ Sunday off ” once a fortnight. Surely their
burden is heavier, their case more necessitous than
that of any trades-unionist. First, therefore
secure for them shorter working hours ; second,
admit women to your unions, and then let us try
to cut down the hours of labour so materially that
it will be made necessary for everyone to perform
some useful task ere the world’s work can
properly performed.


DOCTORS RECOMMEND IT.
Medical men in Paris advise “ Warm Alcoholic” drinks as a
precaution against the Influenza epidemic. The e debrated
“ Wolfe’s Schnapps” ill warm water has been found a certain
preventive.
A Cup of Cold Water.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dull, dark scrub all around, a sandy,
barren soil underfoot, a cloudless sky and a hot,
relentless sun o’erhead. Even more desolate than
the usual dreary-looking scrub of the interior of
Australia is this lonely thicket. The trunks of
the low, stunted trees are gnarled and hideously
distorted, the foliage is scant and almost shade-
less, the ground is absolutely free from all under-
growth, and a deep, lifeless stillness reigns
throughout. Footsteps and laboured breathing;
and the repose of the scene is broken by the ap-
pearance of a human figure, a worn and wearied
man slowly and painfully dragging himself along
some horse-trades, forming a kind of trail through
the scrub. The unfortunate traveller is a piteous
sight, his sun-scorched face is thin and haggard
with starvation, and his bloodshot eyes gleam with
the delirium of thirst, his boots are absolutely
ragged, and he leaves a bloody track on the baked
ground. At times he sinks down beneath the
mockery of shade thrown by one of the scrub-
trees, then, after a brief rest, renews his toilsome
way.
Presently a break is visible ahead, and with
restored hope the exhausted man pushes on,
and ere long, with a hoarse, inarticulate cry of
joy, emerges from the scrub on to the bank of a
river. A river such as had haunted his dreams—
clear, bright, sparkling, splashing in tiny rivulets
amongst granite boulders and rippling from one
wide pool to another.
But the river has a strange appearance—no
trees line its banks, no rushes fringe its shore, the
bed is like a broad channel cut through the sandy
waste ; around and down the centre runs the
stream of water, the sight of which has brought
fresh life to the worn-out wanderer. Slowly he
toils across the hot and heavy sand to one of the
shallow pools that sparkle in the sunlight, flings
himself down and plunges his burning face and
cracked lips into the crystal stream, then raises it
quickly with a bitter cry of pain—for this delusive,
mocking river is salter than the sea !
The first moments of despair passed, the
traveller gathers himself together again for a
struggle to the last, retraces his steps to the bank
and searches for the continuation of the horse-
tracks he had been following. Finding these, he
once more plunges into the sea of scrub that line s
either bank of the river, and slowly staggers on.
Three hours have passed and the sun is getting
low when there is again a break in the weary,
monotonous thicket —a small, comparatively clear,
patch of country, in the centre of which rises a
conical hill of bare granite rock, lifting its bald
crest and smooth, glistening sides nearly a hun-
dred feet above the expanse of sombre tree-top; .
The open space encircling the foot of the rock ks
covered with short grass, there are several clumps
of cork trees scattered about, and in a deep de-
pression at the base of the hill is one of the rock-
holes peculiar to Western Australia, nearly half
full of rain-water— a deep hole almost like a tank
hollowed out by human hands.
Refreshed by a long drink, the man surveys
eagerly the signs of a late encampment. I'e
thrusts his hand in the ashes of the fire, but thty
are cold. He searches anxiously for any scraps cf
food that may have been left behind, but without
avail. Then another hope comes to him, and with
his last remaining strength he climbs the side cf
the naked rock and stands upright on the summit
gazing around.
A terribly depressing panorama, lit up by the
last rays of the declining sun, meets his view.
North, south, and east is a dead black expanse of
■scrub without opening, save that here and there
he can recognise the sheen of the treacherous salt-
water river. As far as eye can see stretches this
lonely, lifeless waste, that owns no b undary save
the blue haze of the horizon. He then turns to the
west. The same stern uniformity, the only differ-
ence being that a dark-blue, square-topped range
is visible far off. No smoke arises anywhere,
neither break nor clearing is visible; all is silent,
hopeless, and dead. With one last, despairi; g
look he recognises that the great wilderness h; s
pronounced his doom, and, with hopeless step ,
descends to the rocky hole and throws himse.J
down to await the coming of his last and only
friend.
Darkness sets in ; the clear stars shine bright in
a moonless sky, one by one the southern constella-
tions sink lower and lower until they are swallowed
up in the black shadow of the gloomy scrub. The
distant whoop of an owl, or the melancholy wail
of someother night bird alone breaks theoppresive
stillness, but the sleeper heeds them not. Nature
has been kind to him at last and brought him
painless slumber. In pleasant dreams his mil d
wanders far away from the foot of the giant rock
where Ins worn-out body is at rest. The grey
dawn finds him still alive, but the bitterness c f
death has passed, he neither cares nor thinks of
rescue or relief, the grim desert around lias lost its
terrors, he is half-way to another world. Still
there is something to be done and he takes a loose
hit of stone, and drags himself alongside a flat
rock which is covered with rude markings, the
work of the aborigines; and the now petrified
tracks of kangaroos and emus, the trail of serpents
and lizards, and, keeping guard overall, a gigantic
human track with six toes, the mystic footprint of
the aboriginal devil.
Amongst these savage emblems the dying man
scrawls his name and the date; that done, be feels
that his earthly cares are over. He thrusts his
hand inside his shirt as though to grasp some object
there with loving care, and with a sigh of relief
his head falls back and he thinks no more of heat
or thirst or hunger, for Death, the comforter, lias
given him a release.
Four months have passed, the weather has been
unchanged. Day after day a cloudless sun has
looked down on the lonely body, gradually
shrivelling up into a hideous inummv ; day after
day has seen it untouched by bird or' beast; even
the scavenger crows have shunned the spot, and
the dead white man has lain in solitude all the
time. Two men are now standing by the remains,
horses are feeding around on the dry gra».s, and
two black boys are kindling a fire a short distance
away. One of the men, a young fellow of about
three-and-twenty, kneels down and reverently
takes from the fleshless hand the object it has held
so long in the clutch of death -a worn and
weather-stained note book. Rising, lie calls to
one of the boys to bring a blanket, which he throws
over the body, and the two silently go down to
their camp.
“ Tom,” says the young man, “we have found
what we started to look for sooner than I ex-
pected. God help Marten when I meet him.”
“The black boy’s yarn must have been right,”
returned Tom.
“True as gospel. Over a hundred and fifty
miles he must have come in on foot, starving, and
for every mile that my father trod to meet his
death here on this rock the murdering cur who
left him out there to die shall suffer bitterly in
return, or my name’s not Manning. Now, let us
see what he lias written.”
The message of the dead man to his son was
short, but pregnant. It ran :
While I was away from camp Marten packed up, and
taking all the horses and the two boys, started home. I
came back with my horse knocked up and sore-footed
and found the camp deserted. We found some splendid
country on the heads of the G and the L ■, and I think
he means to go down and take it up for himself, trusting
to my never turning up again. I must follow on foot as
best I can, for my horse is dead lame. . . . I have
been walking now for two days and my feet are cut to
pieces on the ranges ; perhaps when I get down on to
the level country I may get along better. . . Quite
done up ; I have done my best and can hold out no
longer ; if anyone finds this let them take it and the note
to my son, John Manning, Ballarat, Victoria.
Between the leaves was one torn out and folded
note shape. It ran :
Dear Jack, —Marten left me to die of starvation at the
head of the L River. I have struggled along so far,
but must lie down and die here. God bless you, my boy.
There was silence after reading this. Tom broke
it first.
“ Marten sold the country well, didn’t he ?”
“ Yes, almost immediately he got back, there
was a bit of a craze for country just then.”
“ But for that nigger we’d never have dropped
on the rights of it.”
“ No, Marten supposed that the two boys would
go back to their country, and never dreamt that I
would come over here on a forlorn hope of find ing
my father and run across one of them. He said,
too, that he found the good country after my
father was lost, so I had no share in it.
“Shall we bury him now?” said Tom at last,
after a pause.
Young Manning nodded, and they proceeded
“Father l'd like to be
an Artist.
“My boy you see that
thcit's an Artist
with their task, and by sundown the long-
neglected body that had lain unwateked and un
mourned on the desolate rock, was consigned to
the earth, and the son set himself the labour next
morning of carving out in more permanent charac-
ters the name of the man from whose loins he had
sprung.
“Tom,” said Manning, when his work was done,
“ I have made up my mind how to act and I want
you to keep quiet about my father’s death. I in-
tend giving that fellow rope enough and coming
down on him when he least expects it. It would
be impossible to sheet this home to him by law, so
I mean to use other means. I can trust you, 1
know.”
“ About the boys ?” returned Tom.
“ We’ll let them go before we get back to town,
and it's not likely that Marten will ever run
against any of them again.”
In an hour’s time the rock mound and the new-
made grave were as lonely as before.
* * #
James H. Marten, Esq., was a rich man, the
few thousands he had made out of pastoral country
in the western colony had been well invested in
mining shares, and lie was one of the few who had
made money by a mining-boom. He still dabbled
in it, although there was no necessity for his so
doing, but the fever was yet in bis veins and the
fascination of anew reef had all its old attraction
for him. At the present time lie had, as lie
thought, a big thing on in Kimberley, he had
just had a satisfactory interview with a man
who had shown him specimens rich enough
to boom any company along until the bottom
dropped out of it. Marten had half a mind
to go up north and look at it himself, lie
was getting too stout, he thought, a good
rough trip would set him up again—why he and
been leading a sedentary life ever since that trip
with Manning; and as the thought came back to
him he picked up his hat and went out hastily,
for he felt as though there was something strange
locked up in the office with him.
Thus affected by nervous fears, due as he thought
to inertia, after some hesitation Marten finally
decided on the Kimberley trip, and, in company
with the prospector who had brought him the
specimens, whose name was Tom Howard, started
for the North. The camp where the reef was
situated was one of the furthest outlying ones,
and by the time they reached it Marten felt that
he was rapidly getting back to hard condition
again. Nearly a week passed, and the mining
magnate was quite satisfied that he had a per-
fectly good thing on, at least so far as the pro-
moters were concerned, whatever the public might
find it in the end, when there was anew arrival in
the camp —a friend of the prospector’s, who had
been on a long trip to the South. After some
mysterious conferences Marten was taken into
strict confidence and shown some specimens that
made his mouth water. The man who brought
them into camp had found them nearly 150
miles to the South West; there was a patch of
desert country to cross, but that was nothing with
such a lure ahead. Marten, who now felt in his
old bush form, consented to go with the stranger
and look at the new find so that he could make a
personal report in Melbourne, and they started.
Marten found his new companion taciturn and
reserved; he would take his meals apart in solitary
fashion and sleep some distance off. Marten had
seen the same moodiness before _in men who had
long lived an outside life, and he thought nothing
of it, the more stupid the man was the better for
him. Strange schemes intruded themselves into
his brain of playing him the same old trick he had
played Manning, if the reef turned out anything
like the specimens that had been produced. If
Eortune dealt trumps in his hand why should he
not take advantage of it ? Their way was a weary
one, some of it across sandy spinifex plains, and
part of it through mulga —only twice did they
come to any water, in both instances a brackish
native well. On the fourth day they came to
rough, broken country, and his companion pointed
to a range and said that the reef was there. That
night they camped at a small rock-hole that just
sufficed for their wants and those of their horses.
Next morning the prospector said they had better
leave their spare horses and ride on, look at the
reef, and come back, a;, there was no water beyond
the little rock-hole.
After about three hours’ ride they halted at the
foot of a frowning range from which some deep
ravines ran down into the lower country. Here
the prospector pulled up. “We had better,” he
said, “ tie our horses up to this tree and go up the
gully on foot—it is too rough for horses.” So they
dismounted and fastened the horses loa tree. “ I
am not quite sure which of the two gullies it is—
they are both So much alike; you go up this one
and I’ll go up the other. If you see anything of
my old tracks fire your revolver, if not, come back
here and wait for me.”
They parted, and Marten made an unsuccessful
ascent of the gully. There were no tracks nor any
sign of auriferous country, and tired, thirsty, anil
disgusted he returned to the rendezvous.
The horses were gone. Was it possible he had
made a mistake ? No ; there were the tracks. Had
they broken their bridles and made off? A distant
noise drew his attention to a ridge about half-a-
mi le away. There was the prospector riding
homewards, leading Marten's horse. Marten
veiled and coneed, without attracting any atten-
tion ; then lie drew his revolver to fire a shot, lmt
an empty click was the only response. Ile looked
at it; the cartridges had been removed. There
was no doubt he was being purposely left behind.
As the thought flashed through him the man
pulled up, as if to confirm it, on the crest of the
ridge and looked back. Taking off his hat, he
waved a mocking salute, and then vanished down
the far side.
With all the terror that now crowded into
Marten’s brain there was one predominant thought
-what was the motive for deserting him ? 11 seemed
an absolute certainty that lie had been purposely
lured to his death. But why ? Then a cold shiver
ran through him. Had Manningcome to life after
all and paid someone to play him this trick ? He
rallied himself and started to follow the track of
the horses. It was evident no one would come
back for him ; he must help himself. It was dark
when he got back to the rock-hole where they had
camped the night before, and, although he knew
that it could not be otherwise, yet it was with
horror he noticed that the place was deserted
packs, horses, everything gone. There was a
little muddy water at the bottom of the hole and
he drank it greedily. He passed an awful night
the mysterious suddenness of the blow over-
whelmed him. If he had had a chance to argue
or explain it would have been different, but all
around him was silence and the desert. “ Plead
to that,” a mocking voice seemed to say.
Next morning at grey-dawn he was off along
the back track, and doggedly pursued his way
until the loose sand and spinifex compelled him to
seek rest. He had no water-bag, so he had thrown
his useless revolver away and filled the pouch
with some of the muddy water, perhaps he could
struggle through to the second native well—but 60
miles, it was a long way. That night passed in the
slumber of exhaustion;next morning with stiffened
limbs, he recommenced his march, and now his
water supply was exhausted. Noontide found him
lying under a mulga-bush, praying for death. The
sound of an approaching horse aroused him ; the
prospector had repented and turned back. He
halted near the exhausted man, and leaning on his
horse’s neck looked calmly at him. “Do you
know who I am?” he said. “I am .Tack Man-
ning, the son of the man you murdered. I have
brought you out here to die the same death you
condemned him to. I know everything, I found
his dead body, his note-book, and a letter to me, I
also found one of the boys you had with you. He
followed you nearly one hundred and fifty miles,
then he died of exhaustion ; I intend you to do the
same, and also to ha ve the pleasure of wa'tchingy ou do
it. I have no intention of letting you die just yet,
so I will give you a quart of water and you must
make that do until you reach the second well.”
Manning dismounted, filled his quart-pot from the
water-bag he was carrying and placed it on the
ground, when, just as he was riding off, the wretched
man broke the spell of shameful silence that held
him and begged and implored mercy. It was useless.
As though he were stone-deaf, Manning rode
away and left him to plead to the sand, the mulga
and the spinifex; once more the silence and horror
of the desert were around him.
On the fourth day, in a state of delirium, he
staggered to the native well and buried his face in
the tepid, brackish water. His enemy was not
visible. Should he wait here for death ? He fell in-
sensible while thinking.
When he awoke it was morning, and he thought
he would make the attempt to reach the other
well; perhaps his foe would relent. He staggered
wearily on, and when the day grew hot sank down
to die at the foot of a sand-ridge.
“Do you repent?” said a voice. Manning
was standing over him. His swollen tongue re-
fused to answer, but he feebly raised his hand.
“ Drink,” said his enemy : “I can’t see even you
die of thirst.”
With all the fierce longing burning within him
for the sweet, cool draught, he yet thought that it
were better to die now than live to undergo it all
again, and, with a last effort, he put the proffered
bag aside. “ Let me die,” he groaned, in a scarcely
audible voice. “Drink,” said the other, “I will
spare your life, though I cannot forgive ; drink
and repent.”
He held the mouth of the bag to his enemy’s
lips and moistened them. The touch of the cool
water was too much ; with a feverish grasp the
half-dead man seized the bag and drank greedily.
Then, with a wild laugh, he fell back insensible.
“Is it too late, I wonder?” thought Manning,
looking at him. It was too late for his reason, but
not for his life. He died in the asylum at Kew,
raving of the phantom who had haunted him dur-
ing that journey through the waterless desert.
DELCOMYN.
Great Jehosoptab!
n’S NICE r JO UK A FATHER.
Somewhere in the Big Book the reporter of the
day tells us to “ multiply, ’ and James O’Leary, a
well-known Goulburnite, “did that same,” until
now lie has scored his 21, and all are boys. James
is now 85 years of age and recently “ tied on ” to
his fifth wife. The other four, of course, are
under the dandelions, Wife No. 5 is a pretty miss
of 27, and when she said Goulburn was going to
have a new citizen, the amative James went crazy
with delight. Mrs. O’Leary laid up for the
auspicious occasion and James went round treat-
ing everybody in the city, and had wagers every -
where whether it was going to be a boy or girl,
finally on arrival it was a boy, then James O’Leary
was happy, and since that eventful day he has not
had a sober day in Goulburn ; he writes this
account of the affair : —“ In 1806 I was gold-
mining in Victoria and was attacked by typhoid
fever which laid me on a sick bed for seven
months ; I was delirious most of the time so can-
not say exactly what happened to me during that
period ; all that I know is that for seven or eight
years afterwards I was continually in the hands of
the doctors, who somehow did not seem able to
grapple with the peculiarities of my case; they
finally advised a sea voyage. I went to Europe,
stayed there some months, caught a severe cold in
the trying English winter, which turned to
pleurisy and laid me at death’s door for the second
time. I was carried on to the steamer to come to
Australia, as I thought to die, however, the
voyage revived me a little and I could walk with
the help of a stick. On arrival at Sydney, 1 read
of the wonderful effects of Clements Tonic in
restoring enfeebled strength, I got a bottle, felt
better, got another, felt still better, then another
and another and kept at it till I had taken ten
bottles, and I felt as if 50 years had been taken
off my life, more like a man of 30 than one of 83.
It completely restored my strength and health
and I believe it is the most wonderful medicine
the world has seen, for Clements Tonic made a
young man of me, when doctors, their physic and
their sea voyages failed. That is a fact and there
is no denying such facts. I am now 85 years of
age, have married my fifth wife within the last 2
years and have a son under 0 months old, and
liope to live another 20 years. I think that says
something in favor of Clements Tonic.
Yours faithfully,
JAMES O’LEARY.
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation to F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W.; ; or
at Melbourne, George and George; at Adelaide,
F. H. Eaulding and Co.; at Wellington (N.Z.),
Kempthornc, Prosser and Co. ; at Hobart and
Launceston, L. Fairthorno and Sons, and all
dealers everywhere.
+
The Late Floods. —lt is a well-known fact
that had it not been for the wonderful nerve-
strengthening properties contained in Herr Rass-
mussen’s celebrated “ Denmark Vitality Pills,’
many hundreds of persons would have succumbed
to the terrible exposure of damp and cold experi-
enced at the late floods at Bourke and elsewhere,
and the embankments might, in consequence, have
given away before the removal of the women and
children had taken place to the higher parts.


Stir
INC (?>0
jfCelebrated
mr
m
J&.A m
gjps
.jSolc B.DifHEEL£R& C?js^u^
MEWEDjMRISSH
JUROIjA-. IND.J|
BUGGIES, BUCKBOARDS,
AND—
At MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
Send for Catalogues and Prices to
THE E. B. WHEELER CO,
265 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Tyndall describes Gladstone as “an übi-
quitous blast-furnace of sedition.”
According to private letters, Mortimer
Menpes, the artist, may visit Australia this year.
Sir Charles Lilley (Q.) is a native of
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, and arrived in N.S.W. m
1856.
The Mayor of Richmond (Q.) has astounded
the local council by asking them at last to take a
drink.
Gov. Kin tore proposes to send his eldest
son home to one of the English colleges prior to
entering the army.
The Apia hurricane disaster will be the
central episode of Robert Louis Stevenson s new
story, “The Wreck.’
The Detroit Fk.ee Press says that
“ Henry George was one of the fastest type-
setters in the United States.”
Emperor William cautions the Prussian
clubs to supply no military officer with more than
one glass of liquor before midday.
Chief Justice Way, one of the wealthiest
of Adelaide’s landowners in Adelaide, occupied a
front seat at Henry George’s first lecture.
Another Sydney clergyman has abandoned
the church for strict business. In future the
Almighty will play second fiddle to the Almighty
Dollar.
Lempriere, Ivintore’s private secretary, has
resigned. It is stated that salary had something
to do with it. Kintore has appointed an Italian
gentleman, named Colin Campbell, to the vacancy.
Bismarck, it is cabled, visits Scotland
shortly. In all his life he has never set foot in
Great Britain but once, and that was at Yar-
mouth, where he remained for a few hours many
years ago.
The much-travelled Smythe’s ( son scin-
tillates under the Christian name of Carlyle. Pa
must be a bit of a Republican, doomed by a cruel
fate to run shows of an especially orthodox and
“ loyal ” character.
The Bishop of Rochester (ex-Primato
Barry’s boss), addressing the female students of a
London Art School, remarked: “I am struck
with the lovely taste displayed m your hats, they
are so quiet and lady-like.”
The Argus, with its foolish old faith in
“representative” men, has engaged George
Augustus Sala to contribute a column or two ot
garrulous nonsense under the heading of “ Echoes
of the Week.” And they must be weak.
The Rev. Mr. Ashworth (C.E.), of Bourko,
died at Nyngan on his way to meet his wife, jour-
neyin®' from Melbourne. He had worked with
pick-and-shovel during the flood and had caught
cold. He was an exemplary clergyman.
Kyrle Bellow told a Sydney newspaper-
interviewer that his first attempt at journalism
was as a reporter on Melbourne Age at thirty-
shillings a week. He says he did one week, but
never called to collect the munificent stipend.
P. M’M. Glynn, one of the most brainy
and promising Radical members of the last 8. A.
Parliament, will, it is stated, now leave Adelaide
for Sydney to practise at the Bar. He refused the
Attorney-Generalship in the Cockburn Ministry.
Dv. William Bland, whom W. 11. Suttor
“ resurrects ”in an “Old Story Retold, was
once prosecuted for libelling Governor Macquarie.
He was fined £5O, and ordered to gaol for a year.
He paid every shilling of the fine and did every
hour of the time.
Apropos to Douglas Jcrrold s brother occa-
sionally setting up his own newspaper-leaders
without copy, James Harrison, of the Geelong
Advertiser, used habitually to do it 4o years
ago, and yet those leaders would have been worthy
of any newspaper in the world.
Was Browning a Jew? Dr. Furnivall
says no, because the poet’s great-grandfather had
his fourth son christened “ Christian. If this is
conclusive, how is it that so many allege
Christians are called Moses, Isaac, or Jacob . it s
a poor rule that won’t work both ways.
A London paper, discussing R. L. Steven-
son’s design to settle down at Apia, quotes Ire-
lawney’s remark that he went into the country to
exercise his body; to the town to exercise his
brain. Stevenson goes to Samoa to exercise his
type-writer through the hands of his son-in-law.
On the very day that Viscount Mandeville
became Duke of Manchester, through his father’s
death, Bessie Bellwood, the music-hall vocalist,
who pays for his cabs and drinks and sees that he
don’t catch cold o’ nights, was committed to
Holloway prison for non-payment of a debt ot ±J -
only.
Mr Tom Monahan Keogh, of Warrana
station, Coonamble, N.S.W., who was killed
while riding a race at Dubbo recently, was grand-
son of “Old Tom” Monahan, of Elsternwiek,
Vic., and, but a few months since, inherited,
under the will of that millionaire, a fortune of
about £250,000.
The Earl of Euston’s brother, Lord Charles
Fitzroy, has been appointed one of the Queen’s
Chaplains-in-Ordinary. There is no evidence to
prove that the Chaplain used to pop into the little
house in Cleveland-street and run away again-
quite disgusted, doncherknow. Very likely he
didn’t even know the address. ,
Says George Augustus Sala: llieieaie
50 reasons why the vulgar, senseless, idle, un-
couth habit of swearing should be bv every pos-
sible means discouraged.” In another column :
“ What the deuce did you do in that gallery, Mi.
John Leighton, F.S.A ?” Where is the line
drawn between oath and expletive.
Grover Cleveland recently said that
“nothing which appeared in the New York Sun
could, by any possibility, be true.” To this the
Sun replied : “If Mr. Cleveland really entertains
this notion, he will deprive himself hereafter of
much information and instruction that is indis-
pensable to a fat man who wants to get on in
politics and in society.”
A correspondent writes to This Bulletin
to say that Lowell called Lincoln the “ first, ’ not
the “first great,” American, and tells how, one
day, as Abraham passed through a lane of people
one said audibly: “Why, he’s only a common-look-
ing fellow.” To whom Lincoln replied, kindly :
“ Friend, the Lord prefers common-looking folk ;
that’s why He made so* many of them.”
Lord Haimnond, late of the London
Foreign Office, has died, aged 88. He is remem-
bered for one saying only. When looked jip to
as the best foreign authority in May, 1870, he
pompously told Foreign Minister Granville that
“Never, in the whole course of my experience,
has the political sky of Europe been so unclouded
as at the present moment.” In a week or two the
Franco-German war broke out.
Marwood, the late British hangman, has
died as insolvent as any one of his long list of
victims. His successor appears to be a better
business man. For instance, he has just made
£lOO in an action for libel-damages. By the way,
Mr. Howard, C.M.G., who now hangs for the
N.S.W. Government, once told us that Sir Alfred
Stephen had recommended him to take a libel-
action against The Bulletin, and he was quite
sorry he hadn’t done so.
A Colling wood (Vic.) constable lately
found a coat and vest on the side-walk. An ad-
jacent inebriate, their owner, had neatly folded
them up under the impression that he was in his
bedroom. Some years ago a Melbourne con-
stable aroused a well-dressed man out of a door-
way in Swanston-straet, who grumbled at being
dragged from his bed at so unreasonable an hour.
A TRY-ON.
“Mr. Gladstone’s head is still growing.” DMLY PAPER.
AUSTRALIA'S G.O.M. (exchanginy hats with the where [?] “YOU SEE, I HAVE A
MUCH LARGER HEAD THAN YOU !”
THE OTHIR G.O.M.: “YES, I AM TOLD YOU SUFFER VERY BADLY FROM
WHAT THEY CALL ‘SWELLED HEAD.’"
Oil being locked up the delinquent was found t°
be the then governor of Melbourne gaol.
The Times in memoriam of Baron Dowse :
A srreat Irishman has passed away. God grant that
many as great, and who as wisely shall love their country
may follow him ! .
And yet people say a joke is never admitted into
the Pigottian organ’s leading columns, the truth
is that Dowse was a dull person addicted to bad
puns. He was a furious Tory and died on the
Bench in a tit while cursing 1 arnell and all ms
works. Next! :
Joseph Beed. the foremost Melbourne
architect, passed away last week He was the
designer of Melbourne Town Hall, the Victorian
Public Library, the Wilson Hall at the Unban-
sity, Collins-street Independent Church, W esley
Church, and scores of other artistic buildings He
was an insignificant-looking little man, equally
modest and clever. He was very fond of music,
and had one of the finest collection of old violins
■ n t he world. Unfortunately, he went land-
booming, and this broke his heart.
I'se Bathos Baking Powder.
()Hicial Statistician Ilayter, of \ iotoria,
estimates the entire population of; Australia at
;; 72 i* C.23, while Government Statistician Coghlan,
of N.S.W., makes it 3,786,798.
The infant son of the Hopetouns is known
as Lord Hope. In the meantime another guber-
natorial family are thinking that their infant son
ought to be called Lord Despair.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, % Bathurst street, Sydney.
A milkman named Bluett turns up in
Melbourne. “Chalks," the milkman of panto-
mime, must now give way. Truth is always
stranger than fiction.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Gladstone can’t, for the life of him, see
why Australia objects to Chinamen ; tint, then,
William is not in the Cabinet-making trade- now.
The Grand Chief of the Good Templars,
Mr. N. T. Co I ]ins, will be a (National Protec-
tionist) candidate for Yass Plains at the next
N.S. W. general election.
The (hitherto golden) insignia of the Order
of the Bath are in future to be silver-gilt. There
is now an agreement between the “ honour and
its symbol. Both are shams.
The new Foreign-trade “bunch” for the
next Canterbury (N.S.W.) election is said to con-
tain the name of John Hurley, the present mem-
ber for Lithgow—in place of that of the wicked
Hutchinson.
In selecting his delegates for the I edera-
tion Convention, Premier Parkes has chosen four
natives of N.S. Wales, two Irishmen, and one
Englishman (himself)--four Freetraders and three
Protectionists.
Garvan’s secret acceptance of Parkes’under-
ground offer of a seat at the Federal Convention
came as a thunderclap to the N.S.W. Opposition
and is regarded by the independent men of botli
sides as an indefensible act of disloyalty to party.
Is the Federal Convention to be Imperial-
istic or Republican? All its members utter the
shibboleth, “The Umpire. ’’ bo one, not one,
single soul, says the “ Australian Republic.
Those who do not say Republic do not mean
Republic.
Sir Henry Parkes was first returned to
Parliament 3G years ago (May 2). At that rate
Parkes had at least reached his physical prime
when he, first entered political life, and has there-
fore not spent the whole of his life—as he, some-
times boasts—in the public service.
The inspired statement that Traill was
not included by Parkes in the Federal convention
because he was “a mere provincial restrictionist
is, of course, all flam. The fact is thatlarkes
can’t swallow Traill’s straight-out aggressive
Republicanism any more than Traill can hide it.
To Mr. “Redfern’’ Stephen, M.L.A., a
distinguished member of the L.O. Order, lias been
entrusted the Rill to repeal in N.S.W. the Party
Processions Act, and thus allow the Orange lodges
to parade the streets. The Bill, we presume, will
be labelled “A Rill toKncourage Manslaughter
and other forms of Homicide.
Eleven candidates' contested the Yorke's
Peninsular S.A. election—most of them brought
out by the £2OO-a-year Parliamentary screw.
What a state the colony must be in, when 11 men
are ready to abandon work, and advertise the
fact, although but two of their number can be
returned, on the offehanee of earning such a pitiful
s rew !
The announcement that J. P. Abbott had
accepted the seat at the Federal Conference offered
him by Parkes without consulting the N.S.W.
Opposition, to which he is supposed to belong, ex-
cited no surprise. Abbott is regarded as a purely
selfish politician who lives for himself and cold-
bloodedly plays a lone hand. He is only Parkes
without a beard.
Mr. Vivian, the newly-elected M.P. for
the Hastings and Manning, in his maiden Parlia-
mentary speech, pronounced N.S.W., “which
is to shed the light of her glorious wealth over the
vast ocean of humanity ” to be “ unrivalled in
enlightenment and genius.” Just at the same
time, but at the other end of the world, ex-
Primate Barry was calling N.S.W. “ a crude
community.’'
In 185 b, Gladstone publicly spoke of the
accomplishment of the Union between Great
Britain and Ireland as a “ splendid achievement,”
and bracketed it with the abolition of the slave-
trade. In 1885 he said that “he knew of no
blacker or fouler transaction in the history of man
than the making of the Union.” Well, this is
what the G.O.M. has come to through keeping up
a correspondence with “ Dear Sir H. Parkes.”
Henry George did not think much of the
S. A. Single-taxers, although he had heard so
much of the progress of the colony. He ex-
pected to find more prominent men running the
business, and was sadly disappointed. In Moonta
Yorke’s Peninsula—hardly anybody even knew
who Henry George was. The gaping crowd at
the railway-station were sadly disappointed
when they found he was not the advance-agent of
a circus.
The Imperialist conspiracy goes merrily
on. It is proposed to construct “ a Gibraltar ”at
Albany, not in the Australian but in the
English interest the prime motive being to
furnish the biggest nail in our coffin. If
we have a Gibraltar let us make it oui’selves ; let
us brace up Newcastle rather than Albany.
Meanwhile, Knutsford sends out an order that no
land is to be sold within gun-range of the new .
Gibraltar.
Increasing opposition i 3 manifested in
Adelaide political circles to the present Mihistry,
who are unable to obtain any legal member to
take the Attorney-Generalship. _ In fact, some
members are anxious to arrange for the Premier s
resignation in order that he may take the Speaker-
ship, but it is unlikely that this will be brought
about. Catt will now stand for Chairman of
Committees, and Rounsevell is the most likely
man for Speaker.
Should the N.S.W. Government continue
to refuse the refund of the back rent (£2002) due
to Squatter Allison, the plaintiff in the notorious
land-case of Allison v. Burns, in accordance with
judgment on appeal, bailiffs will be placed in the
Government offices on Monday next (12th inst.)
If they pay (as they must, unless they have re-
solved to repudiate), then they admit their in-
debtedness to the other lessees of State-lands for
amounts that in the aggregate approach £750,000.
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, at its
annual meeting, rejoices over the complete triumph
of Conservatism in Victoria. It has the impu-
dence to declare that the commercial interests are
not represented ’n Parliament; but how about
the two-thirds majority of the population, the
working olrvssos. wlio Imvo not ;i binglo moiiioM .
The entire tenor of the meeting was an undis-
guised exultation over the style in which Gillies
bosses Deakin, the supposed mouthpiece of the
Mas es as against the Classes.
Mel in >u rue \_nam oer of Com m tree, that
agM'-sanonof well-feathered political bolsters, pro-
tests against members of Parliament being turned
from representatives into delegates. Now, it is
for Democrats to insist that members must bo
delegates, neither more nor less, and I hat the cry
is to be Measures, not Men. \V hat do we send a
man to Parliament for? to represent us, or him
self? Why, of course, we send him there to
feather his nest, get into the swim of swindles,
play billiards and lawn-tennis, quarrel with the
liquor, and so on. Delegate be <1 ! letch
n r b’dl, waiter !
The cabled statement of Graham Berry
that in proportion to population emigration to
Australia exceeds that to the United States is.surely
one of the most meaningless and inconsequential
ever flashed along tin; wires. Had the comparison
been one of acreage or distance, then its potency
would have been apparent, but to argue that the
larger population lias the greater attraction for
emigrants is to fly in the face of facts and com-
monsense, ’The converse, as a matter of fact, is
true. The smaller the population of a country
the greater the amount ,pf unutilised land, and,
therefore, the greater the attractions, the oppor-
tunities for the squeezed-out worker of the thickly-
populated old countries.
The old question as to why the Liberal
party in all seuate-houses is more or less dis-
organised, while the Conservatives vote as one
man, has again cropped up. Gladstone accounted
for it years ago by saying that disorganisation
was an essential of all" progressive parties. Ho
spoke truly; a party of reform must be one of
thinkers, and the ideas of large numbers of men
of varying temperament on any one subject never
yet were in complete harmony. With the Con-
servatives, “the stupid party,” matters are very
different; like sheep they have no ideas, like
sheep they are content to follow one leader where-
soever he goetli, or be driven by .a dog in the
direction that seems good to him, for personal
volition is unknown to them.
Some twenty years ago a youngster left
Sydney with a drover for a station out back.
Whilst waiting at the station for the mustering of
a draft of fat cattle, the station blacks, who per-
sisted in pi Bering, proved very troublesome, and
one evening the youngster came in and told the
drover that old Combo had “nicked” a toma-
hawk. “Why didn’t you pot him?” jocularly
replied the drover. Shortly afterwards he heard
a shot, and going out of the hut lie found that the
youth, taking him at his word, had shot old
Combo dead. Combo was cremated, and nothing
further heard of the matter, as the potting of a
black or two was not thought much of in those
clays. That youngster is now in Sydney, with his
sin on liis head, at the age of 37 years.


ParLiamentarv Proposats.
tjmw «*v
77/f p/wnFs/ywFr/zy &f r//FFFn/Rj(
/fif/AH STRESS FUR JUST/CF
2 Ditto for. /jskits'
3 " FOR- FDD/Crfr/o/T
4 " FOR A /OF /l Cr/toCFFTj
AKD Bottle ur/fSßfee
6 TC'/PF TARy OF ftFFRFSfYfjFKT R,OOTJ
J CF/FF OF TFT TyPF-IV#;rFFS
& X ORE OF Ffi/EKD OF FRF FAsyK Y
_9 7*05//F/y/SJY TRFSS Q/KFRAL A//
/O BOSS OF FFF S/Tl/FF/fF
Perbapa he might
be permitted io state with reference to Mr.
Keury George, who held opinions which be (Sir
lieury) had not expret-ted anj agreement wiib,
that if he did not come Quder the head of dia-
•tinguished persona there were very few dis-
tinguished persons in the world. (“ Hear
hear.”) It seemed to‘him that Henry George
was a gentleman in whom ali persons ciaimiug
to be democrats or weu of the peopie should
take a special pride, f Cheers.) Whatever his
opinions might be, be was a man of the
' '.>u. :> '’"r
„ Sc eye af-jsfel
rn after a
} /eria) fa,?*/a?/' Up Caul )
Try _ " ■>
Tht frey/er bf. Tfe T?“
fpp/al />urly 79puf pc u tJ/if
* % tye 7 fe*) fa./ tip Kour p ore '9
trf/ef, 7 o ort re ac lj /<>r \,r*c//us^
V of// I
St
*» ” j
ffyj ,ft* fay*«■)*)
Y d/vt/y'jrf'
ftup of zSouty Sf/es fjou'pq'
propjosecf peu) /f a/mitys.
7v//6ars a//// £e afo/zjfrc/,
rufG/fc 4//// £e exf&rnp/q c/tef
yo /pare Jyo/fy ff/7/orys
a//tf /fa/ty roe/s a/?cS /ftp/?
ffip ct'pf/qe' &/- p
yeyeraf f/pcf'o/pJ.
sadf
WJ3U**** 1
\
M> r
"Ull 11 , H<'
fe.
Mr
t 1~ U. )ill£e ct/jfr/6ufi>o( cc'r/o/tgrfe JusT'ct/rcf firr Ufy/us^
THE AYHFK’S AFFAIRS.


THAT DELEGATESITJP.
PAItKES (loq.) : “ YOU SHOOT HIM— FOP. ME !—IN THE SACRED CAUSE OF FEDERATION !”


The
Marvellous
1g« fifl OPTIMUS
-LOSS. CPU. WATCHES
The Best, Cheapest and Most Accurate Timekeepers
ever produced.
Made especially to our order by one of the leading- and
most celebrated manufacturers of Watches in Switzerland
and experience has shown that no watch is better than a
well-made Swiss one. \
Gilt movements, jewelled in six holes, keyless (10 turns
to wind), enamel dials, crystal faces, well made, splendidly
finished, nickel cases that will wear excellently; in fact
real good-looking, handsome little watches, and’ma°-nifi-
cent timekeepers.
Twelve months’ guarantee forwarded with every one
Send P.O.p. for 19s. 6d. (Is. postage), and have one
forwarded by post. If not in every way satisfactory after
a week money willingly refunded.
Only to be obtained from
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Spectacle Makers, Opticians & Electricians,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
IMPACTS RENEWED STRENGTH
and vigor where there has been exhaustion.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., Iving-st. Arcade
Photography.— Charlemont and Co. (vice-regal
photographers), in the -Royal Arcade, beg to an-
nounce that they have now reduced the price of
their Cabinet Photographs to 15s. per doz.
any style—bust, vignette or three-quarter figure.
Messrs. Charlemont feel assured that this reduc-
tion in price will meet the many who refrained
from sitting in their studio, solely on account of
the price hitherto being higher than they might
care to pay. Grosvenor Galleries, Royal Arcade.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Foreign & colonial exchange bank
OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
Sydney—B6 King Street.
Melbourne— 369 Collins Street.
London Bankers—Australian Joint Stock Bank,
No. 2 King William Street, London, E.C.
This Bank undertakes the Exchange of Money,
both International and Intercolonial, includ-
ing the Coinage op all Foreign Nations, in
addition to all usual and customary banking busi-
Deposits
Received.
3 years
12 months ...
G months ...
3 months ...
Communications to
Managing Director.”
SJ per cent.
... ... 8 percent.
7 per cent.
0 per cent.
be addressed to “The
D J WILSON,
Secretary.
W. H. PALING- & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
JJAVE Jost Oremo a Magnificat Lot of: New PianostM. the celebrated Makers, Steioway, Erard, Uetel, Fenrich, lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner, Collara.and others
f the wonderful Victor Pianos art £45 and Eatey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Terms.
Society
Here is a queer coincidence. The murder
°f Blackburn, who was stabbed to death in Crown-
street, Surry Hills, Sydney, some months ago, is
still unavenged. At Blackburn’s trial it was
sworn that the man who killed him said, in de-
livering the fatal blow, “Oh, you are one of the
push ! ” Now, the other night, in Sydney Domain,
two men were stabbed—one of them was hacked
to death and his body thrown into the water ; the
other (attacked, according to his own account, in
a locality remote from that where the dead man’s
body was found) escaped with a wound in the
neck, and on entering the hospital for surgical
assistance stated that the unknown man who had
injured him said, in delivering the blow : “ Oh,
you are one of the push ! ” It is true that the
Crown-street murder appears to have been the
outcome of revenge, whereas the Domain murder
looks like one prompted by gain; but all the same
the Crown-street murderer and the Domain
murderer may be one and the same person.
* * #
We have received from a Mormon resident
of \ictoria 4O-page essay in defence of that
institution. This is a work of supererogation.
Mormonism requires no advocacy in Victoria
under the Coalition Government; all it wants is a
new name.
* * #
Andrew Chirnside, last of the Brothers
T. and A. Chirnside, has gone where the rouse-
abouts, bushwhackers, and sundowners go—for do
not all go to one place? Yes, Andy was not
happy—and Tom perished most miserably. The
o d race of the Armytages, Austins, Bells, Blacks,
Chirnsides, Clarkes, Desaillys, Ebdens, Fyans,
Millers, Ilutledges, Wilsons, Wares, is pretty
well gone, after their battle with the Dons,
Wilson Grays, Ebenezer Symes, Healeses, and so
<-n. The battle has been won : Gillies is straddle-
legs a-top of Deakin, who pockets his £4O a week
as the Working Man’s Man. Gerrout!
~ * «
Some years ago a man named Burns was
hanged in Victoria for the murder of one Quin-
livan, whose head he had removed post-mortem,
to prevent identification, and in his cell a few days
before his execution he privately admitted to'a
professional man in the presence of the present
writer that he “ couidn t count on both his hands
together the number of reasons why he deserved
to-be hanged”—meaning thereby that he was
being hanged for one murder, but had been guilty
of about a dozen of a similar character. Burns
was a sullen and utterly unfeeling brute, who had
made a trade of murder, and one of the queerest
incidents of the interview in que tion was the
hypocritical manner in which he spoke of his
victims as “the poor fellows.” Schmidt, the
Wagga murderer, who has confessed to murdering
Taylor and then cutting his head off, also speaks
of the unfortunate man as “de poor fellow.” The
hangman invariably speaks of the man he has ji.si
“ let down ”as “ the poor fellow.” After this we
don’t want to hear that phrase any more.
# * #
A North Shore (Sydney) undertaker, with
a keen sense of the jitness of things, exhibits for
sale amongst his coffins a stock of fireworks.
* * *
The will of Mr. Edward “ Castlemaine,
please,” Fitzgerald has been proved in Melbourne
at £156,000. The testator was a solicitor by pro-
..ession, but made his pile chiefly out of beer.
He has left the whole of his property amongst his
relatives, excepting £350—£50 of which is to be
devoted to religious offices on his soul’s behalf, and
£3OO to be given to such charities as his wife may
appoint. This munificence amounts to just one
halfpenny in the £ of his vast property.
* * #
Those cultured buffoons, the Melbourne
University larrikins, have again exhibited their
ass-hood at their Annual Commencement. Sup-
pose State school boys (vine guilty of such freaks
—why, the enemies of the Education Act would
declare that all was over with the, degraded
country. But the young gentlemen of the Uni-
versity ! Oh, that is another thing altogether.
Two of these youths had the impudence to sing at
the Commencement ceremony, a song glorifying
the exploit of a couple of University members
who, after last Commencement, dressed them-
selves up as mock policemen, and thus came to
be arrested by the real police in the Melbourne
streets at midnight.
* # #
“La Nona,” a sequel to la Grippe, which
first showed itself in Italy, appears to have reached
Melbourne. A Miss Blucannan, of that city, lies
dreaming the happy hourspaway by the' week
together. Sometimes she vvakes up for a bit. and
adapts herself to what the ! doctors call a normal
condition, from which she again relapses into a
cold, damp slumber, broken by periodical admin-
istrations of cold, damp physic. This interesting
disease promises to be another throw in for the
Faculty, who are rolling up to the sleeping beauty
in the hope of carrying away germs on their frock-
coats, and spreading them among families that can
afford to foot a long bill.
* * #
Much favouritism, it is alleged, has been
shown in Bourke during flood-time in allowing
some residents to use the few boats available for
pleasure merely, while others were refused their
services for the conveyance of necessaries. But
’twas ever thus.
* # *
A correspondent asserts that the financial
failure of the Sydney orchestral concerts is due to
the fact that the Governor could not be got to
attend until the season was over, and so the local
cognoscenti to whom he apparently acts as all-
round taster also withheld their patronage and
their coin. “ Put not your trust in Princes.”
# # #
Some more tourists have been ecstasizing
over the Wilson Hall, Melbourne University, but
indeed it is the most stupendous monument of
pride and folly in the whole city. The Univer-
sity itself is a wretchedly-built fragment, actually
tumbling to pieces, so that stone-arches have to be
propped up with wooden beams ; yet Sir Salmon
Wilson wasted £40,000 on a pretentious excres-
cence merely to get a title.
* # #
A good-hearted Melbourne woman has
adopted a baby-boy which her daughter found,
tied up in a brown paper parcel, on the St, Kilda
EXPEETENTIA DOCET.
SHE : “ ARE YOU COMING TO BED ? ”
HER LUVIN' HUSBAND : “YES—ER—ARE YOUR FEET COLD ?”
SHE : “YES.”
H.L.H. : “WELL, I’LL COME BY-AND-BYE.”
road. That the mitherless bairn may enjoy a fair
start in life, the good creature had it christened
Alexander Stanley Theodore Wheatley. A good
name enough as it stands, but they might have
worked in Gillies, Hopetoun St. Kilda among the
other lot.
# # #
111 The very first thing women do when
they find themselves away from home and in an
hotel is to try and discover flies in the soup.”—
Meditations of a Sydney landlord, vol. 8. chap. 12. <
# # *
Baron Yon Crueller, the great Arctic ex-
plorer, mit all his stars, crosses, and ribbons on,
was dilating before an aristocratic circle of Bel-
gravian ladies round a Mayfair ottoman : “ Ven I
vas in Lapland,” said he, “I did keep four
vomans.” Observing that all the fans went up at
this innocent remark, he hastily explained : “It
vas to row mine boat !”
* * #
The general opinion seems to be that
though the “ Anglo-Australian ” collection of
paintings in Melbourne is worth a shilling to
look at, it does not contain a single canvas which,
on its merits, loudly cries out for admission to
either of the Australian National galleries.
# # *
The entire Melbourne press has prostrated
itself before Major-General Tulloch, the new com-
mander-in-chief. This great genius has actually
condescended to mention that every sham-soger
should provide himself with a waistcoat coming-
well down over the stomach. Put your trust in
Providence and keep your tummy warm, and if
you have a grain of sense you’ll never come to
harm. No foe will be so big a fool as this here
land to storm, so mind you have your reason cool
and keep your tummy warm. The latter portion of
this paragraph takes the form of a poem, dedicated
to the Victorian army.
# # #
Stanley had no sooner arrived in London,
and looked up the barber who dyes his hair a
golden hue, than he took train for Sandringham
in Order to flop at the feet of the Prince of Wales.
An interview between Stanley and the royal
Tummy must be a pitiable sight. What interest
can an African explorer (and a notorious “ bore ”)
have for the worn-out Prince of pleasure, a man
whom even ballet-girls’ legs no longer delight.
The meeting is a ponderous farce, played for the
purpose of enabling the stupid illustrated papers
to pose Tummy as a kind of second-hand explorer
himself. In about another six weeks we shall get
a Graphic picture of “ The Prince of Wales dis-
covering H. M. Stanley, at Sandringham,” repre-
senting the Heir Apparent as listening, with
kindling' eye, to the buccaneer’s account of how h
shot 50 niggers before breakfast.
# # #
Tennyson omitted to reply to a pressing
invitation to contribute a short poem to Aus-
tralia’s Century, a mighty work which Walch
and Barnet, of Melbourne, never succeeded in
bringing to press. With the text of the letter to
Tennyson before us we marvel much that Baron
T. threw so loyal an effusion behind the fire.
The intending publishers couldn’t say more than
this : “ Hence it will contain contributions from
the leading authors and artists resident in the
colonies, the one exception being the proposed
poem by the Poet Laureate of the dear old mother
country which ive alt a dove.'' In common decency,
we think, Tennyson should have sent them a short
ballad on the Queen or a blank-verse tribute to
the peers of the realm we all adore. A gem of
that description, sparkling in a plain gold setting
of advertisements, would have been quite enough
literature for purchasers of Australia's Century.
# # %
The latest fad of Purves, Q.C., is to invite
Toole to an A.N.A. smoke-night at Melbourne
Athenaeum, by way of showing how tire rising
generation of Australia doat upon the dear mother
country’s venerable comedian. Of all Purves’
hysterical fits, this is the most utterly idiotic.
Whatever may be Toole’s merits as an actor, it is
certain that he is falling flatter and flatter upon
the minds of young natives. New-chums are sup-
posing his season because it is so English-you-
know, and old-chums respect J.L.T. as a reminder
of long ago. But the natives—well, ask Mr.
Garner, as he sits in the managerial box at the
Princess’s and casts a not too merry eye over a
house which can show empty seats, sometimes
even on Saturdays.
* * #
A jealous wife is very apt to let the world
see that her Edwin couldn’t well help preferrino-
“that other creature.”
* # *
David Lee s selection of twenty tunes for
the Melbourne Post-office clock has been adopted,
and, of course, there is not one with the faintest
bearing on Australia ! That went without saying.
Every blessed day Melbourne is to be tortured
with “ God Save the Queen,” also “God Bless the
Prince of Wales,” likewise “ Rule Britannia !” In
face of all this the Republicans of Australia should
in future surely have less modesty in obtruding
their political views upon the notice of indifferent
and hostile audiences.
Charles H , formerly a well - known
draper, and leading cricketer, of Sydney, is doing
his month in Melbourne gaol, for having no visible
means of support beyond a pair of crutches. What
has become of Charley’s old friends ?
* # *
The Victorian police have been refused
their request for an extra shilling per day, on the
ground that there are five applicants for every
vacant billet, at the present rate of wages. The
fact that “bobbies ” are a drug upon the market
is a strong indication that the foorce will require
strengthening at an early date. Rejected appli-
cants must inevitably degenerate into street-corner
loafers.
# * #
A Melbourne barmaid declined to disclose
in court the name of the father of her eight-year-
okl boy, because “she didn’t see why he should
suffer as she has had to do.” As she admits that
papa is a married man, in a good position, he
probably would have to suffer considerably. Hebe
doesn’t believe in giving another lady the privilege
of cussing him.
* # *
“THE RULE OF THREE.”
(A Sydney Suburban Tragedy—ln One Act.)
Scene — St-nm-re Railway Station. Time — B.ss a.m.
any day. Train going towards Sydney stops at
Station.
First Porter (at East end of Station) -. “This
train for all stations to Sydney.”
Second Ditto (at West end)-. “This train,
Sydney only.”
Traveller No. 1 (to Station-master) : “What
train is this?”
Station-Master; “Well, it ought to be the
8.52., perhaps it’s the B.42—it might be the 8.28
from P-t-rsh-m—she stops sometimes ; but it’s
possibly the 8.22 late. Wait a moment and I’ll ask
the guard.”
Traveller No. 1: “Really this is too bad—
it’s worse than under the old Commissioner, and
that was bad enough.”
_ Foreign Gent (who had listened to the conversa-
tion with great interest) : “Yah, bad mit one Gom-
missioner ! mit dree Gommissioners, dree times as
worse !!! Dot’s all ride, aind id ?”
A MELBOURNE IDYL.
One morning, to that justice Court
’Neath lordly Panton’s rule,
A slim young prisoner was brought,
Who’d snatched a reticule ;
No neater dude e’er did the Block
Than this one standing in the dock.
“ What is the charge?” cried Mr. P.
A party in a wig
Proclaimed the prisoner to be
A handsome, evil prig,
Who snatched a satchel, bad young man!
Prom out a lady’s hand, and ran.
The prosecutrix, young and fair,
Into the box was shown,
For beauty rare and golden hair
The damsel stood alone;
The prisoner he heaved a sigh—
E’en lordly Panton winked his eye.
The maid was sworn to speak the truth
Upon the blessed book ;
But never at that guilty youth
She ventured once to look ;
“ Is that the thief ? ” cried counsel stern.
The damsel’s cheeks began to burn.
“ What did you lose? O, prithee, tell,”
Said Pan ton from the Bench ;
Her graceful bosom rose and fell—
But silent stood the wench,
With rare eyes fixed upon the ground—
A titter passed the court-room round.
“You have been robbed,’’resumed the beak,
“ A satchel, was it not ?
The court commands that you shall speak.”
One glance the damsel shot
At that young man, so bright and smart,
And said, “ I think he stole my heart.”
The counsel stern he ground his teeth,
And couldn’t see the joke ;
While Panton’s eyes, black brows beneath,
Plashed fury, as he spoke,
“ I cannot pass such conduct rash—
Six months, for having done a mash.”


You Have
CONSUMPTION
BRONCHITIS
SCROFULA
GOUGH OR COLD
Threat Affection
Wasting of Flesh
Or any Disease where the Throat and Dungs
are Inflamed, lack of Strength or Nerve
JPoiver. you can be Melieved and Cured by
SOvirFb
EMULSION
pure codTliver oil
With Hypophosphites.
Palatable as Milk=
Ash for Scott’s Emulsion;, and let no ear-
planation or solicitation induce you to accept
a substitute.
Sold by all Chemists.
SCOTT & BOWME, New York,,
The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
5 per cent, allowed on daily
... 91j per cent.
• • • per cent.
7i per cent.
hh per cent.
balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager.
Robertson’s Whisky.
GIVEN AWAY IN THE COLONIES
as follows:
16 of £5 each, £2, and 70 £!,
Pamphlets from tho Agents, Limited,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY
Suppressing Socialism.
A cable message tells us that the Protestant and
Roman Catholic Churches of Germany, where
the rival religious factions are about equally
balanced, have agreed to unite in action against
their common enemy. The bishops of both
churches arc exhorting the diocesan clergy to
“suppress the rapidly-growing Socialist move-
ment.” This is rather a large order, as times go,
and will probably recall to the minds of many
readers the case of a London alderman who
announced, from the judgment seat, his firm
determination to put down suicide. It is un-
necessary, however, to insist upon the obvious
fact that the golden age of bigotry has passed,
and that the German bishops have no longer at
command those means to suppress Socialism,
which enabled Caiaphas to effect the physical sup-
pression of Socialism’s great teachei - . Sufficient
to remark that the spiritual aims of the churches
are much about the same as they were about 1850
years ago. On one great point our religious sects
display no less unanimity than did the Pharisees
and Sadducees of old. They ever maintain a holy
alliance, offensive and defensive, against the doc-
trines of the Book which, with many a fervid
thump, they declare to be the blessed, incontro-
vertible Truth. Up to quite a recent date the
Christian religion has undoubtedly been so care-
fully nursed and veiled by its professors that the
ignorant multitude, their eyes well-nigh blinded
by the dust of old superstitions, had never
a chance to look upon it face to face.
Wrapped in swaddling clothes, Christianity
lay in the grip of the priesthood who mis-
represented its form and features, and spoke
of it as a fat, contented, sleepy Tory babe,
when all the while it was a nervous radical infant
struggling to be free, that it might walk abroad
and be beholden of men. With the spread of
education and the partial clearing of the
“ spiritual ” atmosphere a change is coming o’er
the public mind. Cultured laymen refuse any
longer to take Christianity on trust from its self-
appointed guardians. They have lifted up the
veil, and seen with astonishment how different is
the real nurseling of the priesthood from the sup-
posititious thing that the world has for centuries
been worshipping. They have written books and
pamphlets, delivered speeches and lectures, deal-
ing with this new discovery. And from their seed
of words, written and spoken, has sprung
up a plentiful crop of Socialism, yielding
a bountiful increase year by year, destined
ultimately to choke all other crops of
creed and overrun the whole of the earth.
The Bishops of Germany were but acting in
accordance with the natural law of self-preser-
vation when they agreed to lay aside the hatchet
of petty distinction, and unite in a comical attack
upon enlightened Thought. The traditional
stupidity of the churches in general, and of
bishops especially, is so impenetrably dense that
they cannot realise the position of affairs.
Possessed by a conviction that as it? was in the
beginning, so it ever will be - amen—these played-
out old stewards of a bogus Heaven potter along in
their mental darkness, strong only in the one
grand belief that “ Christianity ” must prevail
while there are bishops to back it up. Being old,
probably likewise addicted to an undue consump-
tion of unspiritual food, it is unlikely that they
will live to witness the overthrow of the Tory ,
Christian faith, and its re-establishment on liberal;' ,
charitable principles by the growing powers of
Socialism.
Wilshire, M.P. (N.S.W.), publicly avowed
that he entered political life to afford an example
of decorum. When Parliament assembled the
other day the first two members to enter the
Assembly were the hilarious Crick and the soi-
disant decorous Wilshire. For an instant the
Bane looked at the Antidote, and then the Anti-
dote looked at the Bane. Then they marched out.
Kent and Wienholb having, refused to
shear with union labour, their wool has been •
boycotted by the union labourers in Queensland.
The boycott is a “ touch not, taste not, handle
not ” one, right down to the ship’s side. This is
striking at a vital part, and shows good general-
ship on the part of the unionist leaders. The
squatters in question are very ill-advised to fight
a pitched battle over a matter which means so
little to them and so much to the workman.
We have heard many yarns from Yankee-
land as to the riding of bulls, but, so far as we
know, the only authentic ride on a bona-fide
“ scrubber ” in Australia was made by Lowrey, the
bushranger. Lowrey sat on the cap of a stock-
yard fence, and, as the bull rushed out, he dropped
on the beast’s back. He had a pair of punishing
“hooks” on his heels, and, ramming them into
the maddened brute’s sides, he ran him to a com-
plete standstill in the open.
Ogilby’s Grave.
Dear Bulletin, —You like grisly stories ? Here
is one, a true bill. Burketqwn, N.Q., in its early
days was a pest-house of fever, heat, sandy-blight,
and the vilest liquor that ever a Sydney merchant
sent up North. A sometime Premier of N.S.
Wales, and a pillar of his church, had many a
man’s curse in those days, and Burketqwn men
knew how to curse. Deaths were frequent, and
(ne (that of Tom Ogilby,- stockman) had just
happened when this story commences. Three . f
us went out to dig his grave, the doctor, the mate
of the dead man, and myself. I was a youngster,
and had not got up to the local average of hard
drinking, so was sober; the other two were also
g ober- for Burketown —in any other community
they would have been “run in” at once.
The site of the proposed interment reached
we deposited our instruments and, after the
usual preliminary, set to work. ' Our imple-
ments consisted of a pick, shovel, a billy of water,
and a bottle of square gin. The preliminary was*
naturally, a stiff nip from the bottle.
If I live to a thousand years I shall never forget
that day, nor the scene around. The sun was
blazing, blistering; the earth seemed to smoke
again. The flies never gave you a moment’s
peace; mouth, ears, and nostrils were full of the
loathsome swarm ; and in this devil’s temperature
we set to work sinking a grave. Blowly the labour
WHERE IT CAME TROM.
JONES: “SORRY TO TELL YOU, OLE FLER, MY HAND HAS BEEN BADLY
POISONED —DID IT WHILE I WAS CLEANING BRASS.”
BROWN: “YA-A-S, WASHING YOUR FACE, I SUPPOSE.”
progressed, and, as may be guessed, a good deal of
the “ vackering ” fell to my share, for, owing to
, a. x,„, xu • a v .„ipp
frequent nips on top of the morning allowance,
the other two thought more of arguing than
digging. The grave was down some four feet,
and Sweeney the dead man’s mate was taking
his spell at sinking, carrying on at the same time
a chaffing conversation with the doctor. Between
them they had nearly finished the bottle, and
with the tropic summer sun pouring down on the
shadeless plain their state can well be imagined.
“ Lend me hold of that pick?” said the doctor,
~ r „
“ 111 show you ip w o i b . .
“ Get out! said Sweeney ; I’m only just be
ginning to shape.”
Muttering something, the doctor dropped into
, ° „ ° . i.i • i -x
the hole, and as Sweeney taised the p 1
.... ! L !•_ J T iftincr b he
out of his hands from behind. Lifting it he
aimed a blow at the side of the grave, and in Ins
drunken imbecility drove it right into the back o
Sweeney’s neck. Sweeney dropped dead in-
bweeney s 11 -
stantly.
I could not see my own face, but I shall never
forget the doctor’s. It did not sober him—it
. , ,v. i "i. 1 i_ ~x ~,,, witli a
simply struck him stupid; he looked at me witti a
vacant, imbecile grin, and I stared down at him.
The stricken man bled profusely ; his blood ran
in a pool at the doctor’s feet, and with a cry of
terror the latter scrambled out of the hole. This
aroused me and I jumped down to see if the man
was really' dead, for I could scarce believe it.
Ugh' the horrible squelch as my feet lit down in
the biood-sodden clay.
Sweesadfney was dead enough. When I got out of
the grave the doctor was walking wildly back to
the township. J overtook him, and together we
told our story.
Ti.ere was no fu .. made about it. There was no
oltieiid enquiry. My evidence was taken as quite
mittie'ent, and' Went out and buried the mall s
body alongside his mate. Tom < k.'ilby, in tin 1 grave
lie Kid helped to dig, Ile ver saw the doctor
sober again, lUidiu a Week or two he was dead, too.
n. u.
Dour Bum.ktin. Tho jus' published fuel
that no less than 181 imported kanakas died la»t
yoar in reminds me that i', is about a
year .since I was over, seer on a New (hJedcmian
colfee-phuitation, where, a- the (ini' 1 arrived for
gathering the berries- by far tie bn.-uesi period of
the year the natives, chieHy Nr" Hebrides men,
commenced to die off, hut not from any clearly -
detinrd siekiluSU- They would eome up to the
house .and coolly tell in that " they had seen a
de\ il, ’’ and. the)efoi'e, that in three or foot days
“ they'd finish dead." Atfiid we tried to laugh
them out of their fancies, knowing, as all while
men do who have had any experience amongst
natives..that if a niggei gets it into his head that
he is going to die on a eerbaiu day he will die-
just, L believe, out of pure eiisseduuns, il he
can't arrange to contract a disease of any
kind in the meantime with the same end in view.
Well, by and bye this became quite alarming.
They were dying off at a fearful ra'e. Bpm • had
got dysentery, some merely a cold, and Others
noth ng at ali but pure obstinacy 5 and the num-
ber of devils that, seemed tola* holding high jinks
all over that plantation, together with the intense
heat, made us begin to think that Hades Was now
.
located somewhere in our neighbourhood. We
tried everything-medicine of all descriptions
chaff, bad language, and, m some aggravated
cases> a licki ng, the last-mentioned being by far
£ ke mos t successful and powerful remedy we
could command. At last we were com-
t^e C()ffeej and that it would be a had vear. We
were gavpd froln positive ruin by a peculiar acci-
dent. The other overseer, a Mr. Swan, one
afternoon, in his wanderings about the bush, had
come across one of those frames on which the
dead bodies of big chiefs are placed, exposed to
the air and the carrion-birds, who soon make.
short work of the body. This stand contained a
parfcicu i ar i y fine skull with a perfect set of teeth,
and Swan, who had a mania for collecting curios,
brought it down to the, house and placed it for the
time on the small table alongside his bed. Next
rnorninc when his native bov was bringin°*
niomnig, wueii ins native uuy pva.s uiiiigin
m h bedroom a tray containing toast and
coffee, &c lie suddenly caught sight of the
grinning skull on the table. Ihe poor boy s
frame shook again with terror and fright, hut for
a moment only. Then he turned on his heel, gave
a yell that brought the rest of the household into
the room, and dropping the tray with its contents
fled into the bush, as also did tlie other natives
when they saw the skull. Duiing the daytime it
was Bpee dily noised about that “ Massa Swan
keep one big fellow debbil b’long room b’long
him,” and Swan, with a smartness that surprised
me, told them all that he had procured “this
strong strong too much devil" to fight the other
infernal inhabitants and prevent them (the natives)
from “going dead,” and that in future if any
boy had made up his mind to die, this familiar
spirit would, out of respect for Swan, stop
him from dying, and in order to keep the
boy alive would improve the occasion by basting
him black and blue. After this all went well for
a time, and so great was their belief in a devil be-
longing to a white man, which of necessity must
be a much more powerful individual than any
they had ever been acquainted with, that the sick
men recovered, and whenever a native had a ten-
dency to wish to leave this “ vale of tears ” a quiet
and secret drubbing, administered, of course, by
Swan’s devil, completely altered the course of his
ambition. Well, we got the coffee in all right
with the help of some friendly hew Caledonian
men, purchased some extra labour, and were
personally satisfied with the result. After a
time, Swan, who was quite inflated with the
success of his familiar spirit, began to play fast
and loose with his devil; he finally lost all his
prestige and accumulated such an amount of dis-
like on the part of the natives that he had to leave
the plantation. Swan was in the habit of consulting
his familiar before the natives on all sorts of occa-
sions. For instance, if there had been any petty
theft committed he, after finding out who hart
done it, or was likely to have done it, would call
all hands up and question them, and, of course,
everyone would give the same answer: “Me no
take him, massa.” Then, after consulting the
familiar, he would point out the culprit, who in-
variably, whether guilty or not, would imme-
diately confess. One day he had the ill luck to
drop on a new recruit, who had but lately left
Queensland, as the culprit. The answer was the
means of upsetting poor Swan, who never recovered
from it. The new nigger coolly remarked, with a
cunning leer, “ What name, massa—-you gammon
me. You think me a fool.” This native turned
out a regular firebrand. He incited the natives not
only to disbelieve in Swan and his familiar, but
also to take it out of him by making his life a
burden to him, because, as this black imp put it,
“ He gammon too much.” And such is the curse
of enlightenment and education that now all the
niggers on the place laugh at a white man’s devil.
—Kai Loma.
The Church and Stage.
The relations of the Church and Stage have at all
times been a matter of fruitful controversy. In
this progressive age prejudice is fast waning away,
and while in bye-gone days the antagonism against
the Stage proved a bulwark of spiritual tyraiiny,
in later years many leading members of the clergy
have actually assisted in dispelling unfavourable
bias against theatres which have proved a source of
instruction, refinement, and intellectual pleasure.
The mission of the Church is the promulgation of
the Gospel, calculated to inspire mankind to lofty
deeds ; in the pourtrayal of saints and virtuous
examples man is spurred on to lead a life of
rectitude and honor. Turning to the Stage we
behold in the dramatic world an epitome of all
others. There the corruptions of nature, the
jealousies, the mercenary habits of men are dis-
played in a condensed sphere. There we see
depicted the uncertainty of human greatness ; we
see exposed the singularities of haughtiness and
fancy, falsehood and folly is made contemptible,
and vice is discountenanced and exposed. For
example, Faust, the hero of the masterpiece of
German drama, when deviating from the simple
faith of the Church in the depth of despair, was
imbued by new hope and courage when listening
to the Easter chorus. While the Church has
exerci-ed a paramount and steady influence in the
history of civilisation, the Stage lias likewise
proved a medium of education, for in the latter
we behold an epitome of human life and manners,
for plays and players “ hold the mirror up to
nature.” Yet while admitting that there is; still
a wide gulf between Church and Stage, and while
the notions of clergyman and actor may widely
differ they agree on the point of their physical
welfare. We quote subjoined the opinions of a
leading representative of the Church and a member
of the Stage. The one is the Rev. J. Stanley
Low, for over 20 years minister of the Christ
Church, St. Kilda, Melbourne; the other, Mr.
Alfred Dampier, the well-known actor, at present
lessee of the Alexandra Theatre, Melbourne. The
Rev. J. Stanley Low, under date March 15, 1890.
speaks as follows :—“I have used Warner’s safe
cure in conjunction with the safe pills for func-
tional derangement of the liver I labored under.
I experienced a sense of weight as well as great
pains in the region of the liver, while the kidneys
were sympathetically affected, causing general ill-
health ; but on recourse to Warner's safe cure I
found my complaints speedily checked. I can
thus heartily endorse its efficacy.” Mr. Alfred
Dampier, the actor, says I have used Warner’s
safe cure on various occasions with the most
beneficial results to my health in general, and
found it particularly relieved headache of the
worst description, and I feel assured that if taken
in time there would be little or no necessity for a
physician.” Thus Church and Stage go hand-in-
hand in promulgating the merits and virtues of
this sterling specific widely as their opinions may
diverge on other subjects.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Land at Perth, W. A., the best investmen
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd
90 Bathurst-ttreet, Sydney.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all St ationeis.


Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 7.40. Carriages at 10 36.
COMPLETE AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS OP
Mr. WILLIAM RIGNOLD
In a New and Original Drama, entitled,
“ 3XT O "W .A. X 3 -A. "XT S.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 6. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITER.ION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
General Manager . .. Mr. Mayne.
Overture at 8 sharp. Carriages at 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
OF THE
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in
Millocker’s Charming Opera,
THE BEGGAR STUDENT
The Opera produced under the personal direction of
Mr. HENRY BRACY.
Admission—us., 35., 2s. and Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Carriages at 10.30 p.m.
Joe Davis, Business Manager.
gCIIOOL OF ARTS.
M ACC\BE|
MACCABE'
MACCABEJ
School
of
Amts.
j'M m.i.K. MIX NIA
Mdi.i.k. MINNIA
IMdli.k. MINN IA
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
Georg k Bullkr, Manager.
N D I AQUARIUM,
E °
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS or AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway, conveying
Passengers from Cliff to Cliff daily.
Splendid Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Open Daily from 10 a.m to 10 p.m.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d
Bp II EAT RE ROYAL,
A ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
Seating Accommodation :
f 200, Dress Circle.
200, Stalls.
1.400, Pit.
Stage, 45 x 50 feet. Scenery and Fittings com
plete, and every convenience. Sliding Roof for
ventilation.
W. a. CAPORN & CO., Lessees.
For Terms and Dates, apply
SABER BROTHERS,
Rock i! am ptox.
Theatre royal-
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Sub Lessees, Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
CAMILLE. Thursday and Friday. CAMILLE.
Saturday, Monday and Tuesday, LADY of LYONS.
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, DAVID O AK KICK.
Admission—5s., 3s. and Is.
Q.AIETY THEATRE.
POSITIVELY LAST TWO WEEKS
OF THE
FRANK THORNTON SEASON!
AND LAST NIGHTS OK
“ £3 -w £2 -fc Lavender.”
FRANK THORNTON AS DICK PHENYL.
Next and Final Production — “ M A5151 A.”
Admission .... .... .... 4s., 3s. and Is.
"QARLINGHURST SKATING RINK.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
THE LARGEST AND BEST
IN THE WORLD.
Remember! Remember!
Seven Laps to the Mile.
THE SPLENDID FLOOR
PRONOUNCED
PERFECT!
THREE SESSIONS
TO-DAY.
Morning-, 10 to 12. Ad., (id. Skates
Free. Afternoon, 2.30 to 5.
Admission: Gents, Is; Ladies, 6d.
Skates, Od.
Evening, 7.30 till 10.15.
Admission, Is. Skates, Is.
Season Tickets:
Gents, 50s. Ladies, 40s.
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
TO-DAY
SKATING
TO-NIGHT
SKATING
Theatrical
HiOSIKK Y.
SILK
COTTON
WOOL
okjp
PADS,
ANIMAL DRESSES, ETC.
SPECIALITIES MADE TO ORDER.
Gilt Trimmings, Hoots Stage Fabrics.
Manufacturers to all leading' London and Provincial
Theatres.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS WANTED.
JO. BURKTBT & OO.
42 King Street, Covent Garden, London.
GUNTHER'S BRISBANE CAFE,
George Street (below Hunter-st.), Sydney.
U'RED. GUNTHER, late of the Wheatsheaf Hotel,
Castlereagh-st., is desirous of informing his patrons
and the public generally that he has now become pro-
prietor of the BRISBANE CAFE, GEORGE STREET.
These premises are commodious, and every convenience is
obtainable. None but liquors of the first quality retailed.
Two of Alcock's Prize Billiard Tables provided. Files of
sporting and dramatic papers kept. Special .ccoinmoda-
tion for the theatrical profession.
—The Latest Hage! =
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Twenty (20) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird and Love-Motto Designs. No
two alike. ALL FOR SIXPENCE in Stamps, postage
paid. Agents wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austiial lard ami Novelty Co„
14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Government Advertisements.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 7,1890.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &e., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 14.
Installation of Electric Light, Bullock Island,
Newcastle
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Forbes—Contract No. 1
Supply, &c., of Ironwork ; Contract No. 2,
Erection of Bridge (time extended)
Timber Truss Bridge over Minnamurra River,
road Shellharbour to Kiatna. Cont. No. 1—
Supply of Iron Cylinders for Pier. Cont.
No. 2—Erection of Pier and Superstructure
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Denman
I reetion of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
(time extended)
Additions, Police-barracks, Hay
. looting Benevolent Asylum, George-street, Parra
matta
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Murrumburrah
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Walgett
Horse-shed, Buggy-house, Fencing, &c., Court
house, Corowa
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Cundle
town (fresh tenders).
Erection of Boiler and Engine-house, North
Shore Water Supply
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Berry
Erection of Watohhouse, Clarence-street
Bridge over Wollondilly River at Baw Baw Road,
Goulburn to Pomeroy
Horse and Buggy Shed, &c., Courthouse, Turn-
berumba
Construction of Wharf at Sans Souci, George’s
River
Extension of Coraki Wharf, Richmond River.
0 mtract No. 58 Sydney Sewerage, Alexandria
and Macdonaldtown Sewer
Extension of Tramway to Waverley Cemetery
Wharf at Miller’s Forest, Hunter River (time
extended)
( instruction of Stage tor Light near Shark
Island, Sydney Harbour
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28.
Repairs, &c.,'at Lighthouse, Crowdy Head.
Construction of Landing Stage at Menindie, and
Supply of Crane for service thereon (time
extended)
Removal of Rocks, &c., Port Macquarie
Engines for Sand Pump Dredgers, Nos. 4 and 5
Repairs, &c., of Lighthouse, Newcastle (fresh
tenders)
Fencing, &c., Turret Clock, Coast Hotpital, Little
Bay
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 11.
Bridge over Bega River, at Tarraganda
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 25.
Bridge over the Murray River, at Corowa—Con-
tract No. I—Supply of Ironwork. Contract
No. 2—Erection of Iron Bridge
WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
Works, Nyngan-Cobar
Railway
Plans, &c., to be seen at
the office of Engineer-in-
-Chief, Railway Construc-
tion, Branch, Phillip-
street, after May 28.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 16.
Works, Culcairn-Corowa Railway (Plans, &e.,
see above.)
• WEDNESDAY, JULY 23.
Works, Kiama-Nowra Railway (Plans, &c,, see
above.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 6.
Bridge, Hunter River at Aberdeen —Contract
No. I—Manufacture1 —Manufacture of Ironwork, &c. Con-
tract No. 2—Erection of Bridge
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Bridge, Darling River at Wentworth—Contract
No. I—Manufacture, &c., Steel Lift Span on
Iron Piers. Contract No. 2—Erection of
Span, &c., &c.
BRUCE SMITH. i
Miscellaneous.
mO CAPITALISTS, SPECULATORS,
and Others.
Vacant Lands near Sydney
AVAILABLE UNDER THE
Non-Residential Clauses of the Laud Act.
ITor particulars and terms apply to
“ INVESTIGATOR,”
Box SOD, G.P.O., Sydney.
dsjg
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
lCorsets I have tried.”
S (Signed) Marie Rose.
PATENT I
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams
nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
THREE GOLD MEDALS!
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
df
ARTHUR GMT & CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS
ANl>
BLENDERS.
FOOCHOW and SYDNEY,
Office and Sample Rooms:
385 Pitt Street, Sydney.
saf
Agents Wanted in every Town throughout
the Colony.
Business Announcements.
WA. LEWIS, old-established Private Detective,
■ for the discovery of Missing Friends, tracing
Absconders, watching Suspected Persons, and prosecuting
all kinds of Private and Confidential Enquiries ; obtaining
Evidence in Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Bigamy, Breach of
Promise ; extracts from or Copies of Wills, or Certificates
of Births, Marriages or Deaths obtained in any part of the
world. Bankrupt Schedules Filed, £l, by a legal gentle-
man duly admitted and practising in all the courts ol
N.S.W., who may be consulted at my office on all legal
work. Consultation Free. Rents and Debts Collected,
Distress Warrants issued, steady and trustworthy Bailiffs
employed, and all moneys received are promptly accounted
for. W. A. LEWIS cautions the public against so-called
old-established private detective agencies, as he is con-
nected with no agents in Sydney. An intelligent, well-
trained staff of Male and Female Assistants retained,
capable, when necessary, of assuming any character in
life—from a newspaper boy to a clergyman, or from a
servant girl to a lady. Terms Moderate. Consultation
Free. Address—
Phcknix Chambers, 158 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
[Telephone 723.
1 i
H *
TH E
ROYAL
EDINBURGH
CASTLE"
Speciaißeserve
AAA
OLD
Scotch Whiskv
th<L66tjf?oo4.
KOVAL
Edinburgh Castle
WHISKY.
* ;k-
Special Reserve.
In Square Bottles.
This Whisky was
selected by our Gene-
ral Manager, Mr. Jas.
Cullen, during liif
recent visit to Scot
land, and through its
purity, age and mag-
nificent bouquet, has
already secured the
premier position in the
market. In cases, qrs.
and octaves. To be
had Duty Paid from
any of the Wholesale
Wine and Spirit Mer-
chants and Distribu-
ting Houses, and in
Bond only from the
SOLE AGENTS,
William Campbell & Co M Limited^
58 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
( now acknowledged
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
KY
s
w
' SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR&CO., 58 Margaret-st., Sydney
Sydney Canister Works,
COLLINS STREET, SURRY HILLS,
OFF CROWN STREET.
Manufacturers of allkinds ofTinsfor Confectioners;
Tea Merchants, Biscuit Makers, &c., also all kinds
of Tins, round and square, for Pepper, Spice and
Baking Powder, made by improved machinery.
JA. Trial Solicited.
J". C. Ludowici & Son,
Manufacturers and Importers of Superior
OAK-TANNED LEATHER BELTING
and every description of Leather Goods for Mining
and Engineering purposes.
Mii
*
All Goods bearing the above Trade Mark are warranted
to give entire satisfaction, or may be returned at the
Makers’ expense. The Pioneer Oak-tanned Leather
Belting is used exclusively by the N.S.W. Government.
Over 200,000 running in Australia. The cheapest and
best Belting in the world. Send for prices and catalogues
162 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Hotels.
Mr* and Mrs* Thomas Asche
BeCt to inform their Friends and Patrons that,
in addition to other recent improvements at the
ROYAL HOTEL,
a first-class HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR has
been erected for the convenience of Visitors,
rendering it the most complete and comfortable
house in Sydney ; and with the personal and un-
ceasing attention of Mr. and Mrs. Asche in every
detail of management, they rely on the continued
patronage of their many old friends, whose kindly
recommendation of the ROYAL HOTEL to their
friends will be esteemed.
RAIN’S FAMILY Sc COMMERCIAL HOTEL
PRINCES STREET,
( Opposite (r. P. 0.)
JD XT JNT IB 3D I UNT, HT.Z.
ALEX. PALMER .. Proprietor.
GOLDEN S I I A N T Y.
Price One Shilling.
A
Furniture, &c.
X
E W TON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BED DIN G MANUFACTURE RS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dininc-room side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
lELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
8
m
■ This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple ;yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand. 25s 1 !
D
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, ’ Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
CCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
saf
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
| Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK. -
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 IDs.
k
Drawing-roo m
CABINETS.
Eaklt English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
sdf
B EDSTEAD S, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
sdf
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6cl. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. (id.; Waslistands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 80s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
IL*-
CHESTS.
C E
I
ALL SIZES
PRICES LOW.
NEWTON and LAMB.
sdf
-JjtXCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS.
Various Sizes, from 455.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


“ Pendragon ” is credibly informed that James
White intends to tackle the English Derby for three years s
straightaway. I
R. S. S 1 vior, Lord Beerthirst’s dear friend and
nose-flattenef, lias, it is said, won over £1000 at pyramids ! j
at one go lately in Melbourne. “Sutton’’has only re- (
cently returned to the colonies.
The great racing sire, Hermit, is dead, and the j
papers have again been full, let 11s hope for the last time, <
uf the ancient Hastings and Chaplin scandal. The fact of 1
the matter was that Hermit was run crooked and his big 1
winnings have done Chaplin 110 good; for he has ,
just accepted a Government office as a respectable pauper, j j
Nor has the woman who caused'all the trouble done much j (
for herself. After all, she finds herself married to a dis- I ,
graced man, Sir George Ohetwyrid.
The Seale-Valentine encounter is not likely to j
come off. Seale, it is said, refuses to fight again merely 1
for “ a trophy and a.bellyful,” and will not enter the ring
for a smaller slake than ,t50u aside. This savours of bluff, 1
and it looks as if Seale’s Sandall experience had
sickened him of • punching. Anyway, Tim Bulletin ;
doesn’t want to see Seale fight Valentine. Tne latter is a j
beautiful fighter ; Seale is only a beautiful boxer whom !
nature has not destined for the prize-ring.
A glowing account of Duncan C. Ross’s military
career, and his South American duel with General Agra- I
monti—whom he ki.led-was.copied from the Melbourne ;
Standard into the Glasgow Evening Mail, and there con- 1
tradicted in a brief letter by an ex-sergeant-major of the
Scots Greys, which letter was soon after quoted by the
Standard. Whereupon Duncan C., : brimful of fight and
usquebaugh, writes to Melbourne Sportsman a lull and
succinct account of his Scots Greys’ service, and produces
various discharges, testimonials, and passports, - which
prove the verity of his statements. He threatens libel.
“Oh, Lord! how you made me jump!”
as the grasshopper remarked when he was first
created. —Ex.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A certain well-advertised Melbourne thea-
trical critic and a certain charming contralto
celebrated the successful inauguration of Nellie
Stewart’s management by one dinner and one
supper. In the two attempts the lady and her j
adorer got outside of nearly ten guineas’ worth.
This was five weeks ago. Panton made an order j
for the amount with big costs the other day. : |
THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING’S IN
THE EATING.
Referring to the famous St. Louis Lager Beer,
II. C. White, Chemist of Prohibition, Georgia,
writes, on analysing this beer: “Contains high
percentage of hop and malt, extract and a low per-
centage of alcohol. It is pure and wholesome
beverage, and I can recommend it on the score of
healthfulness. ” The best in the world, says the Ger-
man brewer ; Akadamic at worms on the Rhine.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dah.vis and Co., King-street Arcade:
Messrs. Chubb and Praeger, Beale’s
Chambers, have on view photos, of Mr. and Mrs.
Sydney Burdekin, the Mayor being in his official
costume. Both productions are of the highest
artistic merit, and reflect fresh lustre on these
already renowned photographers.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
John Bridge and Co.’s Report.
Kangaroo Skins. —Total offered for the week,
11,227. We offered and sold 5084, being the
largest catalogue of the day. Good medium and j
extra-large skins, which were scarce, were eagerly
competed for, values on these advancing 10 to 15 |
per cent. Other sizes were unaltered. We topped j
the market with two lines of extra-large .at 136d. j
each, several other lots selling at 116d., 108d., j
104d., 100d., 98d. From our catalogue we quote : — ;
Extra-large, OSd. to 136d. ; large, (>0:1. to 94d.; ;
large medium, 42d. to 64d. ; small medium, 23gd. ]
to 38d.; small, 2kl. to 24d. Wallaroo skins, 15d. j
to 56d. j
Opossum Skins.—On Tuesday we offered and j
sold 4694 out of a total of 15,231. The class of j
skins was about the same as last week and prices j
were unaltered. Very few good skins. offering, j
and are eagerly competed for at high prices. We j
quote superior and very large, 22s. ; superior ordi i
nary, 12s. to 16s. ; good, 8s. to 10s. ; fair, 5s. 6d. to j
7s. 6d. ; medium, 4s. to 5s. ; small and inferior, Is. |
6d. to 3s. 6d. ; riunped, Is. Od. to 2s. 9d.
Wallaby Skins.—Largest, 16d. : large, 9d. to
12d. ; small, 3d. to 7d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Messrs. BROUGH and BOUCICAULT have completed
arrangements with Messrs. MACMAHOtv for the appear
ance of the world-famed
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
“ The Widow O’Brien,”
who will produce on
Saturday Evening, 10th May,
On a scale of great magnificence, the inimitable
musical comedy,
“PUN ON THE BRISTOL.’’
Full Opera Band and Chorus.
D. O. L.
VERY = OLD = SPECIAL
SCOTCH = WHISKY.
—C>
DISTILLERIES CO. (Limited*.
Alleged Audacious Nepotism.
APOLOGY.
ON March 18 last a letter from my Sydney
coi’respoudent appeared in the columns ot
the “Tamwobth News,” to the effect that a
number of appointments had been made in the
Railway Department and that in many cases
either friends or relations of the Chief Com-
missioner had been selected. Immediately after
this article appeared, a prosecution for libel was
instituted by Mr. Eddy against me, "and upon
making inquiries from my correspondent and else
where, I found that the statements were quite
unfounded and without a vestige of truth. I now
express my sincere regret for the publication oi
the unfounded allegations referred to, and gladly
accept of Mr. Eddy the assurance that these ap-
pointments have been made solely in the interest
of the colony. On the undertaking to publish
this apology m all the leading newspapers of the
colony, Mr. Eddy generously consented to with-
draw proceedings.
(Signed) SOLOMON JOSEPH.
Lady Gerard is endeavouring to arrange a
steeplechase, with dimpled darlings up, for the next
English winter.
“Professor” Miller is without doubt an ever-
green. It is just 14 years since he defeated Bauer for the
Graeco-Roman wrestling championship of America.
Billy Wilson, the youngest son of James Wilson?
the St. Albans (Geelong) breeder and trainer, is dead.
“ Billy ” steered Don Juan to the front in the ’73 Mel-
bourne Cup for “Joe” Thompson. It wasone of Joseph’s
biggest wins, and his East Melbourne house was named
after the horse. Joe since then fell out with Wilson, and
Billy, in his day one of the famous Geelong footballers, at
the time of his death was running a business in that slow,
old town.
" ■
WPALING
IS {iic most? complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
Seven 'Octaves, Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Act!..;., Hi«*
Fin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. Ihe tone
is powerful, dear, brilliant and pu.c, In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Gases. ,
This Piano is introduced by W. IP PALING & CO., Limited, fm the
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the bead of almost evey household an
opportunity of supplying his homo with
%
paid for a' much inferior instrument.
Length V-110- Depth
Brown and Bubear are again matched, but the
prospective race seems'much like a good-natured way of
allowing Brown tc “suffer a recovery,” as it was patent
to all who saw them row that, barring the foul, Bubear
could hardly have won. Brown, by the ill-mannered
style in which he jeered at the Englishman when the
latter was chasing him down the river, has done him-
self much injury with the public. It is rumoured, by the
way, that his backers don’t much fancy his chances in a
first-class race.
/UenTS
ftf
safsfsdfsadfsdfdfs
DELISSA 8. PHILLIPS
3& <5 Barrack Street.
Allcock’s Porous Plasters.
—IN—
Chest, Liver, and Kidney Affections,
St. Veryan Vicarage, Grampound-road,
Cornwall, January, 1890.
'Dear Sir,—l write to inform you that your
“ Allcoek’s Porous Plasters ” are excellent—a real
blessing. Whatever I may say, I feel I cannot
praise them sufficiently. I have given away
hundreds amongst the poor and suffering, and I
cannot recall a single instance where they failed
to give relief. They have been used by me for
complaints in the chest, liver, kidneys, and spine,
with marked results, in fact, I know of three
special cases out of many (one of chest, one of
liver, one of kidneys) where the sufferers had been
to the infirmary, tried many doctors, without any
benefit, and were told that nothing more could be
done. I gave them your plasters, and after a fair
trial of them the result was really wonderful.
The suffererin the chest no longer complains of
weakness, has lost all distressing cough, and is
quite strong. The sufferer from liver complaint
no longer complains of indigestion and pains in
the side and between the shoulders, but is quite a
different person. The sufferer from kidney com-
plaint no longer lies in bed nine months in the
year in agonies, but is able to,get out of doors
every day, and is free from pain. I shall lecom-
! mend these plasters wherever I go.—With all
good wishes for the New Year, yours very grate-
■ James Arthur Kemp, Minister.
i ALLCOCK'S POROUS PLASTERS are sola
j by all Chemists, in various sizes, from l/lA to 22, ti
j fee sure you get Allcock’s. j
Billy Murphy, the phenomenal Australian
featherweight, continued his victorious American career
on March 14, when he defeated Tommy Warren at the
Occidental Athletic Club, ’Frisco, for a purse of
Murphy had all the best of the fighting from the start, and
in the fourth round, after he had knocked Warren down,
the police stopped the fight and Murphy was declared the
winner. The Yankee papers make great fun out of
Murphy, who, as soon as he receives a winning cheque,
makes a bee-line for his banker’s. A Yankee paper says
his victory over Warren put him quite off his head, as he
indulged in two glasses of ale and a cigarette, which un-
wonted dissipation utterly prostrated him for a couple of
days. William is evidently one of the very few athletes
who have an eye on the day when their strength shall
have deserted them.
At the Stamford Bridge Grounds, W. H.
Morton, of the Salford Harriers, has beaten the world’s
twenty-mile record by covering the distance in lb.
52min. olsees., beating the hitherto best by 2min. Parry,
another Harrier, who was second, beat the amateur
record.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS, ETC.
Should write or call upon
A. M. MARKS & CO.,
—lmporters of—
Furniture, Pianofortes, Glass, Earthenware,
CHINA, FANCY GOODS, ELECTRO-PLATE,
CIGARS A TOBACCONISTS SUNDRIES
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Dawn Cigars and Salonica Turkish Cigarettes.
Special Novelties in all Lines for Christmas Trade.
Prices on Application to—
_A_. 3VE. & Co.,
Vickery’s Buildings, 74a Pitt Streeet, Sydney
AND AT LONDON.
Telephone, No. 919.
asdf
asf
asdf
AUSTRAL'S
BIRTHDAY CUP
Rand wick, May 24.
20,000 at 10 each. 20,000
sadf
1000
IS
O O O O lO
OiO!MH
All communications by Letter only.
Address
“ AUSTRAL,”
CARE OF TIIE
NATIONAL BOOT MANUFACTURING COMPANY
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A-33A-M BEDE
The
Only Fair Way
of
Drawing.
BIRTHDAY CUP,
50,000 at 10.
Run 24 th May.
Ttie
Only Fair Waj
ot
Drawing-
Address : “ ADAM BEDE,” care of H. N, Abbott,
(Owner of United Service Hotel, Auckland Theatre Royal, Abbott's Opera House, Auckland, N.Z.
(Our Only Sydney Address)-POST OFFICE CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ask for the
Unequalled
“DAWN” 3d.
CIGAR,
Of all
Tobacco nists
sdf
Store
AND
Hotel
KEEPERS
Wholesale Agents: A. M. 31 AUKS & Co., 74a PITT STREET, SYOMA.
Dawson
DAWSON'S
Agents for Australasia
VAUGHAN, KOGEES & CO.,
(Opposite G.P.0.)
108 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
p
E
R
F
E
C
T
I
O
N
WHISKY.
SUB-AGENTS WANTED
IN THE
PRINCIPAL CENTRES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
HE GREATEST VALUE
in St. Jacobs oil appears to lie in its superior pene-
trating powers; reaching the seat of the disease,
it is able to ease pain almost instantly, hence the
term applied, “It acts like magic.’ St. Jacobs
oil is endorsed by all classes of the community
from those of humblest position to the most
eminent people in the world.
Lady Florence Dixie says : “ That having
used St. Jacobs oil for pain, the result was most
marvellous.”
Henry Tollemachf,, M.P., states: “That lie
received great benefit from the use of St. Jacobs
oil.
The Rev. W. J. Caulfield Browne, M.A.,
says : “ St. .Jacobs oil is a most wonderful remedy,
it eases pain almost instantly.”
The Rev. Edward Singleton, M.A., D.D.,
says : “>St. Jacobs oil relieved a 1! pain directly it
was applied. ”
The Right Rev. Bishop Richardson says :
“ St. Jacobs oil is most valuable in rheumatism.”
Mr. William Buchanan, Engineer in the
Cunard S.S. Company’s Service, says : “ St.
Jacobs oil saved my life. 1 was given up by three
medical men to die.”
St. Jacobs oil is peculiar to itself. It is made
from drugs which no other remedies are made
from. They are gathered from the four quarters
of the globe, and are made after the most scientific
principles. St. Jacobs oil is an outward applica-
tion the cost of which is trifling, but to the
sufferer a bottle of it is worth its weight in gold.
XPERTS AND CRYSTALS.
Have you ever examined critically the crystals
used in the bezels of the Waterbury Watches? If
not, then this will suggest so doing at your first
oppoitunity. Each of the glasses used undergoes
a minute and careful scrutiny in the hands of an
expert—an expert whose precision and untiring
fidelity appears almost marvellous. Crystals are
often rejected whose defects are so slight as to
escape not only the ordinary eye, but even the
vision of foremen and trained employes in other
branches. Yet, upon taking one of them to the
expert, that person will invariably- point out the
fault, and do it, withal, so qu’ekly that one would
almost believe the spot to have been marked for
identification. The testing of crystals, rigid as it
is, is but a sample of the method and care preva-
lent in every branch of the Waterbury Watch
Co.’s factory. Precision is the keystone to their
success; and therein lies the secret of the wonder-
ful. results obtained in the time-keeping qualities
of their marvellously reliable watches, produced
at a nominal cost. The people of Great Britain
and of the United States are eminently practical,
: while those of the Australasian colonies are nowise
: behind them in this particular, and the continued
flow of acknowledgements received from them
| could not be wrung forth by misrepresentation,
I nor sustained by anything else than the most
! deservedly practical worth.
LL IN SEARCH OF HEALTH
should use Dr. SCOTT'S Electric Appliances.
Dr. SCOTT'S Electric Belts and Corsets are
universally approved by leading physicians as the
best, safest--, and most effectual remedy for Spinal
Complaints, Incipient Consumption,' Diarrhoea,
Pleurisy, Tumours, Asthma, Bronchitis, Epilepsy,
Lumbago, Debility, Paralysis, Loss of Voice,
have cured some of the most obstinate and dis-
tressing cases, after all other remedies (so-called)
have failed. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating, health-
giving current to the whole system without shock.
Owing to the great success and enormous reputa-
tion gained by Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric
Appliances since their introduction (now many
years ago), they have, like all other good things,
been largely imitated by numerous parasitical
chai-latans. Illustrated Circular and Price List of
Dr. SCOTT’S Genuine Electric Appliances sent
post free to any address on application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
tST* When writing please mention this paper.
rr,
n
G
m
m
m
ursoAP
Is made with the utmost care from materials
which are
Select i with the Greatest Regard for Purity
and for the
SOOTHING- & BENEFICIAL EFFECT’
Which they impart to the Skin and Complexion
sadf
'OU FIND IT DIFFICULT
TO SHAVE THEN TRY
AT ONCE
IM
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in
Toilet Requisites.


Medical.
JOSSfISII'S OIITMEIT.
%By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an rticle as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to, the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thorougliout the world.
Josephson's Ointment is purely vegetable, and
G U A RAN T E K D EreE FROM ALL POISONOUS
Qualities, No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo.-ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
. Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the publi to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and i iave been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same’complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Eow’s Steane’s Wine
Is a, safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good ro all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
Eor General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
‘‘ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are affleted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
im
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
containing -
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU'EL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCIIU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
13, 15, 17 G FORGE STREET, SYDNEY
SI
I
-
off
m
mm.
01), Jennie, there’s a poor blind man all alone and it’s nearly night !”
—Ltfe.
C3-:£”Sb:o.aL Pier PEotel, UkdCS/araly.
ELECTING i’HOTO ENC. CO . 8 BRIDCE'SC, SYDNEY-
-1.4T1M 13fit <& BItOOKG .... Proprietors.
This Hotel has been I’e-Furnishcd throughout. 25F” Cuisine and Comfort a Speciality.
Ssciiaxige 3E3tot;el, S3rsa.3ra.e3r.
v ' ' ' : -'V ; ■ g
‘l p ‘ -
t c;-|
" v
i.%
i
M
m
u
X;i\
&
t
spa
mm
m&st
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
7—(••)
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. Proprietors.
PLUM
9 3
T rac E
mUIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
JL Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each Razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price -f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
\ Single Razor, ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30/-
ltegistered arid sent Post Free to any part of the Australian colonies.
SOLE AGENTS: «Ss Potosi Hairdressing Saloon,
6BO & 682 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
Now Perfected, tlxe New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely new System.
stock: just landing.
Farleigli, KTettlieim, & 00.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 x X S*X’JFt3E3E3“X*, x aYTTTVTFrv
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
—— (* )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINFRY
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c. ; and of the following Spkciai, Links: Peerless Gloss Hal in I'oiisii Vuiilui
l.laiLiig. iT.m.cis' Tools and Mateiiids. {3r Indents' Executed yu Favourable Tcrnis. * '
Medical.
DR. RICHARDS,
ROO w
LTI
CONSU
r VvT"
Dfl RICHABPS ;
mim
Ml
■fr
aircß
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
nsidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safe t methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with the e widely r cognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
■ ntients, be has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence m tlieir treatment. His practice
embraces d'seas s which probably cause more un-
than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difliculiics, a whitish or dark ropy fodiment in
ilio water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, 1 leadaclies. Drowsiness during
ho day, circles round the eyes, G id.linos 3,
irregularity of the bowel q specks before the eyes,
baGifulnc's, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, I/vcr or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars and head, pimples, a
f, a- that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak ttomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontro lablo temper, lmck'ng
cougli, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which load to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these d tbiculties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps ho will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, pos'age
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Show'ng plainly bow all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenej. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho ivill
on receipt of such a letter, rvrite you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the ease, send for liis famous mclical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pro-
pared questions, which will, in all probabil ty,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by tire,
and patients may rest assured that their peases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
■7 Spring Street
COif Pitt Street North)
SYD AT HU AT.
Be sure to mention this payer when writing -
CONSULTATION LITER


Shipping.
jjUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINE.
STEAM TO
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA.
From Huddart, Parker’s Wharf.
For Time and Date of Sailing, see daily papers.
The magnificent steamships, BURRUMBEET and
ELINGAMITE, have established an unrivalled reputation
for their speed and accommodation, and their large size
ensures passengers a maximum of comfort. The saloon
cabins are light, airy and very roomy. The dining saloon
is full width of the ships, also magnificent music room,
with gentlemen’s smoking room and splendid promenade
deck. Fore-cabin is on the main deck-lofty and well-
ventilateSd, perfect sanitation and ample lavatories. Fore-
cabin passengers provided with victuals and rugs. Inspec-
tion invited on days of sailing.
Return Tickets available for Six Months.
For Freights apply
HUDDABT, PARKER & 00-
(Limited).
Office and Wharf: Foot of Margaret Street, Sydney.
MORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1885 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will he despatched as follows (if practicable):—
And thereafter every four weeks,
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
RETURN TICKETS, available for NINE and TWELVE
MONTHS, at REDUCED RATES.
Passengers and Cargo are booked through to New York,
Via Southampton,
Special facilities are afforded for bringing out relatives
and friends from the United Kingdom and Europe by pre-
payment of the passage money in Australia.
For FREIGHT, PASSAGE, and all further particulars,
apply to FREDK. BETZ A CO., Agents, 5 O’Connell-streefc,
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI"
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government ol
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h. 0., built expressly for the Aus
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows :
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. - Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. lor
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
T-kIREGT SERVICE TO ENGLAND.
"M&NINsULAR AND ORIENTAL STEAM
NAVIGATION COMPANY.
The Company’s Royal Mail Steamships (under contract
ith the Imperial, New South Wales, Victorian, and South
ustraliau Governments) will be dispatched from their
r harf, Circular Quay, as under, for LONDON, calling at
elbourne, Adelaide, Albany, Colombo, Aden, Brindisi,
And henceforth every alternate week.
RESERVED CABINS ON MODERATE TERMS.
LOON PASSENGERS MAY BREAK THEIR JOURNEY,
rhe arrangements for SECOND SALOON PASSENGERS
ving been thoroughly re-organised, the accommodation
w offered is unsurpassed. Passage-money can be paid
re for passages from England. Liberal concessions made
families. Passengers, cargo, and parcels are booked
rough to India, China, and Japan. Cargo and parcels
11 not he received after 3 p.m. on the day previous to
iljng. For all information apply at the Company s
flees, 247 George-street. A. MACLEAN Acting Agent.
CIRCULAR QUAY, SUSSEX STREET, A
DARLING HARBOUR,
WO O L BROKER. S,
Hides • Talloxv, Sheepskins, Kangaroo, Bear and
Opossum Skins, Ac,
AirCTIOJSTEERS.
GKEt-AJcnsr sA.x«Eis3\a:E!3xr.
A little Sydney boy has just gone over to
Melbourne armed with a bottle of gold paint and
sixpence, and started what Foreign-trade Secre-
tary Pulsford would call a “ manufactory of
half-sovereigns. The factory paid two dividends,
and was then closed with a sickening thud by the
police. Mechanical enterprise only gets its due
r eward under a tariff compiled in the softgoods
interest. The little boy should have, stayed in
Sydney.
A certain Australian Anglican diocese has
had a narrow escape from being episcopally
shepherded by a flight Reverend Father-in-God
who lias turned .out to be a dipso—and klepto-
maniac. The erratic cleric in question is now
“doing time,” in England, but some years ago
he was placed in nomination for, the vacancy in
the Antipodean see. Why he withdrew is not
known, but possibly it was that he had heard
something of the bitterness and crudity of the
colonial people. At the time of his nomination
he was vicar of a fashionable congregation
in a fashionable English watering-place, which
position would probably have been his to
the present day had it not been that on
ascending the pulpit one f unday night to preach
the sermon—his curates having conducted the
preliminary service - he began with: “And now
(hie), dear brethren, let us sing (hie) ‘Rule
Britannia ’!” After this the vicar was granted
permission to devote all his time to looking upon
j the wine when it sparkleth, and to grabbing his
friends’ spoons when the butler hadn’t his eye on
| ’em. Since then the poor man’s descent has been
rapid.
Shipping.
fTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,'
Calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
j . Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the cold
of Cape Horn.
! Under Contract with the Postmasters-General of New
South'Wales and New Zealand, the steamers of this line
ire appointed to leave Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu
I wid Saar Francisco every, fourth Wednesday, sailing as
: mder:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with Electric Light and with a
Refrigerating Chamber for ship provisions, insuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations and have at San Francisco choice of
the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
to San Francisco and 2501 b. “ Overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL.
FIRST-CLASS .. ~ .. .. £63 to £66.
Time-cards, railway maps, and gu de books, showing all
routes to any point in the United States, may be had on
application
For rates of passage and freight and all other in forma-
do n apply at the Company’s Offices, 15 Bridge-street.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
Medical
fz
&
sf
These seven beautiful boys owe their beauty of
skin, luxuriance of hair, purity of blood, and
freedom from hereditary taint or humors of the skin
or,scalp to the celebrated Cdtioura Remedies.
For 'cldansing, purifying and beautifying the skin
of children and infants, and curing torturing, dis-
figuring, itching, scaly and pimply diseases of the
skin, scalp and blood, with loss of hair, from in-
fancy to old age, Cuticura, the great skin euro,
and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beautifier,
prepared from it externally, and Cuticura Re-
solvent, the new blood purifier, internally, are
infallible. ■ — -
Your most valuable Cuticura Remedies have
done my child so much good that I feel like saying
this for the benefit of those who are troubled with
skin disease. My little girl was troubled with
Eczema, and I tried several doctors and medicines,
but did not do her any good until I used the Cuti-
cura Remedies, which speedily cured her, for
which I owe you many thanks and many nights of
rest. ANTON BOSSIMER, Edinburgh, Ind.
The Cuticura Remedies are in great demand.
The Cuticura Resolvent sells better than any
other blood purifier. The Cuticura Soap is
praised by my customers, especially mothers, who
say it is the best for babies, preventing and curing
scall head and similar diseases.
GEORGE HOBBS, P. M., Collins, Texas.
PIM
PLES, blackheads, red, rough, chapped and
oily skin prevented by Cuticura Soap.
Address: R. TOWNS &
Our little son will be four years of age on the
25th inst. In May, ISBS, he was attacked with a
very painful breaking out of the skin. Wc called
in a physician, who treated him for about four
weeks. The child received little or no good from
the treatment, as the breaking out, supposed by
the physician to be hives in an aggravated form,
became larger in blotches and more and more dis-
tressing. We were frequently obliged to get up
in the night and rub him with soda in water,
strong liniments, etc. Finally, we called other
physicians, until no less than six had attempted to
cure him, all alike failing, and the child steadily
getting worse and worse, until about the 20th of
last July, when we began to give him Cuticura
Resolvent internally, and the Cuticura and Cu-
ticura Soap externally, and by the last of August
ho was so nearly well that we gave him only one
dose of the Resolvent about every second day
for about ten days longer, and he has never been
troubled since with the horrible malady.
H. E. RYAN, Cayuga, Livingston Co., 111.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this fourth
day of January, 1887. C. N. COE, J. P.
Sold everywhere. Price: Cuticura, 50c. ; Soap,
25c.; Resolvent, $l. Prepared by the Potter
Drug and Chemical Co., Boston, Mass.
Send for “How to Cure Skin Diseases,” 64
pages, 50 illustrations, and 100 testimonials.
sdf
Skin, scalp and hair preserved and beau-
tified by the use of Cuticuba Soap.
CO., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Boots and Shoes.
PROBLEM OF TO-DAY -WHERE CAN WE GET GOOD
BOOTS ?—SOLVED AT LAST.
E . 3F 1 DEI DES IS" O Id
(The French of years ago)
Can supply Residents here with Boots better made than
ever. Boots that must wear well and give satisfaction.
Send your orders then to 82 Oxford Street, and be sure
to enclose Sizes and Remittance, when your parcel will be
sent at once by Post, Hail, or Steamer.
Notice Prices for Boots that look well, wear well
and fit well.
Children’s Elastic-sides, 2/-, 2/11, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6, etc. \ Best
Men’s & Youths’ ditto, 5/6, 6/-,.6/6, 7/6, 8/6, etc./Boots
Men’s & Boys’ Bluchers, 2/11, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, best ever made.
A Line of Stylish Laced Boots for Best Wear
(Boys’, Youths’ and Men’s Sizes),
j jgp” ENGLISH BOOTS for LADIES, CHILDREN, etc.,
Sent as ordered. Lowest Price.
Satisfaction given or Money Returned.
Note the Address:
ECLIPSE BOOT CO.,
82 Oxford Street, SYOMA.
i E. French, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Messrs. MAUDS & CO.,
Florists and Nurserymen,
(Of the Royal Exotic Nursery, Pcakhurst,)
Have just Opened their
New Premif.es at HI King Street, Sydney,
And are prepared to receive orders for CHOICE
PLANTS, FERNS and CUT FLOWERS, and to
undertake all kinds of
Floral Decorations at Reasonable Prices
WILLIAM CAEGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MABKET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LICHTJSER & CO..
SYDNEY:
318 fiLOEGE STEEET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STEEET
PHOTOGRAPHIC
-STOCK-
IMPORTERS.
&
K.
-4
m . send for our new illustrated catalogue
- —OF-*-
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS.
And all Articles appertaining to PHOTOGRAPHY.
amateur.
OUTFITS.
Companies.
The British and New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 246 PITT STREET.
T3ILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
-14 i) a ;iy_ Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits: —
3 Years .... .... 10 per cent.
12 Months .... .... 9 per cent.
6 Months .... .... 8 per cent.
3 Months 7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
W. M'DONALI), Manager.
Citimf Life Assurance Company,
LIMITED.
Capital ... ... £200,000.
Head Office:
21 Ca.stlerea.gh St., Sydney,
With Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies.
KTew Bu-sineas:
1887 There were issued 19,557 Policies.
1888 „ „ ••0,084
1889 ~ ~ ~ 57, W!i »
These figures show the wonderful progress of the
Company and the high esteem placed upon its
liberal dealings by the public.
CLAIMS PAID
Immediately on Proof of Death
JAMES P. GARVAN, \ Managing Director.
WM. ALEX. SMITH, f Secretary.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
PIPES.
I
PIPES.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Wholesale Agents :
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.
231 Clarence Street.
First Prize-MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.


THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
(lICsT LIQTJIDATIOIT)
ASSETS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY.
Capital - - £120,000 in 120,000 Shares of £1 each.
dsa
Objects of the Company.
The Object of the Company is to ACQUIRE certain FREEHOLD PROPERTIES and other ASSETS now held by
the Commercial Rank of South Australia (in Liquidation), together with other properties necessary to be realised to
pay Calls made by the said Bank, and to DISTRIBUTE THE SAME in the manner hereinafter specified.
The said Freehold Properties and other Assets of the Bank have been placed under offer to the Promoters of this
Company by the Liquidators of the said Bank with the sanction of his Honor Mr. Justice Boucaut.
The total values, according to competent valuators, as shown below, exceed the sum of £120,000.
Statement.
The Commercial Bank of South Australia failed on 24th February, 1886. At the instance of the Creditors it has
been ordered by the Supreme Court of South Australia that provision be forthwith made for the payment of the re-
maining liabilities of the Bank by the realisation of the Assets referred to and by an immediate Call being made.
It is unnecessary to give reasons why a scheme by which practically the whole of the properties held; by the Bank
will be at once realised and paid for in cash must be most advantageous to both the Shareholders and Creditors of this
institution.
As regards the public generally, the attractions offered by a legitimate and bona-fide scheme of this nature should
be in themselves sufficient to induce them to subscribe the capital required.
The Acquisition of the Above Properties.
The Promoters of this Company have taken care to ensure to the Shareholders the acquisition of these Properties
at a fair Value. The whole of the Assets and Properties to be taken over by the Company are situated in South Aus-
tralia, with the exception of the Station Property in New South Wales and two Properties in West Australia. The
Promoters have taken the latest Government valuations of the Properties in South Australia. Although these should
require no outside confirmation, yet the Promoters have deemed it advisable for additional security to obtain the inde-
pendent valuation of Messrs. Green and Co., the well-known Adelaide valuators, and hold their certificate fully en-
dorsing Government values. As to the Properties in the other colonies, of which no Government valuations can be
obtained, the Promoters have secured the services of reliable experts and hold their valuations.
Distribution of the Above Properties.
Every Subscriber will receive a distinct number in respect of each £1 Share
The ALLOTMENT of PRIZES will take place on ART UNION PRINCIPLES in the TOWN If A LL, ADELAIDE,
in the presence and under the direction of the Hon. DAVID MURRAY, M.L.C. ; WALTER REV NELL, Esq. (the
managing director of Elder, Smith and Co., Limited) ; JNO. BARKER, Esq. (Barker and Chambers); and other
gentlemen to be appointed by the Shareholders then present. The date of the meeting for the allotments will be duly
advertised.
The RESULT OF THE ALLOTMENT will be at once made known by advertisement, and the successful holders
will he notified of the result.
This mode of distributing assets was adopted under similar circumstance and with most satisfactory results in the
case of the Bank of Australia, which suspended payment in New South Wales in 1843.
Cash for Properties Sold.
Thp Liquidators of the Bank have under the order of the Supreme Court the power in the interval and up to the
time this Company is floated and the properties purchased to sell, subject to the sanction of the judge, any of the
assets now proposed to be taken over by this Company. This is provided in order that the progress of the liquidation,
may not he disturbed. In the event of any sales, the'amount realised will be substituted for the property sold.
One transaction has already taken place since the Assets w T ere placed under offer, and in consequence the amount
realised—namelv.
£lO,OOO,
will be available for distribution instead of certain properties which are included in the offer hut are now omitted
from the Schedule. The same method will be adopted in the event of any further sale.
Early ikpplicatioxx Recommended,.
It is confidently expected that the Share List will be quickly filled, and intending applicants—especially those at a
distance—are advised to forward their Applications AT ONCE, as the Shares will be allotted according to priority.
30,000 Shares have already been Applied for.
—LIST of PROPERTIES VALUED AT £120,000 —
(It is impossible to set out a full description of the numerous and valuable properties in the list, but particulars can be obtained from the Secretary.)
First Prize : The TAP ALIN, KI and MALLEE CLIPP STATIONS
Comprising (about) 1200 square miles of country held under Leasehold and Occupation Licences, and also 6781 acres of valuable .FREEHOLD LAND, of which 5018 acres have a frontage to the River
Murray, together with all the Stock, Plant and Improvements. Estimated number of sheep, 23,500. Clip for 1889 realised £4542. The above runs are understocked and are estimated to carry 45,000
OTHER PRIZES will include the following FREEHOLD PROPERTIES:—
Substantial Banking Premises of the Bank situated at
PORT ADELAIDE. ANGASTON. GLADSTONE.
Valuable Properties in the City of Adelaide:—
Part Town Acres 7,8, 400, 455, 675, 593, 650, with buildings thereon, situated on North Terrace
' (opposite Government Goods Railway Station), South Terrace, Morphett Street, Gilles
Street and Coglin Street
Extensive and Valuable Farms, as follow
2709 acres, Hundred of Inkermann, near Port Wakefield, with substantial Dwelling House,
030
4-') i
349
635
-187
Shearing Sheds, Dams, etc.
2130 acres, Hundred of Seymour
~ BOoleunda
~ Kanyaka
~ Boolcimda
~ Para Wurlie
~ Hvnam
149 acres, Hundred of Narraeoorte
182 ~ ~ Narraeoorte
173 ~ „ Narraeoorte
126 ~ ~ Narraeoorte
536 „ „ Joyce ,
1132 ~ (A interest), Hundred of Cunningham
Dwelling Houses, mostly in good Suburbs of Adelaide, as follows
1 at Knightsbridge
1 ~ Hyde Park
1 ~ Unley, with six acres of valuable land
2 ”, East Riverton
1 ~ Thornton
3 ~ Willunga
2 ~ Prospect Village
4 ~ Prospect Hill Extension
1 „ Highbury
Suburban and Township Sections:—
titi acres, Hundred of Port Adelaide
14 „ ~ Davenport
9
12
11
10
SO
48
Port Adelaide
Port Adelaide
Port Adelaide
Port Pirie
Yatala
f Kapunda with
\ Marble Quarry
sdaf
One-fifth Interest in Three Allotments Palmerston, Northern Territory, and in Two Sections
Hundreds of Bagot and Colton.
BUILDING ALLOTMENTS, SUBURBAN and TOWNSHIP
©2© A. LLO T 3MI E 3KT T £■»
in the following Townships :
Glenelg, Menindie, Rosebery, Hyde Park, Westbourne Park, Hawthorn, Mitcham, Norwood,
Prospect Hill Extension, Unley Park, Goodwood South, Goodwood West, North Norwood,
Heidelberg, Brompton, Port Adelaide, Semaphore, Glanville, Alberton, Woodville North, Kew,
Rosetown, Blyth, Woodville, South Parkside, North Kensington, Blackwood Park, Bowden,
Unley, Plympton Park, Albert Park, Port-road, Royal Park, New Glanville, Shoreham, Perth,
Bridgewater, Paddington, Swansea, Belair, Mount Gambier, Strathalbyn, New Glenelg, Plymouth,
Stirling East, Bordertown, Bordertown West, Everton, Queenstown, Grunthal Park, Hawker,
Beltana, Davenport, Port Augusta, Port Augusta East, Port Augusta West, Owen, Warnertown,
Beachport, Aldersley, Cheltenham, Bordertown South, Custon, Queenscliffe, Terowie East, Saddle-
worth, Augusta Park, Port Augusta Extension, Napperbv, Bramfield, Pickering, Thowville,
Cradock, and Wolseley, and half-interest in 63 allotments in Port Augusta East.
West Australia—
One-tenth Interest in 20,504 acres of Freehold. Lot 12. City of Perth,
Miscellaneous—
FAMILY HOTEL, Edithburgh, 14 Rooms and Stabling, with Stock and Furniture.
THREE ALLOTMENTS, Port Adelaide, with buildings known as Atlas Iron Works.
FIVE ALLOTMENTS, Port Adelaide, Builder’s Workshops thereon, close to Port Adelaide Canal
TWO ALLOTMENTS, Port Adelaide, fronting South Australian Company’s Basin.
MORTGAGE for £2OOO over 660 acres, Hundred of Stanley (valued by Green and Co. at £1500).
OFFICE FURNITURE of Commercial Bank of South Australia (in Liquidation).
CITY LEASEHOLD of Property in Freeman-street, Adelaide.
481 SHARES South Australian Insurance Company (new issue).
50 „ John Hill and Company.
110 „ Port Dock Company.
125 ~ Maurice Salom and Company.
30 „ Adelaide and Hindmarsh Tramway Company.
15 „ Adelaide Steamship Company.
375 ~ Equitable Fire Insurance Company.
£lO,OOO in Cash to he offered in 10 Prizes of £lOO Each, and other Properties.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES will be received by
Perth, and its Branches as follow :
the NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA at its Head Offices
VICTORIA.
in
Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide and
Albert Park
Alexandra
Bacchus Marsh
Bairnsdale
Balaclava
Ballarat
Benalla (Glen rowan
Agency)
Blackwood
Boort
Bridgewater
asdf
Cobram
Colac
Coleraine
Dimboola
Dookie (Cashel Agency)
Euroa
Fitzrov (formerly Col-
ling wood)
Footscray
Geelong
Hamilton
Hawthorn
Horsham
Jung Jung
Kerang ( M aco r n a
Agency)
Kew
Koroit
Kyneton
Lancefield
Learmonth
Macarthur
Maffra
Malvern
Mildura
Moonee Ponds
Newlyn
Newstead
Nhill
Northcote
North Melbourne
Penslrarst
Port Melbourne
P rail ran
Pyramid Hill
Richmond Hill
Romsey
St. Kilda
Sale
St. James (Devenish
Agency)
Sandhurst
Scared ale
Serviceton
Shepparton
Sraeaton
South Melbourne
South Preston
Stratford
Swan Hi ii
Swan-street, Richmond
Taradalh
' Teran g'
Traralgon
Trenthani
Tungamali
Victoria-street,
Colling wood
Violet Town
Wangaratta
Wairnam bool
Yarra villa
Yarrawonga
East
UEW SOUTH WALES
BROKEN HILL.
CORDILLERA.
SOTJTH: AUSTRALIA.
Angaston
Auburn
Balaklava
Bordertown
Caltowie
Carrieton
Clare
Crystal Brook
Edithburgh
Eudunda
Farina
Crawler
Georgetown
Hamley-bridge
Hindmarsh
Jamestown
Kadina
Kapunda
Koolunga
Kooringa
Laura
Minlaton
Mintaro
Moonta
Mount Barker
Mount Grambier
Nairne
Narracoorte
North Adelaide
Niudootpa
Orroroo
Pend a
Petersburg
Port Adelaide
Port Augusta
Port Elliston
Port Fine
Port Victoria
Port Wakefield
Quorn
Red hill
Riverton
Saddle worth
Salisbury
Strathalbyn
Terowie
Truro
Wallaroo
W illvmga
Wilmington
Woodside
Yangala
Yoi'kotown
WEST ATTSTEALIA.
FREEMANTLE.
GERALDTOWN.
ALBANY.
NORTHAM.
Applications will also be received by the Brokers to the Company and by GERAL D J AY, Secretary, Exchange,' I b rie-street.
in the event of a sufficient number of Shares not being applied for, all moneys subscribed will be returned in full.
The sadf
C o m m er cial Bank or South Australia
(XXT ZGIQTCTXID^TXOISr’
A ssets Distribution Cos m pan y.
TO THE SECRETARY—
I hereby apply for
Shares in the above Company, and forward herewith £
in payment for same,
Name
Occupation
Address
Tbis application may be sent to the National Bank of Australasia or any of its Branches, to the Brokers, or to the Secretary of the Company.


A,SAUNDERS,
Watclies and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having.
Send for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£4 English Lever,‘ The Special,” compensated.
20/- The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Country Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send>
o A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Professional and Literary men of London
give their preference to Esteubrook’s “ Relief ”
Pen. It is a swift and easy writer, and preserves
the characteristics of the hand. Samples free at
all. Stationers. 1 -
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims &t Co., King-st. Arcade
FOR LA GRIPPE (INFLUENZA)
And all colds and bronchial affections the best
remedy is Bosisto’s Original Eucalyptus Oil. In-
ferior oils are bottled to resemble Bosisto’s.
Buyers should see that they get Bosisto’s oil, with
registered ‘‘ Parrot ” brand on yellow label across
the cork. Accept no other, and avoid disappoint-
ment.
Use Batiio’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Building Sites, City of Perth, W. A. Plans
IntercoloniallnvestmentCo., Limited, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
signs free. Dahms and Co., King-street Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bona-Bide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (Neiv number,
163.)
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pkmell’s patent Snow-wiiite Flour.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
An Old-time Ticket-of-Leave Man.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was a sultry night in the middle of July, sixty-
six years ago. Sir Edward Knatchbull was in his
study at Mersham Hatch, in the county of Kent,
England. He was a man of about 43 years of age
and had established a reputation for extensive
knowledge with respect to several of the public
questions of his time. He aimed at being spotless
in his private, and conscientious in his public life,
and the hint of a stain on his name, or a breath of
suspicion on his political career, filled him with
uneasiness. Sensitiveness with him was a disease,
and whatever stung him was met with a bitterness
and passion that were easily read in his gathered
brows and tightly-drawn lips.
He had indeed a family fame to take care of.
In the days of Edward 11. the Knatchbulls held
high heads in Kent. Over at Leinne, on the
other side of the county, they had exercised politi-
cal and religious influence for generations. In the
reign of Henry 11. they came over to Aie.rsham
Hatch, and in various parts of the county around
this small but compact and beautiful seat, evidences
of the work of the early ancestors of the family are
still to be seen. In Ashford, a market town a few
miles off, Norman Knatchbull founded a free
Grammar School in the time of Charles 1., and
for more than two centuries and a half this school
has been a successful centre of instruction. Right
down from father to son, from John Knatchbull,
from whom the line springs, to Sir Edward, the
ninth baronet, whom the reader now looks upon
in his study, the good name had descended.
Six candles burned on the table at which the
baronet was seated. The window on his left hand
was an inch or two open, and the blind stirred
now and again as a breath of air stole through.
After writing for a few minutes Sir Edward put
the pen down and began to search for something
among the papers on the table. Then, lie picked
up a sealed letter. It was not for this he had been
looking, but when he glanced at the superscrip-
tion he forgot for a time the matter he had been
thinking of. His eyes grew glassy and his lips
twitched. He rose to his feet and, crushing the
letter in the palm of his hand, muttered :
“ The scoundrel ! His
career is not closed yet.
How did he leave this
here ? Has he dared enter
the house in my absence?
Whom has he induced
to force this under my
eyes ? I hope he has not
made a tool of Mary. The
poor girl should know
him well enough by now
and should see that no-
thing but scandal and
disgrace can come from
contact with him !”
Sir Edward saw from
the handwriting that
the letter was from John
Knatchbull. The eighth
baronet had been three
times married, and had
left an unusually large
number of children. By
hisfirst wife, thedaughter
of William Weston
Hugessen, of Provenders,
he had but one son; by
his second wife,adaughter
of Governor Graham, he
had four sons and three
daughters; and by his
third wife he had eight
children. The first son,
the baronet who now
stands with the crumpled
letter in his hand, exer-
cised and claimed to exer-
cise over the public con-
duct of his numerous half-
brothers and sisters con-
siderable influence. From
the death of their father,
in 1819, they looked up
to the Hugessen-Knatch-
bull as head of the family,
not alone by birth, but
by his force of intellect and
rectitude of character. One member alone stood
out as an exception. John, the third son by the
second marriage, had been irreclaimable while his
father lived and had long looked upon Edward
merely as a convenient person to extort money
from.
John was now thirty-six years of age, strong of
limb and quick of motion, but with features that
spoke of unbridled passions. He was ferocious
and he was mean. For a while, in his early life,
it seemed as if he would not dishonour his name.
He served under Admiral Cochrane on the
Spanish main, and rose from rank to rank until he
was registered post-captain. Whatever suspicions
existed as to the tenor of his conduct, he had still
a little reputation to put in the front, and the in-
fluence of his family was potent. He was ap-
pointed to the command of the Linnet, a ten-gun
brig, and further preferment was within his reach
when he threw all character to the winds and
wrecked himself on crimes which the world never
pardons. The middies whom he had under him,
and many of whom commanded a prospect of large
means in the near future, he induced, by unspeak-
ably immoral baits, to lend their names to him for
the purpose of raising money. He sold his
patronage and his power of recommending ad-
vancement to the highest bidder over the mess-
table. He gambled with the youths and cheated
them, and if he did not succeed in cheating he
stole around in the night and robbed them. The
lads in the bunks had found him at dead of
night searching their pockets for money. And it
could not be said that he sank to these depths
through drink ; he was almost abstemious in that
matter. Baser vices were his lodestars. He had
innocence to destroy, virtue to ruin, and simplicity
to devour. Wherever he went he put ruffians
under pay to feed his ravenous appetite, and he
therefore cheated where he could, and robbed
where he could, and, it was at last suspected in
the navy, actually reddened his hands with blood
to load his pocket.
Public disgrace at last came. His uniform was
torn off, and he was expelled the service. His
family name and influence kept him out of gaol,
but could not save him from the hatred and con-
tempt his crimes excited. He wandered among
strangers, changing his name and suppressing the
l )a ?L but with the old greed of appetite and the
old lawlessiiess of hand. lie begged assistance
from the head of his family on sundry occasions,
a few times it was granted, but his step-brother
had at last stood firm, and this source of income
ceased. When appeals to mercy failed, threats of
vengeance were employed. Against them also Sir
Edward stood resolutely.
Out of all his acquaintances John Knatchbull
had not one now that did not loathe him. Out of
all the relations with whom the County of Kent
was studded the worst fate that could befall him
could touch a chord of pity in only one. His sister
Alary alone thought of him with sympathy. When
all else failed, he was wont to come to her. She
was three years his junior and had always known
him as a bully. She did not know, being a woman
she could not be told, to what depths of infamy he
had fallen, or for what purposes he demanded
money, but she knew he was disgraced and friend-
less, she knew also that he was wicked and des-
perate, and, actuated partly by pity for the outcast,
and in part by terror as to how disappointment
would affect him, she often drove over the
Mersham Hatch at unseasonable times, and
kneeling before her stepbrother presented John’s
petition. There had been a time when her appeals
were listened to, but that time, too, was gone.
Still John had faith in the efficiency of terror, and
Mary a little hope in the efficacy of prayer.
On this night, while Sir Edward stood beside
the table in his study with the crumpled letter in
his hand, and the words of passionate bitterness
on his lips, Mary knocked at the door and entered.
When her eyes met Sir Edward’s she knew that
her appeal would be vain.
“ Where is he ? ” he asked.
“ In London.”
“ And how came this letter here ? You did not
leave it ? ”
EVERY MAN HIS OWN DENTIST.
“Letter? No.”
“ Then he has hired someone to do it. It was
put among my papers. Alary, prefer no petition
in the scoundrel’s favour. You don’t know the
blackness of his crimes. Let him go down into
the pit of shame he has so long and industriously
dug. It is but a week since the last of his victims,
Ellen Sterry, tried to end his career with a knife.
Leave him to her and those like her.”
“ He is my brother.”
“ True. But, Alary, have reason. I repel John
because he has removed himself from all that can
be called honour, and from all that can be called
manhood —he is a beast, a brute ! ”
“ When I spoke to him a few days ago, he spoke
of mending his ways. He talked about marriage
and an appointment abroad.”
“ Marriage ! Marriage ! ” cried Sir Edward.
“He to marry ! Did he give the name ? ”
“No.”
“ If you meet him again learn it and tell me.
If I have to kneel to her I will prevail on her to
discard him. Mary, you know nothing of the
ruffian. I know, and 1 often wish to heaven I
could nerve myself to hand him up to the police.”
“ What was in the letter ? ”
“ Ha, the letter ! Here it is. No, no, you
must not read it, and I have sworn that no line of
his shall ever reach my eyes. He knows this and
tries to entrap me by putting this among my
papers. I now, see you, put it into the fire.”
And then Alary disconsolately took her leave.
11.
It was summer in Australia. The sup was
sinking on a still, breezele-s Sunday afternoon in
Wellington Valley. John Knatchbull sat by him-
self on the side of a fallen tree—evidently await-
ing something.
Wellington Valley was a penal settlement
situated some SO miles to the north of Bathurst.
It was regarded as the ‘‘ Swell” Settlement—being
devoted to educated prisoners—and convicts who
were sent there were supposed to regard them-
selves as fortunate. Most of them were black
scoundrels; indeed, the percentage of them pos-
sessed of redeeming traits was actually smaller
than in any other settlement in New South Wales.
On the night John so suddenly quitted Mersham
Hatch he determined to raise money somehow.
He made for the centre of London. He changed
his name to John Fitch and picked up a couple of
reckless accomplices. They went to Vauxhall
Gardens and robbed a Captain Dainpier of his
money and jewellery. The jewellery was traced
to John Fitch, and Captain Dam pier recognised
that person as the leader of the assault. John was
arrested. But the prisoner informed the Captain
that his real name was John Knatchbull, and that
he was a brother of Sir Edward’s, and a post-
captain in the Navy. Captain Dampier there-
upon called on Sir Edward with a view of having
the charge quashed, but, to his surprise, Sir
Edward threatened that if the Captain did not
prosecute he himself would take means to see that
the felony was not compounded. Accordingly the
trial was held on the 19th August, 1824, at Surrey
Assizes, and John Knatchbull was sentenced to 14
years’ transportation.
In those days a prison-ship always hung moored
at Portsmouth. Those sentenced to transportation
were sent aboard as they were taken from the
dock; and when the ship became full she sailed
for Botany Bay. The hulk on this occasion was
the Asia, and John Knatchbull was on board four
months before she departed.
His time there was not spent in the regenera-
tion of his moral character. He was cruel, rapa-
cious, and libidinous, as before. His sister Mary
exerted influence to obtain for him privileges, and
everyone of these privileges he abused. Women
visited him on board, and a young boy whom he
ought to have protected he kicked so severely that
death was the ultimate result. It was sought to
have him indicted for this crime, but Mary’s
influence was used, and the Crown sent him out
on the high seas.
Lieutenant Percy Simpson had been ruling Wel-
lington Valley with much success. Letters written
by Mary and powerful friends of hers to the
Governor at Sydney had been forwarded to the
lieutenant, and a conclusion come to that the new
arrival should receive as much consideration as
possible. Therefore, when Knatchbull arrived
he found himself well-known. But a consuming
desire to cast off the convict’s dress and return to
England had seized upon him. Fourteen years,
even with i-emissions for good conduct, seemed to
him a life-time. Sensual indulgence here was
limited in extent and vulgar in character. The
vast and varied fields of old-world debauchery his
heart was fixed on. He often swore that his brain
would never rest until he had obtained a full
pardon.
But how was he to do so ? Whatever bravery of
soul he once possessed was now burnt out of him.
Cowardice, meanness, treachery, and their allies
were the feelings which possessed his being.
While he sat on the fallen tree in Wellington
Valley he smiled at the thought of the plot he had
formed. 7 It. was simply this: to indirectly en-
courage his fellow-convicts in a conspiracy to
escape then brewing, and, by secretly informing
on them, establish himself in the favour of the
authorities. A few nights afterwards there was a
rattling of chains in the Valley, and Knatchbull
was recommended to the Governor as a deserving
object of clemency.
To the ex-post-captain’s chagrin, the recommen-
dation was followed by a ticket-of-leave for the
Sydney district only. Knatchbull cursed his ill-
luck, but made the most of his opportunities in his
new sphere. His passions raged as fiercely as ever,
but he kept one eye sharply on the police. He
worked little, but robbed and outraged. At the
latter end of 1831 a charge of forgery on a Bathurst
resident was proved against him, and at the
Supreme Court in Sydney he was sentenced to be
hanged.
Appeals on his behalf were again made. There
was no time now for letters from his believing sister
Mary, but several to whom she had previously
written on behalf of her brother exerted themselves
and obtained a commutation of the sentence to
seven years’ transportation to Norfolk Island. As
at Portsmouth, so in Sydney Cove, a hulk was
kept for the reception of prisoners as they were
sentenced. John Knatchbull was accordingly put
on board the Phoenix, to await the next trip of the
Governor Phillip to the island. While waiting,
Knatchbull’s brain was busy. Could lie make a
higher bid for freedom than when at Wellington
Valley ? He whispered among his fellow-convicts.
A detachment of the 4th Regiment and a vigilant
crew were on the watch, but the scheming and
desperate men were not dismayed. They deter-
mined to poison every man of the detachment and
crew on the day she sailed out of the harbour.
Knatchbull procured four pounds of arsenic and
stowed the poison away. But, as treachery ever
brings its own reward, there was among the con-
victs one who had entered into the plot fomented
by Knatchbull at Wellington Valley, and he,
fearing that the latter would again act the part of
betrayer, resolved to be before him. This man in-
formed Captain Lewis, who was in charge, but,
owing to over-haste, the plotters were frustrated
before positive evidence against all of them could
be obtained. As it was, a number of the “Tea-
sweeteners ” were put in irons, and once more
Knatchbull was foiled.
It was commonly argued among the convicts
that there was little, difference between being
hanged and sent to Norfolk Island. Often death
was preferable. It was the Hell of the Pacific.
Savage after savage had ruled there in the name
of the law. Those prisoners in whom any human
feelings remained often drew lots to see which
should kill the others. The Island itself was but
21 miles in circumference, but behind its precipi-
tous cliffs the worst of the sin and sorrow of the
human race festered under sun and moon.
Commandant Wakefield tried to keep Knatch-
bull apart from the other prisoners, and therefore
allotted him duties in the stables. But the heart
of the ex-naval-officer had not changed. He was
soon in treaty with the worst of them. Coming
on to Christinas of 1833 an ominous quiet per-
vaded the nights. Plots for escape were in all
heads, with a further plot for pardon in John’s.
In one month more the historical mutiny had
broken out. Blood flowed in the gaol-yard, and
halter and gun were busy. Nine bodies were
picked up dead, and 29 men were put on trial.
Who now should swear against them? John
Knatchbull. He drew out a list of the names of
all who, he said, had entered the conspiracy, ad-
mitting himself to be one, but claiming the ap-
prover’s privilege—which he used to the extent of
sending half-a-score of men to the scaffold. It
was afterwards ascertained that some of them had
not entered the conspiracy at all.
Knatchbull’s perfidy was now so widely estab-
lished that he was in hourly danger of being
murdered, and he was therefore sent to Port Mac-
quarie. One year afterwards he successfully ap-
plied in person to Governor Gipps for a ticket-of-
leave for Sydney A Mr. Lewis, of Sussex-street,
offered him employment on a small coasting-craft.
This engagement ended soon, however, and from
that onward John Knatchbull walked straight to
his final doom.
The police lost him. It was known he was
living by forgery, robbery, and other unlawful
means, but he could not be run down. One even-
ing he called in at Mrs. Thornton’s shop in
Market-street and priced some furniture, alleging
that he was about to marry and take a house. He
came back later, and, in the course of talk, Mrs.
Thornton mentioned the name of her friend, Mrs.
Ellen Jamieson, a widow, who lived at the corner
of Kent-street and Margaret-place, and who had
purchased some such things as Knatchbull was
enquiring about. The remarks implied that Mrs.
Jamieson was a fairly wealthy woman.
Knatchbull at once transferred his intentions on
Mrs. Thornton—whose husband had entered the
shop during the course of their conversation —to
Mrs. Jamieson. He returned to Hollowell’s house
in Clarence lane, where he lodged, and procured a
tomahawk and his skeleton keys.
Soon he was in Kent-street. It was nearing
dusk, and he looked about to see if he was ob-
served. He thought not, but Mr. Shalas, a
builder, had noticed the figure, and taking it for
that of Knatchbull, had watched him. The ticket-
of-leave man entered the house and closed the door
behind him. Shalas went to the door, listened,
and heard a noise “ like that of someone breaking
a cocoanut with a hammer.” He called assistance,
broke in, and secured Knatchbull red-handed.
There was Airs. Jamieson with a fractured skull;
her torn-off pocket, containing a large sum of
money, was in the possession of Knatchbull. The
room had been rifled, and the felon’s clothes were
stained with blood. Mrs. Jamieson lingered for
five days, and, on her death, the coroner sent
Knatchbull for trial.
Mr. Robert Lowe (now Lord Sherbrooke) who
was then anew arrival in the colony, appeared
for the prisoner. The trial came on on the 23rd
January, 1844, at Sydney Supreme Court, before
Air. Justice Burton. Mr. Lowe’s defence was
able, and when he went into the metaphysics of
insanity, was shockingly ingenious, but the facts
were too obvious, and the jury, without retiring
from the box, gave a verdict of “guilty.” Sen-
tence of death was passed, and although a tech-
nical point was raised, the Full Court ratified the
sentence, and on Thursday, the Ist of February,
1844, John Knatchbull, attired in a blac dress-
suit, said to have been provided for him by the
wife of the colonial Governor of the day, was
hanged in front of Darlinghurst Gaol on the green
spot on which the reception-house for lunatics
now stands.
In a letter to his sister Mary on the night pre-
ceding his execution Knatchbull told her he had
not much time to write, as since his sentence the
ladies of Sydney had been every hour driving up to
the gaol and overwhelming him with attentions.
He told her as another reason why he coidd not
write much, that he had looked at his coffin in the
cell, with the superscription “ John Knatchbull,
aged 5G years,” on it. and that he was puzzled to
know how that would look in “Burke’s Peerage.”
Although the book named records the birth and
death of all the Knatchbulls that have passed
away, it only told us until the last couple of
editions that John Knatchbull, the son of the
eighth baronet, was born. The later editions tell
us that he has died, but not how.
Knatchbull’s counsel, who was for many years
a power in the British Parliament, a few years
ago married the orphan daughter of the Airs.
Jamieson who was slain by his client’s tomahawk.


I
m
m
m
w
\
I
:c
$
£&
MS
&
o
-*\
Xe.^
✓
An English photographer claims to have
solved the problem of photographing natural
colours. All we can say is that his process won’t
suit the present complexions of the Sydney
women.
The celebrated Russian physician, Dr.
Botkin, who has just died in the south of France
proved the uncertain state of him who hangs on
princes’ favour. During a dangerous illness of
the present Czar, the doctor remained at his bed-
side day and night. On the patient's recovery,
the Czar told the physician to choose his own re-
compense. “Your majesty,” said Botkin, “I
want nothing for myself, but I beseech you to
have mercy on Tchernichevsky ” (the Socialist
author who had been lately banished to Siberia)..
The Czar turned away without a word; but,
though the next day the daring physician received
one hundred thousand roubles and the order of St.
Vladimir, the royal friendliness was withdrawn,
and poor Tchernichevsky remained where he was.
What’s the matter with the S.M. Herald?
So far it has not told us that the Freetraders in
the late and Ffeetrade candidates for the present
S.A. Assembly have been wiped out.
There has been among the directors of a
Sydney daily newspaper office a most hideous row
as to whether the journal should support the
acquisition of the Government tramways by a
syndicate.
Archer, of Queensland, told the Royal
Colonial Institute of an interview he had with a
Queensland squatting millionaire, at the latter’s
mansion. The millionaire said his only happy
wete spent in a bark-hut which he still
showfed 6h the estate;. Lots of rich men now-a-
days have big mansions—and live Only ill the
kitchens thereof.
Residence in the Sheolitic Subsequent will
have its compensations. There are 9000 operators
on the big drum in the Salvation Army, and as
they are all bound for glory, and will doubtless
carry their drums with them to strengthen angelic
orchestration, there may be more comfortable
bunks in the hereafter than will be found in the
celestial habitations.
(L R. Situs says that when he was a
struggling young writer for the London daily
press he made a point of going through his copy
and cutting out any jokes that had slipped in lay
accident. Once he overlooked a very small joke,
and the editor shrieked, “Great Heavens! sir;
do you want to make the public laugh?” bims
gently intimated that he knew they did their best
to make the public sad, and promised not to offend
again.
Police rules in London forbid an officer of
the foorce to arrest a drunken person unless he, or
she (frequently “she,” in Modern Babylon), is an
active annoyance, or danger to the public. Police
rulers in Melbourne seem to require raw young
constables to pounce on any man that can’t walk a
chalk-line, and worry the poor beggar until he
says “dam.” Then the guardian of the peace
knocks the misguided citizen down with his
truncheon, puts the hand-cuffs on and runs him in
for “insulting behaviour.” Smoking under the
piazzas of the G.P.O. is insulting behaviour.
Smoking on a railway-platform is very insulting
behaviour, indeed. In fact, it takes the long,
lean new-chum, in tan shoes, a month to find
phases of behaviour which he can practise out of
doors, without making his life an everlasting
insult.
We dropped across John Haynes’ rag-
baby the other day, and were at once attracted by
the following vigorous lines :
Ode to The N.S.W. Opposition.
Roll up, ye rogues ! restrict all trade !
Restrict all honest gain ;
Turn all the good that God hath made
To fear, and hate, and pain ;
Till beggars all, assassins all,
All cannibals we be,
And death shall have no funeral,
From shipless sea to sea.
There is another way of looking at the question—
Roll up ye skunks ! Admit the Chow,
Crush out all local trade ;
And never purchase anything
But what is Foreign-made,
Till, loafers all and hungered all,
We one another eat,
And every man’s a sepulchre for the
Played-out Caucasian.
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tiik Bulletin
will be paid for, The Editor will be glad to receive and
Consider contHbutlons as under /
1. Original humorous or political matter ,■ illustrated of
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lindti
of Indian ink on white paper or Brixtol-board,)
8. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities , or people
who ought to be celebrated.
8. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred.
4. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
6, Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 8000
ivords. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions itiusi bti Written Lkglbly,- on Oaa
Side Only of the paper, and folded , Hot rolled . The
name and address of the writer must appear, in dll
cases, on the MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
A certain Well-known Sydney man the
other day offered to wager that he oould prove out
of their own mouths that a majority of the share-
holders of the Sydney Daily Telegraph are Pro-
tectionists.
Mrs. McLeod, of Sydney, wife of the
alleged reverend and medical bigamist, says she
lost £1100 a year by marrying the accused. Which
reminds us that the widow of a Sydney divine
willingly gave up £400 a year to marry an at-
torney.
Fred. Macoabe, who landed in Sydney the
other day, in a letter to a New Zealand paper
states that after a twelve months’ Walking tour
through Ireland, taken twenty years ago, he
considers himself an authority on dialect and
accent, particularly Irish. Then he goes on to
state that the word “accent” is misleading and
that “tune” should be substituted. Says he :—
Every locality has its particular tune in the speech of
its inhabitants. Say “ Good morrow, Mike, how are
you ?” and raise the voice from beginning to end and you
have the Cork accent. Say it again with the Scotch
accent or tune and you have the north of Ireland accent,
which is the nearest locality. When I returned from my
first trip to America I landed in Plymouth and I noticed
nothing strange in the tune or accent of the people, but
after my second trip I returned and stayed in Plymouth.
I could not rest for a burning desire to locate the tune
that I heard in every voice. There it was knocking at my
brain and saying, “where do I come from?” I sat down
at night in my room at the hotel and I took a book from
the table and began to read about the “Mayflower,”
which sailed with the Plymouth brethren to America—
the founders of the American nation, and I cried,
“ Eureka ! ” The tune of Plymouth is the American tune,
only more developed. The American tune in speaking is
the most favourable for the voice in singing, and I venture
to prophesy that America will by-and-bye produce the
best singers; they make room in the mouth for a full
tone and do not smash it up as many Englishmen do.
Very fine, Mr. Maccabe, but very unintelli-
gible, most of it. If accent be simply tune, what
is the name for the something that marks the
differenee between the singing of an Irish song by
an Englishman, a Scotchman and Irishman, when
all three sing the same tune in similar time, tone
and key ?
LAYS OF LABOUR.
II.—THE DRESSMAKER.
Unfriendly Fate waxed wroth when Ann passed
T by ’
It took a wrack of rain, an arc of night,
A mound of storm, and threw them in her sky,
And blurred the radiance of her morning light.
It looked for her at ndoM, ahd fouhd her bellt
Upon her task. Her needle quickly sped;
Although her work was hard she was content,
And music hid in ev’ry full-drawn thread.
Unfriendly Fate stared closely on her face,
It sucked the redness from her cheeks and lips ;
It stilled the music in its hiding-place,
And killed the cunning of her finger-tips.
It hastened eve and made it cold and drear,
And laid it on her head, and dimmed her sight;
It breathed upon her windy breaths of fear
And filled the room and filled her eyes with
night,
And then went from her gate. The sense of sight,
Though dead within her eyes, still held its
reign
Within her brain, and burned across the night,
And looked in eyes that looked in her’s again.
Ghosts moved about. They each one seemed to
wear
Attire Ann’s fingers made in time gone by.
A beauteous girl, with flaxen, waving hair,
And eyes like bits of sunlit summer sky,
Came near. Ami knew her. “Ah,” Ann said,
‘and sigh
And word together went, “that silk and plush
Wear well, fit well, and suit your cheek and eye,
And make me glad.” The spirit answered,
“ Hush ! ”
And then said : “Ann, you think these eyes are
bright ? ”
“So bright!” “They’re dead! You think
these cheeks are red ? ”
“So red !” “ They’re dead ! And silk or plush,
or day or night,
Is known not in the Kingdom of the Dead !
“ You clothe me, Ann, and make my starry eyes
And cherry cheeks out of your throbbing head !
But eyes or cheeks or clothes or plains or skies
Exist not any more when we are dead.
“ Soul only lives. Soul thinks. You thought
of me :
I’m here. I kiss you and —I go again !”
For in Ann’s brain a new thought suddenly
Had sprung in answer to a new wild pain.
A grey-haired woman glided to the bed;
Her face was painted and her neck was bare ;
The flesh was scorched and wrinkled, and her red
And swollen eyes discharged a baleful glare.
She wore black grenadine, with bows of pink,
And gold and silver to her bosom clung ;
And from each ear a carved and massive link
Of yellow metal to her shoulder hung.
Ann laughed outright. “You fright,” she cried,
“ I knew,
When you commanded me to make that gown,
And stitch those coloured bows upon it, you
Would be the laughing-stock of all the town !”
“ You ugly fright ! You fearful fright !”she said*
“Ann,” sighed the woman, “you thihlc me
arrayed
In grenadine and pink ; but I am dead,
And long ago I left the dress you made.”
‘But ’tis the dress !” “No, Ann ; it is the thought.
Your thought makes me. I come to answer you.
Where I am now black grenadine is not,
Nor any fabric which your needle knew.”
“ But see the gold and silver on your breast!
The yellow metal weighing down your ears
You ugly fright, preposterously dressed,
I scarce ean see you through my angry tears !
“And see your face ! The rouge has eaten tbrbugli
The cankered skin, and left a hundred holes !”
“ Ah, Ann, no rouge had ever passage to
The kingdom of the ever-resting souls !
“ The cankered face I wore in days gone by
I wear not, and the eyes I wear no more;
For faoe and eyes and grenadine must lie
Behind with all the rest the spirit wore ! ”
“ Are limbs and bodies carried nakedly
Before the eye of sun and moon and star ? ”
“ Nor dress, nor naked body, limb, nor eye
Are where the dead with one another are i
“You thought of me; I came. I am your
thought.
Igo ! ” And forth she went; and pain burned
through
Ann’s reeling brain. So fierce the pain that not
Of others did she henceforth think; but to
Herself she turned. With heavy work she spread
The ample nightdress to her frozen feet;
And fixed a wreath upon her throbbing head ;
And laid her gloves upon the snow-white sheet;
And smoothed the hair that touched her cheek
and pressed
The weary lids upon the weary eyes ;
And crossed her hands upon her sinking breast,
And said : “Although when anybody dies,
“ The body is cast off, I yet can’t bear
To think myself a fright!” Unfriendly Fate
Returned, and found her dead. It left her there.
The coffin took her body through the gate.
E. L.


Great Medical Reform!
Consult (FREE) HERR RASSMITSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
TTALfTY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Only Herbalist in A.nstralla
That has received “Gold Medal ” for Great Cubes Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales *
ior Urreat Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 PATIENTS.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS, Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.
Genuine
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir,-This is to certify that you
cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors had
failed.-JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappehstreet, Leichhardt, Sydney. had
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist—Dear
Benefactor,—l have much pleasure to inform the public that you
W l °*»n internal complaint of a very serious nature afto
all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD MACFARLANE
Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale. ANR,
Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, I hereby thank you for the great cure you performed on me for
a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always recommend
you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—PHlLLlP STEAD 54 Parra-
matta-road, Annandale, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene
factor,-H gives me great pieasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. You cured me of a terrible complaint
after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years since I am
Dminiw!' I shall recommend you to all.—Yours, gratefully, A.
RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
T° hfh-RR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
, lr > 1 hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that you cured me
N?S W. ° f y °“ r VitaHty Pin s.-D. M‘NEILL, Hornsby
m
Vi)
Ml
Opinions of the Press,
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during- the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28,1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters from HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr
s Herbal Remedies. (REGISTERED.)
d“ **, v r ity - r o< youi " - ~ »«•»««—; *«.»«.
Price, 225. 6d. per course; small box, ss. 6d. 11 omplaints P ecuhar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
LOCK CURE PILLS. Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved,
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation personally or by post, free.
A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness sent
Patients are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address : - Herr RASSMUSSEN tlie Danish Herbalist,
Corner Gordon-atreet & Parlt-road, Paddington, Sydney.
TRAMS—Take Paddington Tram to Paddington Tram Waiting-room.
liO*
(TALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box fSa^kl.
Book of Mature,
U|
-l
£iook of OTature,
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Matri-
monial Guide. —A full and explicit explanation
of the structure and uses of the organs of life and genera-
tion in man and woman, intended especially for the
married, or those intending to marry, and who' conscien-
tiously and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the
intent and nature of marriage and its duties, to which is
added a complete MEDICAL TREATISE upon all diseases
of the generative organs, whether resulting from infection
or sexual excesses and abuse with much other valuable
and highly important information, illustrated with more
than fifty engravings, by M. Lafayette Byrn, M.D. ; price
3/6, post 4/-. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Com-
panion for Married People, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s Law " e
Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra
large, 1/6. Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk,
TO post 1/9. New complete Fortune Teller, 2s. “The
Matron’s Manual or Midwifery,” the book every married
woman needs ; price 7/-, posted 7/6. “The Male Genera-
tive Organs,” their use and abuse, with many illustrations
and coloured plates; price 7/-. posted 7/6.' Tlte arts of
Boxing, Swimming and Gymnastics made easy, enabling
anyone to become an expert boxer or athlete, il lust rated
with fifty engravings ; price 1/-. “ Marriage as it was, as
it, is, and as it should he,” by Mrs. Besant; 1/-. posted 1/2.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, new edition, over 200 illu-
strations; 7/6, post free. “The Labour Movement in
America,” by Avcling, post free 1/6. Matrimony, or
Phrenology and Physiology applied to the selection of
Congenial Companions for Life, 6d. The Elements of
Social Science ; 3/6, posted 4/-. Nigger Songs, (id. Henry
George’s Works all at 1/-, posted 1/4. Works of Ingersoll,
Paine, Bradlaugh, Besant, Foote. Send for catalogue.
SHIR- IROBEUT BEAR,
Radical Book Stores,
16<4 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
ro"
HIGHLY NUTRITJVE
oeoa
MAY Bt ÜBIAINEU IN [ABELLEU TINS UH FACKETSTHHOUGHUUT THE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS, TOURISTS, &c.
o
ROYAL HOTEL,
The leading resort for
Travellers,
L I T H GO W,
andL Tourists,
The Largest Sample Rooms on the Western Line. Horses ami Buggies for Hire,
Nothing but the Bed Brawls of spirits sold over the bar.
Hugh Wallace, Proprietor. Late of Wallerawang.
HEALTH for the MILLION !
WATSON’S
Mild, Aperient, Antibilicus
Pills, purely vegetable
in their composition,
are particularly recommended fo either sex, where a
gentle, but effective aperient is required. These Pills
are invaluable for all complaints of the Stomach and
Liver, speedily removing sick headache, biliousness,
indigestion, etc., and cleansing the
blood of all impurities. To Ladies
these pills will be found invaluable.
PILLS
One trial is sufficient to prove tlieir vast superiority
over all others. Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Price Is. per box. Prepared solely by John Watson,
Chemist, George Street, Sydney.
-THE-
Electro-Mlagnetic
Massage Institute,
For the oure of—
Rheumatism Lumbago, Sciatica, Debility,
Gouty and Neuralgic Affections,
Muscular and Nervous Disorders
All Cases under Medical Supervision. Ladies
attended by specially-trained Nurses.
94 * DARLINGHURST * ROAD,
SYDNEY,
Attendance : 9 to 1 a.m. ; 7 to 10 p.m.
Process Protected by Letters Patent.
Read ! Read ! Head !
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gay 11.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Frice - One Slxillxxxs
Per post, Is. 3d.
r pHE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED,
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COLONIES AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
f
Policies issued under the Ordinary, Modifie cl Tontine and Mortuary Dividend Systems.
THE SYDNEY CATERING COMPANY, LTD,,
(Late Gunsler’s Cafe)
17 5 Pitt Street, Sydney,
WISH their former Patrons and the Public Generally to know that their Saloons have been Entirely Reorganised, and shall be glad if they will <nve
their new cusine a trial. . JAMES 0- MARQUAED, Manager


Business Announcements.
TURPIN & BRIAN,
Wholesale anti Family Grocers,
616 George Street, Sydney,
ARE
•—zsFt^EiEvro'VinNrG—
To those Spacious Premises formerly occupied
by R. S. TIGHE, Wholesale Grocer,
623 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
LOOK OUT FOR FUTURE ISSUES.
£ST“ NOTH THE ADDRESS:
623—George Street—623
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
(Two Doors from Lawler’s.)
-THE-
Fresh Food & |ce (X
LIMITED,
HARBOUR STREET,
SYDNEY,
Are evidently determined to go ahead They are
now supplying Customers who take a Quart of
Milk and Over per Day at
THREEPENCE PER QUART!
This appears very wonderful, but it is
quite true.
lar Weekly Accounts.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
£
&
o
G
IlllSflSS
ESLT
THEONLYI
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels "them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE-
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist^
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 185 S. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
DOWS
EMBROCATION
m
±j L-~
tvi
if
y
\C
] .\EVERY,WHERE'!
wB
Business Announ' ments.
r
o^rts
u
C°
A
ON
•v
V '
-
I
a
«_3
a
Cz3 'TZZ3
/jj
-ISL
S'
ROBERTS & CO.,
-W HOLESALE—
Ironmongers* Importers* Iron and Machinery Merchants*
HAY AND ENGINE STREETS SYDNEY,
Head Office: 85 Gracecliurcli Street, London, E.C.
IMPORTERS OF
Railway & Bridge Contractors'
Plumbers'
Squatters’
Requirements
IN
Great Variety.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ and Blacksmiths'
Couchhuilders'
Mining
AGENTS FOR:
Korting's Gas Engines —The best and cheapest yet made. Automatic self-governing, thus saving cost of gas.
Braddock’s Water and Gas Meters and Gas Lamps. Reading Iron Works Universal (Split) Pulley Wheels.
Howe’s Platform and Counter Weighing Machines and Weighbridges.
b
o
Guinness’ Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass' Pale A le,
FIRST QUALITY.
Sons PUBVBYOBS TO THB
Colonial & Indian Exhibition,
London,
(By Special Appointment).
Wholesale Agents Balchin, Johnston & Co., Sydney.
A.ak for K-upper’s Elberfeld Lager Beer
(Specially Brewed for Australia). Absolutely Free from Sediment.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medi®tal Metal Worker
KOLI.EIC SKATES (any make) with ISIS ASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
■»a» n MHIII—
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Federated Squatters
—AND—
Farmers’ Co-Operative Association of Australasia, Limited,
quay, syduey.
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS, STOCK and STATION AGENTS
Advances Made and Deposits Received at Current Rates. Correspondence Invited.
“ The Male Generative Function in Health and Disease /
—BY—
ALiEXR. FA.XERSOKT, M.A., Mi.D.,
F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Eng.
PRICE ... TWO SHILLING 1 and SIXPENCE.
)(
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS:
“ Valuable medical work —the Doctor is a quali-
fied man and speaks with authority.”— Town and
Country Journal.
“Can recommend it as a work written by a
gentleman who has attained a very high status in
his profession.”—Manning Rivkr Times.
“It sets forth scientific truths which, in the in-
terests ot individuals and society, should be more
generally disseminated.”- — Bathurst Free Press.
“Society would be all the better if people only
gave a little of their reading time to such valuable
medical works as Dr. Paterson has in this instance
given to them.” — Mudgee Independent.
“The author not only fully understands the
perils which beset youth and manhood, but he can
point out the remedies. ’’—Cobar and Louth
Herald.
“ Dr. Paterson, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S.E., ia a
high authority on the matters he deals with.”—
COONAMBLE INDEPENDENT.
“The work is well written, and far away the
best we have read on the subject.”—Wiloannia
Times.
“The subject is treated in a manner which
shows the author thoroughly understands it.”—
Fielding Stab, N.Z.
“ The book cannot be too widely circulated, and
should be in the hands of every person, male or
female. Povhkty Bay Independent, N.Z.
“Totally different from anything else of the
kind which has come under our notioe.”—Bruch
Herald, N.Z.
“It is a work which every young man should
read and lay to heart.”— Border Post.
157 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, SYDNEY.
CONSULTATION BY LETTER, JBI
\\ ft P |
KRUPP "■
rf'Wr MRU PH a«rK?ft
Tiii^hr
WH
àsdf
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
A ll agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for ah Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dys/.epsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
Ail Untililing; Cure Cor Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquest enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by t-heappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
IggT" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .. . Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
INDISPENSABLE fOE RADIES
AND ALL PERSONS
TTT trn TT a -n l? ttn.a m V! C!t?TTT!
s.Nosnow
Cocoa Butter Soap is a real skin-beautifier, and a balm to
young and old alike.
MOUSON & CO., PERFUMERB & TOILET SOAP MANUFACTURERS,
FRANK FORT-ON-TUK-MAINE.
LONDON: 32 & 33 HAMSELL-BT., F..C. PARIS: 29 RUE R A I)/. I WILL.
Full guarantee for perfect purity is offered by the
sole Manufacturers, Mouson & Co.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY,
SOLE A GENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA.
PIOUBH-SHAREB.
PLOUBH'SHAEES. PLOUItHM
IN EQUITY.
Hornsby v. Hudson.
—* —
notice
TO THE
Farming Community offc South fa 1 os.
HUDSON BROS., Ltd.,
Are still making the Shares which former*
the subject of this great lawsuit. They
are now branded
DEE
and their quality is better than ever.
HUO
Farmers desirous of encouraging Colonial
Industry can obtain these Shaies from our
Local Agent.
NOTE—Trial samples free of cost.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN
fat
m
y
urn
W
\ I \ EUREKA
ELECTRIC (
m
BELT’
S-JSS
L
\
-cn-
fflp
\
A NEVER FAILING- CIJIIE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances f rom £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts Are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage. 0
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney*
Dr. James 3D. Llewellyn.
(registered)
SPECIALIST in.
(tENITO-URINARY diseases,
May be CONSULTED at
-3 25 LONSDALE STREET”
(between Sivanston <k Elizabeth Sts ),
WL E LB O TJ R. 3V 3S.
S3T Consulting Hours—lo to 2; 7to 9.
Mornings, 10 to 11.
Sunday
All Personal Consultations are free ; by letter the
Fee is £l, which is inclusive of medicines.
% ISO! °
Barry’s
Tricopberons
FOR the
HAIR a SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
sadf
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
m
h
forth
COMPLEXIQM
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded check with youthful bloom and beauly.
C AUTION.—None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is n'ot a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes <t grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
eecoo-nised. Fullest, directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 76 New Oxfoud-st., London. |§F° Pur-
chasers should look to the "Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If#the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
asdf
a
u
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
EXTENSIVE NEW PREMISES
(Nearly opposite Theatre Royal).
FIRST-CLASS GRILLS,
As well as all kinds of Refreshments, may
he obtained from 7.30 a.in. to 11.30 p.m.
CUP OF DELICIOUS TEA.
ICED DRINKS OF ALL KINDS, &c.
The rooms are splendidly furnished and
fitted up. In addition to the large and
well - appointed Refreshment Rooms,
gentleman will find on tire Second Floor
Commodious and Comfortable Smoking
and Conversation Rooms, furnished with
Chess, Draughts, &c., &c.
TO THE LADIES.
On the First Floor will be found Nice
Private Room for Ladies, convenient for
Writing, Reading, &c., also Retiring
Rooms and Lavatory, with both hot and
cold water laid oh. Inspkction iNvrrap.
Finest Teas imported—Packets Jib. and
upwards supplied. Orders promptly at-
tended to.
Q
U
o
N
G
T
A
R
T
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
CH
PATENT
PILLS.
w
*
45
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss’ of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling' sensations, &c. The
first dose will giv e relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording- to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore fe,males of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and @ ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which _ nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecitam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Profess or’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Dr. westcott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 11)0
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Musical.
INGHAM’S
PATENT SCALE INSTRUCTOR
FOR TIIE—
PUFIbS can obtain the above at once, and the best
way to illustrate its usefulness to them is to sup-
pose a man to Mve to be a hundred years old and never
to have seen a Piano, he would, with live minutes’
instruction, be able to play the most difficult Major and
Minor Scales on the instrument.
Miscellaneous.
FTC. NICHOLIaS & 00.,
WHOLESALE
Confectioners & Pastrycooks,
City Buildings:
73© G-eorge Street, 736
HAYMABKET.
Steam Works :
617, 619, 621, 539, 541 HARRIS STREET.
Wedding Cakes, &c., Made to Order.
■waTlteb HOPE,
General Merchant & Commission Agent,
199 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CONSIGNMENTS of all Produce, Live Stock, etc.,
received and realised in the best markets. Account
Sales and Proceeds remitted the day after sale. Orders
executed for all Goods from Sydney at Lowest VY holesale
Speciality. —Pure-bred and Pedigree Stock of all de-
scriptions Bought or Sold on Commission. Allcommuni-
oatiens referring to Pure-bred Poultry and Eggs for Setting
to be addressed as usual to WALTER HOPE, Bonnyrigg
Prize Poultry Farm, Liverpool, N.S.YV.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Business Announcements,
IHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,125,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can otter special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
H„ MILDER,
boot UPPER MANUFACTURER
IMPORTER OP
ENGLISH AND FOREIGN LEATHER,
Elastic Web, Grindery, «Sc.,
Wholesale and Retail Leather Merchant
539 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sf
'every
lESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK : DOME
sadf
asdf
sdf
PRIVATE,
___ R O O M S
FOR' LADIES
22% 24
ROYAL ARCADE
MELBOURNE
J. BITTRRLIW,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammoniated Qniiiino,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable. Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success Gr-na. sa, ir ss, "fc -a «3L
GEORGE STREET
N
S
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
newest shapes:
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
sadf
asdf
-- : • •
asdf
saf
sadf
sf
asdf
saf
V/ sa
m
i(/^UCH f 5 I
aking
POWDER
■'''// 'V/ tfi
mr I
l/FACTOHEO V* . - _ >k
IXhMIS CHANNOk Sftrboirr $ l & r=£l
So LI l-u ail. *
Business Announcements.
BgflHE THREE GREAT LIGHTS!
The Needles Patent Gas-making Machine;
The Harvey Patent Safety Kerosene Lamp;
And tiie New Era Portable Gas Lamp.
The Harvey Lamp has been adopted by the
Railway Commissioners for lighting the Sydney
trams. We were awarded the Highest Order of
Merit and Special Mention by experts at the
late Melbourne Exhibition for our lighting
mediums. Over GOOO Harvey Lamps are in use
in this colony, and for all lighting purposes are
giving universal satisfaction. These Lamps can
bo seen on one of the North Shore ferry-boats,
and are suitable for all classes of vessels. The
Inventor olfers £2OO to anyone producing as good
a Kerosene Burner.
Patentees for Australasia:
H. T. Smith & Co., 494 Kent St. South, Sydney;
14 Arcade, Adelaide, S.A.; Argent Street, Broken Hill;
Parkside Iron Works, Melbourne.
CHAMPION CHAFF T
At the request of numerous customers we have decided,
in addition to our noted 4s. Cd. chaff, to cut a SUPERIOR
sample which will he known as the
CHAMPION CHAFF.
Each bag will be branded with the word “CHAM-
PION” over our name, and we guarantee every bag to
contain pure all hay chaff, fresh cut, screened and dusted.
Chaff Less Than Wholesale Prices!
We supply the cheapest horsefecd in Sydney.
SPECIAL LINE. —Prime Chickwheat 3s. per. bushel-
This is exceptional value and is selling rapidly.
City Produce Company,
STEAM CHAFF-CUTTERS.
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
Hotels.
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, NS.W.,
Opposite the Parh, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rnHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A. well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
Slop PORTER. Trench
S>ermaii
Telephone No. 150. Italian
Spoken
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. lIECHT ... Manager.
HOTEL,
Warniambool, Victoria.
THIS old-established and well-known Family
and Commercial Hotel combines all the
requirements of a First-Class Hotel with home
comforts.
It is in full view of the sea and within a short
distance of the picturesque scenery of the Hopkin’s
River, which affords the finest Rod and Fly Fishing
in the colony.
Arrangements made for the Hire of Rowing and
Fishing Boats and Fishing Tackle. Bait, etc.,
supplied. itST Good Shooting in the immediate
neighbourhood.
It is also within Two Minutes’ walk of the Hot
and Cold Sea Water Baths, which are unsur-
passed in the colonies.
$3?" livery and Letting Stables.
Booking Office for Cobb & Co. ’s Coaches. Thos.
Cook & Sons’ Hotel Coupons taken.
GEORGE W. CLARE • Proprietor.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Hailvaii Station, near Baths),
St. ELilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
tW For particulars, apply to
JE 9 . WOkfIIPOLB,
PROPRIETOR.
AT OOMB A FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolnn Laves and
other places of interest.
■OOYAL HOTEL,
Esplanade,
ST. KILL A, VICTORIA,
Facing Beach, close to Pier and Baths, Ten
minutes from Station.
H. MOONEY ... - Proprietor.
LIVERY LETTING STABLES ATTACHED.
Telephone GB2.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
JLONG-’S IMPERIAL HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA, QUEENSLAND.
Acknowledged the Best Hotel on the Darling
Downs. First-class Accommodation.
Vrivate Suites First Class Sample Rooms.
Conveyance Meets Every Train.
JOHN LONG - - Late of New Zealand.


SHE VILL &
Corner Queen Street and Flinders La.io,
MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE AUCTIONEERS,
House, Land, and Estate Agents,
g§®
m
■V:;-
M
I
m
■-u
tip
m
p
J
JJ
-il
• --v
Advances made against shipments of Merchandise
and Colonial Produce.
Daily Sales held at their Commodious
New Booms.
OUTDOO R
Furniture & Land Sales Conducted.
Branch
Offices
f 32 Chapel St., Prahran.
\ 2 Albert St., Windsor.
Brancui
Officer
asdf
sadf
r"
3XTEH-W’
FURNITURE
WAREHOUSES,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Now supply the General Public as well as the Trade.
10,000 Bedsteads,
From 103. OcT. to £35.
E. B. teach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaher, informs his Customers
• and the Public in general that, he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers: - .1. Pijrdkv & Sons, Cii. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Cii. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son. A large.assortment of various othermakers
always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener, Scott, Webley,
Hollis & Sons, Riley and Oasiimore. All goods will be
faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-street, Sydney.
Price list on application.
Tlionaas Hoss,
TOBACCO & CIGAR IMPORTER,
27 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
(Corner of Pitt Street.)
A- large stock of Genuine Havannali Cigars, of the
choicest Brands to select from.
Sole Importer of the Celebrated “ Flor dc Bonlto ”
Brand of Cigars and “Empire Cigarettes.”
Palls Bridge Family JJotel,
Falls Bridge, Melbourne.
—% . ~
This magnificent Hotel, containing 50 Double
and Single Rooms, is splendidly furnished and
perfectly ventilated.
Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths.
Electric Bells. Telephone 1217. Billiards, Ac.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
J. H. DURRANT Manager
Late of the South Australian Club Hotel, Adelaide.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
COCOA
'
If
RnowfeV Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &c., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, HVT.S.’W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
Hock Breakers,
V' 'ZrL
WosfhiKlioiiHe Kn<>i]ifg
9
LIMITED,
ENGINES,
2 to 50 H.r.
BOILERS,
1 to 35 H.r.
STEAM PUMPS
For all purposes.
centrifugal pumps,
2" to 40" discharge.
HAND PUMPS.
Saw Benches.
Lathes.
DEI MM MM,
&c., &C.
Hay St., Hay market, Sydney,
&
jiy
v v -i
WINDING ENGINES,
Hauling Engines.
Battery Engines.
Saw-mill Engines.
M-MLL ENGINES,
EIM GINES
Electric Lighting.
Vertical Boilers.
Multitabular Boilers,
< oit\ish i:oiii:ks.
&a, &c.
Wo invito al those requiring Machinery of any kind for any purposes, large or small, to write for particulars and prices. From the extent of our stock wo are generally able to give immediate delivery
Visitors, whether buyers or n t, are always welcome to inspect the magnificent display in our new and extensive Showrooms, J
12 9, 131, 133 & 3L35 HAY STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDKTEY.
