

lH
’S
6t
DICKENS’
PI
■ .? . -i. ' >
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
the best in the market.
AND
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HABBISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
Street,
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION.
tr
9
/'ITED COCOA.
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO
ESTABLISHED 1845.
It is a MUTUAL COMPANY, and NO LIABILITY IS INCURRED by its policy-holders. There are no shareholders, and, consequently,
no interest adverse to those of the policy-holders.
STATEMENT FOR YEAR
Income for year 1889
Amount New Business during 1889
Accumulated Funds 31st December, 1889...
Surplus by the New York State Standard
ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
Total Amount Paid to Living Members during last 45 years, in Endowments
Dividends, Ac. ... ... ....
Paid to Representatives of Deceased Members
Amount of Interest received on Investments ...
£6,000,672 1 3
31,094,463 0 0
21,615,967 5 5
3,209,876 10 10
16,317,633 0
10,296,348 0
10,878,708 0
Incontestable Non-Forfeiting Free Tontine Policies
The NON-FOREEITING FREE TONTINE POLICY of this Company combines in one form the greatest number of advantages attainable in
a Life Insurance Policy. The returns on these Policies have been unsurpassed by those of any other Company.
The Policies, as now issued, are notably FREE FROM RESTRICTIONS as to Occupation, Residence and Travel; are INCONTESTABLE
AFTER TWO YEARS, except in case of fraud.
CLAIMS ARE PAYABLE IN THE COLONIES at the nearest Branch Office, in sterling ; .and all disputed claims (m case any should arise)
in Australia are to be decided by Australian Courts.
Chief Offices, Department of Australasia : ... BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSIA.H HOWELXj, G-exxeral Manager.
Do not insure until you have seen full particulars of the New York Life’s policies, with guaranteed dividends
N.B.—MEN OP CHARACTER AND ENERGY WANTED AS AGENTS,
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
TABLE D’HOTE PAEISIENNE, 2s. 6d.
(Wine Included).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Dinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for. PARTIES up to FORTY.
Service a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN ON SUNDAYS.
Dinners from Ss. 6d. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes’ Notice.
J. & G
POINTS OP SUPERIORITY.
1. —Steel drag bar, in place •of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. -Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
3. —All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4. —Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
5. Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing hprses in heaviest crops.
advt
Prizes Won* 1890 }
Queanbeyau, First. 'VVag-ga, First.
Jcrilderie ‘ ~ Hay »
Prizes W cn* 11
HOWARD STEEL ORIENT MOWER.
HOWARD’S OIR.IIEIN'T BAKES.
TPf* r-» -%xr v d’a 'Anglo -A- 111 erica xx HFLcclic.es.
280| PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Anglo Scandinavian
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 562. J
[Saturday, November 22, 1890.


TOBACCO
II
ftt
ii
i
DIXSONtSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
■ale of any in Australia are—
*
*
o
o
33
O
x
ft.
vnoV
SIR ROGER
Dr-RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm, Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MASON BROTHERS,
IiIMITKD.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
363 to 277 KENT STREET, .»YI)NEY»
Have always in stock for sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only,
as
TM C
R OVA U
tOiWQURGM
C4SVLC
* * *
SCOTCHWHtSKY
JitLO&l /??<*}'>
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
£lanit, ('Ulna anil
EARTHENWARE.
WINES. BEERS <fc SPIRITS,
AND QSNBRAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. OATEN'S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S
“Pelican” Stout.
“The Royal Edinburgh Castle” old Scotch Whiskies.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
LAMPLOUGHS
PYRETHIC
ADVT
SALINE
“ You have given me life and living. ”
Colonel Mapleson writes as follows: —‘‘Madame Roze
recognises in your preparation the precious Saline that
she found so invaluable when she visited New Orleans
during the last yellow fever epidemic, in order, by her
concerts, to raise funds for the benefit of the stricken
ones, Who could not afford the necessary comforts, and
which the crowded hospitals were unable to supply to
thousands of applicants. Madame Roze was advised by
Dr. Barnes, of London, to take your Saline with her, and
we took several dozen bottles. 1 really believe it saved
OCR LIVES.’*
Acts as a Gentle but Effectual Restorative ; Allaying all
tendency to Feverishness ; Invigorating the Digestion.
Acting on the Liver, Bowels and Kidneys imperceptibly
but surely ; tranquillising the Nervous System, inducing
wholesome appetite and recuperating the brain power.
Its utility as a remedy in fevers, and as a cooling drink
in diseases of children, such as scarlet fever, measles, &c.,
has been testified to by the leading members of the
profession. May be had of all Chemists in glass-stoppered
bottles, at 2s. fid., 4s. fid. and 11s. each.
CAUTION.—Take care that when you ask for “ Lam-
plough’s Pyretic Saline ” you do not have one of the
numerous spurious imitations foisted upon you.
ELLIOTT BROS., Wholesale Agents,
SYDNEY.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. fid., post paid.
LAMPLOUGH'S PYEETIC SALINE
Price One Shilling.
—BY —
“BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
ALL AGENTS.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
KY
W
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
M.W.iC!
Sole Agents: JAMES MOIR&CO., 58 Margaret-st.., Sydney
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BY—
Consulting R. J. POUI/TON, Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases_of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Consult personally or by letter.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY I'AKINf! —
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifie 0 the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Cold Medals.
Superior to all Others!
(Yide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, <&c., accompanying each Bottle.)
-TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S-
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each,
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., ltd
COMPLETE OUTFITS
-FOR-r
DRILLING ARTESIAN WELLS
Supplied on most reasonable terms.
ALSO-
DRIVE PIPE OR CASING
any required size.
American Expert Driller sent with Plants. Contracts taken for Drilling.
For Prices and Paitlculars, apply to
William neimsas-.
22 «S 24 Clarence Street, Sydney (Corner Margaret-Street).
m .
Mi
I
SPECIAL NOTICE. -The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, liif--
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office. George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
MADAME ANNA BERNE, the great American Lady
Specialist, having returned to Sydney, can bs
consulted daily at
19 ELIZABETH STREET, NORTH, SYDNEY.
Consultation Free, Examination ss. All classes attended
to. Consumption (in its early stage). Rheumatism, Deaf
ness, Sore Eves, Tumours, Epilepsy, and all PRIVATE
and SPECIAL DISEASES of WOMEN CURED. Letters
promptly replied to. Hours, from 10 to 1 and from 2 till
6 Consulting-room, First Door, Ground Floor.
Monday and Saturday Evenings from 7 to 9,
LEA & PERRINS'
CE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
O'
Ask for Lka 8c Pbkrins’ Sauce, and sec Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hj the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse dr Blnckicell, London,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
NOW READY—To be had from all News-Agents and Booksellers.
tc _£± G-OLDEIT SH-AJSmT:”
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By ‘BULIiETIN’’ Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
YORK STREET, .WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
o n Box 020. This eminent specialist is a graduated
of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
K hyW ,Znts of N.S.W. and N.Z., and lias devoid 1(1
ptrs o'thespecial study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
y H SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
? n *T to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
%i„*. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
op guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
him (hat where there is no organic disease, and
„ bin" but an inorganic trouble, or, iu other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
mere is no reason why it cannot he removed with the
.-oner remedies; therefore ho guarantees. He claims to
lc the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
hR particular special! ty, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
nisFASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
A vice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours-10
mn. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7toB p m.
"KTer'vo'cs.s UO'etsili'fc'y-
ronsult Dr, Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
u .odfiil disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
fo return the Victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
manhood.
NI, TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send tor
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DB, SPEER will forward, post free, the following
jelebrated pills
1 —AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2 AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
iioxes,
3.— “ FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
JU-
*
SUFFHRING FROM
BRAIN & NERVE EXHAUSTION,
Any man who in his y outh has trifled away his rigour
rf body, mind, and manhood, should consult PRO-
FESSOR CARD STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is still
treating with the greatest skill andsucces-s all Private,
Nervous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S great success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the Frets ; - Ist, That, every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd. The Medicines and Electric
Appliances used are exactly adapted to suit tire case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer "from Nervous " and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vita iiy, Premature Decline, <■ c., can
recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in ' ers n or by letter, which is free),
Professor CARL STiNEWAY, who has restored
thousands of sufferers to vigorous manhood
after all o'her iron ment had faded. It makes
no difference what you have taken, or who has
faded to cure you. Cases that / accept for treat-
ment arc quickly and permanently cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OP SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION :-Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Eunctinnal
Disease? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the pow i;of will and action? Are
you subject to loss of memory; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the head; feel listless,
■moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in.a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, K ura!.;:a,
or other aches and pains? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
the heart, bashful.’,ess, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms?. If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single
consultation (which costs nothing) you can bo placed
on the way to health strength, and vigour?
VARICOCELE easily and
quickly cured toy my only
Genuine Electric Appliance,
by Royal Eetters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forward-
ing a full description of their case and
£l, receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though ail others have faded
in your case, / will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure in ad cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FUSE. Medicines
sent secure from observation to any part of
Australasia.
From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
and entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion, Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
man ; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all cases un-
dertaken, and no promises made that age, in-
tegrity, and long experience do not justify.
My HYGIO-ELECTR/C APPLIANCES (by
Royal Letters patent) are the only genuine
Belts and Trusses in Australia.
Address—
Professor CARL
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
MENTION THIS PAPSiS.
Sometb.ing
YOUR NAME neatly printed on For;\ ( hi) Beat
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising I
Fm? B ,™™’ „? ea view > Rhd, &c. No two alike.
, , in Stamps, postage paid. A;
"anted. Samples free. Address-
Austral Card and Novelty Co.,
W Huntbr Strbbt. SYDNF
Medical.
COLEMANE
Eucalypti Oiusa.
:'/•/
1
V i c tory Ointments
m 4/ )e
ro
ID XL XT CCL XX. K.OSS,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using GOLEMAKE & SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
»»X ’ T IS !•: St Si €Sil \ Si St.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colkmane & Sons’ Eucalvitk Extract —there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has ho equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. f3r*'For external use try Colkmane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
LADIES'
TAMSY T ILLS r. re “boiler than
Steel, Ten: yroya', or Ergot.. Cures
ohstructiors from ■wliatcvo • cause.
Never fails. Ko Pills or
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER, P.O. Box 100, Melbourne.
GOLD E N S H A N T Y.
PRICE ; ONE SHILLING.
n Handsome Cloth Binding, 2s 6d, post paid' 3
Medical.
ocsls.
of
Z£T a,-fcia.x*e
if'-
Bools: oT IDu
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. -A full and explicit explanation o( the
structure and uses ot the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures ami duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation/ from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. Ko such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free,7/0. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/8,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” 6d.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored .plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
SCOTTISH
Hiiimi®
O' 'o
Whis
v-i
y
C-
V
&
c
■’S
68
CLARENCE I
SYDNEY.
AGENTS .
in New South Wales.
T R I.U M P H
ofThe Good Spirit over Rad.
1. sed in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best Erench Erandy. TEY IT.
Important to ISTervous Suffersrs.
mamsmi
iililmmit
■V ,■> -
!!!™l«Uiiawiasß!
Dr. PER FLIST,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c.,
Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. ; Late
House Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital, London.
Specialist for tine Treatment of Diseases
OF THE
Reproductive Organs and Nervous Complaints.
WHY I ADVERTISE.
I advertise because 1 consider it necessary that people
suffering from Nervous, Sexual and Chronic Complaints,
should be able to ascertain which
DIiLY-UVAXIFIED I*KA€TITI«XEKS
make these. Diseases a speciality, particularly as, under
the present law, any person can call himself Doctor or
Professor, whether ha is entitled to do so or not; and these
persons exist, chiefly, because Duly Qualified Prac-
titioners have not occupied the field'.
Dr. PERRY invites the fullest investigation into his
credentials, and gives his Personal Consideration to
bach Case, and in all cases tells the Patient the exact
nature of his complaint, the cost of a cure, and the time
it will take.
Dr. PERRY’S experience in the treatment of these
Diseases has been so varied and extensive, that he is able
to tell absolutely whether the case is curable or not, and
therefore is willing to
Guarantee to CURE EVERY CASE lie Undertakes.
VARICOCELE quickly and successfully treated without operation. DIABETES and TUMOURS treated by a
totally new method ot Cutaneous Medication.
jglp" 0 Send for Dr. PERRY’S Work on Diseases of the Reproductive Organs, Diabetes, Tumours, Skin Diseases,
etc., containing many simple directions as to SELF-MANAGEMENT, the observance of which is, in many cases,
sufficient to place the Patient in a healthy state. All wffio are in any way affected should procure this work, and
thus have the benefit of his advice and experience. FREE ON APPLICATION.
Consultation Hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. each WEEK-DAY, and from 7 to 9 p.m. on TUESDAY and SATURDAY
EVENINGS. All Consultations (cither personally or by letter) FREE. Address—
Br. M. PEBBY, ramley House,
151 ELIZABETH STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mention this Paper.
Medical.
ZOtr. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome bis
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address, ;
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
- y ' : :
i «_h
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college r
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest'methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi j
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy tedimont in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and heaff, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unneceisary expenoe. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOIIS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should v c . ' ■ ;sed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.


Tl|e London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarence-st., Sydne7
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port in N. S.Wales.
GOOD TEA
Packed in
ZO-lb. and 40-lb, Cheats.
Price:
1/G, lj!), 3/-, & 2/6 per Ifo,
Write to u 3 f or
Samples, Post Free
(••••••eeeacma W| mble
T. ROBIN SON
o<o. 9 XLalnadLte^,,
,
t:
m
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. E. and Co.’s Improved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid
T. R. and Co.’s DAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, ali
sizes.
T. R. AND Co.’s New DRAIN DORMERS.
T. R. and Co.’s u Solway” Patent TUMBLE-OYER BOX WOOL-
PRESS—-the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. AND Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESSES
T. R. AND Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. and Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
Address = 407 & 409 Elizatoetli Street,
MELBOURNE.
F.
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogues (by post, Free).
CRTCKTI'T'. SPLENDID VALUE.
WAR S O P
AND
SONS.
spßiiva
HANDLE
Best Quality.
Price,
22/0 each.
Youths’ Lo? Guards,
6/6 pair.
F.S. Tanned Kid ditto,
£Ood value, 10/-pair.
Superior ditto, 15/6 and
13/0 pair.
Prices—2/6, 6/9, 7/6.
BARTLETT’S.
SPRING:
HANDLE
Repercussive,
22/6 each.
Selected All-
Cane, 17/6 each.
All-Cane Bats,
10/- & 12/6 each.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Steam Tarred Cricket Nets, full size, with Side Wings and Poles,
Legs and Runners complete ; size of net, 7ft. high, 42fr. long.
P'doc 45/.
Tennis Poles.
-r'
r\
X
- m
CAVENDISH Lawn Tennis Poles, with nickel-
plated fittings, patent steam-tarred water-
proof net, bound with canvas, copper wire
rope, iron pins, mallet, and Hope’s Net
Adjuster. Price, 82/0 per set.
UOTE.
Oar NEW ILLUSTRATED and
UNIQUE CATALOGUE
—OF—
Firearms* Ammunition*
Etc., Etc., Etc.,
FEES. (By Post.) FREE.
To all parts of the Colonies.
WELL SPENT.
Anyone perusing this work cannot fail
to observed that we keep the LARGEST and
most SELECT STOCK of SPORTING
REQUISITES in the Southern Hemisphere.
m
H
S
jP|||g
SSR
W. W. GREENER’S 129, treble-wedge, fast, full choke,
double-barrel, breech-loading Gun. Price £2l 15?.
Tennis Jbiacquets,
ii on
hrh
rni;
ULULUU
xd:
rr iijnrr i.jj nj l
Ton:nTiTo“
W+fiH:
m
3CDCC
au
aocu
rx7
WMM
PORTNAM’S Superior. Price, 10/.
each.
FORTNAM’S Champion. Price,
15/- each.
FORTNAM’S Improved Champion
Price, 16/6 each.
F, H. AYRES’ Cedar-Handle
Superior. Price, 19/• each,
P. H. AYRES’ Champion. Price,
22/6 each.
F. 11. AYRES’ Central Strung.
Price, 27/5 each.
Teimis lOe^lls.
*3j7 //
f J 7
7/
F. H. AYRES’Championship Covered Under-
sewn Regulation Tennis Ball, 16/6 doz,
Grey Uncovered, 7/6 doz.
„ ~ best quality, 10/6 doz,
White Enamelled, uncovered, 12/6 doz.
Terra Cotta, 12/0 doz.
A 1 Crown Champion Covered Undersewn,
11/0 doz.
Wentwortli Hotel, Church. Hill, Sydney.
( W ENQ- worth
NOTE U
r >:
v;,
m&Vi r
I wa
%-y jHivv.W’T;
1
‘ V:
;:v a
Mrs. HAYES
Proprietress.
Cleave rb
Terebene
Soap
Unrivalled
for the Complexion.
ii
The brightest, best and most original shilling book ever
published in this country. Send it to your English friends
whom Sladen’s Anthology has disgusted.
One Shilling; Postage in Australia 3d. extra.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11- No. 562,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1890.
Price, 6d.
Coro NER- £/out l/trdlct, yfytoh,
' tfaf- ty/s anfv/tafartj/oicty » ft A/s </e&6
flrc'uffi <£&/<?
ad/p/y*steredfa <9 flert op Upf/rldncjfe/y
Too <T ~dse// AftxJwT? '"
A TRAGEDY.
ACT 1 : “I consider Crick to be by far the cleverest fellow on the Opposition benches—in fact, he’s the only man there who knows anything about anything.”—PARKES.
ACT 2 : “I move that Crick be expelled Parliament because he’s too cheeky.”—PARKES.
ACT 3 : “We find that Crick died of the disease known in America as Big Head, said disease having arisen from an overdose of marmalade administered by Henry Parkes with
malice aforethought.”— THE JURY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Austbalia fob the Australians.’'
Pbopbietobs I BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STBEET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 111 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and ail easiness Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted -
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neicspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not ivish
to interfere.
_
Jf/jk /£? jf'hYy'//dPTy/y)
& J! &JL.y £/t
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1890.
A Political Three-Card Trick.
The new and fearfully-wonderful Electoral
Bill formulated by the New South Wales
Cabinet is a tacit acknowledgment that the
men of the colony are growing exceedingly
tired of Pabkes, and consequently that wily
cultivator of the field of human sympathy
has resolved to throw himself on the feminine
population, in the hope that they may be a
shade less weary than their husbands and
fathers. For some undefined and unfixable
reason it has always been assumed that the
old politician has his strongest supporters
among the female sex. His hair is in some
measure responsible for this impression, and
possibly his verse has also something to do
with it, though even Pabkes can hardly
hope to travel for many years on these two
unstable assets. But the male electors have
shown unmistakable signs of wearying of
him, and the women of New South
Wales at the worst can do no more than
throw him out ; so should the old man’s
last political dodge fail to save him at the
next general election, he will at least fall in
an entirely new capacity, as a democrat who
was too advanced for his age, instead of
coming down with a dull, ordinary thud as
nobody in particular. The ruling passion of
Pabkes’ whole career is conspicuous in this
measure from the first line to the last; like
every other prominent device of his political
existence, it is borrowed from an opponent,
without acknowledgment. The democratic
principle of One Man One Vote has been the
rock ahead for the Freetrade and Bloody
Shirt faction ever since that motley gather-
ing came into existence. The party has
lived on the multiplied suffrages of the
importers and landholders of Sydney ; and
it has flourished because the pimpled
publican, and the pugilist who has
made a pile by assault and battery, and
the mining shark and the successful
“ shindykit” have been allowed to exercise
from two to twenty-five votes a-piece, while
the person who owns nothing but his labour
and his brains has possessed only one. But
this political monopoly has grown precarious
in recent years, and the Freetrade gospel has
fallen upon evil days. The nation grew
Aveary of shoddy, and the Yellow Pup was
frayed aAvay by the sloav friction of Time
and the concussion of public scorn, and an
impression grew and spread that the faith
from Derry might still survive even if
McMillan’, r percentage fell away, and that
Abigail might fall and the Kingdom of
Heaven might remain just Avhere it was. And
finally, by the time that Mr. Traill’s measure
for the establishment of manhood suffrage and
the abolition of the Freetrade plural vote had
struggled successfully through its second
reading, it became evident that the abolition
of plural voting was only another name for
the abolition of Pabkes himself. Therefore
that astute politician proposes to hang his
party to avoid execution, and by his scheme
he stands a reasonable chance to escape the
general calamity which threatens to swamp
his followers.
» * *
By adopting his present course and going
back on all his previous policy, Sir Henry
gains four distinct advantages. When The
Bulletin first formulated the idea of One
Man One Vote, it became a rallying cry
for the democracy of New South Wales, and
when Parkes has discovered that he can no
longer oppose or retard this great re-
form he unblushingly annexes it as
his own, just as he annexed the famous
Education Act against which he had fought
with sectarian frenzy and bigotry for years.
Should the Electoral Bill pass into law,
therefore, he will trade upon it as the
greatest and most brilliant act of his long
career, and the fact that the idea was stolen
from his opponents, and the inspiration
borrowed from his enemies, will be judi-
ciously dropped into oblivion. For the
moment Sir Henry poses, as a democrat to
catch the democratic vote which now
threatens to wipe him out, and so far his
position is a good one. But in addition to
this he has enlarged the scope of his
borrowed scheme, and having grafted
Womanhood on to Manhood Suffrage he will
assume the position of the one really
advanced statesman of the country, and will
look with an air of pathetic reproach upon
the party whose scheme he passes oft’ as his
own, and will lament about the narrowness
of a democracy which is not sufficiently
democratic to keep pace with the age. The
part is one to which the actor is admirably
suited ; should occasion demand the sacrifice
Sir Henry Parkes would probably assume
the command of the Protectionist party on
the ground that no other Protectionist was
sufficiently protective for the situation, or he
would grasp the Catholic vote an bloc , and
capsize Cardinal Moran off his throne on
suspicion of being a disguised Orangeman,
or at least a person whose want of religious
fervour was undermining the glory of the
Holy Roman Church. A boundless capacity
for going the wdiole hog, quite regardless of
whose hog he may go, is Parkes’ chief
political stock-in-trade, and for the hundredth
time this venerable device promises to save
him from imminent destruction.
* * *
Also, there are two other contingencies in
view, and in either or both of them Parkes
comes uppermost. The principle of man-
hood suffrage is urgently demanded by
the country, but the demand for woman-
hood suffrage is strictly limited. Conse-
quently, the Electoral Bill—which has been
adopted by the importers’ party under pres-
sure of necessity, on the ground that suicide
is an easier death than execution—may very
probably go the way the great Dead House
scheme went, and vanish into the same
obscurity which swallowed up the project
for embezzling the name of this continent
and thereby mixing up the geography of the
Southern Hemisphere past human compre-
hension. Then the Free trade faction will
gain a new lease of its precarious existence,
and Parkes will reap all the advantages of
being a Democrat without suffering any of
the consequences ; and he will be supported
by the multiplied vote of the traders and
landlords as of old, partly because they have
no other capable leader, and partly because
they will owe their very existence to the man
who smothered a possible democratic measure
by introducing another which was impos-
sible. By tacking Womanhood on to Man-
hood Suffrage the chances of the latter are
diminished at least 90 per cent., and if the
old politician had ventured to add a clause
providing for a general slaughter of infants
he would have thereby demolished the last
hope of placing his measure upon the statute-
book, and the Foreign-trade party would
have rested in peace. As it is, he has done
everything in his power to make his demo-
cratic project distasteful even to the demo-
cratic politicians from whom it has been
stolen, and when that party throws out its
own mangled bill Sir Henry will call upon
the democracy to support him against the
ignorant conservatism of their own leaders,
and thus both sides will owe him a tre-
mendous debt of gratitude, and unless the
old man is in the last stages of mental decay
he will collect the Bill religiously from each
of his creditors and give not one of them a
receipt. And, lastly, in the almost impos-
sible event of the Electoral Bill becoming
law, the Foreign-trade aggregation will still
support Parkes on the ground that he
did his best to smother his own scheme and
for the rest he will trust to the gratitude of
the enfranchised women of the colony to
vote down the male democracy—in other
words, he will travel on his hair and his
alleged poetry once more, with the off-chance
that the last vestiges of the worn-out Kiama
Ghost may carry him through. As a plan
for furnishing him with a solid claim upon
everybody, and yet furnishing nobody with
any sort of a claim upon him, the Electoral
Bill is an invention which has few equals in
modern politics.
# # *
The ostensible purpose and object of this
measure is the only feature in the case which
is of no immediate consequence. The en-
franchisement of woman, despite all the
clamour and dust which have been raised
about the subject, is a matter of only second-
rate importance, and when she is enfranchised
the effect upon politics will be infinitesimal.
The objections against female suffrage are
hardly worth recapitulation. It is claimed
that even in the most intelligent communi-
ties women are hopelessly ignorant of public
matters, and are, therefore, incapable of
using the suffrage to any possible advantage
—that they are conservative by nature, and
would vote for anything with a title and a
glittering exterior —and that they are led by
words and phrases, and are prepared to
support any charlatan who choses to flatter
their vanity and trade upon their folly. And
no doubt these assertions are all more or less
true, but as they are equally true of the male
community, the next disaster will be only the
old one over again. For more than bO years
the electors of New South Wales have voted
for Farkes because he was large and
pompous and loud-mouthed, and having
been sold by him on every possible occasion
throughout his career they continue to vote
for him all the same. They have believed
in his Kiama Ghost because he told
them to do so, and when he informed them
that the Lord was interested in the cause of
Foreign-trade, and that the voice of Provi-
dence was engaged on behalf of Abigail’s
loan office and Brunker’s auctioneering
business, they accepted the information with
tho calm, unreasoning faith of the naked
cannibal'who is taken in by his missionary.
They accepted the Treason Felony Act when
the Ministry of which Farkes was a mem-
ber passed that infamous device upon the
nation, and, they also accepted his after
statement that lie had no part or share in
the matter. They have allowed him to mas-
querade as the author of the Education Law
regardless of the notorious fact that he first
opposed it, then borrowed it from his
opponent, and last of all repudiated the
men whose ideas he had plagiarised.
They have voted for Freetrade land-
lords because they made hazy promises
about land-nationalisation, and they have
rallied up to support one foreign-trader
because he was a teetotaller, and another
because he was interested in football —in
short, they have habitually advertised for
someone to take them in, and their unwhole-
some desire to be swindled has been gratified
to tho utmost. If the female voter of New
South “Wales —should that person ever come
into existence —can break this record of
comprehensive stupidity then she suffers
from a mental deficiency that is past all
remedy ; and if she votes for Farkes be-
cause of his hair she will stand exactly on
the same level as the male elector who votes
for him because of his size and the looseness
of his facts. Feminine suffrage is only a
comparatively unimportant side issue at the
best ; the real question to be decided is
whether an exceedingly slippery politician
will succeed for the hundredth time in
borrowing his enemy’s brains and passing
them oil' on an ignorant nation as his own.
And, considering that Sir Henry Farkes
has for many years made borrowing a fine
art The Bulletin is inclined to the opinion
that if the old man is really on the job he
will succeed in discounting his mental pro-
missory note as before.
The Ingratitude of Labour.
Mr. H. H. Champion, in his capacity as the
friend of Capital, publishes in the Age a column
of wild rejoicing over the collapse of the great
strike, and heaps all the resources of his cul-
tured Billingsgate on the Australian workmen
because of their defeat. In other words, he
hollers for the dog that is uppermost, and his
reasons for doing this are expressed— so far as
he knows how—in the following words :
Nor is this, bitter as it must be to all Australians, the
bitterest fruit of this bad business. Just see what is the
certain result of this failure, a failure caused first by the
arrogant imbecility of the strike leaders, notably, so far
as Victoria is concerned, Messrs. Hancock, Murphy, and
Trenwith, and, secondly, by the slavishness of the rank
and lile who preferred to be blind followers of the blind
rather than face the flood of scurrility which is let loose
on every critic. You workmen in Australia have dashed
the hopes of all men in the world who have worked and
watched and waited in the belief that when he had
material prosperity and leisure the labouring man would
prove worthy to rule the earth wisely and justly.
One day last May I went to see an old Chartist who, I
had heard, was dying in poverty and neglect in a bye
street near the Middlesex Hospital in London. He told
me then something of his life for the last 45 years—desti-
tution, discouragement, struggle, effort, always futile and
of ,en mistaken, but ever illumined by the hope that the
world was nearing the dawn of the day of freedom and
justice, approaching the emancipation of man from the
thraldom of oppression and penury, lust, and ignorance,
which is the “far-off divine event to which the whole
creation moves.” How he envied me the youth that
gave me a, chance of living to see the Promised Land
denied to him! How he forecold that in Australia I
should find that the political democracy, the free educa-
tion, the high wages, which had been his lifelong desire,
had reared a race of workmen, brave, capable, self-re-
strained, gentle !
This old Chartist is a type of thousands all over the
world—not the men who make the speeches and are
interviewed by the papers and get into Parliament—not
the Broadhursts, Liebknechts, Lafargues or Powderleys,
but the thousands who carry the banners and form the
processions and pay the pence in the vague hope that,
perhaps, the men on the Pisgah platforms can point them
the way out of the wilderness of want and woe. On the
hearts of these thousands, from the sand lots of San
Francisco to the salt mines of Siberia, a chill will have
fallen when the message Is flashed all over the planet that
this misguided strike has ended in collapse and dishonour.
For this you Australian workmen have to thank your
leaders and your own lack of courage.
* * *
If there is any meaning at all in these
sentences they are intended as a declaration
that the Australian democracy has no longer
any reasonable object to strive after—that it has
already attained an industrial Paradise, and
any further effort is only a sign of ignorant
discontent and a purposeless striving after
anarchy. Mr. Champion’s Chartist, dying
miserably on his bed of straw in poverty,
hunger and neglect, chose to regard Australia
as the workman’s elysium, because the Austra-
lian, so far as he knew him, had secured many
ad van t iges which the wage-slave of Britain is
still denied, therefore, as lie is a shade better
off than the English toiler, the Australian must
seek no further advancement and have no
further ambitions. The imported puppet with
the dress-suit and the eye-glass has 1 00 W,1
through all the ages of futurity, and has di
covered that progress, so far as Labour is con
cerned, has reached its climax in this couni
and for the future the masses must lie low
be at rest; and therefore he seeks t
squash any further movement on the part f
an unreasonable nation. And yet his creed °
woefully hollow and imbecile after all m/ 8
Australian hm gained all these things which 16
in the narrow estimate of the ignorant Chartist
of England—are required to make the life of tl 1
workman a joyous vision of happiness and
affluence, and his continued dissatisfaction
doubt seems to that same unlettered democrat—
who only comprehends the first beginnings f
democracy—a strangely incomprehensible* cir
cumstance. But the English workman livin
in his attic, and sleeping on his bed of straw*
has already got more material prosperity and
more political liberty than have ever entered
into the wildest dreams of many a starvin /
Chinese agriculturist or Indian ryot, and his
chronic discontent would probably be to them
fully as unfathomable; yet even the Chinaman
and the ryot are not quite at the bottom of the
social scale, and here and there on the earth’s
surface may be found sundry naked tribes who
eke out a precarious existence on dirt and bark
and decayed fish, and who would look upon the
hungriest Mongol in the barren wastes of the
Siberian border as a person occupying an
enviable pinnacle of wealth and prosperity
The astounded British dude who has posed hi
Australia as an apostle of democracy, is no
doubt sincere in his own humble stupidity
when he asks why the Australian should be
discontented, seeing that he already possesses
nearly everything that the Englishman is still
striving to. acquire ; and the penniless Pole
who comes into London to look for a job hi
some sweater’s den, would probably ask the
Englishman the same question, and find it
equally hard to get an answer.
# # #
The Australian workman enjoys the triple
advantages of liberal education, high wages
and short hours —that is to say, his education
is more liberal, his wages are higher, and his
hours shorter than those of his class in many
other countries —and for these reasons Mr.
Champion expected to find in turn an ideal
toiler, “ brave, capable, self-restrained and
gentle.” As the Australian fails to come up
to this standard, however, the British prophet
curses at large, and reproaches the nation for
its unreasoning ingratitude. Yet the capitalist’s
hours are still shorter, and his education is still
more liberal, and his profits fifty times larger,
and still these advantages have produced no
corresponding moral improvement in him, nor,
apparently, does anyone expect that they should.
Several eminent British landlords now living
count their incomes by hundreds of thousands
per annum, but the steady increase in their
takings leads to no conspicuous regeneration, and
one of the great proprietors of London, who
now collects some £400,000 yearly, has a fair
prospect of increasing his income during the
next 20 years to neardy £1,000.000, by further
rack-renting his wretched tenants, and yet
there is no visible cause to expect that the
additional £600,000 will elevate his morals or
lessen his rapacity. But while £l2OO per diem
is a conspicuous failure as an agency for im-
proving the human soul, the capitalist still
demands that 50s. a week should produce a
saintly and philosophic toiler, and when the
recipient of tins princely income expresses him-
self dissatisfied, and asks for more, he is filled
with disgust at the unbounded thanklessness of
the human race.
# * *
The self-constituted friend of Labour is, un-
happily, a person who sees only one side of the
great problem. The Australian tradesman,
when fully employed, earns sufficient to keep
him in food, lodging, and clothing, and there-
fore the condescending Socialist with the
jewellery and the white waistcoat, who came
out to dry-nurse him in his difficulties, expected
that he would be contented with his lot. And
if the workman were a horse whose ambitions
were limited by a stable and an abundance of
oats the expectation might be reasonable enough.
But the theory that wages should be measured
by the amount required to keep the wage-
earner in working condition is exploded beyond
repair. There is no more I’eason why the
artizan should receive just enough to enable
him to continue at his calling than there is
that the duke should be limited to that allow-
ance of food and clothing which will fit him to
bear up against the labour of being a
drone. The tradesman who now earns 50s. a
week, and wants more, may some years hence
be in receipt of £5 a week, and if so, the
chances are that he will still want more—in
fact, it would be exceedingly surprising if he
did not. The capitalist who owns £lOO,OOO is
grabbing for another £lOO,OOO with the same
remorseless rapacity which distinguished him
in the first beginnings of his prosperity, and
the landlord whose patch of ground on
Circular Quay or Collins-street is worth
half-a-million is as eager to boom his pro-
perty as if he were only an impoverished
Chinaman with an acre of unprofitable cabbages,
and the speculator who is realising 20 per cent,
is howling for something more per cent, as
hungrily as if he got no per-centage at all, and
the merchant who made a fortune by cornering
oats last year goes about like a roaring lion m
search of a chance to make a corner in beans
this year and realise another fortune. Y®t
nobody expects any of these individuals to be
satisfied with their wealth, or dreams that the
person whose land is leased at £5O per 100
frontage will not promptly raise that impost to
£6O whenever the opportunity presents itself,
and nobody is shocked when the person "ho
owns £60,000 proceeds to accumulate another
£50,000, and wants more even then. The rul e
that the demands of mankind should be linntec
to food, clothes, and house accommodation on a
reasonable scale is applied only to the class
which produces the World’s wealth, and when
the workman refuses to be the only satishe
being on earth, and the only one which lias no
ambitions beyond the wants of the momen ,
then that superior animal which calls itself t m
friend of labour is stunned by his monstrous
ingratitude, and abandons him in disgust.


r A Miss Mary Reed, a China missionary, who
lately arrived in Australia, has, with the aid of an
attendant parson, induced a number of simple-
minded enthusiasts to throw up their regular
occupations and start for China, there to engage in
the Sisyphean task of trying to “convert ” the
children of the sun from a faith which was ancient
2000 years 8.0. The names are : Miss Lloyd.
Miss Aspinall, Miss E. Box, Mr. O. Burgess, from
Melbourne ; Messrs. A. S. Dev enish, A. C.
Rogers and F. Burden, from Adelaide; Miss
Fysli, Miss M. Sorrenson and E. Steel, from Tas-
mania ; and Miss Booth from Sydney. The party
sailed from Sydney by the Menmuir last Satur-
day. The Bulletin hopes to see the time when,
there being still a single distressed person in
Australasia, the act of soliciting subscriptions
in aid of such an absurd scheme as a mission to
the distant Chinaman, will be made either a
criminal offence or the basis <*£ proceedings in
lunacy.
The business of such “ sympathisers ” as
Mr Champion is to act as the individual
j collective Uncle Pumblechook of the
Democracy, and the Democracy is resolved
to struggle through without an uncle, having
learned from experience that that relative is
neither useful nor ornamental. The Labour
party has made many mistakes in the past, and
will probably make many more in the future,
but it must find its own way, and declines to
be wheeled to victory in a perambulator by any
self-constituted patron. It lias committed a
serious error in confining itself too exclusively
to maintaining its position in relation to Capital,
whereas it should have aimed boldly at the
extinction of the capitalist and the establish-
ment of co-operation ; and it has failed to re-
cognise that the abolition of landlordism is
absolutely essential to its success, and instead of
making open war against every species of mono-
poly it has attacked only one—and that the
least important —of its enemies. But the demo-
cratic cause is only just begun, and if there is
any truth in the speculations of astronomy, it
has several thousand centuries before it in
which to repair the blunders of its infancy.
It has gained to-day nearly everything that
it demanded at the outset of its career ;
and. the new demands which it makes to-day
will he satisfied at some future time ; and when
they are satisfied the mental horizon of the
people will have still further enlarged, and the
Democracy will find new objects and new
aspirations. The laws of Nature forbid that
there should be any finality to such a move-
ment, and the bogus philosophers who lament
because the masses are still craving for further
progress might as well weep because Capital
still hungers after 10 per cent., or because the
world at large, despite the knowledge it has
acquired, continues to harass itself in the search
for new information, or because ambition in
every form is not dead and forgotten. The fact
that the Australian workman has already gained
nearly every concession which the Englishman
is still struggling to obtain, has no more bearing
on the matter than a curate has upon the stars.
The insolvent British tramp complains about
his rags, regardless of the circumstance that
some 250,000,000 of the human species possess
no rags at all, and the remorseless rules of logic
apply as well to one case as to the other.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Tory on Slavery.
The Saturday Review, a prominent organ of
the bigoted Toryism of England, publishes an
elaborate article on the inalienable right of one
man to toil and be hungry for the benefit of
another man who does not toil and is fat, and
sums up its argument in the following compre-
hensive sentence :
Why not acknowledge boldly that slavery of a kind-
call it what you will, and regulate it as you like—is a
necessary condition of political society ?
Why not, indeed, so long as the proprietor of
the Review belongs to the class of the slave-
owners, and not to that of the slaves ? The old
gag that the Briton is not a serf is long since
exploded —he is free to starve, but he is free in
no other way. Slavery is necessary—from the
Saturday Review standpoint—for if 99 per
cent, of the population were not slaves in some
shape or other the remaining 1 per cent, could
not loaf in palaces and do nothing, and as the
one great purpose of Providence, in the opinion
of the latter class, is that they should loaf in
palaces, then why not have slavery ? The
Roman patrician used to throw a live serf into
his fish-pond as food for the lampreys who made
a dainty dish for his dinner, and when a
meddlesome emperor prohibited this good old
custom he was a badly aggravated patrician,
and considered that his liberty w r as unjustly in-
terfered with. Like the Saturday Review,
he acknowledged that it might be unpleasant
for the serf who was eaten alive, but the
exigencies of a Roman nobleman’s dinner
demanded the sacrifice, and the whole
affair was ‘ ‘ a necessary condition of poli-
tical society.” In France, in the ancient
days of feudalism, there existed a statute which
set forth with much grotesque language and
quaint spelling that “a Seigneur, when he
comes home weary from Hunting, may kill not
more than two Serfs to comfort his Feet with
their warm Blood and Bowels,” and this was
also “a necessary condition of society ” in the
opinion of one party to the transaction, until
the other party rose up in a homicidal mood,
and declined to supply the blood and bowels
any longer. The other party is always the
stumbling-block in any such arrangement. He
persistently refuses to look upon the matter
from the same standpoint as his owner, and
even the unspeakable boss-fool of the Saturday
Review will sooner or later have his attention
drawn to this circumstance. The brutal arro-
gance of the Tory journalist assumes that if
there is to be slavery he is always to be the
slave-owner, and his well-fed Christian content-
ment enables him to bear with resignation the
fact that somebody else is condemned to life-
long drudgery. The idea that the serf may
revolt some day, and may harness the duke to
the mud-cart, and send up a monarch for seven
days because he has no honest means of support
is the other side of the picture ; and if the
Democracy at some future period endorses the
Re view’s ideas on the subject of slavery by
fastening the editor to a dray, and setting the
proprietor to carry bricks, it will be a sufficient
evidence that the ideas of that paper have not
been altogether thrown away.
♦-
The person who contributes London gossip to
the Argus is evidently a careful student of
that journal’s doctrines, and can be trusted to
work morsels of the true gospel into his weekly
letter. For example, lie writes that “ Sir
Somebody’s baronetcy is a glaring instance of
the absurdity of conferring hereditary honours
for inertly personal merit.” Now, to the un-
sophisticated Radical it appears that, whereas
the system of bestowing any sort of social title
upon any man is shameful, the “Crown’s”
least unpardonable excuse for ennobling unborn
representatives of certain families lies in the
personal merit of the “founders” of such
families. A lord who is actually noble, as
human nature goes, possibly stands a better
chance of begetting another “ noble lord ” than
does the offspring of a king’s harlot, whose dis-
tinction was founded upon the certainty of his
mother’s lack of virtue, coupled with the
assumption that his father was a royal libertine.
Great mental capacity or decency of char-
acter seldom run in a strain of human
blood, however—often as we find courage
and amiability transmitted from genera-
tion to generation of dogs or horses—and the
system of hereditary nobility is a disgusting
failure the wide world over. Consequently,
Toryism has abandoned all pretence of believing
that there should be any association of titular
distinction with personal merit in the indivi-
dual, and denounces such an idea as absurd.
Whilst The Bulletin thinks that Tennyson,
being a poet, made a miserable mistake in be-
coming a baron, the Argus correspondent con-
siders that the Crown committed a glaring error
in selecting such a man for “honour ” instead,
perhaps, of a scorbutic brewer, a Court flunkey,
or a prominent political failure. Yet even
Toryism hasn’t drawn up a list of quali-
fications for the barontage or peerage,
albeit knighthoods are clearly understood
to be badges of greasy loyalty and
pompous stupidity. Enormous wealth is
not the only guide to hereditary greatness,
although it carries a man well forward towards
a dukedom, especially if he made it out of beer.
Comparatively needy nigger-slayers are pulled
into the House of Lords now and then; a
physician who relieves a royal personage from
the effects of over-feeding is occasionally made
a hart. They join the ranks of the aristocracy
unquestioned, and the brew'er takes them to his
bloated bosom with fervour. It’s all right so
long as they don’t happen to be troubled with
personal merit, in which case they are very
naturally regarded as glaring instances of the
Crown’s absurdity. Australia, fortunately,
need have no fears concerning its nobility. Sir
William Clarke, Baronet, is a guarantee that
hereditary honours are unlikely to be hitched to
personal merit in this hemisphere.
H*.
Either an epidemic of dreadfully hard lying
has set in among the survivors of the Emin
Pasha Relief Expedition, or else that gang of
escaped pirates has been distinguishing itself in
quite a number of unexpected ways. Accord-
ing to latest reports Major Barttelot, who
commanded the rearguard, was a homicidal
maniac running amok throughAAfric a gentle-
man who kicked occasional natives to death by
way of exercise, and otherwise conducted him-
self as an affable British explorer upon the loose.
He was haunted by an impression that Stanley
intended to poison all the subordinate officers in
order to monopolise the entire glory, but
whether this idea was based on any sufficient
evidence, and wdiether it drove him mad or
merely arose out of his madness, does not
appear. His assistant, Jamieson, on the other
hand, is said to have been of an artistic turn,
and his speciality was buying little girls for the
cannibals, in order that he might sketch the
victims while they were being killed and cut
up and eaten. This is one side of the story;
the other is that Barttelot and Jamieson
were two honourable gentlemen who were
put out of the way by treachery, lest
they should reveal many shady doings on the
part of the advertising Yankee book-canvasser,
and that the man who rises at this remarkably
late hour to tell a tale which—had it been true
—would almost inevitably have leaked out a
year ago, is ready to swear any atrocious lie that
his arrogant boss prompts him with. In either
case the Stanley expedition is a loathsome
affair, and the one tiling about it which is
beyond all doubt or cavil, is that Stanley’s
claim to have discovered the great forest region
of Africa is a lie, because Du Chaillu was there
before him, but as the French explorer did not
blow his own horn with sufficient vigour,
nobody believed him. Also, Stanley’s dis-
covery of the dwarfs is a fraud, for Du Chaillu
found them years ago, and was set down as a
perjurer for doing it. And, lastly, Stanley’s
story of his awful running fight with the
ferocious men of the woods is either an impos-
ture or a standing proof of the bloodthirsty
character of his expedition, for Du Chaillu
visited the same tribes alone, and was allowed
to pass everywhere unharmed. Most of the
other facts connected with this ghastly show
may be loose and uncertain, but these three are
beyond question.
——-♦
Surely the principles of ordinary law should
apply to charges against members of Parliament.
The Bulletin contends that if a member
in a state of obvious irresponsibility,
from whatever cause arising, enters the House
and makes a disturbance, his seat should
not be declared vacant forthwith. He should
merely be removed from the House for a term,
say one, two or three days, and then called upon
to say why he should not be finally expelled.
It is all very well to say that such offences
should be punished instantly, that recalcitrant
members should “be made examples of” at
once, and so on ; but if the House’s collective
sense of the wickedness of the offending man is
so weak as to be incapable of surviving a day or
two’s reflection, then it is idle to talk of the
dignity of Parliament. All the most hideous
and brutal blunders of Australian law have
arisen through a desire to move J udge Lynch
into the chair. When a man is arrested in the
street for being drunk and disorderly, he is
placed in durance and allowed to sober up
before the Bench fines him forty shillings with
the option. It is most illogical and unseemly
to try a man while he is “off his head.”
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof—it is
quite enough for the time being for the House
to have and exercise the power of locking up a
disorderly member, who, as the penalty of ex-
pulsion carries with it awidely-proclaimed social
disgrace, should at least have the legal privi-
leges of the common or garden drunk.
The Maori prophet Mabuki says that the
Almighty has turned lawyer.
The world is now waiting to know how
many natives Stanley’s expedition ate between
them down in Darkest Africa.
The Story of Cyrus Haley.
Dear Bulletin, —Your contributor re Cyrus
Haley, the incendiary and would-be murderer, is
rather loose in his facts. He is right as to Haley’s
actuating cause, bub the facts of the case are
worthy of correct recapitulation. Haley first
burst upon the Stock (share) Exchange, Auckland,
N.Z., as a sharebroker. lie was a handsome,
dignified man, very gentlemanly in manner and
appearance. When the boom was just on the turn
he took the large room back of the great Exchange
Court in the N.Z. Insurance Co.’s buildings and
opened it with much eclat as a swell dinina: room,
furnishing it, without regard to expense, on credit.
The first night it was opened he burnt it, and
though the grand water-supply of Auckland saved
the building that portion was gutted. Haley vyas
pitied—and paid by the Insurance Cos. His wife
was a clever, showy woman bet a dipsomaniac, and
managing to get “ under the influence ” one night
when she had to sing at the Choral Hall, she was
naturally rebuffed by Judge Fenton, the president,
and cold-shouldered by the local fashionables.
Then Cyrus took his little match-box and burnt
the wooden hall down. It was rebuilt, and he
burnt it down again. He was a persevering man,
was Cyrus ! Between whiles he set fire to the
ship City of Auckland, and she had to be scuttled
to save some of her, her repairs costing almost as
much as anew ship. Then Cyrus went out to the
Pah farm (not after breaking gaol, for he never
broke it but once, his last break) and fired Russell’s
haystacks. The kerosene bond of Arohard and
Brown Mechanics Bay, was his next little Guy
Fawkes blaze; to light which he tore aside a sheet
of the corrugated iron of which it was built, and
so gave clear evidence of incendiarism. Two
nights or so after, without changing his buff-
coloured slippers, in which he had been
seen madly pacing his own verandah, by a
servant next door, whose evidence there anent
went strongly against him subsequently, he
clutched his little gun and went out to Tom
Russell s again. That downy C.M.G. was in
England, but Cyrus was unaware of the fact, and
when he knocked at the French door after mid-
night and young Russell got up and pulled aside
the blind, ho tired at him through the glass,
luckily missing him. Russell and a servant girl
both noted the buff slippers as Haley danced
round the verandah. The police were on the
alert—mad, in fact —and when Haley called on
his friends again a night or two after and fired the
remaining haystacks, word was at once wired to
t hvn from Onehunga and Inspector Broham, then
a magnificent athletic figure, aroused Detective
Jeffrey (of unsavoury memory) and the pair, on
horseback, galloped out to try and meet the
incendiary if possible. Going down Kyber
Pass, Broham turned into the Mountain-road
past Seccombe’s Brewery, and sent Jeffrey round
by Newmarket. Well, round the back of Mount
Eden, in the clear moonlight, Broham saw a man
coming along towards him, who, as soon as he
sighted the horseman, turned off the road over a
stone wall and took to the fields. Broham dashed
up to the spot, dismounted, and started after him.
The inspector’s superior speed soon enabled him
to run the suspect down, when the latter turned
and pulled a revolver, pointing it full in Broham’s
face. Brave as a lion, Broham simply said,
“ What, is it you, Haley? You are my prisoner.”
The only reply was, “ Yes, it is I, Broham,” and
he pulled the trigger. How true it is that the
devil, however long he sticks to his votaries,
always deserts thematacriticalmoment! Thepistol
only clicked, and Broham belted his friend over the
head with his loaded whip, closed with him, and
handcuffed the miscreant. “Just my luck,” said
Haley—“ I must even be arrested by a swell, no
poor devil of a constable will get the kudos.”
His defence was masterly, during a long trial, but
he several times made the fatal mistake of asking
a witness a question beginning with, “When I
was So-and-So,” or “ When you saw me at such-
and-such-aplace.” Pure admissions, as any
lawyer knows. Haley was convicted on absolute
proof and sentenced to life-imprisonment. He
was drafted to Dunedin Gaol, and when he had
done about two years he “ took his hook ” off an
outside job, was chased by a warder into the
streets of the town, and being now in better con-
dition than when young Broham ran him down,
was escaping, when the warder stood, called upon
him to stop, and then' sighting at 100 yards and
being a better shot than most officials, drilled a
hole through the small of Cyrus Haley’s back
with a Snider bullet, and that was the end
of one of the coldest-blooded and most dan-
gerous criminals of modern colonial days.
I may add that what saved the life of
Haley’s captor, Broham, and undid Mr. Cyrus,
was the fact that while proceeding up
Syraond-street, on his incendiary errand, Haley
evidently began nursing his gun in gleeful antici-
pation, and, in putting it back into his pocket,
must have disturbed the gear, for the pistol taken
from him by Broham was minus its chambers, and
these were found, all loaded, by a milkman as he
went via Symond-street to town in the dawn
succeeding the eventful night.— Kaitangata.
In Naples the Government has burst up
the Convent of the Buried Alive, an institution
which was detested even by many of the en-
lightened priesthood for its revolting extremes.
The place has existed as a pestilential exaggera-
tion of the worst fanaticism for three centuries.
When the police burst in at last they found 10
nuns, all but insane, existing among incredible
filth and degradation.
Sir Soffcgoods Sargood, who still—by force
of habit, carries a pair of scissors in his waistcoat-
pocket—is the new Victorian Minister of Educa-
tion. Unorßiographic Colonel Smith, who had
the front to expect the portfolio, has been turned
out for a spell. Well do we remember Smith’s
former term of office as Education-Minister.
Smith, at the Black Wednesday time, succeeded
Ramsay as Minister. Ramsay was an attorney
and an educated man. Smith was a mining-
speculator and volunteer demigod, but though he
could give a sweet (strictly official) smile at a
pretty lady teacher, so far as scholastic affairs
went he didn’t know enough to come in out of the
rain. At that time the man who scribbles this was
a humble clerk in the Education-office, and when
he found Smith “sacking” right and left
clever and cultivated men, such as Inspector-
General Wilson Brown (now secretary) and
W. H. Handheld (nßw, as then, chief clerk)
as a reward for their long and faithful services, and
installing in their places a set of his own friends,
whose official English would disgrace even
Parliament, he rebelled at the monstrous job
and lay in wait for the incoming gang. Firstly,
it was’ discovered that Minister of Education
Smith was in the habit of spelling “until” with
two ‘ I’s ” and “recommend” with one “in” in
official minutes, and when that got into the papers
by some mysterious means there was much trouble
among the Smith crowd. Finally, the office fell
into such hopeless confusion that nearly all the
efficient men dismissed had to be called back.
Cardinal Manning, writing of Booth’s
scheme for the relief of the distressed poor, says
that “ everyone is entitled to work or bread.”
To work or bread is every man
Entitled, says the prelate good
Who fain would hit upon a plan
For giving starving thousands food.
But how about the wealthy sloth,
Chief cause of England’s discontent?
Entitled he must be to both —
’Twas “work for bread ” that Manning meant.
Thus Sir William Robinson, at the Mel-
bourne Mayor’s banquet:—“ I stand amongst
friends who have not forgotten that for a few
months —too few so far as I was concerned—l
worked with them as a fellow citizen in the
endeavour to advance the best interests of the
colonji.” No, Sir William. The democracy can-
not recognise the fellow-citizenship of a nominee
of an outside power, which is farcically called that
democracy’s “Sovereign Lady.” A Governor,
who is in no sense elected by, or representative of,
the people, is, and can be, “ the fellow-citizen ”of
no one. He is a hireling marionette, a phono-
graph-automaton, a speaking doll, and, as often as
not, a Flunkey of the Flunkeys. How would you
take it if we claimed to bo your fellow-Governor ?
It must be confessed that Mr. Melville,
the N.S.W. Chairman of Committees, is unduly
brusque while discharging the - duties of that
position. Mr. Melville, who used to be an under-
taker, deals with the living as if they were dead
and friendless, and capable of being handled
without ceremony. Speaker Abbott, again,
appears equally desirous of posing before members
as a strong man—whereas members are perfectly
well aware that he isn’t a strong man at all—for
when fairly tackled on the floor of the House by
anyone with a good case and a rasping tongue Mr.
Abbott used to leave the Assembly rather than
face punishment. Afterall, the N.S.W. Assembly
will wait long ere it fully' replaces the quiet
strength and pacifying bonhomie of ex-Speaker
Barton.
One of the pleasantest reflections awakened
by the fall of the Gillies Cabinet is'that-—for a
time, at least —the soft, persuasive voice of Duncan
will no longer be heard promising to “niak’ a
note of it.” Gillies never refused to do anything,
or to be anything, or to give anything under the
sun ; he merely rose to his feet in a fat, benevolent
way and said that “if the hon. gentleman would
withdraw his amendment for the present, the
Government would mak’a note o’ the circumstance
and would give it their immediate consideration.”
If the other man was obstinate he would offer to
“make a careful note of it,” and generally his
opponent gave in. But whether the old political
smiler made a note, or made a careful note, the
result was exactly the same —in either case he
merely wrote down the item in fugitive ink on the
empty air, and no one ever taw or heard of it
again. The scheme worked very well for several
years, but at last the other members of the Cabinet
got into the habit of saying that they' also would
“ male’ a note of it,” and then the House resolved
that it would stand the melancholy chestnut no
longer.
Sir William Robinson, the rele'gue Gover-
nor of West Australia, has a palpitating yearning
for the fleshpots of Melbourne. The few months
during which he ivigned there, after Loch and
before Hopetoun, glisten in his memory like the
pollen on the thighs of a bee backing out of a full-
bloomed flower-cup. He made a big and unblu-h
ing bid for the reversion of Hopetomi’s billet by
saying in public last week that when Federation
came along Melbourne would most likely be the
seat of central government. In other vtords, lie
saw fit to heave into the market-place the burning
faggots o i jealousy. The very same fear and sus-
picion that have kept back Northern Queensland
from moving as a whole for Territorial Separation
from Southern Queensland, have operated to retard
Australian Federation. Every other N.Q. town
has been afraid that the Separation move was
merely a Townsville “ boom,” as Townsville made
no secret of its pretensions to be the capital of the
new colony. So, in the matter of Australian
Federation, the hitches of the past can be clearly
traced to the suspicion that the Melbourne
“ boomers,” or the Sydney “ boomers,” were try-
ing to “work the oracle.”
Dear Bulletin, — Gov. Hopetoun hit the
nail on the head during a recent speech at Mel-
bourne, wherein he suggested that the money and
labour spent in missionising the blacks and
Chinese would be put to a better use in raising
and educating the youth of our own slums. If
there is one task more hopeless than all others
in this world it is the task of converting a
blackfellow. His soul—if he has a soul—never
rises higher than rum and mutton, and as to
getting him to grasp the doctrine of the Trinity,
or even the Atonement —well, it’s simply an im-
possibility. The average aboriginal is utterly
unable to understand the simple matter of
principle. The blackfellow who has been in the
“Mission” for years will lie, swear, get drunk
and steal with as great a gusto as his untutored
brother. The lapses of the model couple held up
to the public some time ago by the enterprising
Mr. Daniel Matthews, of Maloga, N.S.W., are
known to everyone, and furnish an illustration (o
the above contention. The experience of the late
Mrs, Robertson, of Hexham* (Vic.), is also
greatly to the point. This well-meaning lady
took two blacks, male and female, and arrayed
them in orthodox clothing. She then taught
them to write, &c., giving the boy various handy
accomplishments, and making the girl proficient
in sewing and knitting. But what was the
result ? Whenever a tribe came near the home-
stead (it was thirty years ago), off went the pair,
their clothes were soon cast aside and traded off
for rum, and an old blanket completed the
transformation. They were often brought back,
but with the same result. At last the sorely-
harassed lady had to abandon the job, aha to
admit reluctantly that the “material wasn’t
there.” “As it was then so it is now,” and ever
will be until we see the last of the last nigger,-
F.


[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Nov. If), 1890,
My Dear Moorabinda, —
I wonder if the high Victorian marriage-rate, of which
we have lately heard so much, is due to the existence of
that flourishing Melbourne matrimonial agency where
for two-and-six you can be introduced to eligibility in the
parlour across the hall? In the interests of The Bulletin
your Sappho was ushered into the parlour, the other day.
It was a small, square room, dark even in the morning,
crammed with soft furniture and floored with noiseless
velvety carpet. Portieres shrouded the door—there was
a sofa, of course, and a piano at which the victims (you
fill in what are your accomplishments in the schedule of
application) go through their musical paces during the
awful interviews. The gas-globes were pink—a nude
pink-coloured “ love ” hung from the gasalier, the air was
thick with a sweet sickly scent, and—was it altogether
chance that the pictures on the walls were mostly lifelike
studies from thenude? In the stuffy, languorous atmosphere
the lady who does the introducing—a small woman with
a black fringe on her forehead and heavily scented—con-
sented to explain things. Doctors, lawyers and clergy-
men (there wex - e many on her books then) infested the
agency, and she was simply a society match-maker on a
large scale. Of course anybody could apply if they
wanted to, but the agency was quite a toney establish-
ment. Of course only two people are allowed to meet at
at time, so there were five parlours in case of a boom,
“ all furnished like this ” with a wave of a dingy palm to
the pictures, the sofa, the piano. “ People laxurh at
agencies, but we do an immense serious business all over
Austi'alia.” She told me that more women apply for
husbands, than men for wives, and the heiresses invari-
ably scoop up a Darby—for half-a-orown. But the
gentlemen pay a commission according to the bride’s
income, the lovely woman without coin costing little
over the preliminary two-and-six, while the bill “ to
supplying one heiress ” comes in regularly with the gas-
account for over a year. She gave me a schedule in
which you filled in more or less accurate particulars as to
“age” (!), “personal appearance,” “general health,”
“ temper,” &o. (it reminded me of a horse-dealer’s cata-
logue), and I blinked my way out. In the hall a grimy
child was swinging on the front door, the finger-panels of
which were grease-mottled, and there was a faint smell of
onions warring with the cloud of patchouli that burst
with me out of the parlour. “ The very beet people are
our clients,” said the lady, “and you see our simple
method is the same as ladies meeting gentlemen in their
own drawing-rooms. I could show you dozens of letters
thanking us over and over again for the happiness we
have brought to the writers, and you would be surprised
at the signatures.” “ Do these letters come during the
honeymoon?” asked yours ever, innocently. “Mostly
during the honeymoon,” blandly replied the lady.
Melbourne Austral Salon has changed its lair from
Swanston-sti-eet to the skylight of the Austral Buildings,
Collins-street, at the corner of Punch (which now surely
should be called Judy) Lane. The new “stand” consists
of two rooms, and, I am glad to see, a strietly temperance
buffet, though probably the “sinking” member will be
able, if she tries vex - y hard, to surreptitiously import,
without exciting remark, a little Dutch courage to mix
with her ginger-ale ; and the excessively balloonish view
of the Block from the front windows must quite disgust
the member whose charms aren’t built to hit the bull’s-
eye from the top of the house. Bric-k-brac, dust-coloui’ed
linoleum, with the walls of a sad sea-green (when “eternal
fitness ” howled for blue), combined’with doors en suite,
splotched with “ impressionist ” blobs of gold paint, which
looked in a general way as if the peroxide dye-bottle had
been upset, formed the background of the salon, which
shortly adopts the humane idea of having a floating loan
collection of art, when the chromos on the wall will be
changed once a quarter. The Club has now achieved the
dignity of a surplus, and with its two hundred assorted
members, and more coming, its cultured shriek ought to
waft down the breeze for centuries.
.Speaking of yells reminds me that I am sent a song
entitled, “ God Bless our Trades-Unions,” by J. 0. Halbert.
The outpouring is in three-four time as a general prin-
ciple, the chorus altering suddenly to common time, with
the same effect as when you step on a stair that isn’t
there. The melody is inoffensive and unassuming, and
the lines are all rhyme. Could you produce a better
common or garden echo than “docker ”and “ shocker? ”
Lady Galloway, who is to accompany Lady Jersey to
Sydney, is a half-sister of Lord Salisbury’s. She is Lady
Jersey’s great ally, and has promised to see that illus-
trious Primrose Leaguer through at least six months of
her misery.
The reason why Governors’ wives generally turn up
accompanied by a disaffected “mate” who can “pout
and be perverse” without doing any tangible damage to
those silken bonds, and who can breezily snub all the
“impossibles” by proxy for the officially amiable vice-
regal lady, has just been discovered by an English paper.
It says “ Governors of colonies find interest and occupa-
tion in so many different ways that they seldom have
much time for yearning (!) for their home friends; hut
with their wives the case is somewhat different, and some
of them become too obviously home-sick. So they take
out with them a bosom friend or relative to mingle their
tears with, over the vanished ‘ Home, sweet home !’ ” By-
the-by, this vioe-iegal trick of attaching a lady to the
retinue is being copiously copied by the wives of one or
two dignitaries who affect a similar satellite though they
are surrounded by sisters, cousins and aunts, and can
almost throw a stone on the roof of the house where
they were born.
I am told of a zealous inspector on the Sydney Public-
school Board who was recently putting a teacheress over
her jumps. “Can yer sew?” “Oh, yes,” replied the
victim. “But yer don’t so much,” said the inquisitor,
catching her white and shapely left hand, “ because yer
finger aint pricked.”
The Hon. Rupert Carington is still prowling round
Melbourne in his novel capacity of bridegroom-elect. It
is whispered that the wedding-day is really fixed for a
date in December.
With a view to preserving the dignity of Sydney women
who may visit Melbourne in ignorance of the following
facts, your Sappho wishes to point out that the social
aspect of the convenient hansom cab differs widely in
George-street and Collins-street. Fortunately for the
Sydneyite who doesn’t own a vehicle, the hansom cab is,
in the city of the Beautiful Harbour, a recognised and
proper conveyance only to be looked at through your
lingers when ail the blinds are down, and into which
(when the blinds are up) the tired, returning shopkeeper
or the woman who wants to go where a tram can’t take
her, can step without any impropriety. But in Melbourne
the cab is regarded in a very giddy light, and the woman
who hails one from the Block is suspected of having dyed
hair and fourteen husbands and oyster-supper proclivities;
so the girl with an eye to the Cabbage-plot conveyances
must either walk or hire a hideous, comfortless wag-
gonette. In Brisbane, also, hansoms are regarded from the
Melbourne standpoint.
A quiet, simple ceremony was the wedding of Miss
Read, daughter of the late Reginald Bligh Bead, and
granddaughter of the late Hon. Edward Flood, with Mr.
“ Sam ” Baylis, of Sydney, on 4th inst. It was a house-
wedding and took place at the “ Firs,” Coogee, the resi-
dence of the bride’s mother. The principal lady wore a
grey silk gown, relieved with forget-me-nots, and was
shrouded in a real Maltese lace veil in which her mother
also had been married. She had two bridesmaids, the
Misses Peter.
The President of the Sydney Women’s Literary Society,
Mrs. Curnow, has arranged a moonlight gipsying up Lane
Cove River on Saturday, 22nd inst., the proceeds of the
tickets sold to go to the N.S.W. Women’s College.
Melbourne Austral Salon has accorded its patronage to
a ball in aid of the Exploration Fund (and a very sensible
fund it is), to occur in the local Exhibition Building at
the end of the month. It will be fancy dress—all the
ladies to wear white to typify Arctic frost (some of them
don’t need a badge to act up to the character, anyhow)i
while the gentlemen are requested to roll up as bears.
The hugging will come quite natural to them, I am sure.
It seems that the hero of the Philopoeha (which may or
may not be a merely phonetic rendering) story—when
“ Her Excellency ” surveyed it as if it were a spider and
calmly ordered a waiter to remove it from her plate—was
a soft-goods knight, who meant no harm when he put it
there, and would have paid forfeit like a trump if the
Countess had said “ Philopeena 1” first at their next meet-
ing. But some people are so terrible ’orty. At their next
meeting she might not only have forgotten his nut, but
also his face.
A rather cruel incident in connection with the depar-
ture of the Caringtons from Redfern Station was that the
crowd caught sight of the cook on the vice-regal train
and shouted “ Goodbye, cookie !” And as the cortege
moved slowly off, Lord Carington was waving his hat at
one window, while the cook agitated his white cap at
another !! What a complete and perfect thing the spec-
tacle of that cook waving his calico-topping at the crowd
made of the vice-regal departure, didn’t it?
Legal officials become so suspicious and sceptical that
they wouldn’t believe their grandmothers on oath. A
Victorian sheriff, engaged in an ejectment case the other
day, was about to take the roof off the house and knock
in the windows, when he was told that the proceedings
must be stayed, as the wife of the tenant whose rent was
invisible, had just augmented the family by one. The
mere miserable statement satisfied everybody but the
sheriff, who smiled a cautious smile and ordered the baby
to be brought to him, and when a small, pink atomy was
hurriedly produced, he wasn’t quite satisfied, but pinched
the infant to see if it was real!
A dressy d.c. assembled at Sydney Royal on 15th inst_
to sample the inauguration of “Hero and Leander”—an
erotic outburst by a practical unknown who based hi 9
operations on a long, slim limb and, you may be sure,
confidently scored-in the recalls beforehand. The Mayor
and Mayoress brought a large party, including the Misse 9
Broomfield, Miss Burdekin, Mr. A. W. Nathan and
others, Mrs. Burdekin wearing a charming dress of pale-
blue surah and armure, the bodice with full elbow-
sleeves of blue chiffon, the neck bordered with chiffon
frills, a cluster of white flowers on the left shoulder, gold
necklet, a directoire cape in cream lace forming the
wrap ; Miss Broomfield’s picture gown in cream brocade
was also very fetching. Miss Burdekin was in grey silk
and chiffon. Louise Davenport wore ivory-silk and
crushed-strawberry scarves, and sat beside someone in
what looked like a check macintosh and a housemaid’s
cap. Mrs. Vanderveer Green, in white brocade and pearls ;
Mrs. Forbes-Angus, in black and diamonds with a red rose
in her hair. One noticed the garbing in the circle
because there was such a refreshing paucity behind the
floats—the robes of Sestos being merely a yard or two o
white stuff, cut with an eye to anatomical thrill and
draped with yellow and pink silk in the first and second J
verses with an emotional sort of hang that much helped *
the distress. In the last act there is not enough clothing
about to make even a savage feel embarrassed. Bellew
(who generally wears a native-cat skin suit with the tails
hanging down at the back) is heaved out of the Hellespont
in pink fleshings, a sad, patient smile and an artful blue
scarf that prevents the blushes of the circle from setting
fire to its hair; and Mrs. Potter receives the body in »
scant white garment slit up on the larboard side to reveal a •
melon-pink support reminiscent of long-handled shovel-1
dom. Why Mrs. Potter doesn’t pad that twinkling shank ■
with love-letters isn’t apparent to yours truly.
Apropos to the “idiosyncrasies” of “Hero and Leander 1 '
—a play which will much commend itself to all high-toned j
hoarding-schools—o»i dit that a Melbourne young man ;
took a lovely and simple maiden to this passionate love-
lyric—first asking her ma’s permission, of course. When
the airiness of the situation became apparent, he rose
hurriedly and whisked his inamorata off the premises
(whether she wanted to go isn’t explained), and next day
wrote a grovelling letter of apology for having taken her
to such an “ exhibition ! ” But he made a big mistake.
The only apology she wanted was for taking her home
just when her lower jaw began to drop. When you really
conxe to think of it, men are ever so much more bashful
than women.
I wonder how much lower and looser evening bodices
will scoop dorsally? Certainly we don’t have to scoff
at so much ddoolLt6 in high places but the prevailing
loose, square back with its flounces of frilled chiffon,
inside which the wearer looks like a small kernel in a
large nut, is a very Irish improvement on the V-shaped
worry. By the way, sleeveless evening bodices are now
hopelessly “ out,” and no matter how well-moulded your
arm may be, you must shroud it from shoulder to knuckles
in something—a tight fit in fisher-net is the best, if yor
pride yourself on the dimple in your elbow.
What might be called the “convict crop” is a new
Melbourne fashion for arranging your front hair, visible
in large quantities at Plemington with various effects. It-
is a straight fringe cut squarely and pugilistically across-
the wearer’s brow—uncurled, unfrizzed—simply oiled and.
brushed down in a geometrical line from temple to temple.
It looks too hideously historical to be permanently
adopted by the very best people.
A cruel hoax was worked by an enterprising somebody
in connection with Melbourne Cup. He (I only suppose
it was a man) ascertained the addresses of several ladies
px-esent on the thrilling occasion, and next day sent each
one a polite intimation to the effect that he had photo-
graphed the lawn on Cup day, and as she was a prominent
figure in the picture he thought she would be pleased to
send ss. in stamps to Box 0., G.P.O. when the photo-
graph would be forwarded, &c., &c. At least several
victims fell into the snare set for their vanity.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Koch and Phthisis.
The cables say that a toxalbumen is the chief in-
gredient in Koch’s new cure for consumption, and
people who believe the cables are much concerned
to know what toxalbumen may be. Hr. Ashburton
Thompson, who is a likely man to know something
about it, says that it is a product thrown off by
the bacteria, which is a deadly poison to them-
selves. It is a queer thing that life can only be
kept going by the incessant manufacture of things
that are fatal to life. A human being passes his
whole life in turning good fresh air into a poisonous
vapour called carbonic acid gas, which doesn’t kill
him off once a minute or so only because
it is constantly being diluted by fresh supplies
of oxygen. If pure carbonic acid gas were
turned into a roomfull of people, it would simply
wipe them out; and Dr. Thompson suggests that
Koch’s plan may be to turn the pure toxalbumen
into a lung full of bacteria. The scheme has a
plausible look about it, and there doesn’t seem to
be any reason why it shouldn’t do for consumption
just as effectually as Tenner’s vaccination did for
smallpox or Pasteur’s attenuated breeds, of bacilli
for the silkworm-disease or the cattle-plague.
Koch’s main difficulty has been to kill the disease-
germ without killing the patient at the same time.
It was discovered not long ago that sunlight was
fatal to the thing, but hospital patients seemed
prejudiced against iiaving their lungs taken out
and hung up in the back yard for ten minutes, so
the idea had to be given up. If there is anything
in the toxalbumen theory—as there most likely is
not, seeing it comes by cable —it seems to start the
cure of germ-diseases on a new line. The old
theory of inoculation was a different one. Pro-
fessor Tyndall explained it something after this
fashion ; If you burn down a big tree, you find as
a residue a very small quantity of white
ashes. That represents the mineral matter
that entered into the constitution of the
tree. There isn’t much of it, but such as
it is it was necessary, and if it had not
been present in the soil the tree could not have
grown there. Now, suppose that before the tree
started, some other plant had exhausted all that
particular element in the ground thereabouts, ob-
viously the tree could never have lived. In the
same way the germ of a disease can only take root
and flourish in the body if it finds there the par-
ticular elements it requires for its support; and if
we keep our body clear of those elements we can
defy the disease. For example, according to this
theory, smallpox can only thrive where it finds a
special sort of nourishment in the blood. Introduce a
little cow-pox by vaccination, and it travels through
the system in search of this very nourishment,
and when the stock is exhausted it dies. Let a
small-pox germ come along after that and it can’t
possibly take root. There is not a particle of food
left for it in the body, and it is killed by sheer
starvation without having power to raise a solitary
pustule. David Walker might as well try to take
up a collection in the Y.M.O.A. rooms the day
after the Melbourne Cup.
The Maori Pig Market.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In distant New Zealand, whose tresses of gold
The billows are ceaselessly combing,
Away in a village all tranquil and old
I came on a market where porkers were sold —
A market for pigs in the gloaming.
And Maoris in plenty in picturesque rig
The lands of their forefathers roaming,
Were weighing their swine, whether little or big,
For purchasers paid by the weight of the pig—
The weight of the pig in the gloaming.
And one mighty chieftain, I grieve to relate,
The while that his porker was foaming
And squealing like fifty—that Maori sedate,
He leant on the pig just to add to its weight—
He leant on the pig in the gloaming.
Alas ! For the buyer, an Irishman stout—
O’Grady, I think, his cognomen—
Perceived all his doings, and, giving a shout,
With the butt of his whip laid him carefully out
By the side of his pig in the gloaming.
A terrible scrimmage did straightway begin,
And I thought it was time to be homing,
For Maoris and Irish were fighting like sin
’Midst war-cries of “Pakeha !” “ Batherashin !”
While the pigsdid their best to lend tone to the din
i As I fled from the spot in the gloaming.
THE BANJO.
Significantly enough, they don’t keep the
Prince of Wales’ birthday as a public holiday in
England, where they know him far better than
we do.
Mr, Jenkins, of Buckingbong Station, has
notified the shearers who struck work and had
their earnings judicially forfeited that he will now
pay them all the money in question, some £l5O.
Says the good Sydney clergyman to the
seventy-year-old man : “Here, my friend, go and
work on my land. Your screw will be ten
bob a week, payable in rations, and be sure and
don’t make a beast of yourself. ”
The son of a Melbourne comedian married
•against his father’s wish. However, he daringly
took his bride right to his father’s door and
knocked. The old man came himself. Says the
son: “Father, we’ve come.” The comedian
called upstairs to his wife: “Mary, they’ve
come!” Then he added: “Now, you may go
away again.”
Mr. Perrott, the highly-respected P.M. of
Wallsend and Waratah, had a somewhat novel
experience the other day. The P.M. owns a cow.
That cow strayed, and at the instance of the
Inspector for the Borough Council the P.M. had
to issue a summons against himself as the owner
of the animal. The P.M. sat alone on his own
case, and fined himself one solitary bob ! Fact-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal.. “Hero and Leander -
Her Majesty's “ Merry Wives of Windsor >.
Criterion “ Doctor Bill.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princesss...... •* “ The Gondoliers ”
New Bijou “ Impulse.”
Opera House “Boccaccio.”
Theatre Royal “ The English Rose."
Alexandra “Robbery Under Arms 1
Although staged with the cretonne-
covered furniture of the cheap Chinese period
half-rehearsed, incorrectly-costumed and not so
strongly cast as on former occasions in Sydney
“She Stoops to Conquer” pleased Royal audiences
satiated with love and rant. Bellew’s Youne-
Marlow was a good performance except when he
attempted to simulate a modesty that was
altogether foreign to his nature, when the effort
was too palpable. Mrs. Potter’s monotonous
delivery, occasionally coarse and wooden enuncia-
tion, were much in evidence as Kate Hardcastle
In her second costume —an atrocity in red and
green, with a straw-scoop full of flowers for hat
which she declares to be chronologically correct—
she resembled a bon-bon or a French doll at a fancy
fair. In her arch scenes she developed to an alarm-
ing extent her lack of repose. Each point was em-
phasised with a jerky bob of the head, every sen-
tence was punctuated with a nod at every comma
and a sweeping bow or curtsey for a full stop.
That kind of thing makes folks tired. The Tony
of Mr. Poulton was a nimble-heeled, oily-tongued
amusing person who savoured more of the Strand
than of Goose-lane. Lumpkin, as his name implies
is a booby, whose tongue is tipped with the dialect
of his alehouse.companions, and who is somewhat
heavy-footed with trudging over clay pastures
though by no means an absolute (down. Edvvin
Palmer’s Hardcastle was a creditable performance,
* # *
With but one thinly-drawn-out thread of
story, no underplot, and only one situation of
consequence, “Hero and Leander ” chiefly com-
mends itself as a very pretty spectacle and a lime-
lit study of the nearly-nude. The lines, bar an
occasional assonance, such as “Here lies the lyre,”
are fairly good—albeit some of them sound like
close paraphrases of stronger stuff, and there is
not a sentence in the whole production that
compels admiration and takes memory by storm.
Hennings’ scene in the court of the temple of
Aphrodite is very beautiful and received quite an
ovation on the premiere. No one seemed greatly
taken with the Greek dance : borrowed, it is
said, from “ Claudian,” its music is Moorish
in character, and its movements Caledonian.
So far, audiences have been largely composed of
ladies, who come in most cases laden with flowers
to cover up, like the robins, these babes who are so
destitute of decent clothing. This preponderance
of the softer sex is probably due to the fact that
although more of the fair Cora is seen than we
ever hoped or expected, Ivyrle Bellew is even less
reticent. So little can be said either in blame or
praise of these favourites of fortune, that the
dailies were compelled to speak rapturously and at
length of the lady’s “marvellous leap of at least
15 feet ” into the Hellespont, though why the bag
of sawdust that received her fairy “ sixes ” escaped
favourable mention, we know not. On the con-
clusion of the Sydney season, the gentle Twinning
leads the gushing pair up to Newcastle for two
nights, 7th and Bth December; thence, probably,
to New Zealand, and on return perchance to Bris-
bane. As the lady has a firm foothold on Austra-
lian soil we may yet see more of hex - , perhaps in
another house.
* * * *•
“Called Back,” in its fourth week, has
been holding its own with the best of them at
Sydney Her Majesty’s, and will continue to do so
until the two big Bills—Bill Shakespeare and Bill
Rignold—collaborate in “The Merry Wives of
Windsor” on Saturday night next.
** * *
The “Bills” are to the fore ; “ A Night
Off,” after a three weeks’ run, which might have
been prolonged to six, steps down in favour of
“ Dr. Bill ” on Saturday night, for which every
reserved seat was gobbled up in a short space after
the opening of the box-office. Myra Kemble re-
appears after a two years’ absence as Mrs. Horton;
Pattie Browne returns to play Miss Fauntleroy;
Annie Taylor will impersonate Mrs. Firman;
Emma Temple and Brenda Gibson re-appear as
Louisa Brown and Jenny Firman; Robert Brough
plays Dr. Wm. Brown; Geo. Anson, Mr. Firman;
Cecil Ward, George Webster; E. Corlesse, Mr.
Horton; and Messrs. Clitherow, Henry and Rose
Brandram play Baggs, Inspector Jones and Ellen.
** * *
Harry Rickards’ sixteenth week at Sydney
School of Arts was, financially, the most success-
ful of a very successful season. On Monday
night, assisted by Lew Britton and many other
amateurs, he benefited, when the house slopped
over into the corridors all round, and much money
was turned away. Opening on Saturday at Bris-
bane Royal for four weeks, Mr. Rickards returns
to St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, on Boxing-night,
then pays Sydney allying visit ere going to Britain
for a new company.
** * *
The starving man of Bondi, advised by the
doctors to follow the flesh on account of the injury
that abstinence may do his constitution, having-
lost twenty-eight pounds in twenty-one days, still
continues to work up a fine appetite for Christmas.
As yet, however, Jacques, who has a lean and
lxungry look, hasn’t received a single invite, and
some unfortunate hash-house is bound to go bung
when he breaks oxxt on the eat. The wily Wyburd,
wlxo is now lessee of the aquarium, has given the
entire use of it for one day to the Relief Fund.
* *
Five-doctors the other day . certified that
the physical condition of Ibbott was such that
should he continue his 40 days’ fast at Bondi
aquarium they would in no way be responsible tor
the consequences. Nevertheless, Mr. Ibbott
elected to continue. Is it not now the duty ol
the Crown to send its own medical men to inspect
Mr Ibbott, and, should the opinion of the latter
doctors agree with that of the others, to have
Ibbott arrested for attempting to commit suicide,
and to feed him artificially, if necessary ?
-}f
Mr. Larmour, of Coogee Aquarium, l lflS
given the use of that enclosure for an even in L
unchosen, to the management of the Strike Relic'
Fund. It is proposed that the various athletic
clubs shall meet there to hold a concert and ban-
On Saturday afternoon Professors Jennings an *
Seguy meet with tin foils and a close contest is
anticipated. The usual concerts take place on
Sunday afternoon and evening.


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
t , r, , r aft. s*.« , true refl ecti«n of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
Womr.) p t O6 ° f f r J’ Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept for working up.
Many ladies admire grey hair—on some other
person—but few care to try its effects on their
own charms. They need not, since Ayer’s Hair
Vigor restores grey hair to its original color.
Sold by druggists and perfumers.
Dumas’ play, “ The Clemenceau Case,”
having failed at first to draw at New York Stan-
dard, the management engaged Sybil Johnstone
to play an artist’s model. She was discovered,
when the curtain rolled up, standing on a pedestal
in the centre of the stage, her arms uplifted above
her head, her figure clad only in a silk jersey and
silken tights, without corset, and without trunks.
The silk was of flesh-colour, and fitted glove-like
over every swelling and hollow of her person.
She is a young woman, rather pretty, and with a
form of voluptuous beauty. The frank revelation
of her graces of contour stunned the audience.
The police authorities were notified next day, but,
according to latest reports, they have not com-
pelled the actress to put on more clothes. Women
will not visit the theatre, but it is crowded every
night with men. “ The Clemenceau Case ’’would
be a good thing to put on after “ Hero and
Leander” have run themselves dry at Sydney
Royal. By the way, contrary to the custom at
New York, more women than men have rushed to
see “Hero and Leander.” Possibly, because
Leander is even less attired than Hero.
* m *
Someone, a Sydney alderman, writes to a
Sydney paper complaining of the cruelty which
“ parades for revenue purposes on our streets that
dumb, but noble, animal,” the Cyclorama horse,
with his coat of many colours. Now, we want to
protest against the cruelty which makes the old
gent, dye his moustache, and the middle-aged
husband-hunter fill up her wrinkles with white-
wash and red-raddle. The dyeing of a horse, it is
true, constitutes an indecent offence against a
noble animal, but we presume that so long as non-
poisonous dyes, not interfering with the moke’s
skin-action, are used, it will be considered that
the offence is merely one against the public eye
and the eyes of other horses.
* * *
The last orchestral concert had the largest,
by several hundreds, attendance got together
during the Town Hall series. Next Saturday a
benefit will be tendered to Signor Hazon by the
members of the orchestra, but whether there will
be a further extension of the season, is not known.
** * *
The Dampier - Walch derangement of
“Robbery Under Arms” was viewed at Mel-
bourne Alexandra on Saturday night, when a
vast multitude rocked the cradle of Australian
national drama with their feet, and the native
gallery-boy whistled and howled like the wind
amongst the gums of the primeval forest. Enthusi-
asm ever runs high at the Dampierian theatre, but
on these special occasions of the reigning family’s
return from a provincial tour, public feeling
appears to slop over and drown a good deal of the
dialogue. If the Australian drama possesses a
fault it is in being too exciting for pale, con-
templative people. “ Robbery "Under Arms,”
taken in conjunction with its general reception,
resembles a deep draught of bush rum, and a
gaudy evening with Starlight and his gang is apt
to be followed by an aching brow. Certainly no
other theatre on the continent can offer such a
succession of earthquakes for the money. Satur-
day’s performance seemed none the worse for a few
changes from the original cast. The old people, too,
have improved in their parts, with the exception
of Miss Katherine Russell, who expresses her
love, jealousy and remorse as though she were
thinking about something quite different at the
time. There is evidently plenty of profit left in
“Robbery Under Arms,” the first exhaustive
run notwithstanding. And this for the reason
that the drama; besides being genuinely Aus-
tralian in itself, is interpreted in an Australian
spirit and put upon the stage with an affectionate
regard for the land of its birth. Lily Dampier’s
riding-habit is a trifle out of harmony with her
bush life, all the same. Dampier here might
write in a tender passage explaining that Starlight
had ordered the garment from town, as a birth-
day-present for the cattle-shaker’s daughter, or
something of that sort. Which wouldn’t account
for such a fascinating fit, anyway.
* -;ic- * -K-
Other Melbourne shows remain as before.
“Impulse ’ is doing good business at the Bijou,
and sassiety evidently approves of the amorous
Frenchman's discomfiture in the pursuit of his
prey. Judged by the rules of advanced civilisa-
tion, this stab of illicit affection is decidedly out
of luck, a fact which the author tacitly admits by
allowing him to depart in peace. The same
character in substantial drama would inevitably
find himself dropped down a well, or otherwise
sacrificed to the fury of Mrs. Grundy, but in this
instance theymerelyshowhimthedoorlike sensible
Christians and recommend him to let his guilty
passion cool down in foreign parts. Miss Romer’s
share in the. Impulse” success was overlooked
last week. She is lively as usual in the capacity
of a widow who takes notes by the way of every-
thing that threatens spicy disclosures, and goes
around boring through the privacy of domestic
life with a gimlet Her references to the poor
young spinster who must get married are shock-
ingly appetising.
** * *
t “ T he English Rose ” still hangs on feebly
at the Royal, but the end of this hopeless case
must be near. '‘Paul Jones” leaves the Opera
House for good after Friday, and “Boccaccio”
is advertised to turn up again for 12 nights,
ihis time wo may reasonably expect Nellie
btewart to appear as the heroine, instead of
n;u-t Un Bi a half-share in the glory of the name-
* * * -&
The course of “The Gondoliers” runs
smooth enough, and vacant seats at Melbourne
princess are as scarce as good building allotments
n boom-time, yet the average stout citizen is
egmmiig to cry aloud for a company more worthy
° P T a ‘ / Miss Y °™g’s dramatic talent
to .any appreciable extent, and
•rangfit Aston s notion of airy humour is about as
bride ’ s P astr J- The combined
ertorts of these two incidental lovers serve only to
Wunt the point of the first act, and do some trifling
, to the tail-end of the second. Ryley is
E AT f / hugo success by holiday folk, who
rmnk that fine parts make fine actors, without
I S« mBlder h °w much more our departed
will, T? i ßl , gl ? eno Ver( b. might have done
El 110 ?* ' Vcrdi was not a sparkling
LSr, «ii'° had a more striking personality
and stage filling manner than the whole quartette
medwmties who monopolise the fat of
sii5 m , rh fy seem to be snuffed out bv the
when tRU f dp endour ’ and as good as buried
chorus come tripping on. The Duke
a 1° Plaza-Toro annihilate them with
Smin n/ 06 ’ ai ? d the Grand Inquisitor of
jpam overshadows them when his back is turned.
accounted 16 the , S ! tate , of the °P era House is
J? i SOldy the Principals, the
attendanc e can bo attributed to every-
ZCS m “, The v Gondoliers,” with the
the stire f T h /L Pe ° ple who have most to sa y on
‘ ‘ ge ' p f the opera can run for an indefinite
period under present conditions, as it is likely to
do, there must be a splendid future in store for the
Last of the Gilbert and Sullivans.
** * *
The Victoria Hall keeps going, and the
Gaiety is to be re-opened by Frank Clark on
Saturday. An amateur performance of “Chil-
penc,’ at the Opera House, was of a maddening
character, but Harmston’s Circus is all right for
such as hunger after such things. The Museum
has got hold of something which looks nice on the
posters outside, and Madame Patey’s efforts to fill
the Town Hall are meeting with better success
than they did at first. But it is hard to make the
new-chum portion of the public perceive the force
°f paying five shillings to hear Madame Patey,
and very little else. More especially as this
excellent artist’s voice doesn’t sound a day younger
than it was 15 years ago.
** * *
“ Chums,” by David Christie Murray, was
recently produced, for the first time in Australia,
at Adelaide Royal, where the attendances were
not up to the excellence of the performance. The
scene of the play is laid in New Zealand, where
the piece was written and first performed. It has
some improbable situations (what piece lacks
them ?), biit considered as a first attempt at
dramatisation for the Australasian stage, the result
is fairly satisfactory. The characters are true to
life, and well distributed. There is a squatter,
well represented by Fred. Neebe; his station-
manager, skilfully played by Harry St. Maur; a
private enquiry-agent of Scotch extraction, excel-
lently pourtrayed by George Carey, and the
villain, an unscrupulous land-agent, well played
by Christie Murray himself. The principal
attraction, however, is achild-part, which is gripped
by a remarkably clever boy known as Little Leo,
who was the original Bootle’s Baby in Melbourne.
This surprising youngster, the son of one of the
lady members of the company (professionally
known as Eily Mayo), will, it is understood,
shortly attempt Little Lord Fauntleroy. Florence
Seymour plays naturally in a suitable part, and
the other members of the company worked with a
will to make matters “go.” The moral mind of
the Adelaideps is now agitated by “ Betsy ”
and a hint as to the future production “Pink
Dominoes.”
** * *
“ Uncle Tom ” Lewis stated that any
amount of kissing went on behind the scenes at
Melbourne Opera House—but then there was so
much hymn-singing and prayer to Heaven in
John Widow O’Brien Sheridan’s show. Now that
the theatre is devoted to comic opera (under Mus-
grove’s management) the position of affairs is
changed, and whereas some members of the
former company may have prayed on the stage and
kissed at the back, the present one hugs on the
stage and prays “ off.” A book upon the spiritual
influence of tights has yet to be written,
*» * *
The news that Sara Bernhardt’s son (whose
illegitimacy makes him painfully sensitive on the
subject of his ma, no doubt) has seriously wounded
one of her newspaper critics in a duel, reminds us
that Bulletin notices are occasionally received in
an un-Christian spirit by showmen who would
prefer to write the aforesaid notices themselves.
Not so very long ago The Bulletin ordered a
first-class funeral for one of the staff, on the under-
standing that he was either to be killed in a duel
or murdered from the rear or sat upon until he
was no more by a midget comedian who cannot
appreciate the beautiful truth when he sees it set
up in type. No corpse came to hand, however, so
the hearse was sent empty away, and the chief
mourners went silently home to tea. After all,
the unslain seems tolerably likely to die a
natural death, because a critic of that description
wears the breastplate of righteousness and can
usually aim straight with a brick. But rather
than waste a funeral, The Bulletin will gladly
bury one or more of the enemy, or as much of them
as is left undevoured by the object of their ven-
geance after they have fired low and been laid out.
»* * *
The Knight and his Lady have reached
London safely. Halle-lujah !
* -& *
Alfred Collier’s engagement with the
“Firm” is understood to be for three months
only.
** * *
One of the chief attractions in the “ Gon-
doliers ” to the bald-headed is the fact that, as the
company is almost continually dancing in a crowd,
one or more of the ladies comes to grief nightly
and sheds her clothing about the stage. Ida
Osborne, who is eclipsing her “Yeoman of the
Guard” performance, flings her shoes recklessly
towards the flies while Eyley waits for a catch at
point or leg and fixes them on again, oh, so nicely.
Little Graupner has a weakness for getting her
skirts torn off in the cachuca—-a dance in which
each female kicks out wildly, springs two feet in
the air and falls on one knee, and then does the
same thing over again. Both Ida and Flora are
built for the cachuca.
At Poverty Point.
Edwin Booth, the famous American actor, is slowly
recovering from a serious illness. It is feared that his
theatrical career is ended.
“ Ladies will wear nothing but plain collars this
summer.” While the fashion runs on these decolletii
lines the Gaiety ballet need not re-visit Australia.
In the Struggle for Life,” in London, Genevieve
Ward, who plays the Duchess, wears the splendid diamond
star presented to her in Australia.
Paul D’Arcy, who travelled South Africa with the Lus-
oombe Searelle Opera Company as baritone and was com-
pelled to return to Australia a few months by an
attack of rheumatic fever, joins the Wangenheim Com-
panv for the Brisbane season.
At Stanley’s first New York lecture he appears to have
been simply howled down. However, his troubles. He
gets £25,000 for the whole course of lectures, and more
than half the whole amount is payable to him on the
delivery of the first.
Mrs. Kendal received two dozen interviewers in one
batch, at New York. She says she would not allow her
daughter to walk alone in Bond-street, London bub
would confidently send her alone all the way from New
York to San Francisco ! ‘
A firm of Melbourne solicitors announce that they have
been appointed to collect foes locally receivable, on
behalf of 43 dramatic authors and play-owners.
Before us is Bradley and Rulofson’s group of 110 thea-
trical celebrities of San Francisco in 1875. Here is old
Ned Forrest, with his remarkable likeness to Brooke, and
Adelaide Neilson is all lustrous without a thought of
ymg on the cold slabs of the Paris Morgue. Jimmy
M<r!um S u n - a ! 1 - a " gle Moore are blooming, with John
M‘Cullooh in his glory.
“Repubhcola” wants to re-christen the Melbourne
theatres—Princess, the National; Royal, the Brook*
Theatre ; Alexandra, the Adelphi; while he, or she, will
Jet the Bijou and Opera House stick. Give ’em time,
more rope to the De Moleynses, the demolishes can then
come in.
the Co, in the new firm of Williamson, Garner,
and Oq. ? Sock says Warner ; Buskin says Darrell, which
we believe is the mark.
The Parisian hit is a new play called “The Ogre,” and
the most original scene is one of a jury squabbling in
their room over the verdict. Good idea for an Australian
P ,a 3'i wjth the jury tossing up, or playing cards, or cover-
lnK the walls with those amusing pencilled reminiscences
which have to be whitewashed (together with the illus-
trations) off jury-rooms walls every now and again.
Kathleen Stock, daughter of W. F. Stock, M.P., of
Adelaide, is going to Paris in January to study music.
Her singing created a small sensation in Melbourne some
time ago.
Many of the Yankee papers concur in crediting Mine.
Melba, with an unequalled upper register and marvellous
flexibility, but they say her lower tones are rough and her
dressing and acting mediocre.
husband of a well-advertised actress now in Aus-
tralia has very quietly obtained a divorce. Need we say
that we refer to Mrs. . Shsh! or that the country
where this divorce was so easily obtained is Ygzosh.
At least, that’s how they spell it in Volapuk.
characteristic anecdote of Salvini. Some years ago
his wife died, and he erected a handsome monument to
her memory, upon which was a tablet setting forth the
various virtues and graces of the deceased, and recording
the grief of the bereaved husband. When he married his
second wife, he defaced and mutilated the monument of
wife number one with his own hands, berating himself the
while as a fool for expressing such sentiments.
It is said that on the termination of Snazelle’s engage-
ment with Nellie Stewart, he takes a Co. to India and
Japan.
Of Scott s “Bride of Lammermuir,” from which
Ravenswood” is adapted, Gladstone says: “lb is the
most Aeschylean work (so far as I know) of modern
tunes.”
“Ithurie!” Chapman, of “London” (Kate Thayer’s
husband), is raising a fund by means of shilling subscrip-
tions to place and keep in order the grave of Mrs.
Siddons.
Says Agnes Robertson Boucicault: “I have come, not
forthe property of Mr. Boucicault, but to vindicate my
children and myself. I will remain here until the children
aie protected by the American courts, as they have been
by English tribunals.” Asked if it was probable that an
amicable settlement would be reached with Mrs. Thorn-
dyke Boucicault, she replied, “In the matter of honour,
there will be no compromise. It is not a question of
money. Igo back to England as soon as the decision is
reached in the courts.”
An alligator, trapped at Normanton, is being shown in
Sydney. He was brought down in a wooden box 20 feet
long, 4 feet wide, and about 5 feet deep, barred on top
with iron. The saurian is 17 feet long, and 30 inches in
width. His jaws are 2ft. 4in. long, and his mouth con-
tains 64 teeth in first-class preservation. The gentleman
will be requisitionised to stand for Parliament at next
general election.
The wife of Fred. B. Norton (Rosy Blair) of a son. The
bairn’s father, as agent for the Bairnsfathers, takes a
benefit next week.
The Turners have returned to Sydney from Brisbane.
Professor Claudius Deslouis, “ pupil and laureate of the
Conservatoire de Paris” and a leading Continental
baritone in grand opera, sends us a little treatise on voice-
production, in which he announces his intention to settle
in Sydney as a teacher of singing.
Manager West has engaged George Deane, who stage"
managed the original production, for the Wangenheim
Brisbane “Falka” season.
A Want-Moss go-to-a-finish is on in Paris over the stage-
>ox at the Francais between President Carnot and the
Princess de Sagan (daughter of the late arniv-contractor
lelliere), which the latter claims to have hired "for Tuesday
ivening performances during seventeen years. Manager
Dlaretie declares that the box was fitted up for the late
imperor and belongs to the State, and that it lapsed into
ither hands during the rule of Thiers, who never went to
he theatre.
Dan Barry has been playing “The Romance of War,
‘Colleen Bawn,” and “After Dark” up about Mount
Jambier and Narracoote way.
A lot of stupid people who had been to see the Ober-
\mmergau “Passion Play” wrote to the British papers
to expose the blasphemy of those who shake hands with
the principal character after the show is over. They say
rothing, however, of the audacious man who threw a
bouquet and sent a pink note to the Virgin.
Says an American paper;—Mrs. Potter’s attempt at
Cleopatra was a piece of dramatic impertinence. She
used her own incompetency, her inability to do more than
burlesque the master, as an advertisement. The
great Queen was pourtrayed in five Worth cos-
tumes of great magnificence, and the delicate
points of the character were given by a shook of
auburn hair and a pair of scraggy arms. Shakespeare
was insulted and burlesqued, and the actress, unlike
many of her ilk who revel on to the end in blissful ignor-
ance, was party to the trick. And yet everyone went to
see her, and they all liked it, and laughed, and came home
quite pleased with the show, which, it was generally con-
ceded, was a success financially and sensationally. ' Mrs.
Potter was a good drawing card, and she drew better in
Cleopatra because the whole thing was so funny and
incongruous.
Doctor Beaney has successfully tracheotomised J. Mus-
grave, in Melbourne Hospital. A benefit is being got-up
for the patient in Melbourne.
J. H. Clyndes leaves for ’Frisco, where he has been
offered an engagement, on the termination of his W. and
G. agreement.
Toole won £l5O over Carbine from an Adelaide book-
maker. It went to pay share “ calls.”
Fred Millis, the Australian ventriloquist, at latest
advices, was showing at Stockton (Eng.).
Playing “A Doll’s House” at Dunedin Princess,
Charrington w-as the Torvald ; Chichester, the Dr. Rank :
and Alice Norton, the Mrs. Linden. Hum !
It is said that Lilian Tree refused the £BO offered her for
six nights with the Turners, at Brisbane, on account of a
prior engagement with W. and G. We publicly advised
the Firm to secure the fair Lilian and little Flora
Graupner on the breaking-up of the Bracy company some
months ago. Now they’ve got ’em both. But another
rumour says Miss Tree goes to France to study.
The Canterbury Club, at a banquet to Toole, feasted
him on an omelette made from an ostrich-egg. The shell
was afterwards silver-mounted and sent to Johnny.
During [a well-earned holiday, it is said that Alfred
Dampier, aided by Garnet Walch, has dramatised Rolf
Boldrewood’s “The Miner’s Right;” matured and
elaborated Edwin M'Neill’s “The Morning of Life,” and
written two dramas entitled “For Love and Life” and
“ This Great City.”
It is now said that Dion Boucicault’s real name was
Dionysius Boursiquot. His front name, of course, was
given him in compliment to his godfather, Dr. Lardner.
His father, a nice old gentleman who had married a pretty
Irish girl much younger than himself, kept a draper’s
shop in Palace Yard, off Dame-street, Dublin. He was a
Frenchman who had emigrated on account of religious or
political persecution, or some other of those reasons that
foreigners give to account for their presence in English-
speaking countries.
An American publication says that Mr. Kyrle Bellew’s
real name is Michael Higgins. Mickey Higgins 1 Go ’long !
Luscombe Searelle engaged for the plantation-scene in
“The Black Rover,” at London Globe, the bloodhounds
used to trace the Whitechapel murderer. Garoo, garoo !
Sensational-boy-yarn Brett has one of the finest collec-
tions of old armour in Britain. He recently imported
£5OOO worth personally purchased in Russia. Hence his
acquaintance with Irving, and presence among the literati
on the first night of “ Ravenswood.” His armour should
come in handy on future first nights.
Pauline Lucca is about to abandon the stage for teach-
ing. Years ago Bismarck was one of her most devoted
admirers, and on one occasion a profound sensation was
created in Germany by the appearance in the shop-
windows of a photograph in which the Chancellor stood
side by side with the diva. He had, in a frisky moment
stood with her before the lens-of course, without any
idea that the photograph would be made public. Bis-
naarck wrote a letter to the Emperor, in which he ex-
plained the circumstances of a harmless little adventure.
The letter, like the photograph, was published, and added
greatly to the vogue of Pauline Lucca.
Lady Dunlo is playing Venus at the Grand, at Islington.
Says a London writer; “Of her beauty it is hardly neces-
sary to speak, for all the world remembers Belle Bilton ;
but what struck me very forcibly is that Lady Dunlo, for
a new comer to the regular stage, possesses an elegance
and ease of manner, a piquancy in giving the cue, and a
general sayoir fairs which is highly promising indeed. Of
all the ladies who have travelled to the theatrical stage
via_ Queen’s Bench Junction, Lady Dunlo is likely to
arrive first.” It is so easy to discern talent when it is
titled.
George Moore had a play in hand at the Paris Odeon
while an adaption of “ Othello” was in active rehearsal.
Calling one day to see the manager: “ What name shall I
give, monsieur? ” demanded the concibrge. “XellM.
Porell that the English author whose play he has accepted
desires to see him. The concibrge went toward the
manager’s room. “There is a gentleman in the hall who
tells me he is the English author whose play has just been
accepted,” he said to the official. “ Quite right,”
answered the latter; “send him in. Monsieur Shake-
speare, no doubt.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ A. 0.” : True enough. The Queensland
stinging-tree will kill a horse....» J. Walsh”: Unavail-
able “E.E.”: We believe the State of Pennsylvania
has a duty of ten per cent, on the hoards of deceased
miners—“J. W. Key”: Thanks “ O.O.” : The Jews
appear to be on both sides in Socialism. Unquestionably
the Socialists attack them, but then the most prominent
Socialists are traceable to Hebrew lineage, so they mean
to win either way—“ Anna”: You write concise and
well-turned sentences, and you say you are a good short-
hand-writer. Learn type-writing (with reasonable practice
you will be proficient in a couple of months) and you
should be able to earn, as a beginning, at least two
guineas a week in a mercantile house. It is by no means
difficult for a well-educated and alert woman to obtain
an excellent situation “A.A.H.”: Many thanks
“An Englishwoman”: You propose to give votes to
women-householders. Why only women-householders—
why not working women? The woman who owns theden
of ill-fame would under your system have a vote, while
the hundreds of women who toil in shops would have no
vote. If one woman is to vote, all women will
“Radical”: Parkes emphatically is not entitled to the
honour of pioneering the one-man-one-vote principle
south of the equator. Traill was long before him, and
Sir George Grey has already passed a one-man-one-vote
bill in Maoriland, where the principle will operate in the
present general elections. Parkes never pioneered any
principle “Anti-J.”: The man who has to do high
class historical work can’t be expected to turn it out by
the yard every day, or by the volume every three or six
months. The looking-up of a single point may involve
a week’s research. As to there being “ plenty of gentle-
men and ladies in our midst who could do Mr. G. B.
Barton’s work ” —that is all nonsense. There are very
few' gentlemen, and no ladies—that w'e ever heard 0f...,
“Traveller”; Not suitable “Schoolmaster”: You
haven’t quite taken our fancy.... “ Gabriel’s Experience”:
“Gabe” has sounded the last trump; he sleeps peace-
fully in the W.P.B “Coromandel”: You must be a
novice ! Our office-cat informs us that the knave or
“Jack” is the highest euchre card, and that the
“joker” is as dead as Queen Anne “T.J.P.” (N.C.) :
He occasionally contributes. (2.) The plot is rather
thin “Charles J. Rae ” (Christchurch, N.Z.);
Many thanks ..“G.H.R.”: To hand “T. W.’’
(Milroy): No, the Victorians have never elected
their Governor.... “ A.M.L.” (0.): The interesting feature
of the election in question was, to our mind, the accuracy
with which the eggs were aimed .“A.M.” (E.); Use-
less. In a stand-up fight there’s not a man in N.S.W. who
can beat Crick for West Macquarie. That’s our opinion,
anyhow —“ Constant Reader” : The Prince of Wales is
called “Tummy” because “Tummy” means stomach,
and that’s pretty nearly all the Prince of Wales means.
“ T.P.M.”: Sorry we can’t accept responsibility of return.
As the thing is not original, it is hardly worth dealing
with. (2.) Sir George Grey has often been asked to visit
Australia, where he would get a great reception,
but has, up to date, unaccountably declined. He
has not been on this continent since his explorations
in the North-West fifty years ago “Theo W.”
“Excellency” good. Next week “J.R.S.WiIj
read—“J.M.”: Of course Mr. Fenwick will send along
his £lOO to the Strike Distress Relief Fund. Being a
philanthropic man he is necessarily modest, and would
abhor speaking at a public meeting under the circs....
“Anxious”: The girl must be 21 ere she can legally
marry without her father’s consent. Prior to getting
married either before clergyman or registrar, you both
have to make declarations that you have passed minority,
and the making of a false declaration is a criminal
offence. It’s not wmrth while to make a false declaration,
especially if the girl’s father is a man of gall “Colling-
wood ” : We don’t feel that way at all. We are sincerely,
profoundly sorry for Mirams, who, in the past, has done
magnificent work for the democracy, and has now fallen a
victim to the insensate struggle for wealth “A. Cart-
wright”; The best course would be for the associated
Australian Governments to cable Dr. Koch, through the
German Imperial Consul-General, to send out here a good
medical man fully acquainted with his consumption cure.
The whole thing would not cost two or three thousand
pounds, and the man could be here in two months
“A. Munsly ”: When Mr. Abigail sought to attribute
malice to The Bulmtin in the matter referred to, this
paper offered him £lOO if he proved his allegations. Mr.
Abigail didn’t try to prove them for the excellent
reason that he could not do so. Mr. Hurley now
makes the same untrue and unproveable statements
“Long ’Un”: Laurence Qronlund’s address is “Twen-
tieth Century Office, 4 Warren-street, New York,” but at
present he is out West at Kaweah Colony. You can’t get
a cheaper copy of “Das Kapital” at present, but a new
edition will shortly be published with the third volume
(translated by Eleanor Marx Aveling and Frederick
Engels), hitherto never rendered into English, which wilS
probably be more moderate in price. (Many replies held
over.)


B
u - 0 H A N A N’ S
“HOUSE OF COMMONS” WHISKY.
HIGHEST AWARD ; Paris International
Exhibition, 1889.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
old Australian'stamps taken off letters dated 1850 to 187".
We are prepared to pay high prices for old collections
of postage-stamps (slate of book immaterial), or for any
Look up your old letters, they may he worth pounds.
stampscan he sent ‘by post and will be paid for by return mail. One hundred (100) different Foreign Stamps,
nos: i r . '. Vfi • 50 different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post hot, ss. -d. , Stamp
Albums, Willi iiiusuaud ratalocm-s, post free, 6s. lOd. and 9s. lOd. Stamp price-list gratis. TiiKPiiiLATM.it
Monthly, an illustrated Journal for stamp collectors, post free. 2s. per year; single copies, post tree, »d. ,
correspondence invited.
13. A. VIWDIN <Sc CO., I'orcign Stamp Importers,
9 and 11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY and at HAMBURG.
WORTH IT’S WEIGHT IN COLD!
fooliugand Streogl
thening EVE Ml
TSOX. for all tiisea
;,s of the Eyes, more
- isana
t artlciilnrly Sandy Blight.lnflammat ion of: the Eye
,:jght,&c.lt gives
in the very worst
but effects a per.
1 days.
Eyelids, Weakness of
not only immediate relief
cases of Sandy Blight
manent cure in a few
Prlro, Is 6«1 i»cr Itoltlo.
PFEPAR D ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
I'lie mis I. 581 (icoritc Sired, Sj-aneJ*
A.KB SOLD HIT Abb RESPECTABLE STOR** l^*
WATSON’S
EYE
LOTION
His Wife’s Jewels.
M. Lautin was a head clerk in the employ o f
th Minister of the Interior.
O ne evening he attended a soiree at the house
of his vice-principal, and there met a young girl,
with whom he fell desperately in love at first
sigh* s - , . .
Her father, a country physician, had died some
months before, and soon after she and her mother
took up their abode in Paris, where they visited
frequently among their acquaintances, madame
hoping thereby to secure a favorable parti for her
daughter. They were poor and honorable, quiet
and unassuming in their manners.
The young girl was an admirable type of the
virtuous woman, to whom every sensible young
man dreams of one day confiding his heart and
happiness.
Her simple beauty had the charm of angelic
modesty, and the heavenly smile which con-
stantly hovered about her lips seemed to be the
reflection of a pure and lovely soul.
Her praises resounded on every side. People
never tired of repeating: “Happy the man who
wins her love ! He could not find a better wife.”
Now, M. Lautin enjoyed a little income of
three thousand five hundred francs, and thinking
he could assume the resuonsibilities of a husband,
proposed to this model young girl and was
accepted. ...
He was unspeakably happy with her; she
governed his household with an economy so clever
that they seemed to live in luxury. She lavished
the most delicate attentions on her . husband,
coaxed and fondled him; and the charm of her
presence was so great that six years after his mar-
riage M. Lautin discovered that he loved his wife
even far more than during the first days of their
honeymoon.
He only felt inclined to blame in her two faults :
her love of the theatre
and a taste for falsi
jewellery.
Her friends (she was
acquainted ' with some
officers’wives) frequently
procured for her a box
at the theatre, often for
the first representations
of every new play ; and
her husband was obliged
to accompany her,
whether he willed Or not,
to these amusements,
which bored him exces-
sively after his day’s
labour at the office.
After a time, M, Lautin
begged his wife to request
some lady of her acquain-
tance to accompany her.
She was at first op-
posed to such an ar-
rangement, but after
much persuasion on his
part, she finally con-
sented, to the infinite
delight of her husband.
Now, with her love for
the theatre came also the
desire to decorate her
person. True, her cos-
tumes remained as be c oro
—simple and of the most
correct taste; but she
soon began to adorn her
ears with huge Rhine-
stones, which glittered
and sparkled like rani
diamonds. Around In r
neck she wore strings < f
false pearls, and, on her
arms bracelets of imita-
tion gold.
Herhusband frequently
remonstrated with her,
saying :
“ My dear, as you can-
not afford to buy real
diamonds, you ought to
appearadorned with your
beauty and modesty alone,
which are the rarest orna-
ments of your sex. ”
But she would smile
sweetly, and say :
“ What can Ido ? I
am so fond of jewellery.
It is my only weakness.
We can not change our
Then she would roll around her fingers the pearl
necklaces, hold up the bright gems for her hus-
band’s admiration, saying ;
*‘ Look ! are they not lovely ? One would swear
they were real.”
M. Lautin would then answer, smilingly ;
“You have Bohemian tastes, my dear.”
Often of an evening, when they were enjoying a
tete-a-tete by the fireside, she would place on the
tea-table the leather box containing the “ trash,”
as M. Lautin called it. She would examine the
false gems with a passionate attention, as though
they were in some way connected with a deep
and secret joy ; and she often persisted in passing
a necklace around her husband’s neck, and laugh-
ing heartily, would exclaim: “How droll you
look !” Then she would throw herself in his arms
and kiss him affectionately.
One evening, in winter, she attended the opera,
and on her return was chilled through and
through. The next morning she coughed, and
eight days later she died of inflammation of the
lungs.
M. Lautin’s despair was so great that his hair
became white in one month. He wept unceas-
ingly ; his heart was lacerated with grief, and
his mind haunted by the remembrance, the smile,
the voice—by every charm of his beautiful, dead
wife.
Time, the healer, did not assuage his grief.
Often, during office-hours, while his colleagues
were discussing the topics of the day, his eyes
would suddenly fill with tears, and he would give
vent to his grief in heart-rending smothered sobs.
Everything in his wife’s room remained as before
her decease; and here he was wont to seclude him-
self daily and think of her who had been his
treasure —the joy of his existence.
But life soon became a struggle. His income,
which in the hands of his wife covered all house-
hold expenses, was now no longer sufficient for his
own immediate wants ; and he wondered how she
could have managed to buy such excellent wine and
rare delicacies, which he could no longer procure
with his modest resources.
He incurred some debts and was soon reduced
to absolute poverty. One morning, finding him-
self without a cent, in his pocket, ho resolved to
sell something, and immediately the thought
occurred to him of disposing of his wife’s paste
jewels; for he cherished in his heart a sort of
rancour against the false gems which had always
irritated him in the past.
The very sight of them spoiled somewhat the
remembrance of his lost darling.
To the last days of her life, she had continued
to make purchases; bringing home new gems
almost every month. He decided to sell the
heavy necklace which she seemed to prefer and
which, he thought, ought to be worth about six or
seven francs ; for although paste, it was, neverthe-
less, of very fine workmanship.
He put it in his pocket and started out in search
of a jeweller’s shop. He entered the first one he
saw, feeling a little ashamed to expose his misery,
and also to offer such a worthless article for sale.
“Sir,” said he to the merchant, “ I would like
to know what this is worth.”
The man took the necklace, examined it, called
nis clerk and made some remarks in an undertone;
he then put the ornament back on the counter,
and looked at it from a distance to judge of the
effect.
M. Lautin was annoyed by all those ceremonies,
and was on the point of saying: “Oh ! I know
well enough it is not worth anything,” when the
jeweller said : “Sir, that necklace is worth from
twelve to fifteen thousand francs ; but I could not
buy it unless you tell me whence it comes.”
The widower opened his eyes wide and remained
gaping, not comprehending the merchant’s mean-
ing. Finally he stammered : “ You say . Are
you sure ? ”
The other replied dryly : “You can search else-
where and see if any one will offer you more. I
AT SUNDAY-SCHOOL.
CLERGYMAN": “AND NOW, MY GOOD LITTLE BOY, WHAT ARE YOU MOST THANKFUL
FOR TO DIVINE PROVIDENCE?”
LITTLE BILLY SMITH (promptly): “FOR HAVIN’ BEEN BORN IN NEW ZEALAND IN
THE SAME PLACE AS CARBINE.”
consider it worth fifteen thousand at the most.
Come back here if you can not do better.”
M. Lautin, beside himself with astonishment,
took up the necklace and left the store. He wished
time for reflection.
Once outside, he felt inclined to laugh, and said
to himself : “The fool ! Oh, the fool ! Had I
only taken him at his word ! That jeweller can-
not distinguish real diamonds from paste.”
A few minutes after he entered another store in
the Rue de la Paix. As soon as the proprietor
glanced at the necklace he cried out:
“ Ah, parbleu ! I know it well; it was bought
here.”
M. Lautin was disturbed, and asked :
“ How much is it worth ?”
“Well, I sold it for twenty thousand francs. I
am willing to take it back for eighteen thousand,
when you inform me, according to our legal for-
mality, how it came to be in your possession.”
This time M. Lautin was dumbfounded. He
replied :
“ But —but—examine it well. Until this moment
I was under the impression that it was—paste. ”
The jeweller asked :
“What is your name, sir?”
“ Lautin ; I am in the employ of the Minister of
the Interior. I live at No. 16 Rue des Martyrs.”
The merchant looked through his books, found
the entry, and said: “The necklace was sent to
Mine. Lautin’s address, 16 Rue des Martyrs, July
20, 1876.”
The two men looked into each other’s eyes- the
widower speechless with astonishment, the jeweller
scenting a thief. The latter broke the silence.
“ Will you leave this necklace here for twenty-
four hours?” said he; “I will give you a receipt.”
M. Lautin answered, hastily : “Yes, certainly.”
Then, putting the ticket in his pocket, he left the
store.
He wandered aimlessly through the streets, his
mind in a state of dreadful confusion. He tried
to reason, to understand. His wife could not
afford to purchase such a costly ornament.
Certainly not. But, then, it must have been a
present—a present!—a present from whom . y
was it given her ?
He stopped and remained standing in the
middle of the street. A horrible doubt entered
his mind—she? Then all the other gems must
have been presents, too ! The earth seemed to
tremble beneath him, the tree before him was
falling; throwing up his arms, he fell to tne
ground unconscious. He recovered his senses in
a pharmacy into which some passers-by had borne
him. He requested to be taken to his home.
When he arrived he shut himself up in his room
and wept until nightfall. Finally, overcome with
fatigue, he threw himself on the bed, where he
passed an uneasy, restless night.
The following morning he arose and prepared
to go to the office. It was hard to work after
such shocks. He sent a letter to his chief
requesting to be excused. Then he remembered
that he had to return to the jeweller’s. He did
not like the idea; but he could not leave the
necklace with that man. He dressed and went
out.
It was a lovely day ; a clear blue sky smiled on
the busy city below. Men of leisure were strolling
about with their hands in their pockets.
M. Lautin, observing them, said to himself •
“The rich, indeed, are happy. With money it is
possible to forget even the deepest sorrow. One
can go where one pleases, and in travel find that
distraction which is the surest cure for grief. Oh,
if I were only rich ! ”
He felt that he would like some wine, but his
pocket was empty. He again remembered the
necklace. Eighteen thousand francs ! Eighteen
thousand francs ! What a sum !
He soon arrived in the Rue de la Paix, opposite
the jeweller’s. Eighteen thousand francs ! Twenty
times he resolved to go in, but shame kept him
back awhile. At last he made up his mind, ran
across the street in order not to have time for
reflection, and rushed into the store.
The proprietor immediately came forward and
politely offered him a chair ; the clerks glanced at
him knowingly. .
“I have made inquiries, M. Lautin,” said the
jeweller, “ and if you are still resolved to dispose
of the gems, I am ready to pay you the price I
offered.”
“Certainly, sir,” stammered M. Lautin.
Whereupon the proprietor took from a drawer
18 large bills, counted and handed them to M.
Lautin, who signed a receipt and with trembling
hand put the money into his pocket.
As he was about to leave the store, he turned
toward the merchant, who still wore the same
knowing smile, and, lowering his eyes, said :
“I have—l have other gems, which I have
received from the same source. Will you buy
them also?”
The merchant bowed : “ Certainly, sir.” One
of the clerks left the store to avoid laughing
outright, another pressed his handkerchief to his
mouth. . .
M. Lautin said, gravely : “I will bring them to
you.”
An hour later he returned with the gems.
The large diamond earrings were worth 20,000
francs ; the bracelets, 35,000 ; the rings, 16,000; a
set of emeralds and sapphires, 14,000; a gold
chain with solitaire pendant, 40,000— making the
sum of 143,000 francs.
The jeweller remarked jokingly :
“ The lady invested all her savings in precious
stones. ”
M. Lautin replied, seriously :
“It is only another way of investing one’s
money.” .
That day he lunched at Yoism’s and drank wine
worth twenty francs a bottle. Then he hired a
carriage and made a tour of the Bois. He gazed
at the various turn-outs with a kind of disdain,
and could hardly refrain from calling out to the
occupants:
“I, too, am rich !—I am worth two hundred
thousand francs.”
Suddenly he thought of his official chief. He
drove up to the bureau, entered gaily, saying ;
“Sir, I have come to resign my position; I have
just inherited three hundred thousand francs.”
He shook hands with his former colleagues, and
confided to them some of his projects for the
future; he then went off to dine at the Cafe
Anglais.
He seated himself beside a gentleman of aristo-
cratic bearing, and, during the meal, informed the
latter confidentially that he had just inherited a
fortune of four hundred thousand francs.
For the first time in his life, he was not bored
at the theatre, and spent the remainder of the
night in dissipation.
Six months afterward he married again. His
second wife was a very virtuous woman, but with
a violent temper. She caused him much sorrow.—
From the French of Guy de Maupassant.
Oscar Wilde says that there is only one
thing in the world worse than being talked about,
and that is—not being talked about.
Dear Bulletin, —N.B. to politicians and
others.—Note the result of the recent Congress
elections in the United States. The Democrats
have come off with a whooping triumph, aided by
that recently consolidated but tremendous political
engine, “the Fanners’ Alliance’’—which had ■
massed itself and gave a block vote on the silver
currency extension agitation. That quite de-
tached question is possibly at the bottom of the
whole result, but, of course, it was to be expected
that the Tory and Freetrade press all over the
world would point it out as a living and wonderful
revolt of an entire nation against Protectionist
burdens. There has been a clamorous jubilance
among Australian Freetrade papers, whose crows
still ring in our ears. Suppose we conceded their
contention for purposes of argument, what
would be the first and most vivid illustration to
spring naturally therefrom ? This :If Nemesis
overtook the Republican party on its Protectionist
march, it was because the party “overdid its
part. ” Where public opinion does not back up a
movement to its full length, such movement
should only be hastened so far as, and no farther
than, public opinion backs it up. It is useless
for any legislature to attempt to coerce an un-
willing nation. Apply these reflections to Parkes’
Electoral Bill, now before the House. The
country is “ full ripe ” for one-man-one-vote and
registration reforms. But Parkes offers it all that
and female suffrage and some other things besides,
for which the country is not ripe. I regard
Parkes, in thus acting, as a disguised enemy of
“ one-man-one-vote,” and believe he wants to lose
the Bill, and so to lose it that he can always gas
in its favour afterwards and gain kudos for a
liberalism which he is only fooling. But I would
like to see the Bill read a second time and suitably
amended. This will test Parkes’sincerity.-
-OHIO.
To the Rescue.
When an article is brought forward and all its
patrons praise it, and allow that it possesses the
properties that the manufacturers claim for it,
and it possesses virtues and merits which are
universally acknowledged both by press and
public, such endorsement must really prove
beyond the slightest shadow of a doubt the in-
trinsic merit of that article. The unparalleled
success which has attended the introduction of
Clements Tonic to suffering mankind and the
universal praise bestowed upon it by influential
and well-known persons in the community
conclusively proves that this article is undoubtedly
genuine. Clements Tonic has done more good in
the last two years in Australia than all the other
medicines put together can ever claim to have
done, and there is not a city, town, village or
street but what there are people resident in who
are willing to testify to the wonderful efficacy of
this renowned remedy. For instance Mrs. Bowie,
Ashton House, Newman-street, Newtown,
N.S.W., writes Dear Sir,— Having been a
sufferer for many years from Indigestion and
being treated by numerous doctors without benefit,
I had given up my case as nearly hopeless when I
•was strongly advised to take a course of Clements
Tonic. Like thousands of others I did not believe
in advertised remedies, but reluctantly consented.
It is unnecessary to describe the various painful
and disagreeable symptoms which the dyspeptic
suffer, they are only known to themselves. Before
I had finished one large bottle I felt almost a new
woman, the result cannot be described as anything
less than marvellous. I never intend in future to
be without Clements Tonic in the house and am
only too happy to recommend it at all times.
Thomas Garrett, Esq., M.P., (late Minister foi
Lands, N.5.W.,) says Dear Sir,-1 have used
Clements Tonic with very great advantage. It is
very stimulating and a powerful aid to appetite
and digestion. Sydney Cunningham, Esq., 70
Watkin-street, Newtown, N.S.W., writes as
follows -.—Dear Sir,— Having been a long sufferer
from Neuralgia, which weakened me considerably,
and using various remedies without benefit, I was
induced to give Clements Tonic a trial and am
pleased to inform you that the result exceeded my
utmost expectations, and after taking o huge
bottles I feel better than ever I did in my me
before. My wife and other members of our family
have used it with equal success, and I can strongly
recommend it to others suffering in a like manner,
and offer you this unsolicited testimonial to use as
you think fit. John Plummer, Esq., Aorth
Willoughby, N.S.W., says-.-Dear Sir,-I may
state that Mrs. Plummer has frequently derivea
great benefit from the use of Clements lonic, an
as a result of her experience has much pleasure in
recommending it to all others. We shall be g
to send full particulars of this remedy on receipt
of your address. Write to Clements Tonic Labora
tories, Newtown, N.S.W., for complete hs
references. Clements Tonic can be obtained o
all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Full particulars and endorsements on appli-
cation ■to F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.b. • •
at Melbourne, George and George; at Adeiaiu ,
S. A. Mutual Stores, 96 Waymouth-street, w
Wellington (N.Z.), Sharland & Co., and Laun
ceston, J. D. Johnstone; and all dealers eve y
where.


_ Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters proi >ptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street, MELBOURNE. (New number,
163.)
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To cure skin diseases. —Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every-
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Creelsuan and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
DEPOSITORS. BORROWERS.
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT, LANE and
BUILDING- COMPANY, Limited,
AND
DEPOSIT
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices; 96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
WM. M'COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P. ; TIIOS. TATE. Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS.
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:-^
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
{
Participating
in
Bonus.
\
J
1\ per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Personal Items.
Ex- Judge Sir Robert Molesworth left,
£26,237.
There is only one Smith in the whole S.A.
parliaineut-
Judge Boucaut (S.A.) has come in for a
fortune of £35,000.
Speaker Abbott is 48 years old and has
been twice married.
It has just transpired in a London court
cage that our old friend Viscount Beer,thirst wears
silken night shirts.
Premier Playford’s favourite expression is
“ I intend to put my foot down.” “1 lonest Tom ”
takes tens in boots.
Mr. Joseph M‘Donald, of Kilfera Station,
Biverina, now in Scotland, intends seeking a seat
in the Commons for Ross and Cromarty.
The maiden name of Mrs. Booth, wife of
the Salvation Army General, was Mumford, and
it was she who invented the women’s dress.
A startling cable Dr. Koch is reported
seriously ill. He was inoculated with lymph, and
it is feared he is suffering from tuberculosis.
Mr. Edward Smith Hall, grandson of
the plucky old-time Australian journalist, Edward
Smith Hall, is in business at Nymagee, N.S.W.
Success takes it out of a man. Rudyard
Kipling, who has been trying to keep up with
lbs popularity, has broken down from overwork.
According to the cablegrams, Parnell (who
has resigned the Irish National leadership) has no
defence to offer in the divorce-suit brought against
him.
A Melbourne person named Simon Peter
has filed his schedule. Parsons, priests and
cardinals are gathering in the shekels while the
apostles are going bung.
Frazer S. Crawford, who committed suicide
under peculiar circumstances, in Adelaide, the
other day, was a world-wide authority on insect
pests and diseases in fruit-trees.
Visiting Balmoral on a sleety day, said
the Queen of Roumania—“Now I know why the
English want to discover the North Pole, their
Queen wants to go and live there.”
About the best orator in S.A. Parliament
is J. L. Parsons, formerly Government Resident
in the N.T. Rees and Ward, who formerly were
rivals for the honour, are now out of the Legisla-
ture.
Prince George of Wales now aspires to the
hand of the Princess Mary of Teck, his brother’s
innamorata. The girl originally intended for
“Spuds” may yet be given in marriage to
“Sprats.”
Australian Native Peacock signalised his
accession to a seat in the Victorian Ministry
(without office) by bursting out in a gorgeous
summer suit, promptly christened “Peacock’s
feathers.”
It has just transpired that Queen Victoria,
ere she was ordered whisky by her physicians,
used to take rum. After all, there must be some-
thing very human and Queensland-like about Her
Gracious Majesty.
Macnamara, of the Sydney Socialist
League, went to Mount Kembla colliery in the
guise of a free labourer, and talked to his less-
enlightened companions with much effect ere he
was run out of the mine.
Alexander Dumas had a most unattractive
wife, and one day surprised a man in the act of
bestowing upon her au unhallowed salute. “My
poor fellow, why do you do this?” said Dumas;
“you are not compelled to.”
Another commentary on the strange ten-
dency of authorities on Wills to make mistakes
in their own. The late Judge, Sir R. Molesworth,
Victoria, omitted to finish his signature on a
codicil, writing only “ R. Molesw.”
The Prince of Wales “cut” Dr. Liddon
because the canon preached a fifty minutes’sermon
while the coming K. was yawning as a signal for
divine worship to cease. V.R. is in the habit of
blowing her nose when she has had enough.
“Mint Sauce” Jones is a candidate for
the office of Parliamentary Librarian, at Mel-
bourne, rendered vacant by the death of Mr,
Farrell. Nearly all the “mint-saucers ’ have now
passed away, Jones, perhaps, being the very last.
“Viscount Oantelupe has been drowned
through the upsetting of a yacht.” What sort of
trash is this to cable for the information of the
already-sickened Australian public, which doesn’t
seriously believe tiiere is a peer in the peerage
who can’t elupe ?
The Marquis of Hartington, who is shortly
to marry the Duchess of Manchester, was once
waited upon by an emissary and asked if he would
marry one of the royal princesses. He adjusted
his eye-glass, and enquired : “ Gawn’t you find
another fellah ? ”
A. R. B. Lucas, a vice-president of Adelaide
Natives, is trying to make a splash in London as
a representative of that body, Lucas was formerly
a humble clerk in the sacred city, and has come
in for a fortune. He proposes to assure Queen
Victoria of the ever-growing loyalty of the Natives.
Weread that ‘ ‘ when Charles Dickens became
editor of the Daily News he installed his father
as leader of the parliamentary staff, where his
grandly vague conception of his duties and his
almost ducal manner of not performing them did
not keep him long in office after his son’s resigna-
tion.”
“Canterbury” Hutchinson, M.P., voted
for Crick’s expulsion from the N.S.W. Assembly.
It may not be generally known that Crick was one
of the few who counselled that no steps should be
taken in the direction of expelling the Canterbury
man over his little trouble.
Walt Whitman, it is related, was lately
waited upon by a young man who introduced
himself as a poet, and begged to be allowed per-
mission to read selections from a bundle of manu-
scripts. “No, thank you,” said Whitman,
courteously but firmly; “I have been paralyzed
twice.”
The Chief Justice of one of the Australias
has a pet dog that follows him wherever he goes.
As the C. J. is fond of following any member of
the nobility temporarily or permanently located
in his city, there is occasionally quite an interest-
ing procession. The only person really ashamed
of himself seems to be the dog.
Bishop Barry is in quite as unsettled a
condition as Justice Wrenfordsley. The cable
says that the Bishop has been appointed a canon
(£lOOO a year) of the Royal Chapel, Windsor.
Bearleader Dalton was, on returning the Prince
of Wales’ sons to their grandma, similarly re-
warded.
Sister Rose Gertrude, the saintly friend
of the Kalawao leper, is of the earth earthy, after
all. She is going to get married, and she threatens
to write a book. Her prospective husband is Dr.
Meyer Lutz—who may or may not bo identical
with the owner of a name which used to appear on
a brass-plate in Melbourne. Thus endeth a big
advertisement.
Dr. Eben. Atherton, the well-known
Sydney physician, one day not long ago visited a
man who had sustained a tiresome surgical injury,
and who said he was tempted to “finish himseP.”
“Nonsense, my friend!” said the doctor, “you
and I are still good for another thirty years.” A
few days afterwards the patient sent for the
doctor. The servant went and brought back the
answer —“Dr. Atherton is dead.”
Capt. Pasley’s death leaves but two living
representatives of the first Ministry under re-
sponsible Government in Victoria —Privy Council-
lor Childers and Sir Andrew Clarke. The others,
Haines, Stawell. Fellows, Sladen Pasley, Good-
man, Moles worth, Sitwell, and Mitchell have all
WHAT HE’D DO.
LENIENT FATHER: “WHAT ’UD YOU DO IF I BOXED YOUR EARS?”
INCORRIGIBLE: “PUT OUT ME TUNG.”
“gone over.” Beyond the fact that he wore a
wig, Pasley was in no way a remarkable man.
Rudyard Kipling, as an unknown young-
man, only about a year ago passed through New
York and offered a batch of his best little Indian
tales to Harper and Brothers. He was shown the
door unceremoniously, but Harpers now choose
to publish, on their own hook, a bookful of Kip-
ling’s tales. They sent him £lO, which he scorn-
fully returned, saying they insulted him before,
and now added robbery to insult.
One of Australia’s clerical nobility was
Peter Menzies, of Melbourne, and one day he was
gazing on his two beautiful little girls—now, we
hope, two very happy young ladies—when he
exclaimed: “Look here, Brother Iletberingtqn,
it is impossible for me to believe in the doctrine
of Original Sin, for can I believe that my lovely
children here come from the hands of God charged
with scorpion minds full of sin? Never, sir!
They are delivered to me pure as snow and chaste
as ice.”
Prescott Belknap, having last month sent
a duel challenge to our old friend Ambrose Bierce,
of the S.F. Examiner, Bierce wrote back ;--“H.
Prescott Belknap, Esq.— Sir : Gentlemen com-
monly obey the laws of their country. It is for
that reason that they find some of them (and the
public sentiment of which they are the outgrowth)
objectionable. If you had committed your felony
in fewer words and better English, your sincerity
would have been as apparent and the temptation
to hand you over to the police more easily resisted.
I must beg you will not strengthen it by further
correspondence.—l am most respectfully yours,
Ambrose Bierce.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Premier Munro maintains that his first
lieutenant (Shiels) must be a Liberal, because he
was born at Collingwood Flat.
Premier Crispi holds that the armaments
of the Great Powers “ will end by ruining Euro p
for the advantage of America.”
Dr. Wallis (N.Z.) has invented a sonorous
phrase, descriptive of the eight-hour workers. He
calls them the “octohorian aristocracy.”
Twenty-nine members oftheS. A. Assembly
vote for female suffrage, 14 aga'nst. This not
being the needful majority, the matter comes up
again.
A Christiana newspaper recently pro-
pounded the wicked conundrum —“Why have
a King?” Things must be moving along in
Norway.
A German Socialist has been awarded
three months’ gaol for prophesying that the
Emperor William would in time become a Social
Democrat.
Melbourne Argus declares that the Ameri-
can elections foreshadow an early “return to
Freetrade.” How can the States “return” to
what they never had ?
Bishop Barry says that “ Socialism, breth
ren, is an error in substituting material for spiritual
good.” The poor are to get in the next world the
reward of their patience.
One rowdy N.S.W. member lately excused
himself by pleading that he couldn’t drink like a
gentleman. And now it is pleaded for another
rowdy : “Oh ! he’s idiotic with drink.”
Premier Munro (who, with his colleagues,
has been returned unopposed) says that in four
years Gillies got £13,000,000 from loans, and left
behind him a debit of £500,000.
Only the other day the Prophet Parkes
predicted that Crick would turn out a model legis-
lator. Henry was slightly out in his tip, however,
for the “ model legislator ” turned out Crick.
Justice Williams (Vic.) says he finds that
whilst the Victorian judges are in favor of estab-
lishing an Australian Court of Appeal, the judges
of the other colonies appear to be opposed to it.
Last week’s cable: “Dillon and O’Brien
have met with a very cool reception in New
York.” This week’s cable ; “ Dillon and O’Brien
at their first Now York meeting, collected £6600. ’>
In Australia children are compelled to
go to school. Why should not adult citizens bo
compelled by law, in the interests of their political
education, to cast their votes at the polling-booth?
“What were the reasons why we turned
out the late Government?” screamed the new
bald-headed Premier of Victoria at Geelong.
“Because you wanted office,” brutally croaked
a dry sepulchral voice.
The S. A. Assembly, we regret to see, has
carried a motion for a railway to W. Australia on
the land-grant principle. And this is the colony
that Henry George alleges has adopted the
principle of the Single-tax !
Parkes’ Electoral Bill does not provide
for the elections being all held on one day ; nor
for annual elections ; nor for the abolition of the
£4O deposit (which even insolvent candidates are
apparently always able to raise).
Crick will again be returned for West
Macquarie. It has been remarked that the
N.S.W. electors never punish any member for
being disorderly—like the Soudan expedition,
disorder is “a good advertisement.”
When the N.S.W. Assembly ruled out
Schey, M.P., for his tedious repetition of the
word “innocuous,” Traill, M.P., suggested that
Premier Parkes should be ruled out for his tedious
and peacocky repetition of the word “I.”
Writing to Figaro, Louise Michel says,
“ Not only do I refrain from asking that women
should enter Parliament, but I demand that the
three or four honest men who remain there should
come out, and that they should no more re-enter
that den of thieves.”
Premier Munro points with pride to what
he evidently regards as a singular circumstance —
the fact that “in no instance in either Chamber
did he apply to any gentleman who refused to join
the Cabinet.” We don’t see any phenomenon in
that. We never offered anyone a fat thing yet
and got a refusal.
Mahuki, the Maori chief, said to his tribe
in the King Country “If you sell your lands
for a price, behold ! you will all become slaves like
the landless white man.” And now the white
land-jobbers, having got a pretext, have arrested
Mahuki. Which is the beginning of a big land-
grab in the King Country.
A London paper says that “ the Per-
manent Under-Secretaryship of the Colonies is a
splendid position. The salary is £2OOO a year,
and the influence enormous.” Which, doubtless,
means that the Permanent one makes a large
annual pile out of the C. M.G. business—for where
else does the enormous influence come in?
Letter addressed by Crick, M.P., to the
N.S.W. Speaker: —
I consider Parliament rotten and corrupt. You put me
nut to-night fearing my tongue and consequent exposure.
1 resign my seat and intend to appeal to my constituents
against a rotten and corrupt Parliament in which freedom
of speech is brutally stifled and suppressed in order to
cover crime.—\V. P. Crick.
A person named Dooley, who sits in the
Tasmanian Parliament, has moved that all
members who have served five years should receive
a free railway pass for life. There is no arrogant
dignity about the politician in these parts. Any-
thing down to second-hand boots or old clothes
comes handy to him, and he doesn’t even mind
having his hair cut at his country’s expense.
The Victorian “Royal Commission on
Charitable Institutions ” has issued a progress
report, which may briefly be described thus
Never give a sixpence to a deadbeat, but refer him
to the Patents and Vaccination Departments;
sell all the hospital and other sites where they
represent big values, and dump down the sick and
the paupers in a fresh lot of humpies somewhere
below low tide.
The N.S.W. Speaker and the Chairman
of Committees derisively deny Mr. Crick’s allega-
tions that they got respectively £2OOO and £lOOO
apiece as bribes in connection with the Broken
Hill Water Supply Bill. It is understood that
the legal firm with which Speaker Abbott is
connected bad a professional retaining-fee, ten-
dered and openly accepted in the usual way, for
seeing the Bill through the House.
Four years ago nine members of the Bris-
bane Assembly voted in favour of the Separation
of N. Queensland, and 40 against it. In the
recent division there were 26 votes recorded in
favour of the Separation, and no more than 32
votes against it. The real numerical strength of
the Separation party in the Assembly at present
is 29, in a Chamber consisting of 72 members,
while in 1886 it was only 9 in a Chamber of 54
members.
The Australian Workman (organ of the
N.S.W. Trades and Labour Council) is about to
be floated into a co-operative daily morning news-
paper. No man is to be employed unless a share-
holder, and no person is to hold more than 20
shares. Shares are to be 10s. each, and 20,000 in
number. The biggest openings in Australian
journalism are for the establishment in Sydney
and Melbourne of uncompromisingly proletarian
daily newspapers.
“ Her Majesty’s Opposition ” is a sample
phrase, which discloses the framework of the
shutter-hole through which the Melbourne Argus
and other Tory papers view all things Australian,
It is with them, always “Her Majesty’s” and
never “the Victorian” Opposition. Munro is
“ Her Majesty’s Government,” and not the Vic-
torian Government, to the Akgus. Parkes is
“Her Majesty’s Government” and not the
N.S. Wales Government with the S.M. Herald.
Mr. Willis, M.P., unknowingly did his
level best in the N.S.W. Assembly the other
night to land his friend Crick, M.P., in a tight
place. There was a motion to expel Crick, and
Willis pleaded that when the latter loudly
charged the Speaker and the Chairman of Commit-
tees with bribery, he (Crick) “was outside the bar
of the House.” Now, Crick at the time was
clearly inside the bar—had he been a single
inch outside, his utterances would have come
within the scope of the libel law.
The great American struggle, Black v.
White, is daily nearing. In the State of Missis-
sippi the negroes’ voting power already exceeds
the white by 50,000 ! “Better a race-conflict and
extermination of one of the races, than to submit
to the rule of the majority of ignorant and bar-
barous blacks,” says a local paper. One remedy
proposed is to allow the white women of the South
to vote to balance the negro vote. Many of the
leading Southern newspapers have endorsed the
idea, but all such schemes are mere palliatives.


///Off/fRT //V /tr/F/CA . Of 7i(Lct//6/7j %tp/yacL
iQC/de.r,t of ff/e cSta fjL£y Cufj 3a/ztfelot Co* rEoEErcoy.
//e rd/n came clown //? sleet s , - nay m
Blankets /? youaq man Jett after) a lend In /He Domain Camly
surceymq He IsUu at/'or, 7/ f/raader ftctssec/ Hat May c/acc/a
Tkatrnpjtn ana umffrcUa. Ur's eye fell Uftoy me you!/ SreasUny
tl'e ylacnt a/tua/smtectecL . and. ypausecL ft/ rema/h.. '/tasTy
ram rk/'s, oefter Baca npy umt'reUa - met/ome I'm sure "
/V/fft an. /myaUent cfaslure /ke yeuj/t /eat lay aside
"Hum ' forsoa/Hlftt/s ts a.a rear; Sur a. feady c/eco - b/a/yly
THc/lioft/hd Hat rye. /free yearns c/roccy/jt lol{ c o / />recOcteoL
cooulcf fey’y tart fas a I ready sef~ //p
'/fe v/fer yearly ,yaoj /I all It mas nyclecc/
Tftft as oy /He. flry r I, I
\ A
V**,
IO
Cf/VFKAL /BOOTHS ctf/ftMf HGAW
Ttrst Raw Recruit Hi B/li Saocf aiuay //he Rre c onpes / |
The (/eyera-l cup o?y Rocnßo/pes yu/i "*0 Reef ay o)oy/~ Ry>ectß
SHOUT) D//to ye_ j / ay f/y S/ocoed ff A rfa/oT cfooc cup Tef/ cny c/ruy -
shth. /y /he. 'oust rou-fyoT /ye. copper'"
THE COOE CA
“1. You are requested to coadact yourselves in
jtjtie streets, public places and elsewhere so that
you may not cause annoyance nor give
to other persons. 2. Be always gentle and kind
to others, and especially to the old or weak or
(afflicted. S. Always avoid the use of bad
language* n 0 *“ n i Qr y to property of
othera/i/o ftyNp how great or small £ta value
may jf hind to dumb animals. 6.
l T ndji ofiwnstances be strictly trnthful in
Jgjfffljy- Always remember that you
yb XroyowDjßlhnds the credit of your school
OQr O/Wf/good Dam e, and that this will be
lljindged by your behaviour. Above all remem-
ber the golden rale ot life, ‘ Da unto others as
you would have others do tmlo you.' ”
Small Moy'/tt w CA**ur&*s. gcfe/vShtckup
■fheois {?LCt rales / */>cse y
,q Parley/ Souse - Socially .*ui€ **9**' *■
tJ'KBST/INCE /LND <3/iADOyy
OR. 7~H£ n LC. AND y~HE RAST/NC, AJAN
f3f*ly Scfcyt
N.S.W.
imfS 1
THINGS IN GENERAL.


HERI ABD KEABER
/V u L op \o S
„ pp^E—
P\t
/os I /S
i . __
A I ,T
/\q,a i
2 o 5 • A
His WATHt? fYt
t
I^67u^ I NC,-T'Ko rl ;riEAlEN INTUIT,
Htß,Oi Lf-A N Bl ;c. JuiTJ
mjsEVTnE)R^T, NAL _ Bov y
SOINC,
MRS. POTTER AND MR. REDEEM IN “HERO AND LEANDER,” AT SYDNEY ROYAL.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING STREET —9O
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9i per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months 7 h per cent.
3 Months ... - per cent.
5 per cent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
piomi y T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Liver complaints. —Dr. King’s Dandelion
and Quinine Liver Pills, without mercury, are a
potent —English remedy; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness, headache, sick
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con
Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., L
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
“ Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? 1 16
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Dahms & Co., Kmg-str
Arcade.
W. H.
Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of JXne-yv
PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
Fianos
Society
They are saying up North that you
should never howl too loudly in public about
how miserable you feel at the loss of your loving
wife’s society, because, after all, the whole truth
concerning the reason of her departure may leak
out. The tongue of society has never before
wagged so furiously as in the matter of this high
and mighty scandal.
# * * . , .
The rumoured reasons why a certain big
official’s wife departed for “Home ” appear to be
getting mixed. One story is that the gentleman
was surprised in the giddy act of hugging a parlor-
maid, and another yarn represents the male party
as discovering something for himself. A third
explanation of the mystery is of a purely medical
character, and a fourth hinges upon a widely-
circulated scandal. The safest thing to suppose
under all these alleged circumstances is that the
aforesaid lady suffers from headaches and wants a
change of air.
# * *
The book that is having the largest sale
among women just at present in Australia is
Tolstoi’s “ Kreutzer Sonata.” Of course each
innocent who buys it imagines it is something
about music—as, of course, it is.
#' * *
It is cabled that Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Tooth, of Sydney, were guests of the Prince and
Princess of Wales at a ball at Sandringham. This
message simply goes to show that the Tooths of
Tanglefoot Castle have made enough money out
of sheoak to command the worship of the miserable
cableman.
* * *
His Honor, Chief Justice, Acting-Gover-
nor, the Honorable S. J. Way, etc., who is about
sft. 4in. without his wig, does not like to be called
“ The Acting-Governor ”of South Australia. The
order has gone forth that he must be styled “Th®
Deputy Governor.” The. “ Chief Adulator ” once
hinted to one of the officials in the Supreme Court
that in Hingland, dear old Hingland, it was the
custom for the usher to throw open the curtains
shrouding the sacred precincts of the judicial bench
and call “Make way for His Honor the Chief
Justice.” The hint was not taken, and when the
Chief Adulator in that voluminous scarlet robe
(which would fit that son of Anak, Sheriff Boothby)
enters, the tame old gag of “feilentz the usher
always puts in the final “z ”* still startles the
sparrows from their roosts over the canopy in the
Hall of Justice.
* * *
Miss Georgina Watson, of Bendigo, Vic.,
aged 22 or thereabouts, wants to marry Mr. Paul
Kitz, a member of a well-known Victorian family
the head of which was a pioneer of the southern
wine industry. Miss Watson is entitled to £2OOO
a year, but it is provided in her father’s will that
should she marry without the written consent of
her trustees she loses her fortune. _ The trustees
object to give in respect to Mr. Kitz the desired
permission, saying that they have good reasons
(which, however, they refuse to fully disclose) for
their refusal, and now Miss Watson, in asking the
Supreme Court to interfere on her behalf, deposes
that all her brothers and sisters are willing to
accept the man of her choice. An easy way to
settle the matter will be for the Court, which m
such things is omnipotent, to make the trustees
file their ‘objections in order that they may be
judicially investigated. The attention of the
Court could be very properly drawn to the fact
that Watson was a cantankerous old hunks who,
because one of Miss Watson’s sisters married
Mr. “Billy” Murdoch, the cricketer, without
his (Watson’s) consent, left her only a small
annual income, which he stipulated should be in-
creased greatly if Murdoch died, thus making it ol
direct pecuniary advantage to Mrs. Murdoch that
her husband should leave a world which in the
opinion of all good sportsmen and admirers of
pluck is adorned by his presence. The Bulletin
predicts that Miss Watson will in the long run
marry Mr. Kitz, and now proceeds to give the
young couple the very best blessing which can be
obtained in a world which continues to be ruled
from the tombs of cranky old men.
* * *
By the way, the little Bendigo money-
grubber aforesaid, had a somewhat remarkable
signature. It commenced with a thin stroke
running from right to left, through which ran
about a dozen pothooks, and the “signature”
when finished looked like a single panel of a one-
rail fence with split palings on it. J.B.W.’s
“signature” is the only specimen of his cahgraphy
that he left behind—tor no other ever existed, so
far as is known in a very wide circle. Under the
circumstances, one of the trustees’ objections to
young Kitz, that he isn’t of sufficiently good social
position, is simply beautiful,
* * *
This Kitz and Watson case excites interest-
ing and, indeed, valuable physiologico-psychologico
discussions in mixed companies. It will do a lot
of good by rather Balzackian and Zolaistic means.
If a fellow goes acting up at Big Clarke’s in the
Bohemian amateur performances, he will be
dubbed a crank and miss his heiress.
* * *
A well-known Sydney barmaid has con-
fided to an ancient Platonic friend the signs by
which her real “fellow ” may be told. She spoke
thusly—“ There’s the chap who comes in by him-
self and who makes sentimental remarks for 15
minutes over one drink —that’s not the man.
There’s the chap; who comes in with two friends
and makes familiar remarks and prods you with
his forefinger —that’s not the man. Then, there’s
the chap who comes in all alone and sits in a corner
drinking vigorously for two hours, radiant if he
can get a word with you across the counter every
twenty minutes—but that’s not the man. Again,
there’s the chap who walks quickly up to the bar,
calls for a whisky, gulps it down, winks, and
walks out — that’s the man.
* * *
At a religious gathering in Melbourne, last
week, they wanted to dig down and speak a piece,
as Wizard Oil Prince Weston used to say, out of
the Bible, but nobody had one, till a newspaper-
reporter fished a Testament out of his pocket!
Please bracket this with the fact of all the Mel-
bourne reporters being shown over a big brewery,
IN THE GARDENS.
SHE: “I'VE PUT ON A SOFT HAT THIS TIME. ARE YOU SATISFIED!”
and the astonishment of the proprietor when not
one would take a beer.
# * *
A lot of people are laughing over “ The
Career of Lord Borndrunk,” as set forth in an
English paper. All the humour of the thing lies
in the name—the Honorable Ladies Oonsande,
Ermyntrude, and Neredah- —Borndrunk . Lord
“ Borndrunk ” was created by The Bulletin four
or five years ago.
* # *
The Bulletin is glad to recognise in the
claim made by “His "Excellency,'’ Rear-Admira
Lord Charles Scott that he shall have m Australia
precedence over every Australian Governor whom
he meets at dinner, save only the Governor in
whose colony the dinner is held, one of those
ludicrous errors which help on the nationalistic
movement and show how utterly ignorant British
officialdom is of the public feeling of Australasia.
The Bulletin, with scores of thousands of its
readers, doesn’t care a fig for this precedence
question so far as it concerns the right of a foreign
sea-going potentate in gold lace and a cocked hat
who only represents Queen Victoria when he is
shelling coeoanut-plantations in the South Seas,
to “jump” the seat of another potentate who
does represent Queen Victoria for five years m
one of the provinces of the Australian continent.
That aspect of the matter does not trouble us at
all, for in our hearts we care as little for the com-
mon place and prosaic Queen Victoria and her
commonplace relations as they care for us, which
is precious little, save in so far as the selfish in-
terests of their dynasty are concerned. We are
onlv sorry that the dispute has not arisen between,
say, an Australian Premier or Chief Justice and
“ His Excellency ” the British Admiral. We are
now within measurable distance of the time when
our self-elected Premier and President will at
table in our country take precedence over all men.
# * *
Sing a song of scotty Scott:
Minor people mayors may flummox,
They will not put on the pot
When it doesn’t suit their stomachs;
He, a man of noble breed,
Proud beyond all common credence,
Sacrifices fizz and feed
On the altar of “ precedence.
What a thing it is to be
Bound by rules and regulations !
Noble tars who plough the sea
Think of rank before their rations;
Never yet for etiquette
Was the hungry bard a stickler —
If his whistle he can wet
Free of charge, he’s not pertiokler.
Blessings on our Gracious Queen,
May her shadow ne’er grow thinner I
In her name a lord has been
Forced to go without a dinner.
Lucky they who know not what
Their position in the State is—
We don’t grumble while we get
Any seat for vittles gratis,
# * *
Lady Onslow, the wife of New Zealand s
Gov., gave birth to a son on 14th inst. We hope
that, taking a tip from the Caringtonian Myee,
she’ll call it Hokitika Te Whiti Whakawai
Arawa Onehunga Akarana Ngatimaniapoto
Rangatira Maori Onslow. That would please the
natives and help to strengthen the silken bonds
which, &c.
* * #
The N.S.W. National Club has now prac-
tically “bust,” Sir William Macleay, the
president (who was the club, and “ stood Sam for
it right royally), has, with a number of the more
influential members, sent in his resignation. As
a social institution, the club has now degenerated
into a place where the house-steward daily sup-
plies, at his own risk, a cold eighteenpenny lunch.
MissWllker, the Concord (N.S.W.) mil-
lionairess, has given a cheque for £IOOO towards
the purchase of a steam yacht for mission purposes
in connection with the Church of England Mission
in New Guinea. That doesn’t smack of orange
blossoms, anyhow.
# * *
A Paris jury has acquitted a man who
murdered a widow because she declined to marry
him within twelve months of her first husband s
death. The jury evidently knew a good deal
about widows, and accepted prisoner’s declaration
that the “removed ” lady used to ogle him up to
agony point and then make him raving mad by
prattling about the respect due to the dear
departed. The widow who sits on your lap, and
exhorts you to be patient for the sake of poor,
dear dead Adolphus, is too exasperating altogether.
# * *
Lord Salisbury, it is cabled, remarks that
the proposed visit of the Czarewitch to India is a
sign of peace. Yes, the Russian Bug-Eear will
be minimised by hawking round his cub. It i s
only the unknown that is great or terrible. If
Queen Victoria were to come and walk down
George-st. or Collins-st. with her veil up, the
bubble of distant majesty would burst with a bang;
and if Albert Edward stood for a whole week at
the door of an Australian Mont de Piete, not a
living soul would pass without being firmly con-
vinced that A.E. aforesaid was the public’s uncle.
And if Albert Edward’s eldest son, the alleged
future King of England, stood behind an Aus-
tralian counter, the woman who came to buy
gloves would think that never in all her life had
she been served by so sawney a young giraffe.
* * *
Another building society bung, or bungle.
It is at Bendigo, and the secretary admits plung-
ing for six-thou. It is simply amazing how the
chapel influence in Parliament has kept building
societies from coming under the same inspection
and restrictions as banks.
# « *
Several Melbourne clergymen, who burnt
their fingers badly in the land boom, had the
impudence to lecture the public on Melbourne
Cup gambling. Immortalised in appropriate gold
letters, on a local church foundation-stone, is the
Gold Bug (which his name is Taylor) of that very
same land boom which let so many parsons in.
* * *
It is interesting to learn that Mr. Long,
inspector for the N.S.W. Board of Health, found
56 of the central Illawarra dairies, from which
Sydney derives much of her milk supply, “clean,
but requiring improvement ”—2B “ dirty,” and six
“very dirty.” “Thirty-five of the premises
visited have no closets or conveniences of any
kind, and the numbers in household range from
two to twelve persons.” “An objectionable
practice prevails of leaving milk-cans lying about
the yards and cowsheds ; in many cases Mr. Long
found them lying in manure and dirt.” Ugh ! In
France or Germany quite a number of people
would go to gaol over a matter of this kind.
#* , *
In Lisbon, owing to the antagonism to all
things British, tradesmen have replaced the
announcements “English spoken here” with
“ American spoken here.” Herein is a recognition
of a great and awkward truth. Those who gabble
about the ultimate federation of “the English-
speaking races ” don’t choose to recognise that the
Yankees do not talk English, but talk (and, what
is more, think in) the American language. Nor
will the coming Australian race (the race which
will not be quite certain where its grandfather was
born or what religion he belonged to) talk
English. They will talk, and think in, the
Australian language, the chief characteristics
whereof will be its brevity and its irreverence.
* * *
Ho was a most uncertain person, and as
he was going up for election, two of his friends
we re told off to keep him tolerably sober until
after the poll. Just before mid-day on the date of
]ionimation the guardians aforesaid returned to
head-quarters. “It’s no blanked good,” they
wailed, “no one could keep him sober. He’s
drunk ’a bottle-and-half of whisky this mornin’,
while we’ve only drunk a bottle between us.
# * *
A lecture fully describing Dr. Koch’s new
cure for consumption and his method of treat-
ment is to be delivered at Berlin on 26th inst.
A verbatim report of the lecture should be
cabled to this country. If the press associations
do not undertake to provide such a report, then
the expense should be borne by public subscrip
tion. Perhaps one of the big dailies, the Age,
S.M. Herald, or Argus, will make a plunge on
its own account.
* * *
Water-cycling is now the great British
novelty. How would it suit Sydney Harbour;
You could safely back a blue-pointer shark against
a water-cycle.
* * *
At Avoca (Vic.) a woman of 84 has just
married a man of 54.
* * *
The privates of the N.S.W. Permanent
Artillery were allowed fourpence per day extra
pav while protecting blackleg labour at the mines
a job with which they were heartily disgusted.
On the other hand, those gorgeous creatures, then
officers, were given 10s. daily extra pay while
under canvas, and 16s. daily extra while living at
an hotel. However, we are not sorry to hear this.
It will keep the men’s sympathies on the right
side when the order is given to “Eire low !”
# * *.
The son of a Sydney Judge during the
strike drove one of Lassetter’s drays for pay, out
of sympathy with the employers’ cause. He never
can enter now as an amateur athlete.
# * *
Rejoins a woman whose husband has
advertised that, she having left his bed and board,
he would not be responsible, &c.My husband
had neither bed nor board for me to leave, -tie
had been living at the expense of my father, from
whom he borrowed money to pay (or his lying
advertisement; and even after that dastardly act
he took all the money I had, borrowed every cent,
in my mother’s possession, and left town, -to
the last three months he has been kept fr()I
nakedness and starvation by the . exe . rt, . o " s ;
myself and relations ; he squandered m dissipation
all the money his inborn laziness wou and allow him
to earn. His bed and board, indeed ! If left to
himself his bed would be. nothing.but a board
T should not be surprised if the bed he aiea


—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD
o
HEAD OFFICE :
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES :
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE-37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OP ADVICE
Lord Ulick H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classe
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits
3 Months
6 Months
12 Months
3 Years
0 per cent.
7 per cent.
8 per cent.
9 per cent.
A. MILLER ... .... General Manager.
flat Scott’s Emulsion HasDoae?
Over 2S Pounds G ain in Ten Weeks.
Experience of a Prominent Citizen.
The California Society fob the)
Suppression of Vice, J
San 3?kancisoo, July 7th, 1886.)
I took a severe eold upon
imy chest and lungs and did
mot give it proper attention;
it developed into bronchitis#
and in the fall of the same
year I was threatened with
consumption. Physicians or-
dered me to a more congeni-
al climate, and I came to San
Francisco. Soon after my
arrival I commenced taking
Scott’s Emulsion of Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosphites reg-
ularly three times a day. In
ten weeks my avoirdupois
went from 155 to 180 pounds
and over; the cough mean-
time ceased, c. R. bennett.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“ lE* IE 5 ZEST'S" O-TTHDIE.”
Bent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON. Auctioneers - - 76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
on were made of boards, with a strong cross-beam
overhead. — Sarah A, Jones.” There, now !
# * *
Little sleepy Hobart’s City Council has
decided to light the town by electricity. Marvel-
lous Melbourne, which scorns the island whose
capital is Hobart, and superciliously refused to
entertain the notion of “annexing ” it, still dreams
wer typhoid sowers by gaslight.
» * *
In last Government Gazette (Vic.) is a
detailed statement of the operations of the Albert
Hospital, Melb., which contains a paragraph
giving a list of the patients who died at
jr above the “allotted span” of 70 years,
an d which reads as follows:—“Bricklayer,
a o-e 79, catarrh ; gentleman, 70, inflammation;
lawyer, 80, cancer ; female, 90, senile gangrene ; ”
and so on. We are glad to see a distinction being
made between gentlemen and lawyers, and, in-
ferentially, between “ladies” and “females.”
The hospital authorities are to be congratulated on
the nicety with which they have settled the social
status of their late patients.
# * *
The congregation of East Melbourne
Synagogue recently met together in the Board’s
name to call each other liars, and in a general way
dance upon the injunctions of Moses. Hitherto
the outside world has imagined that when Jews
were concerned in any matter appertaining to
their ancient faith they stood in the corner and
called Heaven to witness that they never carried
on like the Presbyterians, Wesleyans, Baptists,
and similar cornbustionable lambs. Times must
be changing for the worse, however. Up at East
Melbourne the lineal descendants of Abraham
have been shaking their fists, and casting ignoble
insinuations concerning “citrons” at the retiring
chief elder, who wanted to borrow fresh rabbis for
special occasions, and also set up a female choir, a
thing never heard of since the crossing of the Red
Sea. Manwhile the synagogue appears in danger
of going stone-broke without the assistance of the
aforesaid elder, and the whole situation is in-
volved in the bad language and turmoil, usually
associated with primitive Methodism and Chris-
tianity at large. We fear the Jews are becoming
converted.
* * *
The man who marries his first love loses a
lot of fun.
* # *
The S.A. Register is older than South
Australia; the first number was printed in
London. The subsequent numbers were printed
for a long time in a tent on the Adelaide Plains.
Lindsay Cooper, at present on the Register staff,
came out with the first proprietor, Mr. Robert
Thomas, and has been on the paper since the first
copy was struck off.
# # *
The committee of a New Zealand chari-
table institution lately instructed its secretary to
sensible, amiable, virtuous, and good-tempered,
advertise for a matron. She was to be accomplished,
The sec. got her, in fact, he married her.
* * *
Melbourne Evening Standard savagely
whoops for a revival of the duello. Perhaps after
the experiences of a dozen challenges daily, which
the staff would most assuredly have to take up,
some modifications might take place in the
organisms so strongly predisposed to atavism.
# # *
“An Old Maid with a Beard ” writes to
an English paper to say that she doesn’t use
shaving-soap —simply vaseline and a very keen
razor. Handy woman to have about a house.
* * *
Reynolds’ Newspaper talks of Dr. Thorn-
ton, Bishop of Ballarat, Hew Zealand, and the
map printed on the heading of the European
Mail locates Melbourne on the east side of Aus-
tralia !
* * #
Melbourne sassiety has been enthusing
over a life-size water color portrait of Joseph
Clarke. The Bulletin carries several pictures of
the “Baronet’s ” brother in its mind’s eye. But
not water-color pictures, by any means.
* * *
We got hold just now of an old pamphlet
by an Australian Anglican clergyman in opposi-
tion to marriage with a wife’s sister. It shows
how much professional religion is behind the
times in morality. Our piously salacious author
holds that nothing stops even our most revered
spiritual directors from running amok but a code
of theological laws. “Even a father, embracing
his blooming daughter, is only restrained,” says
the writer, by the red tape of Ecclesiasticism.
Why, the aboriginals really have more morality
than clergymen of this sort.
* * *
The latest reports about the Mormon
abandonment rf polygamy place another com-
plexion on it —that is to say, it is apparently to be
an evasion, instead of an owning-up. Even more
influential than President Woodruff, the Platonic
and “ seventeen - wife - jumping - all-into-bed -at-
once-and-who’ll-put-out-the-light ? ’’-abjuring
cessor of Brigham the Brighamous, is Elder
Cannon, who has four wives. Now, Cannon,
speaking at the great polygamic pow-wow a few
weeks ago, said : “ We give in under compulsion,
with so many millions against us.”
* * *
An Adelaide gentleman is about to be sued
for breach of promise by a lady “ with whom he
first became acquainted when ho rashly saved her
sometimeagofrom a watery grave.’’ This,nodoubt,
is the old, old story with a slight variation. She
was insensible, we presume, when he dragged her
out, and lay damp and motionless in his arms
with her hair hanging down like a sodden horse-
tail, and her dark eyes closed, and a pint of water
in each ear. Also, her hands and feet stuck out
straight in front of her, and there were mud and
prawns in her boots ; and under these painful con-
ditions he didn’t like to leave her to drip on the
sand and walk away. But by-and-bye she revived
sufficiently to throw her wet arms round his neck
and tell him the life he had saved should be his,
and then she put her moist head on his shoulder
and drained in silent resignation down the back
of his neck. Most probably he hadn’t sufficient
strength of mind to tear himself away at this
crisis and let her drop in a shapeless heap of
heartbroken female on the shore, so he stayed on,
and didn’t repudiate the arrangement until it was
THE SPECIAL’S RETURN.
HE (loq.): “MARY, WHERE’S YOUR MISSUS AND THE CHILDREN?”
MARY (loq.): “OH. SIR, PLEASE, SIR, MISSUS PUNNED AWAY WI' THE
CHILDER LAST WEEK, AN’ TOOK THE GENTLEMAN AS LODGED
WITH US.”
HE (loq.): “THE CHILDREN, TOO! THANK GOD; THAT’S A WEIGHT
OFF MY MIND.”
too late. A little judicious firmness is needed in
dealing with a partially-drowned spinster, and
the man who hasn’t got it is lost.
* * #
A Melbourne man, charged with nestling
under the bed of a lady hotel-keeper, pleaded that
he had crawled into the wrong room because it
was a peculiarly-built hostel, and his Worship
might have made the same mistake. His Worship
blushed like a poppy and gave the prisoner six
weeks.
* # *
A suburban bar-lounger was the other day
greatly surprised when he saw a prominent blue-
ribbonite who travels on the game hurriedlymopup
an alcoholic beverage at the private window and
depart in peace. Commenting on the astounding
surroundings of this circumstance to thelandlord,
the latter earnestly entreated him not to breathe
a word or he would be ruined. “Lor’ bless you,”
he said, “ I’ve lots of these sorts of customers, and
between ’em they owe me a pretty penny.”
# * *
The latest thing in the way of companies
in Sydney is a proposed Limited Liability concern
to prosecute other L.L. Companies who have
neglected to file an annual summary of capital,
shareholders, &c., in accordance with the Com-
panies Act. The penalty is £5 for every day dur-
ing which default continues, and the promoters of
the new venture, who will play the part of in-
formers, reckon half the fine will come to them.
The claims of the new company for public support
are considerable, and we shouldn’t be surprised to
see a few bishops on the directorate.
*• * *
“Prudery is a perfume which disguises a
vitiated atmosphere.” The Queen of Roumania
is alleged to have written that epigram.
Speaking of the assault on Nationalist
Harrison, M.P., by the Irish police, the Times
calmly says : “ He is a young man, and to have
his head cut open by a bludgeon is only such an
injury as men of his time of life have daily to
encounter in the lawful game of football.”
Colin Mac Master, of Stewart’s Creek, Q.,
who for twenty years has interested himself
greatly in the snake question, concludes that all
snakes have erectile fangs, and that all are more
or less venomous according to the season of the
year. He has no faith even in the carpet species,
popularly believed to be quite innocent, and
advises no one to trust them in the slightest
degree.
It seems very clear now that several
Unionist compositors connected with the N S.W.
Government Printing Office have suffered for
their loyalty to their fellow-unionists during the
strike trouble. A number of others turned
traitors, however, and no sooner did they receive
appointments on the permanent staff than they—
or some of them —sent in their resignations as
members of the Typographical Association.
The latest-discovered “plant” in Pent-
ridge prison is £2OO, in “joey ” notes—“flimsies.”
The warders are all wondering how the bringer-in
evaded the prison-searchers. Bah ! They haven’t
found the lithographing and printing plant yet;
nor the “ accomplices ” outside who “smash ” the
notes, some of which have already got into cir-
culation, Here’s a real live criminal, but what
Melbourne wants is a real live Criminal Investiga-
tion Department.
The Bulletin rises to acknowledge that it
has perpetrated an appalling blunder. A few
weeks ago it stated that Freetrade had so utterly
wiped out British agriculture, and made Britain
so hopelessly dependent on other countries for her
“cheap loaf,” that about six weeks blockade
would starve her into the acceptance of any terms
that might bo offered. Speaking on the same
subject the Age of Steel makes this announce-
ment :
. England is a dependent nation, and with her ports
blockaded and no imports for ten days, the poor of London
would be without a breakfast, and the whole island a poor-
house without a biscuit.
From this it would appear that The Bulletin
was several weeks out in its calculation, and
things are several times worse than it was led to
suppose.*
MEMORIA.
If only in my dreams I may beholfi thee
Still hath the day a goal;
If only in my dreams I may enfold thee,
Still hath the night a soul.
Leaden the hours may press upon my spirit,
Nor one dear pledge redeem—
I will not chide, so they at last inherit
And crown me with the rapture of that dream
Ten thousand blossoms earth’s gay gardens cherish;
One pale, pale rose is mine.
Of frost or blight the rest may quickly perish—
Not so that rose divine.
Deathless it blooms in quiet realms Elysian;
And when toil wins me rest,
Forgetful of all else, in blissful vision
I breathe my rose, and clasp it to my breast!
Florence Earle Coates in October Atlantic.
Celebrities.
It has been a favourite subject with statisticians
to point out the different callings of men calculated
to prejudice or favour longevity. Thus we find it
repeatedly asserted that brain-work and unremit-
ting’ intellectual labour necessarily abbreviate life,
but this is not always borne out by facts. If we
take poets, we find the immortal bard of Avon
called away at 46 in the full development of his
genius. He died in the zenith of his fame, con-
scious of the dawn “presaging a sunburst of pos-
thumous fame.” It is impossible to bring the
language to a more exquisite degree of perfection
than Shakespeare did. In him we find its most
rhythmic genius, the acutest intellect, the pro-
foundest imagination confined in one man, who
truly “ held the mirror up to nature.” In the
famous lines of Dr. Johnson :
Each change of many coloured life he drew;
Exhausted world, and then imagined new,
Existence saw him spurn her bonded reign,
And panting time toiled after him in vain.
Pope, whose unrivalled poetry has charmed suc-
ceeding generations, died aged 56. Byron, who
will live as long as the creations of his genius are
understood, attained the age of 37 ; while Rogers,
the great author of “our eternal destiny,” died at
the ripe age of 93. Turning to German literature
we find that the chill of death palsied the hand of
the immortal Schiller at the same premature age
of 46, at which his great English brother, Shake-
speare, laid down his pen, both dying at the
threshold of their goal, leaving some of their
works half finished. For diction of language and
width of imagination Schiller stands unsurpassed.
Of him it may be truly said
He taught new lands to rise, new seas to roll,
Called into being scenes unknown before,
And passing nature’s bonds, was something more.
Goethe, who as a dramatist, stands still higher
than Schiller, and whose burst of genius is for
ever portrayed in Faust, Egmont, Wilhelm
Meisters, Lehrjahre, and other works, lived to 83.
Klopstock and Wieland, whose creations are full
of magic solemnity, died in the decrepitude of
age. An insight into French literature shows
Voltaire, the nation’s greatest satirist and poet,
wiio in his works discloses the lineaments of his
age, called away at the mature age of 84. Lamar-
tine, the great historian, left this world aged 78.
Calderon, a famous Spanish writer, died aged 87.
Instancing men of science, we find Plato, the
greatest of philosophers, attain the age of 82.
William Harvey, the discoverer of the circulation
of the blood, died aged 79, his famous works but
half completed. _ Among contemporaries we find
the Very Rev. P. Dunne, late Vicar-General of
Albury, N.S.W., who is long past the noon of
manhood, and though ailing for some time is now,
nothwithstanding his advanced age, in excellent
health. This he explains as follows : —I have
used some of Warner’s safe cure while suffering
from pains in the back and loins due to disorder
of the liver and kidneys, and found prompt and
complete relief.” Mr. W. Adams, M.L.A. of
Queensland, who has filled the mayoral chair of
Bundaberg on three successive occasions, though
past the zenith of life, looks well and hearty,
due, as he willingly affirms, to the use
of Warner’s safe cure. The Hon. Geo.
Thorne, ex-premier of Queensland, graduated in
medicine; he retired recently from politics, and
resides in the prosperous town of Ipswich, founded
by his father. Ever at heart the welfare of his
fellow-beings, he says : —“ I have recommended
Warner’s safe cure to many people who have
suffered from different complaints, and in every
case a cure has been effected. Personally I have
used the medicine, and derived the greatest benefit
from it.” Mr. R, 11. J. Reeves, M.H.R., New
Zealand, is of commanding presence, and an able
and popular politician, he endorses the efficacy of
Warner’s safe cure in exceptional terms of praise.
The unanimous verdict of these distinguished
colonists in favour of this specific is convincing
and incontestable proof that it is the surest safe-
guard to vigorous health, as well as the only
means of attaining a joyous and greatly prolonged
existence.


The mad, bad, sad monarch of Holland
has not lived in vain. His conduct has been so
irretrievably and invariably reprehensible that
Alfred Bennett thus uses him in a Sydney
Evhn’nun Noozk display “ad.” to boom the cir-
culation of the “ Jernel ” :
A MAD MONARCH.
A portrait of the recently deposed King of Holland,
with an account of the life of this singular person and his
disreputable sons, appears in the number for November 15
of the
TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL.
This King has recently gone mad, and his conduct
through life was always bad, that of his sons being worse.
The letterpress accompanying his portrait throws some
light on the doings of this
EXTRAORDINARY FAMILY.
HOW HE WON THE GIRL.
My little Maid ’tis you, he said,
Alone are dear to me.
Ah, then, she turned away her head
And ne’er a word said she.
But what he whispered in her ear,
And what he answered too,
' Drink St. Louis Lager Beer,
I love it—so do you.
This little girl you might know,
She was the only daughter ;
I was the only beau
Who bought her Sarsaparilla and Ironwater.
Shipping.
JJOEDDEUTSCHES LLOYD.
IMPERIAL GERMAN MAIL.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1855 and 1863.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (if practicable);—
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Commander.
Leave Sydney [ Leave Mel-
at 11 a.m. bourne4p.m
YARRA
Boulard
AUSTRALIENIDidier
.. Nov. 25
.. Dec. 27
Nov. 28
’Dec. 30
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. OONIL, Principal Agent.
m
a-.
PC
ra
a
m
■ h:i
40,000 lii Use. Record, 179 words per minute.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Fifteen carbon
copies may be struck at one time. Agents—SYDNEY:
J. E. Cunningham, Official Shorthand Writer, Lyndhurst
Chambers, Elizabeth-st.; MELBOURNE: C. S. Cunning-
ham, Shorthand Writer, A.W.F. Buildings, Collins-st.;
BRISBANE; Webster & Co., Mary-st.; ADELAIDE; E.
S. Wigg & Son, Rundle-st.; AUCKLAND: J. Witheby
Jg" ATOOMB A FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NI M MO.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters to be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Caves and
other places of interest.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £BOO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney.
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 29 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55.. post free.
JAPANESE & INDIAN SHOW-ROOMS
335 George Street, Sydney. 335
(Next Elvy’s Music Warehouse),
Inspection Invited.
Japanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China, Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s’
Miss Janet Achuroh’s, Mrs. Brown-Potter’s and Mr. Bellew’s
Photos.
A, OOWNE A t 0., 326 George-st., Sydney
Furniture, etc.
Jolm Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
i&T 60S George Street, Sydney.
Price List A Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
Folding stretcher with wire
MATTRESS. For Hotels, Camps, and
Balcony*. Sizes, 2ft. 3in., 2ft. Bin., 3ft., 3ft. Bin.,
4ft. Bin. x Bft. 2in. Price, 205., 225. Bd., 255., 275.
Bd., 30s. each.
advt
advt
Bedsteads. Half-
Tester and Four-
post, black and brass, lin.
post, extended footrail,
3ft, 30s; 3ft bin, 35s ;
4ft 6in, 40s.
No. 1131, 2in taper foot-
rail, 50s, 555, 60s.
~ 457, hand pol-
ished, 60s, 70s, 755.
~ 464, 2in taper hand
pol., 80s, 90s, 100 s.
Childrens’ Cots, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 455, 50s.
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATRESSES.
2ft 6in 3ft Bft 6in 4ft 6in
No. 0, Single wire 10/ 11/ 12/ 12/6
No. 1, ~ ~ with ply
strands 12/ 13/ 14/ 15/
No. 2, all double wire 14/ 15/ 18/ 20/
No. 3, all cl. close woven
stronger frame ... 18/ 20/ 22/6 25/_
No. 4, the national close double woven, extra
heavy wire and frames, with a division in the
centre. This style is made to suit parties
sensitive to any motion arising from the ordin-
ary spring bed, which this device entirely
obviates. The fabiie is cut through the mid-
dle so that each person has distinct and
separate sleeping arrangements; price, for
4ft 6in, 30s.
Wire Mattresses for cots -
4x2, 10/; x 21, 12/; 5x 3, 15/
| REDDING, best quality-
Paillasses, white Forfar
Mattresses, fiock
~ Java kapok
Java kapok, extrasuper.,
sin. borders, d. thick.
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/ per lb.
Bolsters, hair
~ kapok
Pillows, kapok (lar. size)
~ white Irish goose
feathers
2ft Gin 3ft 3ft 6in 4ft6iu
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
we can SELL at 25
per cent, less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
AWLERS most effective DRAWING-
ROOM SUITE, comprising : —Eull-sized
Circular Settee, two Tub Easy Chairs and six
other Chairs, may be had ebonized and gold, or
the frames polished a beautiful walnut colour.
Spring set, top stuffed hair, and covered in hand-
some silk and wool tapestry, with plush borders.
£27 10s.
advt
LAWLER’S fast-sell-
ing and luxurious
“ Eugene,” spring set
head and full spring set
edge and seat ; uphol-
stered in very best man-
ner, top stuffed hair, and
covered in first-class fancy cretonne, £3 19s.
LAWLER’S “Easiest
of Easies ” —the most
comfortable Easy Chair
made; spring set, splen-
didly upholstered, stuffed
all over, and covered in
Artistic Cretonne, £3 3
If in Repp, £3 15
If in Leather, £5 0
advt
advt
COUCH.- Stained
and polished Wal-
nut or Mahogany and
covered in leather cloth
and castored, £ll2s 6d.
If in best cretonne, £llss
repp, £2 2s Gd ; hair-cloth, £2 15s 6d.
HALL arid LIBRARY FURNITURE,
’ Dining and Drawing-room Furniture, Bed-
room and Kitchen Furniture go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street, Sydney. Write for estimates.
ENQU IRI ES~AN SWE RED and "PRICES
quoted immediately upon receipt of letter.
JOHN LAWLER A SONS,
608 G-eorge Street, Sydney,
Amusements.
JJ* E B MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo, Rignold.
Doors open at 7 ; commencing 8. Carriages at 10.30.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS !
of Hugh Conway and Oomyns Carr’s Exciting Drama,
“CALLED BA.CK.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucioault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in
“A. IKTHGKEaZT OFF,”
or
“ A PAGE FROM BALZAC.”
(By arrangement with Messrs. Williamson & Garner.)
Prices— ss, Ss, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Mrs. POTTER and Mr. BELLEW
in
HERO AND LEANDER.
Prices of Admission —55., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
C C L O R. A. M A.
The Baltic of Gettysburg.
Just added, New and Wonderful Effects: —Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wmunded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOWI
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
O N D I AQUARIUM.
OPEN HAY AND NIGHT.
M. IBBOTT, the fasting man, w’ho undertakes
the task of fasting 40 days and 40 nights in the New
Pavillion specially fitted.
The Aquarium and Fasting Pavillion open at all hours
night and day.
Manager ALFRED WYBURD.
lOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
* Lessee Wm. Larmour.
TO-DAY Git AND FOIL CONTEST TO-DAY
(Saturday), 22nd Nov., at 4 o’clock, for a Purse of
FIFTY SOVEREIGNS, between
Capt. Jennings (Champion Swordsman of the World)
and Prof. Seguy (Champion Foil Fencer of Australia).
Judges: Mr. Sid Broomfield and Prof. Schuch.
Referee : “ Smiler,” of the Referee.
jy The winner will be challenged by Prof. Schuch.
SPLENDID ENTERTAINMENT Commencing at 3.30.
Most select Classical and Sacred Concert every
SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 4 and SUNDAY NIGHT at 8.
See Saturday’s papers and Sunday Times for special
announcements. Admission, 1/-; Children, 6d.
£3O
FOR A FEW MINUTES’ WORK.
JBO
Genuine Education Contests-
Form two words from the letters SWETARIN.
£3O given to those sending the correct solution.
If only one sends correct guess will receive the £3O.
If more than one, then the amount of £3O will be
equally divided. Fee, Is. each guess. Send
N.S.W. stamps. Contest closes certain FRIDAY
next, November 28th. Printed result, winners’
names and addresses posted to all on November
29th. Please note that we have already paid over
£l6O in prizes. Enclose stamped addressed
envelope for result.
Address all letters —
Redfern Property Agency,
139 Regent-street, Redfern.
ARRIETT’S WORD COMPETITIONS.
First prize, £6; second, £4; third, £3;
fourth, £2; fifth, £l. Second competition now
open for most different English words formed
from the letters in the word BOASTINGLY.
No letter to be used twice in any word. All
words must be in standard dictionaries. Obsolete
words and plurals excluded. Closes December 31.
Send early numbered lists, with 2s uncut stamps,
to Madam HARRIETT, Box 214, G. P. 0.,
Sydney. Results advertised.
THE NOAH’S ARK!—Gilbert J. Smith,
Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs, Historical and Fancy Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging-
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc.
Grease, Paints and Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
GILBERT .1. SMITH, Theatrical Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
207 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
3NT e-vxr Masonic EEa.ll,
BATHURST,
Possesses the LARGEST STAGE OUTSIDE the METRO-
POLIS. New Scenery and Latest Appliances. Dress
Circle, with Large Refreshment Room; sitting capacity
for over 800. Fitted with Escape Doors, capable of
emptying the hall in One Minute. Theatrical Companies
and others will be most liberally dealt with.
Address—
“ Manager,” Bathurst.
Miscellaneous.
LU KS’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Sedlmayr’s Bavarian “ Spaten,” “Export”
and “ Tafel" Lager—SPECIALITY.
N E
Furniture, &c.
WT O N AND
L A M B,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE*
WAREHOUSEMEN
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY •
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room^stdf
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TART f
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHATpU
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS’
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will 0 f
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand
305.; without Stand, 255,
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWiNG-ROOM Fashionably
D
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
Letter filing cabinets (Amber^j
all letters found instantly ; no endorsing or
indexing.
advt
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
11l
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK--
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
B
B
E
OARD-ROOM TABLES, all sizes.
EVOLVING OFFICE CHAIRS, with
Adjustable Spring Backs.
NCLOSED and
FITTINGS.
m
Jkon
SAFES,
Yaiuous Sizes.
Newton and Lamb,
Spring & O’Connell
Streets.
advt
JgEDSTEADS, all size
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
advt
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each*
CHEAP FURNITURE. —Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 205.;
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from l" s -
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, t
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar »
boards, from £8 35.; Clothes Horses,
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from /^
N
E W TON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory;
SEEING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Bay Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate.
A HEALTHFUL TOXIC.
Used in place of lemons or lime juice it will
harmonize with such stimulants as are necessary
to take. J
To darken grey hair.— Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. (id. Everywhere.
thf Tes to ratio is nnri valed for
original color n»] r ' ? <l and gra y hair to its
the scalp clean ami healthy B8 ’ Th** for . keeping
and elegant tnii o * ealthy The most popular
who use t "' f Preparation in the world, all
grower When hTefm’ the best hair -
feebled hv m n 6 ca P lllar y glands become en-
imparts rlnlT^T 1 ° r neg,ect - tllis dressing
hair aeain “ e d llfß to the scalp, so that the
again assumes its original
Fullness and Beauty.
hafrl^nktnnup^ B Preparation imparts to the
fragrance r p , tl Cy and a delicate and lasting
ness, to restore fna ei a° n r se H to Prevent bald-
color and abundae 6d am l gla >’ hair to its former
troublesome n ‘ ce ’ and tR re i' eve the scalp of
the suSriST daDdruff - A proof *
others of the kin/iJfi pre P arati on over all
demand for it in u n S - *??? con stantly-increasing
a ‘m toi it m all civilized countries.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED by
"'idb 4 ? 114 ' 0 -, tewell, Mass., U.S.A.
y Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
J LI M ITE 0 )
Vs the most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the pries,
A Seven Octaves. FuU Trichord. Iron Frame. f stent Check Action. litas.
™ Flate ' Cross-Strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. Tha ton,'
to powerful, and pur* In very elegant Black and 6old m
W ainufc Casea. •
This Piano ia introduced by W, IL FIUXQ 4 CO, Lorn-rot for ths
puqmse of meeting a long-felt demand ‘for . good, reliable instrumental an
t easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
.opportunity of supplying hie home with a totclaas Piano at a price heretofore
I paid fortmuch inferior inatrmoect
; Vtf'
eioht r J r Length 4 VlO- Depth 2
“When slovens gel* tidy they polish the
bo ttoms of the p&nsr-When
a
are given
never tired of cleaning up
Two servants in two neighboring houses dwelt,
But differently their daily labor felt;
Jaded and weary of her life was one,
Always at work, and yet ’twas never done.
The other walked out nightly with her beau,
But then she cleaned house with SAPOLIO.
SOLD BY GEOCEES, CHEMISTS, AND IEONMONGEES.
Shopping by Post
the celebrated
ORIENT CLOTHING
FOR
Boys’ and Men’s
Summer Wear
First Quality, Men’s Tweed Suits - 355.
Fxtra Quality, do. do. 40s.
Special Quality do. 50s.
Send for Samples.
SEND FOR A
CATA;PGIE
I*OST FREE.
All Parents should try the ORIENT
for their Boys’
School and Best
'Wear,
GEORGE STREET,
Opposite G.P.O.
S~5r;D ItT lE-ST.
DAVID JONES & CO.
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
TATTERSALL’S
|fIB9O—MONSTER CARRINGTON STAKES-1890
“):(*
50,000 } 20 each. -I 50,000
700 EXTRA 700
REGISTER YOUR LETTERS and ADDRESS « TJS.TTER.SALL **
C/o GEORGE ADAMS, “ Tattersall’s,” Sydney, N.S.W.
down your
ndcK^nd'te^*
, y° u rl_
11 nibs yv\EAN a
RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA
• OR KINDRED ILLS
HAVE,
BETTER
HANDY
a
-4
--tf
■ T)
E XPERTS AND CRYSTALS.
Have you ever examined critically the crystals
used in the bezels of the Waterbury Watches? If
not, then this will suggest so doing at your first
opportunity. Each of the glasses used undergoes
a minute and careful scrutiny in the hands of an
expert—an' expert whose precision and untiring
fidelity appear almost marvellous. Crystals are
often rejected whose defects are so slight as to
escape not only the ordinary eye, but even the
vision of foremen and trained employes in other
branches. Yet, upon taking one of them to the
expert, that person will invariably point out the
fault, and do it, withal, so quickly that one would
almost believe the spot to have been marked for
identification. The testing of crystals, rigid as it
is, is but a sample of the method and care pre-
valent in every branch of the Waterbury Watch
Co.’s factory. Precision is the keystone to their
success ; and therein lies the secret of the wonder-
ful results obtained in the time-keeping qualities
of their marvellously reliable watches at a nominal
cost. The people of Great Britain and of the
United States are eminently practical, while those
of the Australasian colonies are nowise behind
them in this particular, and the continued flow of
acknowledgments received from them could not
be wrung forth by misrepresentation, nor sustained
by anything else than the most deservedly practical
worth.
The accurate and reliable Waterbury Watches
may be obtained from any respectable storekeeper
throughout the colony. Price, series “E ” (the
old favourite), 13s. fid'.; series 1 * J ” and 11 L ” (the
new short winding marvels), with enamelled dials.
225. fid. each.
CAUTION. Every watch manufactured by
the Waterbury Watch Co. has the word
*’ WATERBURY ” printed in fine type upon the
dial, and also the interlaced letters “W.W.00,,”
without which none is genuine.
CASHMERE BOUQUET
TOILET SOAP
Is made with the UTMOST care from material
selected with the
GREATEST REGARD TOR PIRITT,
And for the soothing and beneficial effect whiclj
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Gi-olc3. Medal, Faria, 1889
11 Unequalled in Quality and Perfume."
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors.
Strictly Original matter contributed to Tiir Bulletin
w {ll be paid for. The Editor will be (jlad to receive and
consider contributions as under :
I. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must be made in clean lines
of Indian ink on white paper or Bristol-board.)
g. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
$. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
I. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especially
those suitable for pictorial ill astral ion.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
words. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Sire Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. The
nam?, and address of the writer must appear, in al l
cases, on the, MS. itself, and not merely on an accompany
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Rejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort will be made to return them.
The Editor does not undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecliny rejected Manuscripts,
Ingersoll says, criticising a lady’s article
on modesty in dress: “What a curious opinion
dried apples have of fruit upon the tree l' :
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
According to the last balance-sheet of
Tooth and Co., Ld,, the big Sydney brewers, they
value their brewery, rolling-stock, and pubs, at
£580,000, and the modest little sum of £300,000 is
owing to them —by publicans, presumably.
The Australian Star proprietors have
started a fond in aid of the distressed strikers. A
very laudable action, indeed, but considering the
tone adopted by the soi-disant democratic paper
during the labour-fight, it looks to The Bulletin
like pouring oil into the wounds of the man you
have just helped to knock down and choke.
Mr. H. H. Champion writes in the Age :
I have a right to point it out to you, because nine weeks
ago I showed you how a frank acknowledgment of your
errors alone could save you, knowing, as I said at the
time, how thankless the task was, and accepting the in-
evitable consequences to myself, for / have seen too much
of workmen not to be aware that they are still in the
stage of intelligence of the baby who, when it burns its
fingers in the fire, vents its spite on the fender designed
to prevent it from the consequence of its want of know-
ledge. lam not prophesying after the event.
There are seventeen more “ I’s ” to follow, but as
that unhappy vowel is feeling very much ex-
hausted, the rest of the essay is held over.
A little suburban paper publishes an
alleged poem by Fitzgibbon, town clerk of Mel-
bourne, on the subject of the strike, What that
cart-horse bard did to the editor to induce him to
print it is not known, but it is presumed that he
either scared him into it or paid for the thing at
advertising rates. Here is a sample hunk
To their saddles the brave farmer yeomen quick spriiw
And their horse-hoofs and sabres right merrily riiw
Out an anthem of freedom from tyrannous cant, °
And wild socialist, nihilist, single-tax rant.
These lines should be tittered in a loud voice to
bring out the full flavour, and the speaker should
assume a martial aspect and pound upon his chest.
ihe other day some of the Walgett
(N.S.W.) Chinese having obtained an order
authorising the exhumation and removal of the
bodies of three of their countrymen, proceeded to
the local cemetery and started'ahead at the resur-
rection business. Shortly afterwards the cus-
tomers of the Chinkies were delighted (or
otherwise) at the sight of the “Johns ” trudging
gaily along the main street, carrying all that was
left of their mouldering friends in the baskets
daily used for hawking vegetables. The first
Ohow who carted his welly ni* cabbage ” round
next morning was fired-out and “ welly ” nigh had
Ins neck broken by an indignant vegetarian, upon
whmh ho hobbled away and informed a friend
that Missee Blank getee too dam ploud since he
come back from Sydney.”
The honesty of the paper run by Nicholas
Willis, A. G. Taylor and Co. is gaugeable from
the fact that it seeks to make The Bulletin
editorially responsible for the opinions expressed
in a correspondent’s letter to this journal. In
double-columning two Bulletin extracts, the
circumstance that one of the cuttings is taken from
the “ Plain English ” column and the other from
“P.J.’s.” letter printed in the same issue is
maliciously suppressed. That is an inferential way
of telling a lie. Then the two extracts are
labelled “ Plain English ” —which is the lie direct
and deliberate. The new organ, being a hopeless
failure in artistic mendacity, had better stick to
the point at issue, which is the transparent selfish-
ness of Taylor, Willis and Co. in bursting-up, for
the sake apparently of £3OO a year and a com-
mercial advertisement, the West Sydney election-
arrangements of the N.S.W. Associated Trades.
It is a noteworthy circumstance that the
man who preaches about the blessedness of poverty
is always an individual with a big salary and a lot
of money in the bank, and the person who wants
to know why the workman isn’t contented never
did any work himself, and. invariably wears a
dress-suit, and goes to the circle at the opera.
“If Providence made me a poor man,” said ?
Sydney employer the other day. “I wouldn’t
waste my time in senseless agitation. I would
rather take a shovel and go digging for any wages
I could get.” And three other employers who
were standing by applauded the sentiment, regard-
less of the fact that the speaker had inherited his
pile from his father, and had done nothing all his
life but accumulate fat, and the last time he saw
his own feet with great difficulty ov'er the horizon
of his stomach was in the blessed year 1879.


Companies.
The British ami New South Wales Investment
and Financial Co., limited.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, 1874.
Capital, £250,000.
Sydney Office : 216 PITT STREET.
toILLS DISCOUNTED and Immediate Advances granted
-D Daily. Country communications promptly attended
to. The following Rates of Interest are allowed for Fixed
Deposits:—
3 Years
12 Months
6 Months
3 Months
10 per cent.
9 per cent.
8 per cent.
7 per cent.
With a Guaranteed Bonus on Renewals of Twelve Months
and over.
By order of the Board.
C. E. CUTTEN, Acting Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,800; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
Head Office i lilt I; Market Streets, Sydney.
Board of Directors :
Francis Abigail, Esq., M.P., Chairman; Add. S. G. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassell, Esq., M.P. ; William Bull, Esq., J.P. ;
Robt. Cunningham Esq.
GOULBURN BRANCH: AUBURN STREET,
C. H. Atkinson, Manager.
A dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, (the last) declared
on July 29, will be payable on and after the 11th August.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. Board days. Wednesday and Friday. Special
advantages granted to Commercial Clients. Overdrafts
granted against deposit of Deeds without mortgage.
The Highest Rates of Interest given far
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M‘NAMARA, General Manager
THE WAY TO WEALTH,
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market.
The majority of the wealthy men of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane made their money by buying land in these
capital cities while it was low in price, and befoie these
cities were so large and populous as at present.
Western j£&. "vl s"t ca, I- 3. sa.
is the coming colony. Her Capital City will become
a second Melbourne or Sydney.
If you want to make money, hay land
there now. It is a good spec.
GRAND BUILDING SITES AT PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
FROM £lO TO <SSO.
TERMS, jrom £1 Deposit. Very easy payments.
NOTE.—The allotments offered arc in picked posi-
tions, they have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed
good.
Write for Marked Plans to
The INTERCOLONIAL (Western Australian)
INVESTMENT COMPANY, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
DISEASES
OF THE
EYE, EAR, NOSE,
THROAT &c.
Diseases of the eye, ear, nose and throat
of a difficult and complicated character have
been cured by
Dr. Gr. H. BAYMOMD,
The Eminent
Botanic Physician, Specialist L Medical Writer,
Even after the leading specialists and general physicians
and surgeons of England and the Colonies had experi-
mented In vain. A pamphlet of testimonials, opinions of
the press, and elaborate dissertations will be sent on
receipt of a penny stamp. Works acknowledged by the
Princess of Wales. Address—
-62 Wynyard-Square, Sydney-
A few opinions of the Queensland Newspapers concern-
ing Dr. RAYMOND’S skill and Treatment:
“ This gentleman, after a stay of some four months in
Blackall, has returned to Clermont, where, on a prior
visit, he performed some clever auricular and ocular cures.
During Dr. Raymond's stay in Blackall he has performed
several grand cures, especially with the eye, and we wish
him success wherever he goes. In eye complaints the
Professor is perfectly at home; his treatment is simple,
decisive, effectual 'and lasting.”— Western Champion,
Blackall, Queensland, ISSS.
“ We can vouch for a number of his cures, as the
patients have presented themselves several times to us for
inspection, and we believe that they are very lucky to be
able to see at all. The Professor is certainly a wonderful
man.”— Norman Chronicle, Northern Queensland, 1885.
“ From personal knowledge, as well as abundant testi-
mony, we are in a position to state that Professor Ray-
mond has effected some marvellous cutes.”— llughbndoM
Ensign, North-Western Queensland, ISSS.
“We have seen several testimonials to Professor Ray-
mond’s skill from well-known people in the town and dis-
trict.”— Daily Bulletin, Townsville.
“ His many permanent cures of very difficult, and in
some instances almost hopeless cases, have been very
favourably commented on by the whole press, both in the
southern and northern portions of the colony.”— Coor-
•<wn Courier, 1885.
Dr. G. H. RAYMOND, the eminent specialist in diseases
of the Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat, and professor of Medical
Botany,' may now be CONSULTED at 02 WYNYARD-
SQUARE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AN IDEA OF BLISS.
Teacher • “ Now, little girl, I have told the class about the wicked place being paved
with good intentions. Now what do you suppose heaven is paved with V ’
L. G. (with a delightful recollection of a fresh air pic-nic): “Bananas, ham sarnwiehes,
an’ pie ! ” —Ex.
fMMi
3=i.c»srs& 1 Hotel] T. BROWN, Proprietor. tRanawick.
Specially adapted for Families. j£3P“ Trams Stop at Door.
AarcKS’ Slxcliauge 3EEot:e>l, Sydney
»*•
t
» KMI '■ •:■ ■
*
wmmm
'tUOIBlO PHOTO ENfi. 00-. 8 BSlDCf-ST,. SYMEV.
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
Mining’, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in tlxe Building’.
TELl-GTiAll 1, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
130 You Smoke **?
If so treat yourself to an article so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
excelled.' The tobacco we want you to try is the “DEAD BlBB ” brand. In colour it is a rich
dark brown and is the finest quality of American tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
for a single* plug or a packet ’of lb i Long Cut, and, after hav ng once tried it, you will nev* r
change it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco in any form—as a
Mixture Long Cut, or Curly Out, for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing up.
’ We can send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight.
For
PRICES :
/ Single Plug, as sample, Jib ... 1/0
\ Single Packet, as sample, Jib... 2/-
Send Slumps for any of these amounts, and ice will forward to any part of N.S. TV. (post free.)
agents i CHAIG A AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Parleigh.; KTettneim, & 00,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 -T- YORK 4- STREET, 4- STD TST IB IT.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
Ai go Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including- MACHINERY ,
IMPORTED LEATHERS &c.; and of the following Special Lines : Peerless Bloss, .Satin Polish, Nubian
Blacking Tanners’ Tools and Materials. I3F - Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVEI V
and HA PIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC ”
prepared according to the formula of Dll. HAINES
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food „ui
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the pathnf ■
necessary ; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a r*ennJ> lf
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker l Ueilt
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS pfinvi l
IT. It operates so quietly and with such certainty that ti
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware v
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with’ f-i
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return. Ilul
BEWARE of worthless imitations and plagiarism* f
our Advertisements. We have no Agents. ’
Note our Sole Address :
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 So 147 Collins Bt., MEIiBOUENE, Vin
MROSE’SI^
W,
W.
%
X
£
mmm
&
ES/T
PHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SVi'Kl 1 1\ ( .
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and nos
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very Len’e’
licial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes, lliyhiv
recommended by the leading Oculists. "
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
IES. Jk. o B.OSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chniist
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Egtahlifhed 1868. By Post Ss. CJ.
;3f“* Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTIIAN’S GOUT ami
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
la a pure, fragrant," non-gritty tooth powder, and
■warranted free from acids or other ingredients which
destroy the enamel; it whitens tho teeth, prevents and
arrests decay, strengthens tho gums, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath.
„ soothing, healing and emollient milk for the .acs
and hands, and is most cooling and refreshing to .he
skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sanaara,
roughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cu-s.oco.iB
eruptions, &e., soothes and heals prickly heat. E.mgs
of insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irr.ta.ioa
more effectually than any other preparation, anu pro-
duces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion,
it is warranted harmless, and free from any leas
poisonous ingredients.
ROWLASO’S lUKGHIA,a fragrant toilet, warranted free..oa
bismuth or metallic ingredients, which rum tho com'
plsxioa; in three tints—white, cream, and rose. htJ
any chemist cr druggist for Rowland s arucle. ■
m
of Rowland’s Mac^sssr
1, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some Bhopit ~
:er spurious imitations under the lure of being
o principle on which each is fc( 20i
lely to the knowledge of A. Rowland A S < , j
atton Garden, London, therefore 0(]()r , 0
■eessary to buy noMaoassar Oil.Ka y their
:cept those made by them, and .which he
ime in red ink on the wrappers.
Business Announcements.
(*. H. SMITH & awm
MANUFACTURERS ft IMPORTERS OF
PTII'P fllO 0 ?IPP.
302 George Sti eet, Syd n ®b
3 Doors South of Hunter Street.
M
A lAiye A 3S ° n
aunt of an<l
Fren> h O.oJ* W"
the best Makers If
choose from.
Every description
Of lIA IS and
undo M Order.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH, Oxford Street, IoNDOS.


Medical Reform!
Consult
/FREE BY \
V LETTER )
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Expert Specialist in all Private Complaints, Barrenness and Nervous Diseases.
m
r ITAliI¥
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility ana
Lost Vitality.
22s. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box 5s. Cd.
Only Herlbalist in Anstralia
Tliat has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries ; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 PATIENTS
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
vitality Registered,
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225, (id. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d
0-e23ti.X'a.:i.2a.c2 Tes-fclaai3.csKra.iOils.
To lIK HR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
had failed. —JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
.Benefactor, I have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious
» lt w U n\ , the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
JMACr ARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
0 . , J ii' B BASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, I hereby thank you for the great cure your remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always
'■® c ; 0 T ll “'; e i l > d you to sufferers from Nervous Debility. THOS.
MUDIMAN, Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,- It gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend your remedies to all.—-
x ours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
a- 1^0 T 1 !™ 1 . 1 BASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
j lr > ' hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
foi a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
T 0110 course of your Vitality Pills being sufficient.—D.
M‘iNEILL, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
4, u
of tlxe Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years. —Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important cures effected by his remedies.—Sydney
Evening News, March 7, 189 C.
BCerr Rassmussen’s ZElertoctl E=s.exM.ea3.ies. (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d. .
LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d.
By Post, Is. extra per course.
CONSULTATION AND ADVICE FREE.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness, sent
free, on receipt of 4d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by post, free. Patients’ blood and urine, when sent by post, are examined with the aid of the Microscope
Address: - Herr RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
208, Greneral Fost Office, Sydney.
All correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
All the above Remedies may be obtained personally at the DENMARK AGENCY, 58 (up stairs) Royal Arcade, Pitt Street, Sydney.
T
CE
ITALUY
A Guaranteed Cure
for
Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
22s. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box 5s. 6d.
Medical,
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
OF
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
Who Has Cured.
More Oases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
ItST* ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE,
Notice.—lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN CERTIFICATE. —One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, ISBS.
To H. P. Kugelmaxn, Esq.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
tiken ill about three years ago with a sev ere cold, which
t rued into Bronchitis and became chronic. 1 consulted
•more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but I became worse every day, wasting away until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last i began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter ]
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. I agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken had one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time 1 commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coining, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
Bounty of Grant, this 10th day of December, 188 S.
Peter Smytiie, J.P.
A POSITIVE CURE.
D\ BOHANNAN'S Curative Remedies for all Private
A Kuvofs, and Special Complaints. Always reliable,
descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
NSW Jletlo b ole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
A
GOLDEN
SHANTY
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Everybody Should Read
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
o
In Handsome CLOTH BINDING, 2s. 6d., Post Paid.
lndelible
Marking' Ink
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of tub Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist . '‘l have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. —Signed, Wm. Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing 1 ,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with IiKASS or WOODEN mi EELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
LICHTJNER & CO.,
SYDNEY:
318 GEORGE STREET
BRISBANE
9 ELIZABETH STREET
A SPOILED PLATE.
M.IA4
OAn
* ,»
A
e
3<S
“ You press the button—— We do the rest.”
SEND FOR OUR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
—OF—
CAMERAS, LENSES, CHEMICALS, MAGIC LANTERNS
And all Articles appertaining to PHONOGRAPHY.
):(
CHEAP AMA-TETIJR OUTFITS.
Medical.
DR. A, PATERSON
A.M., M.D., C.M., P.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.,
157
( ELIZABETH STREET,
I ®yc3.xxey.
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, ERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “ Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
MT Consultation Free. ISSI
<b£
y Pa
<s>
<(/
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM /
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
■® °ad Stre^
V°
Beware of imitations: The genuine is sigaed
M
TBADE MARK MUSK DKEB


Effectually Cured by
_ WATSON S GINGER-
BREAD WORM NUTS, a perfectly safe and certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepers, and
by the Proprietor, John Watson, Chemist, 581 George Street,
Sydney, In Boxes, Is.; by Post, Is. 2d.
WORMS IN CHILDREN
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—lt is grand.
Tlie popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly-
We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which should be a guarantee that clients will
be fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body
Government Advertisements^
Department of Public Works,
Sydnev, November 19. ison
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 26.
Iron Bridge over Yale Creek at Perth near
Bathurst—Contract No. 1, Ironwork
Contract No. 2, Erection, &c. (Alternative
tenders will be received for Ironwork' ami
Erection Complete in one Contract)
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Picton
Bridges Nos. 1 and 2, in approach to Greg (j re „
River, Road Tumberumba to Murray River r
Construction of Wharf, Ox'ey Island, Manning
River b
Laying and Jointing Pipes on main line, from
Ryde Pumping Station to Chatswood
Reservoir
Erection of Fence, Court-house, Junee
Erection of Bridge, Currekei Creek, at Cooloiro-
look
Construction of Hand-geared Punt, Ash Island
Ferry, Hunter River
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Wickham
Bridge, Mulamuddy Creek, road Wallerawang to
Mudgee
Erection of Cottages, Coast Hospital, Little Pay
(fresh tenders)
Construction of Closets, Dawes Battery Barracks
Contract No. 66, Sydney Sewerage (Potts Point
drainage)
Brick or Stone Culverts, No. 1 and 2, Boundary-
road, Centennial Park
ANNUAL CONTRACTS, 1891.
Government Architect.
(Deposit of £20 required on account of eacn
(Deposit of £10 required on account of each of
the following Contracts.)
Supply of Building Stone, Parramatta Gaol
Supply of Building Stone, Maitland Gaol
Sweeping Chimneys, Public Buildings, Sydney
Supply of Coffins
Winding, Regulating and Supply of Clocks
Supply of Furniture
Supply of Chairs
Supply of Carpets
Supply of Blinds
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS, 1891
Department of Public Works.
(Deposit of £20 required on each of the follow-
ing contracts) : —
Ironmongery, Leather Belting, &c.
Brooms, Brushes, &c., Steel
Plate, Bar Iron, &c., Anchors, Chains, &c.
Copper and Lead Pipings, Castings
Engineer’s Stores, No. 1, Rope, &c.
Engineer’s Stores, No. 2, Kauri Pine
Oils, Paints, &c., Cement
Ship Chandlery, Quarry Tools
Awnings, Tentf, &c., Draftsmen’s Materials
Indiarubber Goods, &c.
Hardwood, Oregon, &c
Wrought Iron Manufactured in New South Wales
Wrought Scrap Iron Forgings
Wrought Iron Angle Bucket Links
Draftsmen and Surveyors’ Instruments
Boats, clinker and carvel built
Drain Pipes, Western District
Drain Pipes, Southern District
Drain Pipes, Northern District
Drain Pipes, Metropolitan and Illawarra Districts
Supply of Coal for Sydney
Ditto ditto at Wollongong
Supply of Coal at Lake Macquarie
Conveyance of Coal —
Newcastle to Hastings River
Ditto Bellinger ditto
Ditto Clarence ditto
Ditto Macleay ditto
Ditto Richmond ditto
Ditto Manning ditto
Ditto Camden Haven
Ditto Tweed River
Ditto Nambucca River
Ditto Cape Hawke
Wollongong to Moruya River
Ditto to Shoalhaven, ditto
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10.
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, Ac., Contract No. 1,
Richmond Water Supply,
Iron Bridge, Alumny Creek, Pound-street, Grafton
—Contract No. 1, Ironwork, Ac. Contract
No. 2, Erection. (Alternative tenders will be
received for Ironwork and Erection Complete
in one Contract.
Repairs, Ac., Wharf at North Forster, Wallamba
River
Construction of Landing Stage, Taylor’s Arm,
Nambuocra River
Erection of Stamp Office, Phillip Street
Bridge, Narara Creek, road Gosford to Popran
Wharf, Eatonville, Clarence River
Wharf, Gladstone, Macleay River
Additions Courthouse, Broken Hill (fresh tenders)
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Silverton
Erection of Courthouse, Ulmarra
Erection of Bridge, Bebarengar Creek, road
Warren to Never tire
Bridge, Murwillumbah Creek, at Murwillumban
Bridge, Shingle Hut Creek, road Armidalo to
Castle Doyle
Bridge, Duval Creek, road Armidale to Maryland
Erection of Quarters, Benevolent Asylum, Mae-
quarie-street, Parramatta
Bridge, Shea’s Creek, at Ricketty-street, Botany
wednesdayTJanuary 21.
Construction, &c., of Railway Bridges, Leicester
and Wilson Creeks, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Construction of 1st Section Lismore-Tweed Rad-
way. (Plans, Ac., to be seen after 1st Dec.)
BRUCE SMITH.
The Referee
The owner of Cuirassier has been telling some
particular friends to watch that brilliant disappointment
in the autumn, by which time he is expected to be fit
enough to justify his importation and out-Carbine
Carbine.
* * *
An absurd rumor was chucked about after the
Cup to the effect that Donald Wallace intended sending
Carbine “ home.” Of course he didn’t, and if he did, we
wouldn’t let him. The public prefere Carbine to the
totalisator as a money-making machine.
* # *
“ Luck ” is sometimes more apparent than real.
The Bulletin knows a youth who backed the double,
Vengeance and Carbine for the two Cups. After Ven-
geance got in one leg of the double, the youth laid off
£250 out of the £5OO with a second bookmaker. Bookie
No. 1 appears to have departed for regions unknown.
Bookie No. 2 continues to pay and receive—and he wants
that youth’s £250.
* # #
Twenty-four hours after the Cup each of Mel-
bourne’s “popular” barmaids was the proud possessor of
a huge wisp of “Carbine’s tail,” presented to her by one
brainless idiot or another. At the end of the week the
sane man who was asked to admire the fiftieth wisp-
each of the fifty being of different colour and texture
began to wish that “The Cup” was a Cycloramic institu-
tion and that Carbine had never breathed, save only on
the deathless canvas. The mighty intellect that pulled out
some of h s own grey mare’s tail on the road home from
the Cup and gave it to his pet Hebe as a souvenir of Car-
bine’s capillary appendage deserves public recognition in
some way as yet undecided upon. Anyhow, there are
sufficient locks of Carbine’s back-hair on view in Mel-
bourne just now to furnish fundamental fringes for a field
of 39.
* # *
A church-going bookie was absent on a late
Sunday owing to a little affair in which fighting-cocks
and steel-spurs had a big say. The parson missed him—
Stiff-’un always drops a sovereign in the plate —and asked
the missus his whereabouts in the porch. “ John could
not come to church to-day,” she replied. “ The fact is,
he has to do a little betting, but he told me to say he is
with you in spirit!”
* * *
It is appropriately pointed out, in Melbourne,
that Hickenbotham, trainer of Carbine, has been left
almost out in the cold without winnings. They are sub-
scribing for him.
# * *
Joe Thompson once said to a Melbourne sport-
ing man : “ \Ve have always to make out that the
‘ books ’ are hit over the Cup. Suppose I have a matter
of £lO,OOO or £12,000 to get in from small backers—why,
they wouldn’t pay me if they thought I’d made a haul.”
His worst year was Chester, over £12,000 out. After
crying wolf so long, the “bookies” are really hit over
Carbine, and some have to beg time.
* * *
After seeing a large photo, of Carbine, correct-
ing one’s hasty impressions of him in the field, we declare
that none of the engravings are a bit like him, being too
short in the barrel, too small in the head—too fine-drawn
altogether—whereas he is rather a thiokish horse.
* # #
The Duke of Portland doesn’t “tip” his jockeys
anything worth mentioning, on the ground, probably,
that a man who has to be indirectly bribed to run straight
could be bribed to run cronk. It is a sound argument,
and suits Portland’s pocket.
* * *
The following are names and addresses of persons
who drew placed horses in “ Tatt’s ” big affairs this year:
—Caulfield.—2s,ooo: 1, W. Brendemuhl, Inkerman,
near Dunolly, Victoria, £4500; 2, M‘Gee and Duncan, c.o.
J. J. Bliss, Armidale, N.S.W., £1350; 3, J. H. Clayton,
214 Drumraond-street, Carlton, Victoria, £9OO. Mel-
bourne Cup.—so,ooo:l, Tommy Japan, Thursday Island,
Queensland, £22,500; 2, S. Beattie, High-street, West
Maitland, N.S.W., £4500; 3, J. Hickey, care of Mr.
Skinner, Bullabadah, N.S. W., £lBOO. No. 1, 50,000 at 10:
I, R. Stratton, care of T. Deane, Mitchell, Queensland,
£9OOO ; 2, A. Carlyle, “ Cooma,” 72 Morris-street, Williams-
town, Victoria, £2700; 8, Mrs. A. Allsopp, care of L. and D.
Company, Williamson-street, Sandhurst, Victoria, £lBOO.
No. 2, 50,000 at 10 : 1, Lomer and Co., care of Mr. J.
Scott, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W., £4374 ; 2, Robert
Tarin, 231 Goulburn-street, Sydney, N.S.W., £1312 45.;
3, E. W. Lloyd, care of A.M.L. & F. Co., 122 Williani-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, £874 16s. No. 10,000 at 20;
1, W. Hutchinson, care of J. Jolly, Walhalla,
£3303 ; 2, B. Gillmore, Commercial Hotel, O’Neill Creek’
Greymouth, New Zealand, £1321; 3, M. Meskill,
N.S.W., £660 12s.
* # *
The famous jumping-horse, Rosebery, surpassed
its former record by clearing 7 feet 1 inch, at Toronto,
recently.
* * #
Harry Dunn, who beat D. C. Ross, wrestling
in five styles, at Dunedin, recently, has been challenged
by a Maori, named Uru. Have you ever read “ Pakeha-
Maori’s ” graphic account of his wrestle with the old-time
chief?
• # #
Goddard has finally refused to sign articles to
fight Jackson in Sydney for £llOO. As he telegraphs
over to say that he is not to blame, an agreement with
some Melbourne club must stand in the way. It is said
that Jackson leaves for America by the next mail. After
the Dooley affair, Peter apparently does not care to fight
the Melbourne referee.
* * *
The N.Z. galloway, Bigness, showed the good
one he is by carrying 6st. lllhs. into such prominence in
the Warwick Farm Handicap. The winner, Dolosa, also
hails from Maoriland, and is a full sister to Whakawai,
one of the sensational horses for the ’B9 Melbourne Cup.
Doiosa’s stable did not plank very much on their chance
as her poor performance at Rosehill on the previous
Saturday ran them off. The drawer of Hugo, the third
horse, in Tattersall’s sweep, offered Giltinan 100 to “ nix ”
and pay all expenses if he would allow Harris to ride, but
Giltinan preferred to take the mount himself. Had Harris
been up, the result might have been different.
# * #
Laing, who, while suffering from exhaustion
after illness, was beaten by Slavin after a tough struggle
in five and a-half rounds, is coming to Sydney from Maori-
land.
* * *
A ’Frisco paper says that general opinion in-
clines to the belief that Ike Weir was handsomely paid to
lose his fight to feather-weight Murphy. Apropos , if the
latter artist really wrote from Australia to America the
letter attributed to him in re his fight with Griffo. t>e had
better clear out of this country altogether.
* # #
Of Police News Fox’s offer to back him
against Slavin for £5OOO, Sullivan says: “Fox’s one
ambition is to find a man to whip me, and in this case he
is trying to bluff me, for he knows that I would not accept
Madden as a trainer. Pox is only after an advertisement.
I shall not fight again, certainly for not less than $25,000
aside. Acting pays much better than fighting. 1 have
made barrels of money this season. You can bet your
life that the stage is a better game than the ring.”
# * #
If practice makes perfect, what magnificent
fields the Warwicks should become! On Saturday,
against Belvideres, they put in another afternoon in the
field—Moses and Richardson, 125 and 113, not out. It is
a farce for the Warwicks to play against the young and
vigorous Sy dney' senior clubs. The time has arrived when
they' should dissolve partnership and intermingle with
other elevens.
# * *
Humphrey Oxenham was having a remarkably
busy time on Cup day when a lady speculator kept
bothering him as to what he was laying about certain
horses. Oxenham lost bis patience at last, and upon her
asking him, “ What price Little Bernie?” be replied; “ If
you will only go away I will lay you a hundred pounds to
nothing!”—and the wager was actually booked in her
name.
* * *
For some days previous to the Stanbury-
M’Lcan race it was an open secret that Stan bury was not
himself, and his break-up on Monday showed that there
was truth in the rumour. Stanbury showed better pace
than his opponent, and ere half-a-mile had been covered
it was any odds upon him, but M‘Lean passed him
before the mile beacon was reached, and the race
was then virtually' over, for Stanbury went all to
bits, and McLean had merely to paddle over the rest
of the course. It is said that “Johnny” Deeble wanted
to forfeit, but Peter Kemp thought Stanbury could win
despite his want of condition. Stanbury’s forte is con-
sidered to be strength and staying power, and it is very
unlikely that he was beaten on his merits on Monday last:
* * *
However, there is this to be remembered :
Hanlan emphatically prophesied that M‘Lean and no one
else was the coming champion.
# # *
Again The Bulletin draws the attention of
punters to Faina, a racing-looking filly owned by the
Hon. W. A. Long. She is worth watching.
* # *•
Baron started at 3 to 1 for the Hurdle Race at
Warwick Farm on Saturday, and was winning easily, when
he rushed the first hurdle in the straight and came a
cropper, young Kelso narrowly escaping severe injury.
He was sufficiently recovered, however, to ride in the last
race.
# # #
The Choynski-Fogarty fight has been post-
poned for a week in consequence of a strain sustained by
'JZIASMAJn IMK\ MO 131
M92TU3O HAWrHJUTIZ A3IH
))ZM3W2 3JAT M3M
CUSTOMER: “ WHO TALKS ALL THESE FOREIGN LANGUAGES HERE?”
BARBER: “WELL ITS THEM FOREIGNERS THAT COME HERE, SIR!”
the latter while swinging a blacksmith s hammer. By
the way, the Australian Athletic Club Hall (late Darling-
hurst Skating-rink), where the contest takes place, is said
to be the largest and best fitted-up institution of the kind
in the world. It contains at one end a billiard-room with
two tables, a bar, and reading-room with piano ; at the
other end, bath and dressing rooms. The building wid
seat several thousand people, and is fitted-up with all the
latest gymnastic paraphernalia. In the basement is a
skittle-alley and rifle-range. Larry Foley, Maber, a
gymnastic teacher and a very obliging secretary are in
constant attendance.
# # *
In the far, far distant past, when old “ Merks ”
such as “ Tom ” Strange, “ Ted ” Hall, “ Jim ” Mackenzie,
“Nick” Lockyer, “Joe” Smart, “Alec.” Finlayson,
“ Jack ” Wilkinson, “ Joe” Walford, “ Bod ” Keddie, and
other old hands were young at the game, the writer recol-
lects “Davey ” Fletcher as an active member of the Mer-
cantile Rowing Club. “ Davey’s ” record is phenomenal.
He has started in three hundred and fifty-two, or there-
abouts, races, and he is still a “ maiden ” and an active
member of the Mercantile Rowing Club. On the afternoon
of the 6th instant Mr. Fletcher rowed a private match
against Mr. M‘Keown, another member of the M.R.C., and
the writer is pleased to say that Mr. Fletcher was beaten,
for it would indeed be a pity, after seeing out two genera-
tions of rowing-men, for him now to break his record. It
is estimated he has covered over a thousand miles in his
various races, and never once during his rowing career
has he allowed an opponent, no matter how large the
field, to finish behind him.
# * #
Blackham attributes the gruelling the Austra-
lian cricketers received to the g'reat improvement made
by their opponents since the last team’s visit. Just so.
And M'Auliffe lost his fight because Slavin punched too
hard, and the “Cup” didn’t go to Warwick Farm because
the other horse ran too fast, and divers other things have
happened simply because the best have proved to be
better than the worst.
* * *
Joe Thompson was the most extravagant of all
the bookmakers in laying the Cesarewitch and Cambridge-
shire. His price was 250 to 1. You could have got 1000
to 1 that double 20 years ago.
# * %
Many of the spectators of the Griffo-Moran
fight for the feather-weight championship voted Moran a
muff, but, as a matter of fact, he is a remarkably clever
boxer, while Griffo is a phenomenon. When the pair
first nut up their hands, Moran started to make play, and
on a less clever boxer he would very likely have got home,
but Griffo was never where Moran thought he should be,
and when the little wonder commenced to play a tattoo
upon poor Moran—popping in one-two-three without a
return —he reminded the writer much of George Seale.
Like the latter, Griffo is not a smasher of the Fogarty
order, but is a dreadful punisher, worrying his mandown,
and it was not till the thirteenth round that Moran
received his quietus. Griffo is a remarkably big little
man with a chest which looks abnormal in its girth, and
the writer has an idea that when lie has done with the
feather-weights, he will give the light-weighty all their
weight in and a big contract, should he have a shy at
them.
# * *
Young Griffo was at Warwick Farm on
Saturday, and did not carry a mark from his meeting with
Moran the previous night.
Parkes says that M‘Millan can stay in
office for ten years if he likes !
The progeny of one phylloxera insect
will geometrise up to five thousand millions in one
year.
Parkes proposes to enfranchise the women
—in order that he may not ha ve to fully enfranchise
the men.
Truth (London) says that an “eminent ”
colonial has stated that he always intends travel-
ling in future by the French mail-boats merely to
avoid the British Sabbath.
How doth the little bright Hebe
Gain monetary rises ?
She gets up sweeps, says “Mind, I’m halves !”
And snavels all the prizes.
The Bulletin is afraid that this little
“precedence” business will seriously interfere
with the su cess of a certain rich Mayor’s prospec-
tive English baronetcy-hunting excursion.
Crick says that the polling for West Mac-
quarie has been put off till Dec. 6 so that the
Broken Hill Water Supply Bill may be rushed
through before he gets back to the N.S.W.
Assembly.
A gruesome memory of old Sydney is
about to be obliterated. The old house at the
corner of Margaret and Kent streets, in which
Knatchbull murdered Mrs. Jamieson in 1844, is
going to be pulled down.
Bishop of Durham, at the Church Con-
gress a few weeks back: “The wage-labour
system is only a transition from serfdom and
slavery, and cannot be a permanent thing.”
Whereat the Bishop of Bunthunder whispered to
the Archbishop of Buttered-on-Both-Sides that
Durham must be humoured in his fad.
H.M.S. Serpent, new steel cruiser, like
our new Anglo-Austral ones, has, it is cabled,
been lost. Fortunately for himself, the designer,
Sir Cooper Key, has handed in his checks to the
Sky Admiralty lately. Coles, designer of H.M.S.
Captain, was lost in her. The most awful ex-
perience in the life of any man was when Sir Thos.
Bouch, designer of the old Tay Bridge, heard it
had tumbled with a crash, taking with it a train-
ful of people. Just imagine the messenger coming
in, with a face like a blank sheet of paper, while
Sir Tom was telling a good story over the wine.
“I’ll be with you again directly, gentlemen,”
says he, puffing his cigar and laughing. But he
never laughed more. He carried a big stone on
his soul for a month or two, and died—pitied.
Oolemane and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
Tea in 201b. and 401b. packages at I/O, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Falcon ” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
In chronic diseases, medicines should be re-
storing and not debilitating in their action. The
strengthening and curative effects realized from
the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla sustain the reputa-
tion of this remedy.
Recently a brickmaking firm at Sitting
bourne (Eng.) was fined for overworking children
m its employment, and it straightway proceeded
to get level. In several cases the fathers of th
boys were also employed at the works, so with
colossal assurance the proprietor stopped the fin /
out of their wages, and went on his way with 8
light heart and a gladsome expression generally &


Clarke’s “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp Food-Warmers
fifWk
pyrmwk>
°oa warmer
□
REG?
912*1
fe®E«
ARE THE S
fI R AMID
11# 'LIGHTS s
Ughtso
hours \J W FORTUM.
!*
m
M
y °m jlpi
■rasas
IWMiI
NEW PATTERN
Includino BRASS
“PYRAMID” Rami'
and Registered
Pannikin By this
invention any liquid
food can be poured
out or drank, with-
out scum or grease
passing through the
spout, and prevents
spilling when poured
into a Feeding Bottle
so unavoidable with
all other Pannikins
These Pannikins
will fit all the old
“Pyramid” Nursery
Lamps and can
bo purchased
separately
to Fireproof
Plaster
Casing
with
Single Wicks
to Boxes
containing 8 Lights,
iBUEN
Q Hours
each.
• pyramid ,k light.
Tfe®
th
&URCL/\R S
Horror
Id Glass
with
Double
Wicks
In Boxes
containing
6 Lights,
BURN
10 Hours
each
“FAIRY LIGHT.”
JheQueen
OF
s' r
advt
With DOUBLE Wicks.
In. Boxes containing 8
Lights and Glass BURN
6 Hours each. Burn
19 Hours with Single
Wicks. These are smaller
than '‘Fairy'’ Lights,
consequently less expen-
sive. and will burn in
any of the '* Fairy ” or
•Fairy Pyramid” Lamps
FAIRY PYRAMID ° LIGHT.
SINGLE Wick in boxes
containing 8 Lights and
Glass, BURN 50 Hours.
These are smaller than
“ Fairy ” Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will burn in any oi
the "Fairy” or “Fairy
Pyramid” Lamps.
gvqurit
*• FAIRY-PYRAMID ” LIGHT.
advt
OLD SHAPE
PAHNIKIH
KTEW
SHAPE
PAN HIKES
X N.
N.B All Clarke’s Lights are warranted free from Paraffin, or other dangerous material,
FAR, FAR AND AWAY THE BEST,
Sold ‘fc>3 r all the leading Houses.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia : FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
A.SAUNDERS,
Watches and Jewellery are like good wives—they are
worth having,
tnd for Illustrated Price List. Post Free.
t»!3 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Railway Station).
Factories: Liverpool and London, England.
£2 10s. English Lever, Two Years’ Guaranteed.
£3 10s. English Lever, “The Unequalled,” full cap.
£d English Lever, “ The Special,” compensated.
20 The Unequalled Keyless Watch. 20/-
Coun try Residents and Visitors to Sydney call or send
to A. SAUNDERS, 813 George Street (nearly opposite
Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make your own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dress Stand Makers,
411, George-street, Sydney.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description of a simple remedy, by which a
complete cure of deafness and noises in the head of
forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. NICHOLSON,
175 William Street, Melbourne.
To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. Bottles, 2s. Gd. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Chablbmont and Co., photographers to the
Governor, Royal Arcade, have moderated their
charges for photographs, with a view of meeting
every one. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms& 00., King-st. Arcade.
Perfection with Simplicity distinguishes the
Shannon Letter and Bill” File. No folding;
all papers open flat. No endorsing; always in
order of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maoi/ARDT, 319 George-street Sydney.
A Poet’s Dinner.
“Love is the Poetry of the Senses.”— Balzac.
In those days I was very poor and very amorous'
My black coat was so threadbare, the cloth was
so worn, that I dared not put it on or take it off
without the greatest precaution. The knees of
my pantaloons shone like satin, my hat was at the
age when little girls know how to fib, and, as to
my boots, modesty prevents my telling by what
ingenious efforts I managed to keep the incon-
stant soles.
All my fortune was composed of some manu-
scripts in prose and verse, which had already
made me the terror of a number of editors.
Oh, I was truly very poor and very amorous !
When I have said that I wore my hair long,
falling on my coat-collar ; that I was slender and
delicate, that I had a pale face, a large nose, and
ecstatic eyes, one can see what a sorry figure I
made.
It was the first night of a new play at the
Comedie Erangaise. I knew the Princess Lou-
banoff would be there, and I would sooner lose
one of my eyes than this opportunity of seeing—
though it might be but for an instant —the radiant
creature who had captivated my soul. Luckily I
possessed the sum necessary to pay for the modest
place I longed for, and a small surplus. Dinner-
time approached. I was hungry, and, in haste to
get rid of that prosaic need, I spent my surplus
money for some fried potatoes, intending to drink
at the first street fountain I came to. What could I
desire more ?
But I had reckoned without the most cruel of
my faults —that which has always poisoned my
existence —pride. I could never say which was
the more painful to roe, to be poor or to appear so.
I had no sooner got my paper horn-of-plenty
full of potatoes in my hand than I became much
embarrassed, imagining that everybody looked at
me with compassion. However, I lived too far
away to think of returning home.
“Bah!” I said to myself; “they may think
what they like. lam going to eat my potatoes in
the face of the passers-by !”
And as I walked I began my repast. But I had
not swallowed the first mouthful when a beautiful
young girl, coquettishly dressed, passed close to
me and looked at me. There was so much kind-
ness in her gaze, her pretty eyes expressed so well
her regret at seeing me dine so poorly, that
nothing more was needed to completely overcome
me. Ashamed, I lowered my l head, and, feeling
myself redden to the ears, I passed very quickly.
I had scarcely taken three steps when, yielding to
I know not what sympathetic influence, I turned.
The young girl had turned at the same instant,
and for one second I met her sweet glance. Evi-
dently I had inspired her with interest, perhaps
with pity. Much mortified, I hastened on, avoid-
ing crowded streets.
If I had listened only to my vexation I should
have flung my potatoes in a corner, but my
appetite having mastered my self-love I sought
some quarter where I might shelter myself from
the stares of the curious, and chose a gateway
which was completely deserted. I sank down
there, and leaning against the wall near a flight
of steps I again attacked my fried potatoes, which
seemed to me delicious. There, at least, I might
hope calmly to finish my repast, and, again seized
by the sweet, by the intoxicating obsession which
pursued me everywhere, I plunged into contem-
plation of my love. “In a few hours,” I said to
myself, with joyous little thrills, “in a few hours
I shall see her ! Perhaps as she goes through the
lobby she may give me a lovely smile,”' And
then, in imagination, I saw her fine lips move,
while her large eyes half veiled themselves. Oh !
I knew exactly how she smiled, how she walked,
with what dainty airs she turned her head to
listen. I could imitate her slightest gestures,
repeat her flute-like intonations, modulated like
the warbling of a nightingale; I even owed to her
the habit I had of passing the tip of my tongue
over my upper lip. But what I could never find
words to express was her turbulence, as of a spoiled
child, the cajoling, almost familiar ways with
which she glided into the heart of everyone and
coolly installed herself there forever. She was a
true, an exquisite Parisian, the widow of Prince
Loubanotf —a widow of 23 years, with the intact
freshness of a young girl, and with eyes possessed
as by an evil spirit with insatiable coquetry.
I would have given my life to kiss her hands.
At home I had arrived at kneeling down to think
of her, Certainly I vras insane.
It was hinted that the princess was not a dragon
of virtue, and ill-disposed tongues pretended that
she was singularly capricious and perverse, But
what could I hope from so grand a lady—l, most
pitiable poet, when her beauty, her riches, her in-
dependence, drew around her a throng of the most
powerful, the most illustrious adorers ? It is true
that since I had been presented to her, that is for
six months, she had shown interest in me and
never seemed annoyed to see me pale and tremble
everytime she spoke to me. She would allow,
discreetly allow me to die of love for her, as she
permitted the flowers that adorned her breast to
die in exhaling their soul of perfume. That was
all.
I had not yet eaten a quarter of my fried
potatoes when I was obliged to pause in my
repast. There was the rustle of a dress on the
steps. I hid my cornucopia, and assuming the
indifferent air of one who waits, I did not move.
But the nearer that rustling of silken draperies
approached my heart beat more violently without
any reason. A sort of instinct told me something
my spirit could not know. Suddenly a radiant
vision agitated my whole being; a form, a
brilliance, a perfume familiar —beloved ! I closed
my eyes.
Then a golden voice said in my ear, “Ah, my
dear poet, how delighted I am to meet you !”
I had barely time to slip my horn of fried
potatoes into my coat pocket.
“ Madam—l bless the chance I”
“ I was thinking about you.”
“Really !”
“ I was going to write to you.”
Unable to master my emotion I could only
stammer incoherent phrases.
The princess, on the contrary, talked volubly
and appeared enchanted with the meeting.
“ They have sent me a Muscovite romance. I
am enthusiastic over the music. You know
Russian. I have counted on you to translate the
words.”
“ I am at your service.”
“ Come quick ; I will take you.”
I opened my eyes very wide. “You will take
me ? ”
The princess had drawn me to her carriage. She
sprang lightly in, and making a place for me,
“ Come, get in,” said she.
I was astounded. And thinking of what was
in my coat pocket, “Oh, no, madam, I can-
not ”
“Why not ?”
“ I did not expect ”
“ How boyish you are! ” she said, smiling.
“ Get in ; I command you,”
It was necessary to obey, An instant after I
felt myself borne rapidly along. I was dizzy. My
emotion was so great that I could not breathe.
The princess doubtless perceived this, for again I
saw her smile. Wishing to increase my confusion
she leaned toward me.
“You were waiting for me just now?” she
asked sweetly.
“ Oh, no, madam, I swear to you ”
“ Then what were you doing on the steps of the
Baron de Lucques ? ”
What answer could be given ? Could I own that
I had taken refuge there to eat my fried potatoes?
I blushed furiously without being able to think of
the smallest fib, and the princess could only con-
clude that I had followed and waited for her. It
did not appear to displease her, for she presently
began again :
“Do you know, sir, tha I have great compli-
ments to pay you ? I have read all your poems,
all, and I have found them very beautiful.”
“ Ah, madam, is it true ? ”
“ Really they have touched me. You will pub-
lish them ? ”
“ Never,”
“ What, never ? You will conoeal them from
the public ?”
“ It is enough for me that you have read them.”
“ That is almost a declaration, sir,” she cried ;
“ your poems are all of love ! ”
I remained voiceless, but my eyes were so
eloquent that the princess had to lower hers.
“ Ah, you poets,” she resumed, “ what beautiful
loves you have in your heads ! ”
“In our heads,” I cried. “Ah, madam, be
persuaded that one never talks well of love except
from his heart, and if I were a woman it seems to
me that I could not be deceived.”
The subject of conversation was not of a nature
to make me find the time long. We reached the
avenue d’Eylau as by enchantment. The carriage
entered the courtyard and I helped the princess
to leave it. I kept her little hand in mine as we
went up the stairs, a vast staircase, mysterious
like a temple, and covered with carpet where our
footfalls made no sound. We had talked of noth-
ing but love, and I was so full of my subject, I
expressed myself with so much warmth, that a
sweet intimacy was not slow to establish itself
between us. We had ascended a dozen steps and
found ourselves under the light of the candelabra
when the young lady stopped.
“Then,” she said in a low voice, “you, too,
you love me ?”
“ That love is all my life, madam !”
“It is easy to say that one loves—but, the
proof ?”
“ The proof ?”
I still held the hand of the princess, who looked
into my eyes as if to read my soul.
“ Yea,”' she repeated, “ the proof.”
Had I the time to improvise an ardent plea, to
tell her all I felt, to multiply words ? It was im-
possible. I was wildly excited; a brilliant idea
crossed my mind. And then her eyes were so
alluring ! Yielding to the irresistible temptation
I caught her in my arms, and, for an instant, my
lips sought hers.
At last they met ! Oh, that was a kiss of
despair ; a supreme kiss wherein I seemed to lose
my life ! It was no longer the princess palpitating
in my strong arms, but the beloved woman who
thrilled at my touch and whose soul I drank. I
do not know how long it lasted; we whirled upon
the steps.
Then I saw the princess clinging to the gilded
railing, very pale, her eyes closed. She had one
hand on her breast and seemed no longer to
breathe. As for me, I trembled like a criminal.
When she opened her eyes she frowned at first,
Then her face softened and I saw that she tried to
smile.


A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
m
m
zzz
m
mm u
lißi
s*v
jssr-
-1
-
i
m
m
.*s
- ■ '
% ( ,
gs?=?
'M.
m.
m
:
m
w»-
:
“'You use singular arguments,” she said in a
light tone, from which it was impossible to divine
what was passing in her mind.
At this moment we heard the sound of a door
that some one opened! The waiting.maid of the
princess came to tell her mistress that many callers
awaited her. , „ t ,
They were Madam Gravere de Miret and her
three big bachelor sons, the handsome Duke de
Maules, the little Vicomte de Vombelles and the
lively Marquise de Musirolles. The latter ran to
embrace the princess.
“Ah, my dear,”said she, “you did not expect
to find such a large court. Nobody wanted to go
without having seen you.”
The princess would not allow them to depart
immediately, and, with her bewitching grace
began to chat, saying all the time the prettiest
things. _ _ .
I was very little acquainted with this brilliant
company, and the lovers of the princess especially
cast upon me stealthy looks, full of defiance and
jealousy. But I gave no attention to them nor to
the conversation, interesting as it was, because a
small personage to whom I had not yet been pre-
sented was all the time causing me the most cruel
alarm. This was Monsieur Bonbon, the dog of
the princess, a griffin of pedigree, a rare and mar-
vellous beast as large as my two fists and who had
Cost tile price of an ox. It inconceivable to
What extent these little ahimals, reared in
Opulence, call become foppish and ridiculously
Vain. There is something of the vulgar upstart
in their small heads. When I first entered he
sprang from the armchair where he was coddling
himself in soft drowsiness and came straight to
me, eyeing me from head to foot, showing by most
expressive grimaces the disdain and astonishment
inspired by a visitor so ill-dressed. “ Why
do they admit people of that sort?” he
seemed to say. Then, running around me, he gave
a long growl, which doubtless contained all the
abusive language that a dog could utter to a man.
My boots, above all, appeared to him monstrous.
He touched them with the tip of his paw, smelled
at them with a disgusted air, and carried his in-
solence so far as to protend to sneeze. At last he
turned his back on me and walked off, stopping
now and then to look sideways at me. It was
plain that he would have thrown me out of the door
if he had been able. Hoping that Monsieur Bon-
bon would cease his impertinences I took a seat.
He was placed on the knees of his mistress, and
indifferent to the caresses of the pretty hand that
patted him, he gave me ugly glances that did not
alarm me. Alas, he had other malice in store for
me. Presently he raised his head, his nostrils
dilated right and left, he gave a series of little
sniffs as if he inhaled an unaccustomed odor.
“ What is the matter with him now ?I asked
myself uneasily. Then a subtle emanation sur-
rounded me. Gradually the scent became stronger
and more noticeable. Suddenly I comprehended
the frightful truth. The fried potatoes I had in
the pocket of my coat were tainting the drawing-
room. No words could express the anguish into
which this discovery plunged me. I might hope
that the delicate people around me would not
suspect the truth, but Monsieur Bonbon was not
to be deceived(| Whether he was allured by the
odor and merely yielded to his greediness, or in
his ill-nature took a spiteful pleasure in denounc-
ing me, the detestable dog leaped to the floor and
bounded toward me. Then, standing on his hind
legs, he sniffed at me from every side until he had
discovered the pocket of provisions, upon which
he made a desperate attack.
I tried to seize him ; he escaped me. I tried to
e£, E,rpLr s
determined to see what I had in my pocket, and
nothing could make him abandon that idea. It
was necessary to take a heroic stand. I rose, and,
bringing under me the dangerous skirt containing
the rest of my dinner, I sat down on it to both
shelter it from the enteipnsing Monsieur Bonbon
and stifle the betraying perfume,
Then my ferocious persecutor jumped on a
neighbouring chair and yelped witn fury. After
that he began to scratch ray thigh with his fore-
pawj-* X id
mentally, looking at the accursed brute with a
sinister eye. General attention was attracted to
me. aiUiSe BoSon ?” the princess had
already been asking. She came to my side to
take rum. . . „ T
Now she will smell the fried potatoes, i
thought, becoming scarlet. ■ ;ii
* or a moment 1 had an idea of making a wilu
A>g But already everybody was ring-
“ Wait a moment, the princess beggedl hei
fnenda. “1 want you to hearmy Russian
romance. And with the music m
her hand she said w.th irresistible grace .
“Bray sir, sing a verse; you will give me the
greatest pleasure. ,
She herself, placed the music on the rack and
I sat down at the piano. It was a melancholy
popular song that I had le %rn^ddurn g t
m Russia, and, desirous of pleasing, I sang it
Wl fh. ln Y sensibility. .
1 here was a general fluttering murmur; my
slight voice had moved all hearts. I was
tnumphant-when I felt myself disturbed by a
tugging and pulling at my coat. Aware that
Monsieur Bonbon was renewing his hostilities, I
turned quickly, but it was already too late,
T he infernal animal had had tune Ibo ruram gein
my pocket and liad dragged put the hoin of
plenty . Now he held it in his tiny jaws an 1
shaking it violently, scattered the fried-potatoes
on all sides on the carpet. .
Overwhelmed with confusion, I remained dumb-
founded a ved before my eyes, a ringing in my
ears. I had a vague sense that there were exclama-
tions of surprise and ill-suppressed laughs i hen
there was a general retreat. Alone with the
princess, I rose and made some unsteady steps
towards the door. She stopped me.
“You will dine with me i” she asked in a voice
sweetly earnest.
This last blow finished me. Could she not
understand that at such a moment an invitation
to dine resembled a charity ? I wanted to speak,
but I was suffocating,
As she drew nearer I turned my head away to
conceal from her the tears in my eyes, and I rushed
away, overcome with shame and grief,
I lived in a pretty little room in the top storey
of a high house. That is where I went to abandon
myself to despair. I flung myself on my bed,
crushed under the breaking up of my dreams,
The dreadful idea that I had been ridiculous
before the woman I loved was-continually crossing
my mind. Now the princess knew both my
misery and my love. That kiss I had stolen from
her upon the stairs she might otherwise have been
able to pardon, but how allow such audacity on
the part of a man who carried his dinner in his
coat-pocket ? For half an hour I sought vainly
for a little relief to my chagrin, and with sorrow-
ful soul I was looking upon the future as a black
immensity without stars, when there came a gentle
knocking at my door.
I started. Then sending the visitor to the
infernal regions I went to open the door, resolved
to quickly get rid of the importunate person.
But as soon as I saw the new-comer I drew back
in amazement.
“ You !” I cried.
“ Yes.”
“You, princess; you here?”
She appeared much moved, and her voice
trembled.
“Yes,” she said with a divine smile._ “You
would not dine with me, I have come to dine with
you.”
“To dine !! !”
With this exclamation I looked about me
vaguely imagining that since the princess was
in my quarters it would be no more marvellous to
see my attic transform itself into a banquet-hall.
“ Do not be uneasy,” she continued, “foreseeing
that you would not be prepared for my visit I
have brought all that is necessary.”
It was not until then that I noticed she had
something in her hands, and, again wounded in
my pride, I frowned in abominable fashion.
“ Oh ! I beg of you,” said she, very humbly and
very sweetly, “don’t be vexed, don’t send me
away; let me satisfy a caprice.” Then going to
the table she unfolded a large newspaper. “ See !”
said she.
I uttered a cry of surprise. She had brought
nothing but a horn-of-plenty filled with fried
potatoes.
“ I know very well,” "said the gracious woman,
“it is the dinner of a poet and that I am un-
worthy ; but for this time the Muses may allow me
to take part.”
I threw myself upon my knees and covered her
hands with kisses. “Oh! how I love you!” I
sighed.
“ Nonsense ! Get up and lay the table-cloth, I
am dying of hunger.”
I could not believe in so much happiness. “ You,
you, princess—it is really you ? ”
She took off her hat and cloak. “It is very
nice here; you must have a superb view. I
should like it here myself, if they would let me
live so.”
“ You want to make me crazy ?”
She went and came lightly as a bird, animated
by infantine curiosity.
“ You know,” said she suddenly, “ the Marquis
de Musirolles has often begged me to give him
Bonbon—well, to-night I sent the dog to him. ”
And without giving me time to speak ; “ Will you
allow me to open that closet? Napkins, good ;
that is all I wanted—don’t disturb yourself.”
With adorable gravity she spread a napkin on the
table as a cloth and opened the cornucopia which
contained the fried potatoes.
“ Please, princess, let that be.”
“ Not at all, I am going to keep house.”
“You will soil your dress.” Possessed by I
know not what demon of coquetry, she cast aside
a lace shawl and revealed her beautiful bare
shoulders and arms. What a radiant apparition !
Transfigured by the light of her dazzling charms
the exquisite creature seemed tome to be endowed
with supernatural loveliness. I clasped my hands
in transport of admiration, and, with beating
heart and eyes rolling in ecstacy, I was about to
pour forth my love when she put her little hand
over my mouth. “I know it, I know it,” said
she, “it’s why I came. Tell me, where are the
glasses ?”
“ The glasses ? I have but one !”
“ But one !-oh ! oh !” Then, with a gesture of
contempt, “Bah!” 1
Having found out that the pitcher was full 0 t
pure water, she placed it beside the glass and
assuming a satisfied air : “There!” she cried “T
have forgotten nothing. Come, then, all
ready.” 18
She flung herself upon the sofa and at once
with the mien of a gourmand, daintily dipped her
slender, pink fingers into the fried potatoes and
began to eat, crunching them as if she had never
tasted anything more delicious. I sa t down
beside her and imitated her.
“ Do you know that I bought them myself?”
“ You, princess !”
She tried to imitate the manner and speech of
the shopkeeper, but ended in a wild burst of
laughter. Then, having filled the large gl ass
full of water, she drank half and offered me the
rest.
“Drink,” said she, “drink.” I emptied the
glass with one draught and resumed my absorbed
contemplation of the beautiful creature.
“What is the matter with you?” she asked.
“I am intoxicated.”
“Already! Gracious! What will it be when
we have finished the pitcher ? Come, eat.”
“lamenting,” I said, devouring her with my
eyes. “ Come, be wise, it is necessary to dine.” 3
But it took us not less than four hours to finish
our fried potatoes.
Oil! the delicious feast [—From the French,
“The Noble Order of the Knights of
Labour ” was founded 21 years ago by XJ.
Stevens, a Philadelphia tailor. The moral
on of their programme is admittedly very high.
On the death of a Waterloo veteran, who
tore himself with regret away from a munificent
pension of 13Ad daily, the British Government
claimed his wooden leg on the grounds that he
had no further use for it, and they had.
Editor Bulletin, —It may interest you
and some of your inquirers as to the authorship of
the lines—“Me who cares for nothing alone is
free,” &c., to know that four lines from the poem
are quoted in Marie Corelli’s novel “Thelma.’*
The name appended as that of the author is “W,
Winter.” 1 should be glad to be informed whether
you know anything of a writer of that name or
have met any of his works?—Yours, A. A. Hunt,
53 Womerali Avenue, Sydney.
Says the Dean of Rochester of the Prince
of Wales, “ I do not read in history of any prince
who has shown a more earnest, practical, self-
denying interest in the welfare of the people than
His Royal Highness.” That’s not saying much
for Tummy, but the Dean then proceeds to call in
this “potential purifier” to_“say the word and
lead a crusade against gambling and betting” that
will straightway “purify premises in comparison
to which the Augean stables of Hercules were
bright and clean as the deck of a warship and
fragrant as the summer rose.” Hum ! The Dean
selects the Prince as a social purifier on the same
principle that the dirtiest man in town usually
becomes the scavenger.


“■-S ee The Bulletin, Oct. 18, 1890: “ Janet Guilfoyle’s
Delusion.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A fair beautiful skin.— Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. Gd. tablets. Every-
where.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
land should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, £G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiius & Co., King-st. Arcade
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W, J. Douglas,
9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Charlemont and Co., high art photographers.
Royal Arcade, altogether owe their measure of
success to the fact that the merits of their photo-
graphy are always of a high order.
The reliable buggies and waggons at 22 and 24
Clarence-street (corner of Margaret-street).
Try Colemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. C. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
A BOON TO HUMANITY.
'Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Bemell’s patent Snow-white Flour.
ENCOURAGE NATIVE INDUSTRY
Ye plodding sons of honest toil,
Ne’er favoured by Dame Fortune’s wheel,
Prove worthy of your native soil—
Use PemkliL’s Patent Goldex Meal.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Howto Grow Rich.—lnvest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited, 90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Co. one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
igns free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
The Shannon File and Transfer Cases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional officd. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maclaudy, 319
George-streefc, Sydney.
H. P.
J
ENGINEERS
General Machinery Merchants.
161
Clarence-st.,
Ei3T Clio. <337% & SL'tt ell3oU.ril© Sz
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNPERM ENT lON ED MACHINERY, &c.
Brisbane,
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE S DIH KO 1' ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE'S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTIME 1 (UAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EPSON'S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES.
HOSE, &c., Ac.
* • c
Ljopr*; f^sew 1- ■ Sant
MPMMMI
S'
■I
.. . 5
-• •
zr-^sm
—J *—iu
—J
Webber’s Patent Centrifugal Pump.
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEV ANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
and EXHAUSTS.
D UNCAN CON CENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNK )N ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
Ac., Ac.
viTVVAT FNOTNES Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined, from two horse power. N ERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
S M.r r«d Injeohlra. ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathe, Radial and other Drilling Machine., Screwing Machine.
FAIRBANKS Scales and Weighbridges: Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease, Belting, Emery Wheels,
Sight Feed Lubricators. Bickering Engine Governors. Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
Tales of “The System.”
No. XIX.—The Procession of the Buttercup.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not very many weeks ago, just as “ yellow-
haired September ” began to trail her perfumed
garments over the wide Australias, but while
wintry snows were still lingering on the leonine
outlines of Mount Wellington, there “ fell asleep”
a dear old lady, out of whose heart had never died
the scent and colour of Life’s spring-time, though
her noble head had been bleached by 90 years,
whose calendar, alas ! had counted out to her
many more winters than summers.
In the same room that she had slept in (except
during an occasional brief absence) for over half-a-
eentury ; with the window open so that she might
see with her dying eyes the slumbrous Lion on
which for all these years she had loved to cast her
waking glance; with the curded foam of the
Derwent bursting into sibillant echoes on the
Bellerive beach, and breathing into her ears the
sighs of long ago; with her children and grand-
children and great-grandchildren about her, pray-
ing blessings on her for giving them a priceless
example of saintliness in a wicked world, she
passed away.
And thus I am now at liberty to repeat the story
that, sitting one evening with her on the verandah
of her villa, some ten years since, she told to me.
I had been inspecting, during the afternoon,
the little structure at which that most genial of
companions, and most indifferent of clergymen,
the Rev, Robert Knopwood, had, at one - time,
enjoyed the incumbency, and I mentioned the
circumstance to ray gracious hostess.
“I knew Mr. Knopwood very well,” she said.
“When I lived at Glenorchy in 183— he fre-
quently dined with me. He was a curious kind
of clergyman. To the very last —he died in ’3B
or ’39, I think—he preferred a good glass of wine
or a run after kangaroo to officiating in church.
But his faults were those of his day ; and his
virtues were not those of his time, for in dealing
with prisoners, he had all the kindliness of the
present day and not the disposition of his own
period.”
“I am glad to hear that,” I remarked. I had
formed a different opinion of him from his diary,
and what some old residents have told me. Come,
cannot you tell me an anecdote or two about
him?” -
She thought for a few moments, and then said,
“ There is one little incident which I will relate,
as it will show you his thoughtfulness for the
convict-class. But—but you must promise me
not to print it!”
“Why not, my dear madam?” I answered.
“You know I am gathering material for literary
use by-and-bye. And if the incident is evidence
of Mr. Knopwood’s humanity, by all means, it
should be told, if for no other reason than that it
will supply a contrast to the characteristics of the
majority of the officials of the Penal System.”
“ Indeed,” she said, sighingly, “that is only
too true !” And then, with a delightful smile
playing all too evauescently on her sweet face,
she continued, “Well, if you will print it, you
must not do so till after I am gone, for, you must
know, I figure in the story.” . .
And then she told this tale. I print it sub-
stantially as I took it down from her own lips.
Such additions as I have made to it are gathered
from equally-authentic sources, and are in ampli-
fication of her allusions to her own and her hus-
band’s character—points on which, in her humility
she was naturally reticent. .
As I went from her home that night she took a
bloom of fragrant myrtle and gave it to me. I
pinned it to the manuscript of her story. Now, a
decade later, I unpin the withered blossom, and I
find it has left a mark on the paper that emits a
faint perfume. So her life left its impress upon
the early pages of a colony’s history, and the
fragrance of her presence and her actions will endure
long after those who knew her personally have
followed her to the grave.
PRICE WARUNG.
I told you the other day (she began) about
Janet Guilfoyle’s thrush.* That was a true tale
of a bird’s influence over hardened and reckless
natures. -My story now is of a simple flower, the
simplest of all flowers—nothing more than a
common buttercup, and the magic it worked.
L ,my husband, and I, were living in a
small cottage at Glenorchy under the shadow of
the great mountain, in 182—. There it was the
Rev. Mr. Knopwood used frequently to visit us. ,
I fancy I see the old man riding up to the palings,
dismounting from his old white hackney, with a
rusty surtout dropping to his ankles, and with as
rusty a tall hat covering his grey hair, and coming
up the pathway past our tiny lawn with an
ambling trot not unlike that of his old pony.
Well, on one of these visits, as I was waiting to
receive him on the raised porch, he stopped in the
middle of the pathway and bent his gaze on the
lawn. Then I saw him, quite regardless of my
neat box-border, step from the pathway to the
lawn centre and kneel dowm.
The thought flashed into my mind that the dear
old gentleman had gone mad, and I called for
L . He came, and was as amazed as Ito see
the venerable clergyman kneeling upon the sward
and thrusting his face to the grass. L went
down the steps, and saluted Mr. Knopwood. The
old minister —we used to call him the “Ancient ”
—looked up and said : “ Do you know what you’ve
got here ? Real English buttercups and daisies !”
He spoke quaveringly, just as though he were on
the verge of crying—as, indeed, he was ! “No !
said my husband, and he threw himself as eagerly
on the grass as the “Ancient” had done. I ran
down the steps, and bent over the two men. Oh,
the thrill that went through me as 1 saw the
simple, homely buds, the pinkish-white discs and
the yellow cups, just glimmering amid their sheath
of green grass ! and I, too, must kneel down and
bury my face in the delicious dampness —just like
the two other fools! For fools we were—l was
actually crying, and the men pretending to laugh
at me, but* all the time with great tear-drops in
their own eyes. And all because the field-flowers
spoke to us of home—of the old land that none of
us were likely to see again, of its meadows and
lanes, of its gardens and hedges, of its old castles
and itp mountains, and rivers and lakes !
The wonder was how the flowers got there.
Wild flowers, native to the island, there were in
abundance, and scores of varieties of the sweet
old garden-flowers had been brought out by
many, but it was so improbable, we thought, that
anyone would ever take the trouble to bring over
twenty thousand miles of sea so common a thing as
a buttercup root. At last, some days afterwards,
we learnt the truth. The Irish doctor of a
convict transport had brought out with him
a square yard of Irish turf. He had heard of that
story of Sir Henry Hayes importing some Irish
soil to Sydney, and it put into his head the notion
of taking out with him some of the “ould soil.”
And so lie had a box specially made, and from a
field near his native village he dug up a solid block
of earth, and carried it away with hiin. On
arrival at Hobart Town he determined to settle in
the colony, and he had become the tenant of our
cottage —we followed him in its occupancy—and
in the centre of its diminutive sward had re-
planted the piece of turf.
Mr. Knopwood had discovered these particulars
through talking about the flowers in the city. One
who knew the doctor told him, and he repeated
the account to us. And from the <fid minister’s
talking, curious things— you may term them silly
—resulted. We were fairly pestered out of our
lives by visitors of all classes, both “free” and
“ bond,” who came to see the flowers while they
lasted. Big, ruffianly fellows, with the regular
convict face, holders of ticket-of-leave, would
come and stand for hours together and look at the
bobbing buttercups over the palings—the butter-
cups on the patch, I should say, were quite
numerous, though the daisies were few. ’I hat was
the one curious tiling. And the other was that
L —— was reprimanded by his Honor the Lieut.-
Governor. Van Dieman’s Land was still a depen-
dency of the old colony, and Colonel Arthur did
not become His Excellency for a year afterwards.
And what do you think the reprimand was for ?
Because L was promoting dissension among
prisoners of Irish birth or extraction by letting it
be known that some of the “ould soil” was in
our garden ! It appeared that a constable in the
Lumber Yard—that’s where the gang-labourers
were barracked at night—overheal’d some of the
Irish prisoners planning a bolt so that they might
come and kiss the sod ! My husband only made
his peace by stating that when he found the soil
was Irish, and not English, he felt disgusted.
That was the truth —but I felt the same. It
was a childish and unreasoning racial prejudice, but
I never loved these simple flowers so much after I
knew they grew on Irish ground, and not on
English. It was not so much that they were not
English buds, as that they were Irish. And if it
was weak of my husband, you must bear in mind
that at that time, and for long subsequently, the
word of the Lieutenant-Governor was law.
Garrison Orders and Governors’ Proclamations
were all the Acts of Parliament we had till 1820,
and things were said and done by persons in the
highest colonial authority then that would not be
tolerated from the Czar of Russia now. My hus-
band used to say of the Government that it was
a despotism distempered by dyspepsia and dissipa-
tion. Times hadn’t changed much from the day
when it was no uncommon occurrence for all
adult males, from the Governor downward to the
newest landed convict to be drunk together. Men
were flogged so that commanding-officers might
win a wager made as to their “gameness or
capacity of endurance under suffering, torture was
applied to wring confessions out of supposed
criminals, and one man, at least, was hanged on
his own confession so obtained who, it was proved
later, was innocent of the crime to which he had
confessed !
Ah, those days ! those days ! Life was very
bright for myself and my husband then in most
things; no shadow was on our lot, save the shadow
of others’ sufferings. And how deep that was,
we, of the olden time, dare not say. It blackened
existence for us who tried to retain our
humanity, or, as the others said, keep our soft-
heartedness. Not that we did not harden, too.
We had to harden or else we should have had to
resign or —or, go mad. .
My husband often talked of resigning, though
we had no money to settle down in another
pursuit, but then the thought would occur to him
that In' could do a little to stem the current of
cruelty and injustice, and that perhaps his suc-
cessor might not have the wM to do that. For
nothing was more horrible to witness than the
de-humanising influence of the System on its
administrators. From the highest to the lowest,
there was scarcely an exception— scarcely a man,
or woman either, who did not plainly deteriorate.
The contact with criminals, do you say ? No, Jhe
exercise of arbitrary, irresponsible power. Give
men, anywhere, and of any race, power, with no
external antlioiity to call them to account, and
infect them with the idea that their duty is to
punish their fellow creatures, and their natures
will change. They may retain the semblance of
brave men and fair women, but they will petrify
from the heart outwards. But lam getting away
from my story, and the buttercups and daisies.
# # *
Well, just as the last yellow-cupped thing
shrivelled up, word came from the Lieutenant-
Governor that L , my husband, was to go
down to Macquarie Harbour by the Cyprus.
There was some Commissariat business that re-
quired investigation, I think. The Harbour
records had become muddled —it was a way all
early records had, as you must have learnt—and
it was necessary for someone to visit the Harbour
to adjust them. The Commandant at the Settle-
ment was unusually punctilious. When his
accounts became mixed, he hesitated to adopt the
common colonial method of adjusting them. He
did not throw them into the fire. Oh, dear, what
a lot of trouble that practice has saved ! But the
Lieutenant in command was either too innocent or
lacked the courage to adopt the usual plan.
I forget the precise difficulty into which he had
fallen. There was a discrepancy, I know, between
the number of prisoners he ought to have had on
hand, and those actually under control. But that
was nothing. The System never bothered its
head about half-a-dozen convicts more or less. It
was so easy, you see, to write them off as
“escaped ”or “ dead.” It was only when it came
to such things as fetters, and shirts, and hand-
cuffs, or tin-plates that the System grew parti-
cular. L told me once that over a hundred
letters had passed between the Storekeeper in
Hobart Town, the Keeper of the House of Cor-
rection, Launceston, and a Secretary of State’s
Department in London—Treasury or Colonies—
over a surcharged dozen pairs of handcuffs.. But
dear, dear, how I’m rambling on! I must get
back to the Harbour—and the buttercups.
* * *
I suppose, then, it had something to do
with the stores, my husband’s trip. Parson
Knopwood came out to dine with us the very
night that L brought me word he was ordered
to go. 1 did not like being left alone in my
cottage for, perhaps, two or three months. My
menage was not quite so bad as Mrs. Pnnsep’s,
who wrote home that her cook had committed
murder, her footman burglary, and her housemaid
bigamy, but it was quite bad enough. I had only
two servants, both women, and certainly one
of these had committed murder. It was the old
story of man’s treachery. She killed her child in
a moment of frenzy. The women were faithful to
me and I could do*anything with them, but then
our cottage was lonely—and, in short, I made such
a fuss that L resolved to take me with him if
he could obtain permission.
“I’m in his Honor’s black-books, you know,
Jess,” he said, “ over that piece of the ‘ould sod,’
and it is uncertain whether I’ll succeed. Indeed,
I’m not sure that this journey is not a punishment
for my offence in letting people know about the
thing.”
“Look you here, Mrs. L ,” cried the
“Ancient,” “you shall go; I promise you that.
I haven’t asked a favour for many a day, and I’ll
ask this. But, to make sure, I’ll tell you what
I’ll do. Give me permission to dig up that square
of turf from your garden, and then Mr. L can
tell Colonel Arthur it has been removed.”
“You cunning man 1” I laughed, “ you wish to
get it all yourself !” For now that I saw the value
that others placed on that bit of earth, the senti-
ment —perhaps you will call it sentimentality—
that bad warmed me when I first saw the country
flowers again took possession of me, and I was
loth to let others have it.
“ Tush, ma’am he was very brusque some-
times, was the old minister —“I shall replace it
after you’ve gone! Combine the wisdom of the
serpent, ma’am, with the harmlessness of the
dove ! Excuse my preaching—l don’t often preach
out of the pulpit—not half enough, folks say, and
to tell the truth I don’t see much use preaching at
all here. As well preach in Gehenna.
So it was arranged, and that very night, about
ten o’clock, L and the old chaplain dug from
the plot as near as possible a square yard—rather
over than under. But they were clumsier than
the doctor, for the block broke in several irregular-
edged lumps. Dear, how we laughed over it, but
I cried, too, before we finished the task.
One of the maids, not the murderess, but the
other, a South of Ireland girl, saw us through the
attic-window—it was bright moonlight. She
called to us, and begged us by Holy Mary and
several Saints to give her a morsel of the “swate
ould land.” I had locked her and the other maid
in their room at nine o’clock, as was our custom
as per regulation, and she could not get down to-
us as we thought. I teased her mightily, and the
silly thing offered me all her money just for a bit
of the sod. I asked her how much she had, and
she answerednine shillings and threepence in notes.
You know there was very little coin of any
sort in circulation in those days, and I had given


PURE *nd OLD
AUSTRALIAN
Wines
SPECIALITIES:
CLARET and HOCK.
CALDWELL & CO.,
Mellb ourno,
AMD
Uke Albert Vineyard, Wagga Wagga, N.S.W.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
ALWAYS AHEAD.
With it none other can compare,
None other dare compete,
For Pbmell’s Flour is everywhere
Known to be good and sweet.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A literary treat for Australians abroad
and for absent friends of Australian readers of The
Bulletin : A Golden Shanty—Australian stories
and sketches in prose and verse by Bulletin
writers. Iho brightest, best and most original
shilling book ever published in this country. Send
it to your English friends whom Sladen’s Anthology
has disgusted. One shilling; postage in Australia
sd. extra.
The original genuine article—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Medical.
Jiispnon minim.
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE, But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, dto
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thorough out the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Pheb ebom all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your .Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows :
■ ‘ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEAN E’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are affleted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
CO®
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitten
containing :
ROW’S STEANE’S RITTERS.
HOW’S YOU’LL DO RITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE RITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL RITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS RUCHU RITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Solr Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
43. 46, 47 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
her at odd times some of the promissory-notes for
trifling sums—threepences, sixpences, and shil-
lings—which the Hobart Town tradesmen issued
in lieu of cash change. She offered me all her
store ; she’d do anything just for a fragment. She
pleaded so piteously that had I not been simply
teasing her, I should have relented. As it was,
the tears came into my eyes as her appeal
revealed to us the intensity of genuine emotion in
the poor, ignorant girl’s nature. I told her that I
should save her a lump, and.,she was invoking
countless blessings on my unworthy head when
the parson interjected, as a joke, of course, “ that
if she wanted a piece she would have to come for
it then and there. ”
Now, that girl was like nearly all the daughters
of her class and Faith, as modest as—as any
English maiden of the Sunday-school story-books.
It is a strange thing to say, but it’s a true thing.
An Irish girl-transport, however criminal in other
respects, was seldom immodest. She would have
to sink very low indeed before she became
shameless.
That particular girl was one of the most modest
women I ever met in any circle. And yet, on
hearing Mr. Knopwood’s words, and although she
was attired simply in her white night dress, and
before we apprehended what was her intention,
she had got out of the attic window (it projected
over the gable of the porch) and climbed on to the
porch-roof, and thence descended to the ground.
In another moment she had grasped a double
handful of the soil, and then, her situation flash-
ing upon her, she rushed back into the house.
My husband looked at me—the moonlight was
so vivid that I could see his eyes dancing with
mirthfulness—but the old clergyman kept his
fixed on the ground. “Poor girl! poor girl !” I
heard him say to himself. And then he turned
to me and said : “ Ma’am, this thing opens up a
new view to me, and Bobby Knopwood isn’t too
old to learn, although he is 62 years of age.”
“ Well, Parson,” I said, as I was about to follow
the girl into the house, “what have you learnt ?”
Now, the old Chaplain was very Ash-Wednes-
dayish when he was deeply moved, and I was not,
therefore, at all surprised to hear him say, “ That
we’re all cursed fools ! ”
I paused on the porch-steps, and, making him a
mock-courtesy, returned that I was indebted for
his good opinion of me.
“Oh, I don’t mean you,” he replied ; “I mean
the Authorities.”
“ Still I don’t understand,” I was proceeding to
say; when he burst out: “No, you don’t under-
stand ;of course you don’t. And won’t! What
I mean is that when England transports her
criminals she does so with the distinctly-stated
intention of destroying every tie which binds
them to their native land. What the System at
home dictates the System here obeys. Don’t
you see what folly, what wickedness, it all is?
Look at that girl there—running the risk of severe
punishment for a lump of dirt and a tussock of
grass! There’s an affectioiTwhich should have been
encouraged rather than repressed. And now that
I think of it, hundreds of instances of the kind
have come under my own eyes, but I did not
understand their significance before. Why, if you
and L and I made donkeys of ourselves over
those trumpery flowers merely because they re-
minded us of our childhood, why, I say, shouldn’t
these poor wretches feel the same impulse ? Are
we three any the worse for that sensation ? Would
they be wickeder? Might not they be all the
better for it? But there, there—l’m preaching
again like an old fool. I’ll stop, else you’ll think
I’ve been having too much wine. Good-night,
good-night!”
I was astonished at his tirade, as you may guess,
and it set me thinking. What was more to the
purpose, however, he spoke to that effect to Gover-
nor Arthur—not, however, till after he had sup-
ported my husband’s application for permission to
take me with him in the Cyprus.
And now it is quite time I got to the point of
my story.
The Cyprus was in Sullivan’s Cove waiting final
orders. I was on board, but my husband was to
come off with the last boat. I was chatting with
an officer of the military guard—we were taking
down over a score of the vilest characters of the
Island, and there were an officer and ten men to
guard them—when we heard the sentry of the
gangway challenge a boat. “A friend—Knop-
wood, Chaplain,” was the reply. Military routine,
you know, was always strictly observed when
prisoners were under guard. The sentry re-
sponded : “ Pass, friend, and give the counter-
tigu,” and as the officer of the guard went towards
the gangway I heard the sound of oars as the boat
was brought alongside, and, in another minute,
Mr. Knopwood was standing by me. “Look you
here, Mrs. L ,” he said, “ I’ve brought you
this at the risk of offending his High and Mighti-
ness ” (that was one of his ways of alluding to the
Governor). Now, you will never guess what that
was? It was simply a lump of the “ould sod.” I
asked him what I was to do with it, and he told
me to take it down to Macquarie Harbour, and
make an experiment with some poor God-forsaken
devil of an Irishman—these were his very words !
—and I was to let him know what happened. Of
course I took it, and so began what L called
the procession of the butter-cup.
# # •
1 will not bore you with an account of our
voyage down, as it was uneventful, save for our
being weather-locked in Recherche Bay, the very
place where the same was seized by the
mutineers a few years subsequently. We got to
the harbour at last after a three weeks’ trip,
during which I was ill nearly the whole time.
Neither shall I particularly describe to you the
Harbour or the prison-settlement as it then was.
All I need to say is that what Norfolk Islandjwas
ten years later to both the colonies, Macquarie
Harbour was at this time to V.D.L.—the recep-
tacle for her most desperate criminals. I had not
read Dante when I made my visit. When, lofig
after, I read those terrible Cantos, beginning with
the eighteenth, I thought that I, too, had been in
the cloisters of hell! lam sure of this—that in
the inner circles of Hell will the name of Mac-
quarie Harbour be held in honour! God forgive
the nation that constructed that Infekno in these
fair Southern Seas ! (The old lady was silent
here for some minutes.)
No man dare more than hint at the horrors
which were the common things of every-day life
in that awful place; no woman dare even as
Ir y^ c ‘ l as hint. Seven superior military and civil
officers, forty inferior officers and soldiers, and
two hundred and eighty prisoners, including some
twenty women, formed the population.
I would never have set foot in that fearful
place, had I had the faintest conception of its true
nature. Looking back now, and believing that
J did a little good there, I yet would have
bade him throw up his appointment in the
Establishment, rather than he should have been
brought face to face with the Hell’s Gates of
Macquarie Harbour. It forced him to make the
acquaintance of such concrete depravity as only
Lucifer could dream of.
In this dreadful spot, God-forsaken and Church
forsaken for the System could not afford to pay
a lun d r ®d a y ear to a minister of the Gospel,
though it was receiving a thousand pounds
annually, clear profit from the sale of the timber
cut by the Harbour prisoners, we (my husband
and myself) lived for twelve months. L—nr-, on
examining Captain B ’s accounts, found such
serious discrepancies that he recommended the
Captain to go at once to the capital and make his
peace, and offered to stay at the Harbour while he
was absent. My husband’s orders authorised him
to suspend the Captain if he considered it desir-
able, but he did not take the extreme course, and
preferred, rather than that B—-- should be ruined,
to subject ourselves to some inconvenience. When
."T suggested this, neither of us knew all the
infamies of Hell’s Gates, or else B would have
had to take his chance.
Well, B went away with the Cyprus as soon
as the schooner could be loaded with pine, and we
stopped. The officers soon returned to their old
practices, which they had temporarily abandoned
on our arrival, fearful of L ’s report.
The sod had been planted by my own hands, in
front of our quarters at Sarah Island, the day
after my landing. A convict, allotted to us as a
servant, looked wonderingly at me. I thought it
a good time to begin the parson’s experiment, and
so 1 mentioned to him what it was. The fellow
openly sneered in my face, and, going away to
another corner of the barrack-yard, spoke of me in
ribald terms, so that I could not help but hear. A
soldier also heard him and reported the man’s
conduct, and, without any reference to me, he was
ordered fifty lashes. The lash went regularly
morning and evening. They would order a man
fifty, but as the dose, given all at once, would
incapacitate him from work that day, they would
bestow half in the morning and half at night on
his return to the barracks, Well, my servant for
his impertinence got his fifty in two instalments,
morning and night. After the latter, he must
have dragged himself to the grassplot, and dug up
the sod. It was a sad beginning, I thought, for
my experiment.
The next morning I saw the hole. What drew
my attention to it first was a group of billet
convicts and soldiers, apparently all Irishmen,
eight or ten in number, gathered round the spot!
Then one of each class came to my quarters and
asked to see me. L went out to enquire what
they wanted. “Was it true that the lady had
carried down with her a bit of Old Ireland ?” It
was. “Would the lady mind coming out and
seeing if it was that sod that had been taken ?”
I went out, and noticed that that particular lump
had gone, and, reluctantly, said so. With a yell,
the whole.group ran excitedly across the angle of
the yard, and in a few moments returned, hauling
something with them. It was my convict servant!
Those fellows, soldiers as well 'as pursuers, were
mad with rage. Not at the offence to me, mark
you, but at the insult to the country in
which they had been born ! L and a
military officer were compelled to exercise their
authority before the enraged men would release
the poor wretch who had vented his spite on the
bit of earth. It appeared he had thrown the lump
on the sandy beach. One of the soldiers ran
and found the soil there scattered in fragments.
He gathered them up in his cap and brought I
them to me. I asked him if he would like a tuft. I
He was an old man, weazened and gray, but his ■
face flushed as I spoke. I thought it was in
gratitude. But it was for shame. He put out
his hand, and then drew it sharply back ; “Oi
won’t loi about ut, Me’m. Oi ’av’ a bit o’ the
dirt.” He had pocketed a piece !
“ Oh, the yelling and the crying of the others
when they saw that capful of soil. They did not
stop to ask whether it was the same that I had
carried all the way from Hobart Town, but if it
had not been, I should, when I saw their joy, i
have perpetrated a pious fraud, and declared it
was, I was about to hand them the lot when
told me to see if any roots were among the
soil. I looked, I could not see the daisy-root,
but I found the round bulb of the buttercup!
“ We’ll keep that for our share, dear,”L said,
and took it and a little of the soil in his fingers.
A convict saw him and, recognising the root!
shouted: “Luk at him now! If that ain’t a
Saint Anthony’s turnip !” Then there was more
shouting, and some crying, and some others
speaking as if they saw before them a whole field
of the yellow gold-cups.
* * •
As I have said, we were there some
months—-dreary, terrible months they were—and
then September came again, ushered in by terrible
storms that lashed the harbour into hills and
gullies of foam. News came by means of the
patrol-boat that one of the two men confined to
the rock on Grummet Island—just as Marcus
Clarke describes Rufus Dawes to have been—
had been so storm-beaten that he was
dying. You must know the cells on that
small island were hewn out of the rock
and were invaded by the waves in a rough
sea, and in truth this prisoner had had the life
literally flogged out of him by the lash of the wave.
It was a cruel death, but perhaps it was most
merciful after all. Ho was such a desperate ruffian
that it was only a matter of time for him to die
at the triangles or on the scaffold. Well, the cox-
patrol-boat reported the man’s con-
dition to the Acting-Commandant—that is, to my
husband, and, of course, he ordered the dying
wretch to be transferred to the mainland. L -
went to see him in the Barracks. He repelled him
with awful words. Then a hospital wardsraan
told him the story of the Irish sod. The bits of
earth were treasured, let mo say, like diamonds.
The dying man begged that a morsel of the “ould
land ” would bo buried with him. But no com-
patriot would consent to part with as much as a
crumb. And then and then— ho sent to me a
message : He’d let me pray with him if I would
only grant hie request!
I had put the bit of earth round the buttercup-
root, and had planted the whole in a window-box
with some native soil. The convict’s message re-
minded me of it. I examined the box—and there,
just peeping from the surface, was a tiny, green
spike. It was the buttercup.
I went to that man’s bedside. I was Protestant
—he was a Catholic; so I said “Our Father” and
the “Hail Mary” to him. But he would not
listen till I gave him the crumbs of earth. That
was the first time I visited him.
When I went next he said : “There’s that king-
cup a-comin’ up, mem, an’ I won’t die till ut’s
a-blowin’ an’ a-shinin’, so I tells yez that.” It
was astounding how news of the most trifling
things permeated the barracks. He had been told
of that little spike ! In fact, the whole of the
prisoners knew of it—at Sarah Island and Grum-
met Rock, and the gravediggers on the two burial
islands, for, as I learnt afterwards, one of the
soldiers had watched the box daily.
He didn’t die for some weeks, though, such was
his weakness it was a miracle he lived. But he
kept his word ; he didn’t die till the first yellow-
bloom nodded on a feeble stem.
I did not go to see him one morning. At noon
to me : “ Mem, the King-cup’s a-blowin’,
an’ I want to see ut, an’ die,” was his message. I
went in the afternoon, and my convict-servant—
the one I spoke of—carried the window-box. As
I entered the hospital ward, the sentry saluted as
usual. The convict-servant drew the man’s atten-
tion to the flower in the box. Now that soldier
was not an Irishman ; he was an Englishman, but
he presented arms again. I turned and asked
him why he did so. He answered, sheepishly, “ I
was silly, ma’am, but I couldn’t help it; I saluted
the flower!”
The sick man was almost at the last gasp. That
was evident. He rallied, however, momentarily
when he saw me.
“’Av you brought the flower, mem ?’’he whis-
pered, and tried to raise himself. I motioned my
servant to place the box by the bedside. The
dying man bent over and cried, “Luk, luk at
that grane grass. There’s no grane loike that in
this damned counthry. Oh, the grane o’ the
blessed owld land ! An’ the orange, too —the
orange an’ the grane a-blowin’ an’ a-growin’
together. Fwhat ’ud Father Kernan say .”
He fell back, muttering to himself. I leant j
over him and thought it was the “ Hail, Mary ”
he was repeating. But it was not —nor would you
ever guess what it was !
It was :
Buttercups and daisies,
O, the pretty flowers !
*# . *
I was to hear the childish song once more
before I left the Harbour—in death accents of
another kind.
The schooner arrived the very next day with a
new Commandant, and instructions for my hus-
band to resign authority and return forthwith.
The_ new ruler was a man in whom the extremes
of high birth and bestial cruelty met. He was in
charge a week when one of the timber-gangs mur-
dered an overseer. It was the old story—murder
to obtain freedom by being themselves hanged!
They were tried by three officers and eight were
sentenced to be hanged the next day at nine
o’clock. Now, a Macquarie Harbour execution
was a synonym for ribaldry and blasphemy, and
the most shameful scene was anticipated on this
particular occasion.
Overnight my husband saw the Condemned.
There were four of each faith. He said to
Catholics one by one : “If you will conduct your-
self decently, I’ll tell you what I’ll do—l’ll take
care a piece of Old Ireland is buried with you.”
Each promised.
To the four Protestants he said : “Now, men,
I’ve done what I could to lighten your lot, haven’t
I?” They assented. “ I’d like to do you another
kindness, if you’ll allow me?” Of course they
would. “What was it?” Will you consent to
my wife coming and placing a flower, an English
flower, ” He was interrupted by one of the
Condemned saying: “Curse the English flower,
curse England, England was as bad as a step-
mother to him 1” My husband took no notice of
the remark, but another of the Condemned struck
the speaker across the mouth. “Shut up, you
fool,” said the latter fellow, “you ain’t worth the
honour the leddy intends doin’ you !”
Then the same man went on to speak to my
husband : “You mean, sir, the missus’ll come an’
put the flower on our graves?” “No,” said
E > “on your breasts, in—in your coffins!”
“And what do you want?” asked the man ; “you
wouldn’t let yer lady come a-near us without you
had some objec’. What is it ? You want us to die
quiet ?”
Of course, my husband said that was his inten-
tion.
“ Well,” said the condemned, “I’m willing, if
my pals are.” The rest had no objection after that.
The next morning I waited trembling, by my
window till I should hear the thud. I abhorred
the awful duty my husband had imposed upon me,
but I was determined to perform it. To have
evaded it would.have been to crush aside for ever
his influence with every convict in the whole
colony, for the news of the breach of faith would
have spread even from Macquarie Harbour. I had
dressed myself in black. The only speck of bright
colour about me was the hue of the four butter-
cups, the last of the blooms, which I held in my
hand.
I sat, with tense faculties, craving, yet fearing,
to hear the hateful sound. I heard a chant. It
was not a hymn—of that I felt sure—but for some
moments I could not distinguish the words. Then
I knew: It was the children’s song of the “But-
tercups and Daisies.” I burst into tears. I was
still crying when, half-an-hour later, my husband
came for me. I thanked God for those tears, for
they blinded me so that I did not see above the
circlets of ropes. The eight coffins were in a row
—that much I perceived—but my husband had to
guide my hand to—to the resting-place for—my
flowers. And that was the last stage but one of
the procession of my buttercups.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
I
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTfV
%%
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
onwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY", Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
eelves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fat
postage. *
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
VIGOR
FOR MEN.
Lom of !'enr« Fore*-
Debility and Decay.
«&7 be perfectly retrained by the CAVENDISH
TREATMENT. ' One Box, 12s. Bd.,
Full Course, £l. Tr«atl« i«iu aealsd, 4 Stunt*.
Address- The CAVENr>TS7i LABORATORY?
St XU' SELL STREET. MELBOURNE. VIC
DEBILITATED
WEAK AND
NERVOUS
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Sk,n
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
ESTABLESHED
for the
HAIR ft SKIN
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
movcsallimpurities from
the sculp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, and causes the hair to grew
Thick. Soft and Beautifnl. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns, bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.—None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
advt
advt
BarryS
Pearl
Cream
forthi
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles. Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.—None genuine without the trade mark
or Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
"Throw Physic
to th<
Dogs!
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSOR
MINIATURE!
, ALLEN’S
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, ami by
to on sands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
The Crowning Medical and Scien-
rn?- T 1e h of the 19th Century.'
Inis BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
§la C< v aml Is . worn on the chest, next the skin, snspen-
* i - a si ! k cord around the neck. The several
me.alsof which it is composed are so arranged that the
iooi • knmidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
•ais in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
“Om the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
lengthening the Nerves,jßrain and Muscles,infusing
i V i? or^ nto t *’ c Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
ting the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
mg nature to throw off numerous diseases.
Woo i , tter y "’ill cure the following ailments: —
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
nioi , n l!' lrs i Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Cnm-
Tlrio i/V ever Rn, i Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
r.”” . Organs, Bronohitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
stipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
6 Dungs and Throat. Skin Disorders, and almost
T>f n 0f Achcsa,l <l Pains,
tliu .Jf'i ,lns a soothing effect upon children
L,{ * teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
l lParticulars and directions for use,
FIVE shillings
ami to any address, or supplied by all Chemists
* Co - 254
MEDICAL
PATENT
PIUS.
sufferer i s earnestly invited
Pills, and they will be acknow
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a. Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind arid pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling- alter meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
to try one box of these
hedged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
e wi hout them. There is no medicine to be found
equa to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If token ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
.*f? r wea -k stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
o the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
ne found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecuam’s Cough
Piles a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. l*d. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Drug-gists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N-B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CD
o.
D.
=)<->
QC
X
CD
c~v
are you
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal, Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, / ndigeslion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spcrmatorrhaa, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
theonly'safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unqueat enable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .. . Carl Krupp.
Business Manager , . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communicat : ons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to w r ear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold
Business Announcements.
rIUIK lA\K~ OK “ NEW ZEALAND
X SVDNKV BLANCHES ;
64 PITT STKEET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £825,000
Uncalled Capital ... ... 75,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Hills collected on moat favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their-beneficent-action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
winn
%
&
Vi
SC
/
sft
every
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK DONE
<0
Jf
<b
<v
PRIVATE
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
/22 4 2 4\
ROYAL A RCA DE\
MELBOURNE
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. & Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
Sl‘ /m IA LTV.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
o— —
.liimioiiiated <lu ini lie.
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dje,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Siacceas G-maranteed..
I iiSOlj/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHt
NEWEST SHAPES *
/ ..it:;.: ’ '■ ' - ---
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCH'S
m
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
l■' 1 , "I.
m
fiUCH
-S-J
INC
r*r
y
PO
UFACTURCO 6Y
JJMES CMNHOfr S/aH,
irrS'
■Sold
cell'd r SSoreAetfi
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON - MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 305.. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near TaUersaU's.
For poise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They < are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
Arlior Vitas,
The Great Life Remedy & Tonic Invic/orator,
IS the Best and Only Medicine which shows a.
good result from the moment you take the
first dose. It acts on the blood like a charm, and
tones the internal secretions to healthy action,
restores strength to the stomach, and enables it to
perform its functions ; and for regulating the liver
and kidneys it has no equal. Price—4s. per
package. Also the Great Cure for Catarrh and
Influenza—the Arbor Vitse Oil, 2s. 6d. per
bottle. Sold by all Storekeepers and Druggists.
Sole Agents for New South Wales—
Dan. Sntlierlancl & Co.
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
84 King Street, Newtown. SYDNEY.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 IMZ-A-daiKIIET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
varicocels
; —lts causes, at mptoms. und patho-
logy. t-gether with a desorption
of a NEW and SUCCESSFUL METHOD of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Post free, two
stamp-.
PROFESSOR CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST , MELBOURNE. VIC.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhosa
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. Gd.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Read. ! Read ! Read t
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay*
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Illustrated by The Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Shilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
THE GEORGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria,
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
' tST Eor particulars, apply to
P. WIMROI.B,
PROPRIETOR.
PEAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W.,
Opposite the Park, tyynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rrHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel
x recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
5iK.Hr I’OHTEK. French 1
Vernian V
Telephone No. 150. Italian (
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHT ... Manager. *


SIOILL I c 0
AUCTIONEERS and GENERAL AGENTS,
OOIiNBR
Queen’s Street and Flinders I>aue,
BRANCH OFFICES:
32 Chapel Street, Prahran;
2 Albert Street, Windsor.
MELBOURNE.
Nervous sufferers, fW secret. ° r
other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Har ve y’ s
Patett Electric Head Battery, self-applied and pavn-
less Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet free. 14S Collins Street East. Melbourne.
T
O NEWS - AGENTS AND OTHERS.
WANTED, copies of following issues of The
Bulletin— January 4, January 18, 25,
February 1, February 22, March 1, 18JB. hull
price given. Bulletin Office, Pitt street.
\SMANIA. Messrs. FITZGERALD
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
T
BSSKAhoN
t L>-r
f.W’f
''everywhere'!
■V T ’ ■
3/6
“ A Golden Shanty.”
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 6d., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
BORIN’S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THE BEST^
Otto Sandler & Co., 336 Kent-at., Sydney,
Sole Wholesale Agents. ~
BOLLINOEE’S CHAMPAGNE.
DBY Q,TJ A-XilTir .
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES-
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
walia
aadvt
H. R. Leach,
WSCCBSSOR TO ‘‘JS'y'T-
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers:—* J. Puhdey & Sons, Cu. 1 tos well, John Rigs,
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Oh. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. W. Guesses,
Scott, Webley, Hollis & Sons, Hiley and Casumore, All
goods’ will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-
Street Sydney. Price list on application.
Facial Blemishes*
Salomon's SaveCni-e
_ SPEEDILY REMOVES ;
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H, Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous. Diseases,
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
AddressHEßß H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand. - - -4i,^
JOHN BXJCKHAIT;
449 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE,
mENT, Tarpaulin, and Waterproof .Cover
J Manufacturer. Horse Rugs, Loin Covers,
Oilskin Coats, Cab Aprons, Marquees- (with or
without floor'ng and flags) for sale or hire.
JOHN BUCKHAM MELBOURNE.
Oldest established house in the trade."
When ordering pleuee mention thie paper.] :
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De Blunt and
Kindred Diseases, &e. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny .Stamps.
Addrees — :;:.:Nr
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Hill
i ... S
Knowles Pvmitft
ARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
' AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
•Sec., & c *
&c.
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, UXT.S.W.
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breaker*.
■Westlnslionsc Engines.
n
HILiHI Y IMU IHI UVt
Coeoa
MAY Ht.DBTAINF.II IN I AHHifcU 11Mb UH KAtIKETS THKUUUHUUI IHE ('.QIUNY.
drim
///mu'
UNA
JUL
AMPA
'~«iSUia/ju.v(
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit; Merchants,
43.! Itourke Street, Salisbury Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
N
OW READY. "A GOLDEN SHANTY/
Price, Is. All Agents and Booksellers.
J. E. Salier & Co.
IMPORTERS OP
('lianilclicirs fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
FLETCHER'S GAS COOKING STOV*S
Of Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St.. Sydney.
